                                                          54999

                                  INDIA

               MUMBAI URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
               (LOAN NO. 4665-IN; CREDIT NO. 3662-IN)




                               Follow Up to the
Meeting of the Executive Directors of the World Bank (March 28, 2006) on the
             Inspection Panel Investigation Report No. 34725 and
                 Management Report and Recommendation




        FOURTH PROGRESS REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION

                         OF THE ACTION PLAN




                               May 21,2010
                                                           CONTENTS



Acronyms .......................................................................................................................... iii
SUMMARY ....................................................................................................................... 4
I.         OVERVIEW .......................................................................................................... 4
II.        DESCRIPTION AND STATUS OF THE PROJECT ....................................... 8
III.       ACTION PLAN ................................................................................................... 10
      A.   Key Outcomes ....................................................................................................... 10
      B.   Management Action Plan ...................................................................................... 13
      C.   Borrower Action Plan ........................................................................................... 14
IV.        CONCLUSION ................................................................................................... 21
Annexes
Annex 1: Key Resettlement Implementation Progress .............................................. 22
Annex 2: World Bank Implementation Support Missions, March 2006 - February
         2010 ................................................................................................................. 24
Annex 3: MUTP: Status of Issues as of February 1,2009 ......................................... 30
Annex 4: MUTP: Status of Impediments and R&R Related Issues for JVLR &
         SCLR
         as of January 31, 2010 ................................................................................... 38

Tables
Table 1.             Project at a Glance
Table 2.             Status of Resettlement (September 1, 2008)
Table 3.             Detailed Status of Shops Resettlement




                                                                  ii
                      Acronyms

BEST    Bombay Electricity and Suburban Transport Corporation
EMCB    Environmental Management Capacity Building
ESR     Elevated Storage Reservoir
GoI     Government of India
GoM     Government of Maharashtra
GRC     Grievance Redress Committee
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA     International Development Association
IMP     Independent Monitoring Panel
INR     Indian Rupee
JVLR    Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road
KNWA    Kismat Nagar Welfare Association
LEAP    Livelihoods Enhancement Action Plan
lpcd    Liters per capita per day
MCGM    Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai
MHADA   MaharashtraHousing Area and Development Authority
MMRDA   Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority
MN      Motilal Nehru
MoU     Memorandum of Understanding
MRVC    Mumbai Railways Corporation
MSRDC   Maharashtra State Roads Development Corporation
MUTP    Mumbai Urban Transport Project
NGO     Nongovernmental Organization
PAH     Project-affected Household
PAP     Project-affected Person
PIC     Public Information Center
R&R     Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RIP     Resettlement Implementation Plan
ROB     Road-over-Bridge
SATIS   Station Area Traffic Improvement Schemes
SCLR    Santacruz-Chembur Link Road
SHG     Self-Help Groups
SRA     Slum Rehabilitation Authority
USD     United States Dollar
USOA    United Shop Owners Association




                          iii
                                     INDIA
                    MUMBAI URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
                      (Loan No.4665-IN; Credit No.3662-IN)

      MANAGEMENT REPORT ON STATUS OF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
     ACTION PLAN FOLLOWING THE INSPECTION PANEL INVESTIGATION
           REPORT (No. 34725) AND MANAGEMENT REPORT AND
                 RECOMMENDATION (INSPIR20Q5-0005/4)

SUMMARY

 1. This is the fourth report documenting the progress in implementing the India Mumbai
Urban Transport Project (MUTP) Action Plan following the Inspection Panel
Investigation Report (No. 34725) and Management Report and Recommendation
(INSP/R2005-0005/4). The Project continues to be implemented slowly within a
challenging environment. Since submission of the third progress report in March 2009,
negotiations with and resettlement of shopkeepers have progressed and been mostly
completed, with the exception of some cases related to land acquisition or religious
structures; the issue of income restoration of the affected employees has been addressed;
the management of post-resettlement activities (including promotion of sustainable self-
management of the resettlement sites), the environment management of the resettlement
sites and the institutional mechanism for resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R)
implementation have been strengthened; the quality of the R&R process, of database
management, and of communication with the Proj ect Affected Persons (PAPs) has
improved; and finally, the grievance redress mechanism has been streamlined and the
R&R Implementation Manual operationalized.

2. Management is satisfied that the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development
Authority (MMRDA), also the Borrower, has sustained its shift to an approach to
resettlement characterized by openness to pursuing negotiated solutions in consultations
with PAPs. Management is therefore reasonably confident that MMRDA will be able to
complete the remaining R&R process in a compliant manner despite pressing deadlines.
Post-resettlement activities overall have been exemplary, in spite of difficulties with
handling specific issues such as repairs, and Management considers the post-resettlement
process to be on track to be completed with sustainable outcome. In accordance with the
provisions of OP 4.12 a project is not considered complete              and the Bank
implementation support continues - until the resettlement measures set out in the Action
Plan have been implemented. Therefore, beyond loan closure, Management will continue
to monitor progress in resolution of outstanding R&R issues through annual technical
visits until such issues are fully resolved.

1.      OVERVIEW

3. This is the fourth progress report submitted to the Board providing an update on the
implementation status of the Action Plan for MUTP, including additional information on
new developments. The Action Plan was included in the Management Report and
Recommendation that was discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on March 28,


                                           4
2006, along with the Inspection Panel's investigation report (INSPIR200S-000S14). The
present progress report follows three earlier reports on the Action Plan, respectively
submitted on March 7 (SecM2007 -0096), December 7, 2007 (SecM2007 -0511) and April
23,2009 (SecM2009-0213).

4. The last progress report documented MMRDA's efforts to implement the Action
Plan, highlighting the post-resettlement support activities. Earlier, the second report,
submitted in December 2007, discussed steps taken to introduce a gradual shift in
MMRDA's approach to R&R towards an adaptive and problem-solving one, exploring
negotiated win-win resettlement solutions for large and medium size shopkeepers and
title holder residential PAPs. MMRDA has continued to maintain this shift in approach
since 2007. This was evident in the manner in which MMRDA recently negotiated the
resettlement issue with 260 legal resident families living in 13 buildings provided by the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Agency (MHADA) along the Santacruz
Chembur Link Road (SCLR) and proactively responded to and amicably resolved a
request made to the Panel by Messrs. Deepak Mehta and Co., absentee land owners from
Jogeshwari-Vikhro/i Link Road (JVLR) in June 2009. 1

S. The Project has so far progressed well, albeit at a much slower pace than originally
anticipated. The efficiency of suburban train operation has increased, with a rise in peak
time capacity by 7-10 percent and a reduction in commuting time by 4-9 minutes for
about 6 million citizens as a result of track doubling and relocation of thousands of
squatter families living along the rail tracks.

6. Progress in implementation of the Borrower Action Plan has been overall satisfactory.
A brief outline of progress made to date in implementation of the 10 key actions is
provided below.

 (i)  Negotiations with and resettlement of shopkeepers (Action 1) have been completed
    in the case of JVLR and mostly in the case of SCLR, except a few involving land
    acquisition. The resettlement of shopkeepers affected by Railway sub-projects was
    completed earlier; and the Road-over-Bridges (ROBs) have been removed from the
    Project as a part of restructuring.

(ii)  The issue of income restoration of the affected employees (Action 2) has been
    addressed by providing for the payment of one year's income as assistance in the
    event of job loss, which has been publicized. Identity cards have been issued to the
    employees for such assistance.




I The Panel in its Report and Recommendation on Request from the Mehtas (No 49873-IN August 7, 2009)
recorded satisfaction regarding MMRDA's response to the Request thus: "In their electronic
communication sent to the Panel, the Requesters express satisfaction with this arrangement and thank both
the Inspection Panel and the World Bank Management for their' cooperation and initiative' in helping
them 'settle the matter. ' The Panel wants to record the positive contributions of all parties to this
process which led to an early resolution of the Requesters' concerns."




                                                   5
  (iii)      Improvement in the management of post-resettlement activities (4ction 3) has been
         sustained over the last four years. MMRDA continues to follow up on implementation
         of a post resettlement action plan for sustainable self management of R&R sites
         carried out earlier with the help of a professional consultant. Registration of 90 percent
         of the housing societies in occupied buildings has been completed \vith maintenance
         funds and community management funds transferred to about 90 percent, and common
         social facilities handed over to 100 percent of these registered societies. Social service
         facilities have been set up in major resettlement sites including schools at Mankhurd
         and Anik; a community hall/health center at Majaj and flour mills in others. MMRDA
         has started an assessment of demand and land availability for setting up service
         facilities including health centers, community halls, schools, etc. at different
         resettlement sites. The water supply and transport situations have considerably
         improved compared to March 2006.

  (iv)       The environmental management of the resettlement sites (Action 4) has been
         strengthened with the preparation and implementation, with the help of a professional
         consultant, of an environmental management capacity building plan. The majority of
         repairs related to civil work at resettlement buildings have been completed (in 42 out
         of 52 buildings identified with problems) and waste management in resettlement sites
         has improved. MMRDA and the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM)
         have agreed on a timeframe for finalizing modalities for fuller integration of the
         resettlement sites into the city's urban services network.

  (v)       The institutional mechanism for R&R implementation has been strengthened
         (4ction 5) with the streamlining of the role of the nongovernmental organizations
         (NGOs) and staff enhancement of the R&R Cell.

 (vi)        Several steps have been taken to improve the quality of the R&R process (Action
         6), which include: finalization and disclosure of the Implementation Manual and its
         application; better data management; disclosure of Baseline Surveys and Resettlement
         Implementation Plans (RIP) prior to actual relocation; regular implementation
         reporting; issuance of identity cards to 94 percent of the resettled PAPs; relocation of a
         majority of affected religious/community structures through negotiations;
         reconstitution of the Independent Monitoring Panel (IMP), which has been effectively
         monitoring resettlement colonies.

(vii)       Database management (Action 7) has considerably improved with updating of the
         baseline surveys and PAP eligibility lists, and MMRDA continues to refine the new
         Oracle database system.

(viii)       Communication with the PAPs (4ctton 8) has improved with disclosure of R&R
         related information on the MMRDA website and at its public information center
         (PIC), and through frequent meetings with the PAPs.

 (ix)       The grievance redress mechanism has been streamlined and the hearing procedure
         widely publicized (Action 9), which has contributed to efficient resolution of 95
         percent of cases placed before the field level grievance committee and 89 percent



                                                   6
      before the senior level grievance committee. The independent Impact Assessment
      Study records a high degree of PAP satisfaction with the grievance redress process.

(x)       Finally, the R&R Implementation Manual (Action 10) has been finalized,
      disclosed,톋nd put into operation.

7. Since submission of the third progress report in March 2009, MMRDA has made
progress on relocating the remaining structures along SCLR and lVLR to speed up civil
works; and in carrying forward the post-resettlement activities to ensure long-term
sustainability of the Project. The relocation process has been completed for lVLR except
for two commercial structures, a temple, and the boundary wall for a cremation ground.
Along SCLR major progress in clearing work fronts for civil work was achieved by
signing the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the majority group of United
Shop Owners Association (USOA) representing 85 shopkeepers, and by removing 13
multi-storey residential buildings and key religious/community structures. MMRDA is
following up on the post-resettlement action plan implemented earlier with the help of a
professional consultant for strengthening people's capacity to manage their own affairs in
the resettlement sites. The resettlement process continues to benefit from the advice of
the IMP, which has been monitoring the R&R situation. The Livelihoods Cell of
MMRDA has started implementing the Livelihood Enhancement Action Plan (LEAP)
prepared with the help of a consultant to support income restoration activities among
resettled PAP groups. MMRDA has progressed towards handing over management
responsibilities to the PAP cooperative housing societies (CHS) in R&R colonies by
accelerating registration of societies, and providing them with financial and capacity
building assistance. Areas that require further attention include: relocating remaining
shops and residences along SCLR and community and religious structures along JVLR
and SCLR; improving the coordination of civil works with the implementation of R&R
activities; and completing the Exit Strategy for the resettled PAP societies that will
complete the rehabilitation process.

8. Progress in resolving the concerns of the Requesters. The concerns of the first
group of Requesters, shopkeepers along the SCLR, have been almost resolved. One
group of the SCLR shopkeepers, the Kismat Nagar Welfare Association (KNWA), signed
a MoU with MMRDA in 2007 for a private in-situ resettlement scheme; the other group
of shopkeepers, the USOA split into two, and the majority group recently signed a MoU
with MMRDA for their resettlement in a new shopping complex to be developed at
Motilal Nehru Nagar located in Mumbai's new business district, Bandra-Kurla Complex
(BKC). The other USOA group of 50 odd shopkeepers has long favored the in-situ
resettlement scheme chosen by KNWA; however it has yet to sign any MoU with
MMRDA to this effect. The second group of Requesters, Gazi Nagar, has relocated from
SCLR to a non-MUTP site of their choice. With respect to the third group of Requesters,
the Bharti Nagar residents along the SCLR, MMRDA has clarified that the Project will
neither affect nor disturb these Requesters. The fourth group of Requesters, the
shopkeepers affected by 10geshwari ROB has not been resettled. Now that the ROBs
have been removed from MUTP as part of Project restructuring, this group will be
resettled as per the agreed procedure explained in Annex 5 of the third progress report.



                                             7
9. Looking forward. The Project is scheduled for closure on June 15,2010; a further
extension has been requested and is under the Bank's consideration. If the project gets
extended, the Bank team will continue to provide MMRDA technical support for
implementing the Action Plan and the construction works and will monitor
implementation progress with a close eye on policy compliance. Supervision will include
frequent interaction with the implementing agencies, site visits, and follow-up as needed.
Overall, the quality of compliance in the R&R component has improved and the focus of
technical support and monitoring has gradually shifted to strategic implementation issues.
The Bank continues to closely monitor and advise on the quality of the resettlement
process, the progress of various activities and the quality of safeguard compliance. Bank
Management will report in year's time on progress made in the implementation of the
Action Plan.

II.      DESCRIPTION AND STATUS OF THE PROJECT

10. The Project continues to be a highly challenging undertaking in urban development.
MUTP aimed to improve road and rail transport infrastructure and was approved by the
Bank's Board of Executive Directors on June 18, 2002 (Loan No. 4665-IN; Credit No.
3662-IN)? Project restructuring, with an extension of the closing date until December
2009, was approved by the Executive Directors on September 30,2008. The total Project
cost is now USD 1.1 billion, of which USD 463.0 million is financed by an IBRD Loan,
SDR 62.5 million (USD 92.0 million equivalent) by an IDA Credit, and additional
financing of USD 568 million from the Government of India (GoI). The Project is being
implemented by several entities and coordinated by MMRDA. 3 The Project was extended
thrice for a cumulative period of 23.5 months, its current closing date is June 15,2010,
and request for further extension is under the Bank's consideration.

11. In 2008, the Project was restructured (R2008-0202, September 19, 2008) to focus on
a more limited set of key activities to have a better likelihood of successful completion.
Activities removed from the Project under restructuring include, inter alia, the Station
Area Traffic Improvement Schemes (SATIS) and the ROBs for which construction had
not yet started due to difficulties regarding design or land acquisition. The R&R
procedure to be adopted for resettling people to be affected as and when these activities
will be undertaken, which will differ from the Bank procedure, was explained in the last
Progress Report. 4


2 It should be noted that during the preparation phase, the R&R aspects were for some time considered to
be implemented as a separate, but complementary project, the Mumbai Urban Rehabilitation Project.
3 The Mumbai Railways Corporation (MRVC); the MCGM; Bombay Electricity and Suburban Transport
Corporation (BEST); Maharashtra State Roads Development Corporation (MSRDC); Traffic Police of
Mumbai; and MMRDA on behalf of the Government of Maharashtra (GoM) and the Borrower, the Gol. As
well as being the coordinating agency, MMRDA is responsible for implementing the R&R component on
behalf of all the implementing agencies.
4 The proposed R&R procedure differs from the MUTP policy in two respects: (a) the PAPs will have to
choose relocation to one of the available resettlement sites within a month of relocation notification; (b) the
relocation will be carried out under the guidance of the IMP, but not under Bank supervision. The Bank
accepted this procedure in view of the following: (a) entitlements offered are the same as the MUTP policy;
(b) the grievance process will be same as that adopted for MUTP; (c) the client will carry out resettlement


                                                      8
   12. The Project after restructuring includes the following components:

     Component 1- Rail Transport, the main activities of which are: (a) improvement of
      capacity and perfonnance of the suburban rail network of the Central and Western
      Railways through provision of infrastructure (track additions, signaling systems,
      power, etc.) and new rolling stock (101 9-car electric motor units); and (b) technical
      assistance.

     Component 2 -- Road-based Transport, the main activities of which are: (a) selected
      area traffic control and traffic management infrastructure schemes implemented by
      MCGM; (b) buses (644) procured by BEST; and (c) road widening to facilitate two
      East-West linkages, the JVLR and the SCLR, implemented by MMRDA and the
      MSRDC.

     Component 3 - Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R), compnsmg mainly:
      construction of housing, and provision of services for R&R of Project-affected
      families, implemented by MMRDA and financed with an IDA credit.

  13. Progress towards Attaining Objectives: The Project has progressed towards
  achieving its development objectives, albeit slowly, due to several factors including land
  acquisition and R&R, lack of effective inter-agency coordination, delay in engineering
  designs and procurement of rail cars, and lack of effective project management. There is
  substantial improvement in transport service in terms of quality and comfort as a result of
  adding new trains, replacing 644 old buses with new ones, and installing synchronized
  traffic signals. However, the pace of implementation has been slow reflected in low
  disbursement levels (average of 68 percent).

                                           Table 1: Project at a Glance
 Project Financing at Appraisal (2002):                   At Appraisal (2002)               After Restructuring (2008)
                                                             USD million                           USD million
           IBRD*:
           Component 1 (Rail)                                 463.00                                463.00
           Component 2 (Road)                                 304.90                                304.90
           IDA:                                               150.50                                150.50
           Component 3 (R&R)                                   79.00 (SDR 62.5)                      92.00 (SDR 62.5)
           Gol:                                                79.00                                 92.00
i TOTAL                                                       403.00                                568.00
                                                              945.00                               1123.00
 Disbursed 

         IBRD: 

           IDA: 

 TOTAL
  Note I: exchange rate at time of restructuring (I SDR = 1.57 US$) applied on undisbursed balance
  Note 2: the total value of the Loan/Credit amount has slightly increased in US dollars terms as a result
  of the restructuring, from USD 542 to 555 million;
  * including the Project Preparation Facility and Front End Fee ofUSD 7.63 million.


  for the remaining PAPs under the guidance of the IMP, which has played an effective role in monitoring
  the R&R process with a positive influence on the outcomes.


                                                              9
14. The Inspection Panel Investigation. The four Requests for Inspection were
submitted on behalf of several hundred residents and shopkeepers in 2004. Most of the
Requesters, including those with the most complex cases, are located along SCLR.
Section III below sets out in detail implementation of the Action Plan, which addresses
key concerns raised by the Inspection Panel, including:

  Resettlement of medium- and large-size shopkeepers (Actions I and 2);

  Quality of baseline survey data (Actions 3 and 7);

  Management of post-resettlement activities (such as registration of housing
   cooperative societies, transfer of maintenance funds, adequate water supply and
   transport facilities, environmental management of resettlement sites, and institutional
   capacity) (Actions 3, 4, 6, 8, and 10);

  Grievance redress process (Action 9); and

  Supervision (Action 5).

III.    ACTION PLAN

A.      KEY OUTCOMES

15. Implementation of the Action Plan shows consolidation of the improvement in
the quality of implementing R&R, which has led to better results for PAPs.
MMRDA has resettled 4,378 households (residences and shops) in the last 48 months
(since the Management Report and Recommendation was submitted to the Panel and the
Executive Directors in February 2006). To date, 18,624 households (or 95.5 percent of
the total) have received alternative houses or shops, or have decided to resettle in
partially affected structures or under other resettlement schemes. About 98 percent of
residential PAPs and 71 percent of shopkeepers have been relocated to permanent
houses/shops (61 percent of medium- and large-size shopkeepers and 77 percent of the
small shopkeepers have been resettled.). Key achievements are listed below and details
are in Annex 1.

                   Table 2: Status of Resettlement Februa
                                    Resettled I Resett""le:....:d:..,...;~::~-=.!....=....:,렁~L-----,--.....-----,
   Unit I Totals
   Type                               (as of . (as of
                                    12/31/06) i 911/07)

          17.378                        15,315         15,784                                             286
                                        (88%)          (91%) i                                            (2%)
                                           752 .        1,104                                              581
                                        (29%) i        (43%)                                             (30%)

                                           84                               419                            267
                                      (10.5%)                             (61%) .                        (39%)




                                               10
  Total:     19,847. 19,491          14,2461   16,041        1
                                                         16,888                 18,017        18,624         867*
                                     (71%) I (80.4%)   (84.7%)                  (92%)        (96%)# I        (41%)
                     I
* The estimate for the number of PAPs remaining to be resettled was recast after Project restructuring based on data
provided by MMRDA The number of shopkeepers to be resettled may still come down since the 3 ROBs and the
SA TIS have been removed from the Project as part of restructuring. The shopkeepers from these sub-projects number
676 (Table 3, Annex 2 of Management Report No rSNP/3472S-IN). Out of these, only I3 have been resettled so far and
many of the remaining shopkeepers may not opt for resettlement under MUTP since the sub-projects were dropped,
preferring to continue their businesses in their original locations. Those who do opt for resettlement under MUTP will
be resettled following the agreed procedures (Annex 5 of the Third Progress Report).
** Includes 34 households who have opted for resettlement under non-MUTP Slum Rehabilitation schemes; 5 I
households that opted for partial retention; 46 households that continued unaffected; and 134 that consensually
relocated to accommodate reconstruetion of affected religious/community structures.
*** Includes 47 commercial PAPs, who have joined in-situ scheme at Kismat Nagar and vacated their impacted
structures; 15 who have opted for partial retention; and 46 shops that continued business at same place. This figure
however does not include 85 USOA shopkeepers who have signed the MoU and are likely to clear their shops.
#percentage figures for the last resettlement status calculated against the recast Totals.

16. Further progress has been achieved with resettlement since the submission of the last
progress report in April 2009:

Shopkeepers:

  The status of resettlement of large-size shopkeepers has remained at 61 percent over
   the last one year, but is expected to improve once the MoU recently signed with the
   majority USOA group of 85 large/medium shopkeepers is implemented.

  The overall progress for the shopkeepers' resettlement has increased from 24 percent
   in February 2006 to 71 percent (see details in Table 2 and Annex 1). This figure will
   further improve once a clear picture emerges regarding how many of the remaining
   ROB shopkeepers opt to be resettled under MUTP.

  There has been a resolution of resettlement issues with the SCLR shopkeepers,
   including the signing of a MoU for a private in-situ resettlement with some
   shopkeepers (KNWA), and the MoU with the 85 USOA shopkeepers, who represent
   15 percent of the large shopkeepers, for their relocation to a new shopping complex to
   be developed at Motilal Nehru (MN) Nagar in the Bandra-Kurla Complex, the new
   business district in Mumbai which is the preferred choice of relocation for the
   shopkeepers.

Post-resettlement:

  MMRDA continues to make progress in implementing the post-resettlement support
   action plan in order to promote and strengthen sustainable self-management of the
   R&R sites.

  An environmental action plan, prepared with the help of an environmental
   management capacity building (EMCB) consultant is being implemented with the aim
   of improving environmental management in the R&R sites.




                                                         11
   The registration of cooperative societies has increased from 46 in March 2006 to 174
    in January 2010 (about 93 percent) of 187 existing societies, with an additional 7
    having commenced the registration process;

   Transfer of common facilities (society offices, welfare and women's centers)          IS
    completed for 179 partially- or fully-registered societies (96 percent);

   Identity cards have been issued to some 18,432 Project-affected households (PAHs),
    representing about 94 percent of the total PAHs and 98.5 percent of the resettled
    PAHs;

   Significant progress has been made in providing post-relocation financial assistance
    to the PAP cooperative societies: building maintenance funds have been transferred to
    joint accounts of 157 out of 174 (92 percent) registered societies; outstanding interest
    on maintenance funds have been paid to 150 out of 174 (82 percent) societies; and
    community management funds handed over to 155 out of 174 (89 percent) registered
    societies.

Other activities:

   The Livelihoods Cell established at MMRDA has started to implement the LEAP
    with the help of a professional consultant to promote and coordinate income
    generating activities among resettled women, and provide capacity-building measures
    for income restoration; and

   MMRDA has prepared 92 out of the 174 registered (52 percent) PAP societies for
    program exit using exit indicators, with repair and re-fix works completed for 42
    buildings out of 52 identified with problems. The procedure for program exit will
    involve certification of fulfillment of exit indicators by the Deputy Registrar of
    Societies with approval from the IMP.

17. MMRDA has appointed a full time Chief-Post R&R to augment the pace of post-
resettlement support activities and implement the exit strategy in a sustainable manner.
The IMP continues to playa helpful role in the resettlement process, including facilitating
dialogue with PAPs and monitoring improvement in living conditions at the resettlement
sites.

18. Negotiations with large shopkeepers have progressed carefully. Of the 686 large
shopkeepers, (i.e., those with premises greater than 225 square feet), some 419 (or 61
percent) have been resettled to date, including 188 large shopkeepers along the SCLR.
MMRDA's hard efforts to explore mutually acceptable resettlement solutions through
negotiations with PAPs explain the slow relocation process. Along JVLR, resettlement
for all but two shopkeepers including title holders has been completed. Along the SCLR,
MMRDA has signed MoUs with the two key shopkeeper groups including the KNW A
and the majority USOA group. This USOA group has started clearing its shops as per the
MoU to enable civil work. The breakaway USOA group of some 50 shopkeepers who
earlier preferred to join KNWA opting for the private in-situ resettlement scheme is yet to


                                            12
sign a formal MoU with MMRDA to this effect, failing which MMRDA may relocate
them applying the procedure for failure of negotiations.

19. Remaining key challenges in achieving full implementation of the Action Plan
include: resolving cases involving litigation and relocation of affected religious and a few
other community structures and utilities. (A summary table showing the locations and
specifics of resettlement-related impediments is provided in Annex 4.) MMRDA
continues to face non-cooperation from landowner PAPs, especially along SCLR. It has
recently initiated legal procedure for land acquisition to relocate these land owner PAPs
including some 15 shopkeepers and the residents of 3 MHADA buildings at Netaji Nagar.

B.       Management Action Plan

20. Following the Project restructuring in September 2008, Management continued to
monitor closely the actions taken by the Borrower to improve the speed of Project
implementation. Over the last two years, monitoring has been done against an
implementation schedule for completing specific tasks (including R&R actions for
various sub-projects) with clear timelines and roles and responsibilities set out using
project management software. The monitoring process involved regular joint stock taking
by participating agencies and steps to strengthen inter-agency coordination. On realizing
that scheduling did not help real targets to be achieved on time without a fuller
appreciation of the implementation management issues involved, MMRDA hired a
professional Management Consultant (KPMG), on the advice of Bank Management, to
identifY and address project management issues affecting progress. The Bank
implementation support team regularly visits the Project to review progress and continues
to follow up on agreed actions. The key remaining impediments include land acquisition
cases, relocation of community structures and utilities and the resettlement of
shopkeepers (see details below).

21. Management has been working closely with the Borrower and affected communities
to resolve issues identified in the Action Plan, in particular, R&R. Most of the issues with
respect to the overall management of R&R, including grievance process,
communications, and implementation of the post-resettlement action plan. have been
resolved and implementation progress has been slow but satisfactory. Members of the
Bank's implementation support team have made 38 visits to Mumbai between March
2006 and March 2010 (including seven visits by the Social Development Specialist
focused on MUTP); maintained intense implementation support of the Project; remained
engaged with MMRDA and the GoM on key issues; and have kept interacting with PAP
groups to understand their problems (see Annex 2, List of Supervision and Other Key
Missions). Major missions and visits undertaken to review progress and discuss key
issues since the last progress report include: the visit by the World Bank Senior Vice
President (External Affairs) and interaction with MUTP PAPs on February 5, 2009 5 and
two full implementation support missions in July 2009 and February 2010.



5 This visit happened while the last progress report was being prepared and could not be captured in the
report at the time.


                                                     13
    22. Management regularly receives requests from PAPs seeking clarifications or
    additional information and expressing grievances or deficiencies in the process of
    resettlement, including those related to entitlements, consultations/disclosure, etc.
    Management maintains a database on all such communications and requests, and follows
    up with MMRDA to ensure that applicable R&R benefits are provided to eligible people,
    that grievances or problems are attended to, and any additional information is provided as
    appropriate. Management also meets with the Requesters during implementation support
    missions and as necessary, organizes specific visits to meet with them, and follows up
    with MMRDA. The data base for tracking and managing communications from the PAPs
    is continuously updated and has been managed at the World Bank New Delhi Office
    since October 2005. About 50 such requests were received since the last progress report
    bringing the total to 850, all of which have been replied to and followed up with the
    implementing agencies wherever necessary. The large number of requests from the PAPs
    or groups of PAPs reflects increasing awareness among people regarding their rights and
    entitlements and in some cases expectations for the Bank to intervene in order to resolve
    any outstanding case in the PAP's favor. The study commissioned by the Bank on Urban
    Resettlement Management by Management to offer technical guidance to the Borrower
    regarding urban R&R has been finalized and shared with the GoM.

    C.       Borrower Action Plan

    23. The status of issues under the current Board-endorsed Action Plan is discussed below
    and summarized in Annex 3:
,        '                                    "                                                   I
, Action 1: Negotiations with each eligible shopkeeper will be held on the basis of options 
I listed in the Action Plan when applicable. Agreements reached will be recorded and
  implemented.

    24. The resettlement of shopkeepers along the JVLR, including land titleholders and
    those having medium- and large-size shops, has been completed, except for one case
    involving court litigation and another requiring restructuring of a fuel station beyond the
    road alignment. The protracted and challenging negotiation process with Kismat Nagar
    shopkeepers along SCLR is nearing a conclusion with the majority USOA group signing
    the MoU with MMRDA for their relocation to a new shopping complex at MN Nagar in
    BKC. Earlier, the KNWA group had signed a MoO with MMRDA for a private in-situ
    resettlement scheme. To date, more than half of the affected SCLR shopkeepers have
    been resettled. The challenge now will be to commence the shopping complex scheme at
    MN Nagar; and deal with the breakaway USOA group of 50 shopkeepers that have not
    signed any MoO with MMRDA for resettlement, and who may be relocated under the
    procedure for failure of negotiations. MMRDA has initiated legal procedures to relocate
    some 15-20 land owner shopkeepers along SCLR that have stayed away from these
    negotiations.

    Action 2: MMRDA will publicize policy provisions related to making available up to one
i   year of income on a one-time basis to those affected employees who are not reemployed
I   as a result ofProject resettlement and will process the requests as and fvhenreceived.



                                                  14
 25. Information regarding R&R benefits for affected employees explained in the
 Implementation Manual (page 12) is available for reference in the PIC at MMRDA and
 on MMRDA's website ('vvww.mmrdamumbaLorg). Affected employees losing their job
 are entitled to receive a one-time assistance equivalent to one year's income. The affected
 employees are given identity cards prior to displacement in order to enable them to obtain
 assistance in the event of loss of employment.

  Action 3: l'v1MRDA will improve its resettlement implementation mechanisms through
  ,various measures such as: (a) registration process for PAP cooperative societies and
  cooperative management plan; (b) undertaking construction ofadditional social services
  at R&R sites; (c) transferring maintenance funds from the Slum Rehabilitation Authority
  (SRA) to PAP cooperative societies; (d) transferring conveyance deeds from l'v1MRDA to
  the cooperative societies; (e) providing building maintenance manuals and brochures for
  supporting proper management ofcooperative societies; (f) taking steps to improve water
  supply at resettlement sites,' (g) improving transport connectivity at resettlement sites;
  and (h) undertaking impact assessments to determine the improvements in the living
i standards and proposing remedial measures for any improvement required as a result of

I assessment findings.
 26. Registration Process for PAP Cooperative Societies and Cooperative
 Management Plan. Some 187 partially or fully occupied buildings have functional
 societies with or without formal registration. To date, 174 societies have been fully
 registered (compared to 157 socIeties registered as of January 2009) with another 7
 societies having completed name registration. MMRDA has transferred common
 facilities (society office, child welfare, center, and women's welfare center) to 179
 societies, compared to 168 societies a year ago.

 27. MMRDA continued the post-resettlement support program with its own staff after the
 professional consultant's assignment ended in June 2008; under this program, an action
 plan for strengthening self-management of resettlement sites was prepared and
 implemented. Management training for institutional development has enabled the PAP
 cooperative societies to function sustainably, periodically electing their management
 committees; using household contributions to meet recurring expenses, such as common
 electricity and water bills, cleaning, and remuneration for teachers at the child care
 centers; and managing their own accounts. As of January 31, 2010, 92 societies had
 received the full course of management and financial management training, management
 committee elections had been held for 171 societies; 157 societies had completed
 financial audit of their accounts; and 102 societies had paid all pending water bills.

 28. Construction of Additional Social Services at R&R Sites. As noted in the last
 progress report, two primary schools built by MMRDA arc run by MCGM at Mankhurd
 and Anik resettlement sites, and a large secondary school had started operations in
 Mankhurd. In addition, a few informal education centers run by Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan
 (Universal Literacy Mission) and private schools managed by charities in and around the
 R&R sites also benefit the resettled children. MMRDA has set up a community center at
 the Majas site which will double as a primary health care center and has provided four
 flour mills at different R&R sites. It has appointed an architect to assess the demand for


                                             15
various social facilities as well as the available vacant plots in various resettlement sites,
so that a plan for setting up social facilities can be finalized. In April 2008 the Urban
Development Department of the GoM took a policy decision to provide primary schools,
dispensaries and health care centers at all large R&R sites developed in Mumbai, if such
facilities are not available within 1 kilometer of the site.

29. Transferring Maintenance Fund Interest and Conveyance Deeds. Transfer of
interest on maintenance funds has been updated for 150 cooperative societies and
MMRDA has opened joint bank accounts for 157 societies for keeping the capital amount
of maintenance and management funds. Community management funds have been
transferred to 155 societies. The borrower has informed that the transfer of conveyance
deeds will be processed after completion of the post resettlement activities.

30. Providing Building Maintenance Manuals and Brochures to Societies. MMRDA
has distributed maintenance manuals and brochures on society management to the
registered cooperative society committees. Additional information, education, and
communication materials on society management and cohesive living developed by the
post-resettlement consultant are being disseminated to the housing cooperative societies
to strengthen self-management of assets and facilities.

31. Steps to Improve Water Supply at Resettlement Sites. The improvement in the
water situation since the summer of 2006 has been sustained, with more regular water
flow except during April and May when Mumbai as a whole faces a supply deficit.
MMRDA along with MCGM has largely addressed the inadequacy in water supply due
to low pressure at the Anik and Mankhurd sites. The following steps have been taken to
improve water supply in the R&R sites: (a) construction and commissioning of an
elevated storage reservoir at Mahul; Chembur; (b) testing and commissioning of a water
pumping station at Trombay; and (c) commissioning of a pipeline to an outlet distribution
network at Trombay also. These activities are expected to sustainably augment water
supply to Anik. The water supply at the resettlement sites is now quite comparable to that
in most parts of Mumbai.

32. Improving Transport Connectivity at Resettlement Sites. Since the last progress
report, BEST has continued to operate buses connecting the Anik and Mankhurd sites
with the main city centers. The Anik-Chembur site is accessible via 11 bus routes on
which 107 buses make 929 trips; some 255 buses make 1,504 trips using 25 bus routes to
the three closest access points surrounding the Mankhurd resettlement site. MMRDA has
begun construction of a skywalk connecting the Kanjunnarg resettlement site with the
nearest suburban railway station. MMRDA has also decided to set up a similar skywalk
to connect the Mankhurd resettlement site.

33. Independent Impact Assessments to Determine Improvements in Living
Standards and Remedial Measures. The previous progress report discussed the
outcome of the independent resettlement impact study undertaken by the Tata Institute of
Social Sciences, Mumbai, covering the Anik, Mankhurd and Majas resettlement sites.
The study highlighted 80 percent PAP satisfaction with resettlement buildings; an
increase in average monthly household incomes and 80 percent job retention among


                                             16
relocated PAPs; the purchase of additional household assets; and an enhanced sense of
social security. The study also noted the loss of supplementary incomes by women earlier
employed in mixed communities, building repair issues, etc. MMRDA has initiated
remedial measures, including establishment of a Livelihoods Cell to promote income
generating activities; repair works in several resettlement buildings; and allotment of
shopping kiosks/work sheds to poor PAPs. A final R&R Impact Assessment Study will
be commissioned at the time of Project completion.

34. The Livelihoods Cell established by MMRDA promotes and supports income
generating activities among the resettled women's groups. Some 11,700 women have
been enrolled in different group based income activities through self-help groups (SHGs):
the NGO SPARC-Mahila Milan has enrolled 9,889 women in a micro-credit scheme,
with cumulative savings of INR 7,649,404 (USD 170,000); the NGO SRS has enrolled
791 women, most of whom are provided with vocational training for income activities;
MMRDA's Livelihoods Cell has directly formed 66 SHGs with 1,020 members, some of
whom have formed an Industrial Women's Cooperative named "Sankalp" ("resolve") to
undertake micro-enterprise activities. 6 At Anik, the CAP Foundation7 continues to
conduct employment training programs for resettled youth. MMRDA began planning and
implementation of the LEAP for about 700 poor women SHG members, about 350 of
whom have already found employment. The Livelihoods Cell anchors and coordinates
diverse livelihood initiatives for restoring people's incomes in resettlement colonies.
MMRDA identified 215 vulnerable families in Anik and 224 vulnerable families in
Mankhurd, and provided 15 work sheds to some of these families at Anik. More work
sheds for poor families are being built. Earlier, MMRDA had organized an 'opportunities
fair' for youth, in which 427 young people participated. Among the difficulties
encountered, public interest litigation was filed against MMRDA's offer of hawking
sheds on the sky walk to the Railway station to the shopkeepers resettled at Kanjurmarg.
The construction of the skywalk has been completed.

35. MMRDA has ensured concessions in property and water charges levied in order to
enable the families living in resettlement colonies to adapt to the new conditions which
require them to pay property tax and for waters. MMRDA facilitated the participation of
people living in resettlement sites in the state assembly elections by ensuring that they
were issued voter identity. The majority of building repairs have been completed in 42
out of 52 resettlement buildings identified with problems. MMRDA has prepared an
action plan to complete the remaining repair works for another 20 buildings that have
reported problems. This action plan will be implemented at an estimated cost of about
INR 2.5 million following formal agreement with the PAP societies, who will henceforth
address recurring maintenance issues on their own. The Grievance Redress Centers
established at five R&R sites to strengthen estate management and address maintenance
related complaints have been functioning.

6 These activities include making and selling greeting cards, office stationery, and traditional earthen lamps; 

food processing; buying and selling sarees, etc. While the women's groups in Anik and Mankhurd are 

~roducing handmade consumer items, the women's group at Kanjurmarg has set up a small bakery. 

, MMRDA and the Corporate Social Responsibility wing of the Tata Consultancy Services have engaged 

the CAP Foundation to teach English and computer skills to the reset1led youth. 

S Earlier the PAPs lived in slums and neither had to pay property tax nor for water they consumed. 





                                                      17 

Action 4: MMRDA will assist cooperative societies to maintain public assets and take
measures for solid waste management in resettlement sites.
                                                             .~----------------------------~



36. Following up on the implementation of the post-resettlement action plan by the
professional consultant, MMRDA has continued to facilitate registration of societies and
provide them with eligible technical and financial support; and has been preparing them
to take over responsibilities for managing their assets and surroundings. An exit strategy
had been prepared by MMRDA, satisfactory to the Bank, to conclude the post
resettlement. According to the exit indicators for individual buildings, 92 societies are
ready to take over responsibilities. 9 MMRDA will prepare and submit exit proposals for
individual housing societies, which will take effect after being reviewed and approved by
the Deputy Registrar of Societies and the IMP. Proposals to conclude R&R programs for
any resettlement colony will take effect after the same have been reviewed and approved
by the IMP, which may undertake field visits to reconfirm facts on the ground. The exit
indicators for resettlement sites include: (a) MCGM assumption of street light and
conservancy responsibilities, including waste management, sewerage, and drainage
maintenance; (b) formation of a federation of PAP societies, where feasible; and (c)
resolution of urgent civil works problems that present safety risks (e.g., missing manhole
covers). The exit strategy has been agreed upon and disclosed on the MMRDA website.

37. For site exit, the EMCB consultant has prepared location specific action plans that are
being implemented. MMRDA continues to implement environmental management plans
for all sites. The community-managed waste disposal unit set up under a pilot plan at
Kanjurmarg is functioning. The sustainability of resettlement sites will largely depend on
their integration into the urban services network, which has been delayed. MMRDA and
MCGM are working out modalities for transfer of the resettlement sites to MCGM, which
will maintain the roads, street lights, waste disposal, storm water drains, and sewage
management for the sites. The formal institutional arrangement, delayed due to lack of
consensus, is expected to be achieved in the next few months. MCGM has commenced
waste collection from various pick-up points in the R&R sites; and MMRDA for its part
has started coordinating efforts with MCGM officials.




9 The achievement of overall exit indicators is as follows: (a) society registration completed for 174
buildings; (b) transfer of common facilities completed for 179 buildings; (c) transfer of community
management funds (eMF) completed for 155 societies; (d) opening of joint accounts for depositing
maintenance and management funds completed for 157 societies; (e) payment of interest on maintenance
funds until the joint accounts are opened completed for 150 societies; (f) regular payment of water and
electricity bills (bills should not be outstanding for over 6 months) updated for 103 societies; (g)
completion of urgent repair works to minimize adverse safety implications completed for 42 out of 52
societies reporting problems; (h) completion of the yearly statutory audit of society accounts comp leted by
157 societies; (i) democratic management of the PAP cooperative societies (at least one election held to
choose the management committee) done by 171 societies; and G) housing society members trained in
management skills in case of92 societies.




                                                    18
 Action 5: MMRDA will strengthen its institutional arrangements for day to day
 management, assess NGOs' capacity and roles and prepare and implement a training
 program for sensitization and skills improvement of staff,' NGOs and others involved in
 implementation.

 38. MMRDA has strengthened its R&R capacity with additional staff, including a Social
 Development Specialist, Community Development Assistants, a Deputy Registrar of
 Societies, and a Special Land Acquisition Officer. The post-resettlement consultant
 completed its assignment and ended its contract. To continue the post-resettlement
 activities, MMRDA hired two executive engineers and three social work professionals, in
 addition to the Livelihoods Cell that promotes income generating micro-enterprise
 activities in resettlement sites. Steps taken by MMRDA to streamline roles and
 responsibilities of NGOs, consultants, and its own staff, explained in the previous
 progress report, have been sustained without any changes to the agreed guidelines. A new
 Chief-Post R&R has been appointed in order to strengthen the program exit process and
 to provide more time to the Chief-R&R to focus attention on relocation activities.

  Action 6: MMRDA will improve its R&R process through measures such as: (a) 

  finalizing the R&R implementation manual to define the procedures; (b) expediting the 

. finalization of outstanding RIPs; (c) expediting the issuance of identity cards and 

  payment of shifting allowances; (d) assessing the magnitude of relocation of community
  assets and synchronizing their relocation with the civil works time table; and (e) the Gol'vl
  filling the position ofIl'vlP Chairman and clarifYing the L"vfP's role.

 39. Finalizing the R&R Implementation Manual to Define Procedures. The updated
 R&R Implementation Manual is available at the PIC and on MMRDA's website.

 40. Expediting the Finalization of Outstanding Resettlement Implementation Plans
 (RIPs). There is no outstanding RIP to be prepared for completing remaining R&R
 activities.

 41. Expediting Issuance of Identity Cards and Payment of Shifting Allowances.
 MMRDA has issued 18,342 identity cards to resettled PAHs (compared to 17,467
 identity cards issued as of January 31, 2009), which is about 98.5 percent of those
 resettled.

 42. Assessing Magnitude of Community Asset Relocation and Synchronizing with
 Civil Works Timetable. There has been significant progress in relocating community
 and religious structures and other assets in the last 12 months, despite strong social
 sensitivities involved. MMRDA was able to relocate host communities 10 in order to
 reconstruct three mosques, two temples, one social welfare center, and two electric
 pylons along SCLR, and one temple and one cremation place along JVLR. The relocation



10 A host community is the community located on an area selected to relocate a structure that has to be
demolished in order to allow the construction of the road, but that needs to be reconstructed in the
immediate vicinity. In such case the host community itself is relocated as part of MUTP.


                                                     19
    of some other religious structures is likely to take several months in view of the social
    sensitivity of such relocations ..

    43. Position of IMP Chairman Filled by GoM and Clarification of IMP's Role. The'
    IMP, reconstituted with a new chairperson in March 2006, continues to play an important
    role in monitoring living conditions in the resettlement sites through regular field visits
    and facilitating MMRDA' s consultations and negotiations with the PAPs. To date it has
    held 32 meetings and has undertaken 14 field visits for monitoring the resettlement
    process.



    44. MMRDA has decided to continue using its Visual Basic/Excel database for managing
    data and information relating to resettlement of eligible PAPs, and this database provides
    sufficient control of the management of the current process. The Bank team continues to
    monitor the process of R&R data management and the timely disclosure of all relevant
    information, including, especially, the lists of eligible PAPs prior to their actual
    relocation.

I   Action 8: Mfl,lRDA lvill engage in communications with Project-affected Persons and
.           documentation.

    45. MMRDA has made sustained efforts to maintain communications with the PAPs.
    Specific hours during weekdays have been set aside for face to face to meetings with
    PAPs by the Chief-R&R, in addition to special meetings held with specific PAP groups,
    such as residents, shopkeepers, and custodians of religious structures. In addition, it is
    evident that the Chief-R&R and his personnel are meeting PAPs on an almost daily basis.
    All relevant Project-related information is available at the PICs and on the MMRDA
    website.



    46. This action was completed and documented in the first progress report to the Board in
    March 2007. Since April 2006, the single member independent Grievance Redress
    Committees (GRCs) have continued to hear and resolve cases registered with them.
    MMRDA stopped accepting grievances after May 15, 2009, which was set as the
    deadline for registering grievance petitions through a prior public notice, in view of the
    near completion of the resettlement process. In total, 3,704 cases were registered with the
    field level GRC before May 15, 2009 including about 800 new applications received
    during April-May 2009. Out of these, 3,506 cases (95 percent) have been resolved. The
    senior level GRC has resolved 639 out of 716 cases received (i.e., 89 percent).

I Action 10: Operationali;ation ofthe Implementation Manual.
    47. As reported in the March 2007 progress report, this action has been completed. The
    Implementation Manual was finalized, taking into account the Bank's comments, and is



                                                20
now available at the PIC and on the MMRDA website. The manual is being used to
administer the entitlements and apply relevant procedures.

IV.    CONCLUSION

48. Resettlement. Management is satisfied that the shift in MMRDA's approach to
resettlement, characterized by its openness to pursue negotiated solutions in consultation
with PAPs, has been sustained. MMRDA has demonstrated its capacity to engage in
negotiations and achieve results even in the case of difficult PAP groups, which is
evident from the manner in which it relocated the MHADA building residents at New
Tilak Nagar and religious structures along SCLR, and completed negotiations with the
majority group of USOA shopkeepers. MMRDA has indicated that it will apply the legal
procedure for relocating PAPs not amenable to mutually agreeable resettlement options,
especially in view of the long delayed civil works. Other than the above, the remaining
resettlement challenges which continue to delay civil work include: (a) about 15 land
owner shopkeepers, who will be relocated applying the legal procedure; and (b) some 5
religious structures which will be relocated through negotiation. Management is
reasonably confident that MMRDA will be able to address these resettlement challenges
in a compliant manner. , despite pressing deadlines.

49. Post-resettlement. MMRDA's overall post-resettlement activities have been
exemplary, despite difficulties with handling specific issues such as repairs. The progress
made in registering and enabling PAP cooperatives to take over financial and technical
responsibility for self-managing their assets and facilities has been very good over the
last year. Noteworthy among these activities are: the LEAP, implemented for poor
women; the assessment in view of expansion of social services in resettlement sites;
considerable repairs undertaken and planned for all buildings reporting any problem in
agreement with the societies; and preparing about 90 societies for program exit.
Management considers the post-resettlement process to be on track to be completed with
sustainable outcomes.

50. The Bank team will continue to assist MMRDA with need-based technical support for
implementing the Action Plan and the construction works and will monitor progress of
various activities and the quality of compliance. Supervision will include frequent
interaction with the implementing agencies, site visits, and follow-up as needed. Overall,
the quality of compliance in the R&R component has improved and the focus of technical
support and monitoring has gradually shifted to strategic implementation issues. In view
of this, the Bank has, since January 2008, reduced the involvement of its social
development specialist. In accordance with the provisions of OP 4.12 a project is not
considered complete      and the Bank implementation support continues - until the
resettlement measures set out in the Action Plan have been implemented. Therefore,
beyond loan closure, Management will continue to monitor progress in resolution of
outstanding R&R issues through annual technical visits until such issues are fully
resolved. Bank Management will report in a year's time on progress made in
implementation of the Action Plan.




                                           21
                      Annex 1: KEY RESETTLEMENT IMPLEMENTATlON PROGRESS

                                                                             February
                                                                               2006                                              January
                                                                                              December       September                              January
                                               Current                      (Submission                                            2009
                                                             April-May                           2006           2007                                  2010
                                               Target                             of                                              (Third
                                                                2005                             (First       (Second                               (Fourth
    No       Action              Target                                     Management                                           Progress
                                                             (Inspection                       Progress       Progress                             Progress
                                                                            Response to                                          Report on
                                                             Panel Visit)                      Report on      Report on                            Report on
                                                                             Inspection                                           Action
                                                                                              Action Plan)   Action Plan)                         Action Plan)
                                                                                Panel                                              Plan)
I        I

                                                                               Report)
                                                                                                                            I
    1       No. of                17,378       17,420        12,396           13,877           15,315         15,784             16,580           17,134

         i
            households
            shifted to
                                                                (71%)            (80%)            (88%)          (91%)
                                                                                                                            !       (95%)         (98%)

            permanent                      I
            houses           I
    2       No. of                 2,469       2,071            249             369              752           1,104              1,437             1,490
            affected                                            (10%)           (14%)            (29%)           (43%)              (70%)             (71%)
            shopkeepers
            provided
            permanent              1,669        1385             na              na           668 (37.7%)      877 (50%)        1,018 (71%)       1,071 (77%)
            alternati ve             800         686             na              Na            84 (10.5%)    227 (28,4%)          419 (61%)         419 (61%)
            shops
          < 225 sq.ft
            (small)
            > 225 sq.ft                                                                   I
                                                                                                                            I

I
    3
         . (medium and
            large}
            No. of
            households
                                  19,847       19,491         1.685
                                                                 (8%)
                                                                              5,616
                                                                                (28%)
                                                                                                6,319
                                                                                                  (32%)
                                                                                                              15,01 I
                                                                                                                 (75%)
                                                                                                                                 17,467
                                                                                                                                    (90%)
                                                                                                                                              ;18.43rlI
                                                                                                                                                (98.5% of
            issued                                                                                                                            . resettled)J
                             I
            identity cards
    4       Disclosure of         19.847       19.491           Nil          10,910            15.627         16,447        17,467                18,202
            beneficiaries                                                       (55%)             (78%)          (82%)    (90% of                 (94% of
           텶ist on the                                                                                                   total and               total and
            website                                                                                                       97% of the              87% of the
                                                                                          i
                                                                                                                        i resettled               resettled)
I                            I                                                                                          I PAPs)
    5        No. of                 200*         180             47              48                58             85       157 (90%)t                174 (93%)
             cooperative                                        (27%)t          (28)t             (33%)t        (49%)t          (13 in                  (7
             societies                                                                                       (name        process)                in process)
             registered                                                                                    registration
             (approximate)   I             I
                                                                                                           done for
                             I                           I
                                                                                                         _~other 56)
                                                             .-
    6      No. of                   200*         180             23              23                46             46             52               157 out of
           maintenance                                          (I3'yo)t        (I3%)~            (26%)~        (26%)t          (30%)t            174
           funds                                                                                                                                  registered
           (Interest)                                                                                                                             (90%)
           transferred to
           the joint
         \ aceounts of                                                                                                                        ,
         I cooperative
I        . societies
    7      No. of                   200*         180             47              47                47             47                125           155 out of
           cooperative                                          (27%)~          (27%)t            (27%);         (27%)t             (71%)t        174
           societies that                                                                                                                         registered
           received                                                                                                                               (89%)
           Community                                                                                                                                             I
         I Maintenance
i          Funds             i                           i                                                                                                       i
    8    i No. of PAPs       I     200O          NA      I      NA              244               244            244            The fund is       The fU[ld is   I




                                                                              22 

     who received                                                           (12%)         (12%)      !     (12%)       provided to     provided to
     assistance                                                                                                        cooperative     cooperative
     under                                                                                                             societies       societies
     Community 

     Maintenance 

     Funds
9    Transfer of            600         540             Nil                 Nil           114              423             445         For 179
     common            (for 200                                                           (18%)            (70%)           (82%)       societies
     facilities (pre   societies)                                                                                                      received
     school,                                                                                                                           (I00%of
     society oftice                                                                                                                    the
     and welfare                                                                                                                       registered
     centre) to                                                                                                                        societies)
     cooperative
     societies)
10   Issue of               152         157            Nil                  Nil           100              100             157         174
     building                                                                             (66%)            (66%) 

     maintenance 

     manuals to 

     cooperative 

     societies 

II   No. of                  87*                       NA                    16            18               50              60               69
     community                                                              (18%)         (21%)            (58%) 

     assets 

     reconstructed 

12   Water supply            90          90              69                  60-65         70-125        90-150               71-171         NA
       Mankhurd                                                                                       27 buildings         Ipcd] 

     (sample 
                                                                                        get 90-95 

     buildings) -
                                                                                    Ipcd; 2 get 

     Ipcd 
                                                                                           121 and 150
                                                                                                      Iped
                                                                                                      respectively
13   Water supply            90           90              25               30              70-125        60-129               57-197         NA
       Anik                                                                                           6 buildings       58%of33 

     (sample 
                                                                                        get 60-85         buildings 

     buildings) 
                                                                                     Ipcd;             received 

     Iped 
                                                                                           27 buildings      more than
                                                                                                      get 90-129       90lpcd
                                                                                                      Ipcd
                                                       ..
            Note 1: The number of shopkeepers remammg to be resettled has been reduced due to total target recast after Project 

            restructuring. 

            Note 2: The figures in parentheses indicate percentages. 

            # Building maintenance manuals not prepared for initial 48 buildings purchased directly from Maharashtra Housing 

            Board. 

            * Revised target. At this stage there are 175 occupied buildings, 180 buildings are expected to be fInally occupied.
            t This represents the percentage of the 175 fully occupied buildings where residents can register their housing
            cooperative societies.




                                                                       23
                    ANNEX 2: WORLD BANK SUPERVISION MISSIONS, 

                                   MARCH 2006 - FEBRUARY 2010                              


                                                  March 9 14,2006
 Hubert Nove-Josserand                            Task Team Leader
_Manmohan Singh Bajaj
       ......

 Priya Goel
                                                  Senior Procurement Specialist
                                                  Financial Management Specialist
 Eis Hinderdael                                   Manager, Procurem~nt
 Manoj Jain                                       Senior Financial ManagemenU~pecialist
~lljat Narula                                     Senior Finance Officer
 LU.B. Reddy                                      Senior Social Development Sn~ci~li"t
 Robert J. Saum                                   Manager, Financial Management
 Warren Waters                                    Lea.-d Social DeveloQment S~ecialist

                                                  April 12 - 21,2006
 Hubert Nove-Josserand                            Task Team Leader
 Sameer Akbar                                     Senior Environment Specialist
 Mr. Apte                                         Architect
 Frederick Brusberg                               Regional Safeguards Advisor
 Richard Clifford                                 Lead Urban Specialist
 Satya Mishra                                     Social Development Consultant
~<lyez Omar                                       Senior COllntry Program Manager
 LU.B. Reddy                                      Senior Social Specialist

                                                   M ay 2 - 5, 2006
  Hubert Nove-losserand                           Task Team Leader
  Amab Balldyopadhyay                             Transport SEecialist
  Sujit Das                                       Transport쬏ec ialist
  Setty Pendakur                                  Traffic Management Specialist



    Frederic Brusber
    Michael Carter
I--Sa_ty-<-a_M_i_sh-,-r,-a_ _ _ _ _ _+쬸cial Development <::onsultant
L.:.:l.-=U-=.B=-=-.R~ed-=d::.<)_f_ _ _ _ _---'_S.:..e-=n-=io.:..r-=S.:..o_c_ia_lS"-pee.-c'--ia.-l_is_t_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _...J


  Hubert Nove-losserand
  Satya Mishra

                                                  J Uly 25 - 28, 2006
                                                     I
  Hubert Nove-Josserand                           Task Team Leader
  Sameer Akbar                                    Environmental Specialist
  Amab Bandyopadhyay
--::--::-: .....
                                                  Transport Specialist
  Sujit Das                                       Trans20rt S~ecialist
  Satya Mishra                                    Social Dey~loI2ment Consultant
  LU.B. Reddy                                 !   Senior So~ial Specialist                                                  i

  Sonia Sandhu                                    Environmental Specialist
  Sankaran Vaideeswaran                           Environmental Specialist

.--_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _---,---'A:..::..:..cug"'-u'-S:t 14, 2006 

I Fayez Omar                  Acting Country [)ir-=ec.::..:t-=oe.-r_ _ _ _~ _____--' 




                                                            24
        Sat a Mishra                       Social Develo ment Consultant
    i   LU.B. Reddy                        Senior Social S ecialist

                                          Au ust 17 - 25, 2006
        Hubert Nove-losserand         i   Task Team Leader


    i   OnIa an u                           nVlronmenta ipecla 1st                 I
      Sujit Das                       LTransQort SQecialist                        i
      Ke Fang                         . Transport Specialist
     Priya Goel                         Financial Management Specialist
      Satya Mishra                       Social Development Consultant
      Setty Pendakur                     Traffic Management Specialist
      litendra Sondhi                    Rail Transport Specialist
      Sona Thakur                      . Public Relations Specialist
    i Sankaran Vaideeswaran              Environmental Specialist




                                November 22 - 24 and 26 29, 2006
I Hubert Nove-losserand                   Task Team Leader
I Frederick Brusberg                      Regional Safeguards Advisor                  I
i LU.B. Reddy                             Senior Social Specialist
I Satya Mishra                            Social Development Consultant                i

I Shyamal Sarkar                          Senior Water and Sanitation Specialist   J
                                      January 16 - 25, 2007
I Hubert Nove-losserand               I Task Team Leader
I Frederick Brusberg                  I Regional Safeguards Advisor
                                                                                       I
: Richard Clifford                      Lead Urban Specialist                          I

 i SUjit Das                            Transport Specialist
! Priya Goel                            Financial Specialist
   Stephen Lintner                      Senior Technical Advisor for Safeguards
   Satya Mishra                         Social Development Consultant
   Sudip Mozumdar                       External Relations
   I.U.B. Reddy                       i Senior Social Specialist                       I
i Soma Sandhu                         I Senior EnVIronmental Speclahst                 I

i Shyamal Sarkar                      . Senior Water and Sanitation Specialist
; litendra Sondhi                       Railway Specialist (consultant)
IK. Srinivasan                          Financial Analyst
I Sankaran Vaideeswran                  Environment Consultant                         I




                                            March 7,2007
    Hubert Nove-Josserand                 Task Team Leader                         i
    Guang Zhe Chen                        Sector Manager, Transport                I
    Satya Mishra                          Social Development Consultant            I




                                                  25 

                        _~___ ~_--r.:.:A:.a:p:.:.rH       16 -.::.1::..:9't...:2:.:0~0.:...7_.,-:--_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _---,
~lJjit Da~s-_-~.                               , Senor Transport Specialis_t~_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _--1
I Satya Mishra                                 I Social Development Consultant




                                                 April 25 - _2.:.:7't...:2:.::0~07:..-_--:-_ _ _~
                                   .------,-.,Social Dev;lopment Consultant
                                                 Senor Social Development Specialist                          =
                                                                                                        ----- ~



                                                   June 6       7,2007
I Hubert Nove-losserand     Task Team Leader
[1atya Mishra      :"==---TSocial Development Consultant

r - -_ _ _ _ _ _~ _ _~-J::..:uly                         6 -20,::::..20:::..;0:..:7_ _ _ _ _._ _ _ _ _ __
I Hubert Nove-losserand'                         Task Team Leader_ _ _ __
Isameer Akbar
  Manmohan Bajaj'--_ _ _ _-+-:..c....~;;..:..::=~:.=:..::.::.;.=.:..__.~_ _ _ __
                                                                                   _ -._                             I
L!.ederick Brusberg<--_ _ _ .}--------"'---________---"'________________
. Richard Clifford                                                                        I
      ..
  S ullt Das                            ransport specla 1St
                            --_.                                                          I
                                                                                          I
  PriyaGoel                            Financial Specialist
  Satya Mishra                         Social Development Consultant                     ~
                              ._----
  Sudip Mozumdar                       External Relations
                                                                                         ~
I I.U.R-cR_e;...:.d'--d....
                        y_______-'---'Senior Social Speclahst                  _-.J
I Sonia Sandhu                       I Senior Environmental SpeciaJist ________                                --.J
I Shyamal Sarkar
I litendra Sondhi
I K. Srinivasan
                                       Senior Water and Sanitation Specialist
                                       Railway Specialist (consultant)
                                       Financial Ana""IYc.;:s;:.t---------------1
                                                                                          I

                                                                                                                   -I
I Roy Sumner                           A TC Specialist                     _______        I
: Sankaran Vaideeswran                 Environment Consultant                           ~
I Pradeep Valsangkar                  _ICT Specialist                                     I

                                     _ _...,:A:.::.ugust 20        22, 2007
I Hubert Nove-losseran.:.:d=--_ _-I-!_T::..:a=:s=:k=-.T::..:e::.::a=m::.=L:.:.e:::..ad=er_ _ _ _ _ __                1
I Isabel M. Guerrero                          I Country Director                                               I
I Mandakini Kaul            Economist
Isat~ Mishra                Social Develo ment Consultant
fR..S. pa~------            Water Resource Specialist=:.:.:..:..------------1
!sOna Thakur     _-1..,;E;;;;.:x.::.::'ternal Affairs Consultant _____._-~~~~-,

    ._ _ _._ _ _ _ _ _~Septem!>er 26 - 28, 2007
~ubert1'love-Josserand           Task Team Leader                _____~_
i Sujit Das                      Senior Transport S~cialis_t______
~Satya M.i_s_hr_a _ _ _ _ _ _-'-S_ocial DevelopmentJ:onsultant
                _                                                  ___ -------.J

                   ___________N..;.;o;:..v'-"ember 20 - 21, 20-=.0_7_ _
I Hubert Nove-losserand _                       Task Team Leader           --------- ~
I Satya Mishra    _                             Social Development Consultant                              -l
                                             December 16 -18, 2007 

    Hubert Nove-losserand     I Task Team Leader 

    Satya Mish_ra _ _ _ _ _ ~[]9cial Development Consultant 

            __ _

     _ J a n u a r y 07 -:- 17, 2008 -                   Janua~23             February 4, 2008
[HubertNove-J()sser<ll1_d___ ~a~k Team Leader                                                   _____ ~



                                                            26 

 Atul A arwal




                             Social Develo ment Consultant
                             External Relations
                             Senior Social S ecialist

 Jitendra Sondhi
 K. Srinivasan
 Ro Sumner
                             Environment Consultant
                             ICT S ecialist

                             A 16 - 10, 2008
                              .pn
  Hubert Nove-Josserand      Task Team Leader
  Atul Agarwal               Transport Specialist
  Vasile Olievschi           Rail Transport Specialist
 J itendra Sondhi           Rail Transport Specialist




                          G oa, J I l l - 12, 2008
                                Uly
 Hubert Nove-Josserand      Task Team Leader
 Frederic Brusberg          Safeguards Regional Adviser
 Frederic Giovannetti       Social Safeguards Specialist, (consultant)
 Gaurav Joshi               Environmental Safeguards Specialist
 Satya Mishra               Social Development Consultant
 I.U.B. Reddy               Senior Social Specialist                     i
                          J uly 23 - A ugust 5, 2008
                             I
  Hubert Nove-Josserand       Task Team Leader
  Atul Agarwal                Transport Specialist
  Manmohan Bajaj              Procurement Specialist
  Ramola Bhuyan               Financial Specialist
  Frederick Brusberg          Regional Safeguards Advisor
  SUjit Das                   Transport Specialist
  Priya Goel                  Financial Specialist
 Gaurav Joshi                Environmental Specialist
  Satya Mishra                Social Development Consultant
  Sudip Mozumdar              External Relations
  LU.s'Reddy                 Senior Social Specialist
  Shyamal Sarkar              Senior Water and Sanitation Specialist



                                     27
_    ...

 Jitendra Sondhi                    I   Railway Specialist (consultant)
 K. Srinivasan                          Financial Analyst
 Sankaran Vaideeswran                   Environment Consultant
 Pradeep Valsangkar                     ICT Specialist

~~~______________~STe~te~m~berI5-16,2008
I--="S~uj'-it_D-::-:-as:-:-__________-I-Transp~rt Special ist
 Satya Mishra                           Social !?evelopment Consultant
~~-------------~-----


                            November 23 - November 26, 2008
I Hubert Nove-Josserand           Task Team Leader
I Atul Agarwal                    Transport Specialist
  Ramola Bhuyan                   Financial Managemellt Consultant
  Rakhi Basu                      T!ansport Specialist
: Gaurav Joshi                    Environmef}tal Specialist
 Satya Mishra                    Social Development Consultant

                              January 28 - February 6, 2009
  Hubert Nove-Josserand
f--
                                    Task Team Leader
  Atul Agarwal                      Tran~port Specialist 

 j\1anmohaf} Bajaj 
                Procurement Specialist 

  Frederick Brusb(!rg 
             Regional Saf~guards Advisor 

  Sujit Das 
                       Transport Specialist 

  Rakhi Basu                      : Transport Specialist 

  Priva Goel 
                      Finan~al SQecialist 

  Gaurav Joshi 
                    Environmen.tal Specialist 

  Satya Mishra 
                    Social Development ~eecialist                        .......-

  Sudip Mozumdar                    External Relations
 1. U.B. Reddy                    I Senior Social Specialist 


 Jitendra Sondhi 
                  Railway Specialist (consultant) 

  Sankaran Vaideeswran 
            Environment Consultant 

  Ramola Bhuyan 
                   Financial Management Consultant
~a~eep Valsangkar                   ICT Consultant

                                     March 26-30, 2009
~aMishra                                                               li_st~
                                   I Social Development_S..Lp--,-e_ci_a__ _______________---1

                                           May 6, 2009
 Atul Agarwal                           Transport Specialist
 Sujit Das                              Transport Specialist
 Satya Mishra                           Social Development Specialist

                                        May 25, 2009
I Satya Mishra     _________---1I'-S"_o"__cial Development Specialist




                                                28 

I Bogdan Filip Popescu      Economist                         i

I Gaurav Joshi              Environmental Specialist          I

I Satya Mishra              Social Development Specialist     i

I Sudip Mozumdar            External Relations
I 1.u.B. Reddy              Senior Social Specialist          



 Jitendra Sondhi           Railway Specialist Consultant     !


 Ramola Bhuyan           . Financial Management Consultant   I
I Ed Dotson                 Urban Transport Planner           I

I Sumner Roy                Traffic Management Specialist     I

 Sat a Mishra

                            October t 5, 2009
 Atul Agarwal              Transport Specialist               I
 Sujit Das                 Transport Specialist               I
 Satya Mishra              Social Development Specialist      J
                          F e bruary 1519, 2010
                                       -
I Hubert Nove-losserand     Task Team Leader
  Atul Agarwal              Tran~ort Sjlecialist              I

I Manmohan Bajaj            Procurement Specialist
  Marc Davy                 Project Management Specialist     !
 Bogdan Filip Popescu      Economist
  Gaurav Joshi             Environmental Specialist          I
I Satya Mishra              Social Development Specialist
  Sudip Mozumdar            External Relations
  LU.B. Reddy               Senior Social Specialist
  I itendra Sondhi          Railway Specialist (consultant)
 Ramola Bhuyan             Financial Management Consultant
  Ed Dotson                 Urban Transport Planner
 Sumner Roy                Traffic Management Specialist




                                  29 

                                   ANNEX 3:   MUTP:           STATUS OF ISSUES AS OF FEBRUARY              1,2009

                      Issue                         Status as of March 10,                                  Comments
                                                             2010
Resettlement of Shopkeepers
1. Shopkeeper Resettlement Options
I.l Complete negotiations /                       Status: Substantially            Over 65 percent of SC LR shopkeepers have been resettled,
         resettlement with all affected           completed                        including 188 medium- or large-size shops. A procedure on
         shopkeepers of SC LR.                                                     how MMRDA would deal with shopkeepers who refuse to
                                                  Target Date: May 2006            negotiate has been agreed and disclosed. However, MMRDA
                                                  Revised: August 2010             has so far pursued negotiations with shopkeepers with IMP
                                                                                   guidance. Both groups of SCLR shopkeepers (KNW A) and
                                                                                   USOA (IP Requesters) have signed MoU with MMRDA for
                                                                                   resettlement. KNW A has opted for a private development
                                                                                   scheme whereas USOA prefers relocation to a new shopping
                                                                                   complex at MN Nagar. One breakaway faction ofUSOA of
                                                                                   50 shopkeepers favors the in-situ scheme and will like to join
                                                                                   this scheme; if it does not, MMRDA will resettle these
                                                                                   shopkeepers as per the approved procedure applicable in case
                                                                                   of breakdown in negotiations. MMRDA expects to complete
                                                                                   resettlement of these shopkeepers by end August 20 IO.

                                                                                   The Bank continues to monitor, advise and assist MMRDA
                                                                                   to expedite the resettlement process.
1.2 Complete negotiations /                       Status          Substantially     Thus far, 71 percent (1,590) of shopkeepers have been
    resettlement of affected                      completed                         resettled, including 267 medium- or large-size shopkeepers.
    shopkeepers of other sub-projects                                             ! Negotiation and resettlement of shopkeepers from JVLR

    (non-SCLR).                                                                     (except one involving court case) and Thana-Kurla Railway
                                                                                    corridor have been completed. SATIS and ROBs were earlier
                                              I
                                                                                  I deleted from the Project as part of restructuring.
2. Affected Employees
2.1 MMRDA will publicize the R&R                  Status: Completed                The provision of assistance to affected employees is 

    policy, which provides one year's 
                                            described in the Implementation Manual which is disclosed
    income on a one-time basis to those                                            in the PIC and uploaded on MMRDA's website. 

    employees who are not re
    employed as a result of Project 

    resettlement. 

2.2 MMRDA will process such cases of              Statu.~:   In progress           MMRDA is yet to receive any requests from the affected
    assistance as and when formal                                                  employees for assistance. 

    requests are received. The amount 
           Target Date: Ongoing 

    of income will be determined by a 
                                            The Bank continues to monitor this issue. 

    valuation committee, per the R&R 

    policy. Funding for this assistance 

    will come from the Bank-financed 

    portion of MUTP. 

"l
~."
     ~
         Employees will be issued identity        Status: In progress              Issuance of identity cards to employees is ongoing.
         cards prior to displacement of the                                        The Bank monitors the issuance of identity cards to 

         business unit. 
                         Target Date: Ongoing             employees prior to their displacement.




                                                                           30
                  Issue                        Status as of March 10,                               Comments
                                                        2010
Post-Resettlement
3. Implementation
3.1  MMRDA will strengthen the R&R
     management system and engage
     additional staff for the timely
     completion of the registration
     process of the cooperative societies.
    3.1.1.  Complete registration of         Status: Completed            Society registration has been completed for 174 (93%)
            80 housing cooperative                                        occupied buildings with name reservation completed for
            societies in addition to the                                  another 7 societies out of 187 occupied buildings. The
            initially registered 48                                       remaining societies including a few divided societies and
            societies                                                     partially occupied buildings will take time to be registered.
    3.1.2     Implementation of              Status: Completed            MMRDA has implemented the cooperative management
              cooperative management                                      action plan through its consultant, Tata Consultancy
              action plan.                                                Services, which has completed its assignment. MMRDA
                                                                          continues to conduct training for the newly registered
                                                                          societies. The Bank will continue to monitor the process.
3.2 Construction of social services at       Status: Substantially        Primary schools have been established at Anik and 

    R&R sites. 
                             completed                    Mankhurd and a larger school started at Mankhurd. In
                                                                          addition, one private school at Mankhurd and two private
                                             Target Date: July 2007       schools at Anik are managed by charities. Some 86
                                             Revised: June 2009           Integrated Child Development Service centers established in
                                                                          three major R&R sites including Anik and Mankhurd provide
                                                                          early childhood nutrition and learning support to 2,150
                                                                          children. MCGM has sanctioned establishment ofa health
                                                                          care center at Anik. MMRDA has started construction of a
                                                                          community hall which will double as a health centre at
                                                                          Majaj. MMRDA has hired a consultant to assess the need
                                                                          and availability of space for setting up such other social
                                                                          facilities in different R&R sites.
3.3 MMRDA will facilitate, through the       Status: Completed            Transfer of interest on maintenance funds* has been done for
    GoM, the transfer of maintenance         Target Date: April 2006      150 societies and joint bank accounts opened for 157
    funds to the cooperative societies       (first 48 societies)         societies compared to 52 last year, from which societies can
    that have been established. If there                                  now directly withdraw interest amount. The Bank continues
    is a delay, interest on the              Status:                      to monitor the process. 

    maintenance funds will be 
              Target Date: March 2009 

    transferred within 3 months of the 
     (for additional 80 

    end of the financial year. 
             societies)
3.4 Transfer of conveyance deeds to          Status: No action taken      MMRDA has not initiated action for transferring the title to
    first 48 cooperative societies.                                       the cooperative societies. This issue involves many buildings
                                             Target Date: July 2006       in Mumbai, not just those affected by the Project. At present,
                                             Revised: December 2009       MMRDA's focus is on high priority resettlement issues. 

                                                                          The Bank will continue to monitor the progress on this issue. 

3.5 Transfer of conveyance deeds to          Status: No action taken      Process is yet to be started; MMRDA is preoccupied with
    next 80 cooperative societies.           Target Date: December        more pressing post resettlement issues at present.
                                             2007
                                             Revised date: December
                                             2009




                                                                     31
                  Issue                       Status as of March 10,                                Comments
                                                       2010
3.6 Training and building facilities        Status: Substantially         The maintenance manuals have been distributed to 157
    maintenance manuals and brochures       Completed                     cooperative societies in the Mankhurd, Asgaonkar, Anik,
    will be provided to cooperative                                       Kanjurmarg and Majas sites. Tata Consultancy Services
    societies' committee members to                                       prepared a range of information, education and
    support proper management of the                                      communication materials on society management and
    societies, maintenance of lifts and                                   cohesive living which are being disseminated among the
    provision of services, such as water                                  PAP societies.
    supply, sewerage, solid waste
    management, etc. The Bank is
    following up with MMRDA on
    specific additional measures to
    assure sustainable self-management
    of cooperative societies in the
    longer term.
3.7 MMRDA will work with the GoM            Status: Substantially         The water supply situation has considerably improved in the
    to engage with MCGM on steps            completed                     resettlement sites, despite reports of relative short supply in a
    required to improve water supply at                                   few buildings at Anik due to location disadvantage. The
    the resettlement sites.                 Target Date: Ongoing          special pumping station has been established at Anik and the
                                                                          pipeline from Trombay to Mahul passing through Anik has
                                                                          been constructed ..
3.8 The Bank is pursuing measures           Status: Su bstantially        Accessibility and availability of bus service from the
    with GoM and MMRDA to                   completed                     resettlement colonies is comparable to that of other areas of
    improve transport connectivity to                                     Mumbai. Major bus routes are within 1-2 km of the
    resettlement colonies.                  Target Date: Ongoing          Mankhurd and Anik resettlement colonies. MMRDA has
                                                                          sanctioned the construction of a sky walk at Mankhurd to
                                                                          connect it to the nearby Railway station.
3.9 Independent resettlement impact         Status: Completed. End        Tata Institute of Social Sciences, hired by MM RDA to carry
    assessments will be carried out as      evaluation will be            out independent resettlement impact assessment studies in
    and when due for each resettlement      undertaken closer to          Mankhurd, Majas and Anik resettlement sites, has submitted
    site. Remedial measures, if             Project closing date          its final report. MMRDA has started undertaking remedial
    required, will be implemented.                                        measures to follow up on concerns raised in the report. The
                                                                          Bank continues to monitor the process.
Environmental Management of Resettlement Sites
4. Maintenance ofPublic Assets; Waste Management
4.1 MMRDA will assist the ad hoc            Status Substantially          MMRDA has completed the majority of civil works related
    cooperative housing societies to        completed                     repairs at resettlement buildings. As part of the
    survey repairs needed to rectify                                      environmental exit strategy, MMRDA agreed on a set of
    construction defects, such as water     Target Date: Ongoing          indicators that require completion of all urgent and pending
    and sewerage networks, plumbing                                       repair works. As part of this exit strategy, MMRDA has
    and civil works, before expiration                                    prepared a plan to complete all pending civil work repairs in
    of the contractors' liability period.                                 the resettlement sites in the coming months.

                                                                          The Bank will closely monitor the process.
4.2 MMRDA has prepared maintenance                                        See Item 3.6.
    manuals which will be handed over
    to each registered cooperative
    society.




                                                                     32
                   Issue                         Status as of Marcb 10,                               Comments
                                                          2010
4.3 MMRDA is liaising with MCOM to             Status: In progress          MMRDA prepared environmental management action plans
    provide necessary community                                             for resettlement sites with the help of professional 

    facilities, including tree plantation. 
   Target Date: Ongoing         consultants; a plan was implemented at Kanjurrnarg on a
                                                                            pilot basis and is being replicated in other sites with the help
                                                                            of NO Os. The action plans focus on environmental issues,
                                                                            such as solid and liquid waste management, other activities
                                                                            that have implications for community health, and tree
                                                                            plantation in resettlement sites. The Bank will continue to
                                                                            monitor the progress on this issue.
4.4 Concerned Ward Offices will be             Status: Substantially        Furtherto MMRDA's dialogue with MCOM, the latter
    asked to route solid waste collection      completed                    started regular garbage pickup from resettlement sites.
    vehicles to the resettlement sites for                                  MMRDA and MCOM are in dialogue to ensure the transfer
    the timely collection and disposal of      Target Date: Ongoing         ofR&R sites to MCOM.
    waste.
                                                                            The Bank will continue to monitor the progress on this issue.
Overall Management of R&R Implementation
5. Strengthening Institutional Arrangements for R&R
5.1 Day-to-day R&R management            Status: Completed April            MMRDA has maintained its strengthened R&R capacity
     (with delegated administrative and  2006                               with a ChiefR&R a Chief Post-Resettlement Officer,
    financial authority) will be                                            additional managers, and community development 

    undertaken by a Chief Officer 
                                         associates .. MMRDA has established a special Livelihoods
    (R&R) reporting to the Project                                          Cell to address income restoration issues. The earlier
    Director. The R&R Chiefwi1l be                                          appointed Deputy Registrar-Cooperatives continues to
    supported by 12 officers with                                           support society registration process. The Chief-R&R
    backgrounds in R&R management                                           manages overall resettlement operations. 

    and community development, data 

    base management, land acquisition, 

    environmental management, estate 

    management, public relations, 

    registration of societies, legal, etc. 

    Functions and responsibilities of 

    key officers will be documented 

    soon. Requirements for other 

    support staff will be assessed and 

    provided accordingly. The Bank 

    Task Team will work closely with 

    MMRDA to ensure that effective 

    and efficient management systems 

    are put in place. 

5.2 MMRDA will review and assess the           Status: Completed            MMRDA has streamlined roles and responsibilities of
    NOOs' capacity and future role.                                         NOOs, consultants and its staff members. 

                                                                            The Bank will monitor the role ofNGOs in the light of 

                                                                            agreed guidelines. 

5.3 MMRDA will prepare and                     Status: Substantially        MMRDA has been conducting training programs on issues of
    implement a training program for           completed                    interest for its staff. 

    the sensitization and skills 

    improvement of R&R staff, NOOs, 
          Target Date: Ongoing         The Bank will continue to monitor the process. 

    and others concerned with R&R 

    implementation. 





                                                                       33
                 Issue                        Status as of March 10,                              Comments
                                                       2010
6. Improving the R&R Process
6.1 MMRDA will further define               Status: Completed            The updated R&R Implementation Manual is disclosed at the
    procedures in the R&R                                                PIC and uploaded on MMRDA's website.
    Implementation Manual.                                               No further action is required.
6.2 Strengthen data base capability for                                  See Items 7.1 and 7.2 below.
    effective management of
    resettlement and post-resettlement.
6.3 MMRDA will expedite:                    Status: Completed            The revised RIP for SCLR has been finalized and endorsed
    6.3.1 Finalizing the draft RIP for                                   by the Bank. This was disclosed on MMRDA's website and
          SCLR up to 45:7 meters                                         in the local PIC, and was also disclosed in the Bank's
          with flexibility to proceed                                    InfoShop.
          on a section-by-section
          basis.
    6.3.2    Finalizing the draft RIP for   Status: Not Required         The SATIS has been removed from MUTP as part of Project
             SATIS, to be submitted to                                   Restructuring in September 2008 ..
             the Bank when railway
             clearances are obtained for
             the sub-project.
6.4 Finalizing the VikhroIi ROB draft       Status: Completed            MMRDA has submitted the draft RIP for the Vikhroli ROB.
    RIP.                                                                 This sub-project has been removed from MUTP as part of
                                                                         Project Restructuring in September 2008; and the balance
                                                                         PAPs will be resettled as per the agreed procedure ..
6.5 Updating the baseline socio             Status: Completed            MMRDA has completed the updating of the baseline survey
    economic survey data for JVLR and                                    and the copies were submitted to the Bank. Jogeswari ROBs
    Jogeshwari ROBs.                                                     were subsequently removed from MUTP as part of Project
                                                                         Restructuring in September 2008; and the balance PAPs will
                                                                         be resettled as per the agreed procedure.

                                                                         No further action is envisaged.
6.6 MMRDA will improve on timely            Status: Ongoing              MMRDA has been regularly sending periodic progress
    reporting and the submission of                                      reports to the Bank in a format provided by the Bank Team.
    progress reports. The Bank Task                                      The Bank will continue to monitor the timely receipt of the
    Team will work with MMRDA on                                         progress report on implementation of the Action Plan.
    report content and rrequency.
6.7 MMRDA will expedite timely              Status: Substantially        MMRDA has completed issuance of 18,342 identity cards to
    issuance of identity cards and          completed                    the resettled PAHs, which is 94 percent of the total PAHs
    payments of shifting allowances for                                  and 98 percent of the resettled PAHs.
    PAPs shifting to new resettlement       Target Date: Ongoing         The Bank will continue to monitor the progress on this issue.
    sites.
6.8 Road project impacts on                 Status: In progress          MMRDA has successfully completed relocation of a
    community assets will be assessed                                    majority of religious and community structures over the last
    and their relocation and                Target Date: Ongoing         year, except three structures remaining along SCLR and one
    reconstruction will be synchronized                                  along JVLR, through negotiations with the custodians of
    with the timetable for civil works.                                  religious structures. These structures were provided free
                                                                         space and financial assistance for reconstruction.
                                                                         The Bank will continue to monitor the progress on this issue.




                                                                    34
                 Issue                     Status as of March 10,                                Comments
                                                      2010
6.9 The GoM will fill the post of         Status: Completed            The IMP, constituted in mid-March 2006, has been actively
    Chairman, IMP and will elaborate                                   monitoring key resettlement implementation aspects.
    on and clarity the IMP's role.                                     No further action is required. However, the Bank will follow
    Secretarial assistance will be                                     up on the implementation oflMP decisions. 

    provided to the IMP. 

7. Improving Data base Management
7.1 MMRDA is in the process of            Status: Completed            MMRDA has procured and installed Oracle software to
    procuring state-of-the-art software                                establish full coordination between grievance management
    for the management of all the R&R                                  and resettlement. 

    related data. 
                                                    No further action is required.
7.2 Systems will be put in place for      Status: Substantially        MMRDA has decided to continue using its Visual-Basic and
    providing inputs, updating, using     completed                    Excel database while pursuing the refinement of the Oracle
    and retrieving various types of                                    database, in view of delays involved in operationalizing the
    information related to R&R and                                     latter. 

    post-resettlement implementation. 
                                The Bank Team continues to monitor data management.
    The data base will be linked with
    family photo IDs to facilitate
    tracking and management of the
    process. The resettlement support
    consultants will conduct hands-on
    training for MMRDA staff.
8. Improving Communications and Consultation
8.1 MMRDA will enhance                    Status: In progress          MMRDA has improved communications and consultations
    communication with PAPs and                                        with shopkeepers and other PAPs. The key Project-related
    improve documentation.                Target Date: Ongoing         documents are now available in the PIC and on MMRDA's
                                                                       website.
                                                                       The Bank will continue to monitor the process.
8.2 MMRDA will make separate space        Status: Com pleted           MMRDA has closed all field level PICs in view of their
    arrangements for a PIC at                                          under-utilization and continues to manage the PIC started in
    MMRDA. It will also ensure the                                     2006 at MMRDA. The Right to Information Act has reduced
    timely availability of relevant                                    the importance of the PIC. 

    documents and brochures. 

                                                                       No further action is required. 

8.3 The Bank Task Team will work          Status: Completed            The Bank organized a one-day session on public consultation
    with MMRDA to assess and                                           and communications for the staff ofMMRDA and NGOs in
    implement training needs in public                                 February 2006. The Bank's social consultant is providing
    consultation and communications.                                   technical guidance on consultations and communications on
                                                                       a regular basis.
9. Grievance Redress
9.1 MMRDA will provide support staff      Status: Completed            MMRDA provided secretarial assistance and computers to
    to the field level GRC to expedite                                 the field level GRC to improve the hearing and disposal of
    the hearing and disposal of cases                                  cases. 

    and to improve recording and 
                                     The progress in hearings by the senior level, which was slow,
    reporting of decisions.                                            has improved significantly.




                                                                  35
                   Issue                           Status as of March 10,                                Comments
                                                           2010
9.2  A separate one-page brochure on             Status: Completed              The updated grievance redress process was incorporated in
     the updated grievance redress                                              the Implementation Manual (Chapter 29) and disclosed in the
     process will be prepared, circulated,                                  i   PIC and uploaded on the website. The main improvement in
     and posted on the Project website.                                         the process was the specification of a clear time frame for
                                                                                registering a grievance and confirmation that the resettlement
                                                                                of a petitioner would not be carried out before the grievance
                                             i
                                                                                process was completed. Brochures in English and Marathi
                                                                            i
                                                                                were printed and attached to the allotment letters/eviction
                                                                                notices.

                                                                                MMRDA declared a deadline (May 15,2009) for receiving
                                             i
                                                                                grievances in view of near completion of the R&R process. 

                                                                                The GRCs are in the process of disposing of the pending 

                                                                                cases. The FLG RC has resolved 95% of cases and the senior 

                                                                                GRC level 89%. 

                                                                                No further action is envisaged. 

9.3  The Bank Task Team will work                Status: Completed              The process has been streamlined and is improving. There
     closely with MMRDA staff to                                                has been a shift in MMRDA's approach to resettlement,
     evaluate the current status of the                                         characterized by its openness to pursue negotiated solutions
     system, support its revision, and                                          in consultation with PAPs. MMRDA has made significant
     facilitate its effective                                                   progress in managing post-resettlement issues. It has
     implementation.                                                            established field level Grievance Redress Centers at five key
                                                                                resettlement sites to resolve site specific issues. The IMP
                                                                                continues to undertake regular field visits to resettlement
                                                                                sites, listen to PAPs and direct MMRDA to take remedial
                                                                                action if and when required. The Bank has a social
                                                                                development specialist paying special attention to MUTP
                                                                                since March 2006. In recent months, his time spent on
                                                                                MUTP has been reduced in view of improvement in the R&R
                                                                                implementation quality.
                                                                                The resettlement Impact Assessment study indicates a high
                                                                                level of PAP satisfaction with the grievance redress process.
10. Operationalization ofthe Implementation Manual
10.1 MMRDA will finalize the
     Implementation Manual in
     consultation with the Bank, GoM,
     and consultants. The MMRDA will
     then identify procedures specified
     in the Implementation Manual that
     will be used for the balance of
     R&R activities and notify the
     relevant agencies regarding its
     implementation:
     10.1.1   Revise and amend                   Status: Completed              The Implementation Manual has been revised in close
              Implementation Manual to                                          consultation with Bank staff.
              include R&R and                                                   No further action is envisaged.
              environmental procedures.
     10.1.2   Finalization of                    Status: Completed              The Implementation Manual has been finalized taking into
              Implementation Manual                                             account the Bank's comments and is now disclosed in PICs
                                                                                and uploaded on the website.
                                                                                No further action is envisaged.




                                                                     36
            Issue                     Status as of March 10,                          Comments
                                               2010
10.1.3   Operationalization of the   Status: Completed         The Implementation Manual is being used to administer the
         Implementation Manual                                 entitlements and apply procedures. The Implementation
                                                               Manual occasionally requires updates when new procedures
                                                               are adopted.




                                                         37
                  ANNEX 4:    MUTP: STATUS OF IMPEDIMENTS AND R&R RELATED ISSUES 

                                  FOR JVLR & SCLR AS OF JANUARY 31, 2010 


SN       Impediments      i LocaUoDlName             Difficulties,          Remedial Steps Taken/             Estimated

l                                                  Challenges, Risks

                                             Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road
                                                                             Progress Made So Far            Timeframe for
                                                                                                                Closure


1.     About 25 o shops 2000-2460 and            Prolonged deadlock in  Issues resolved through          May 2010
         including about     2890-3600,          negotiations for R&R       negotiations 

         180 shops with 
 RHS, 11 JVLR-II        due to strong           OVer 170 shops >225 sq. ft
         area above 225      (Powai)             resistance from owner-     resettled 

         sq. ft inc luding 
                     occupants               Owner occupants offered
         20 titlehoIder                                                     equivalent shop area (even
         shops                                                             when exceeding 750 sq. ft,
        123 hous eholds                                                   which is beyond MUTP
                                                                            R&R Policy)
                                                                          All shopkeepers but two
                                                                           resettled
                                                                          All residential P AHs
                                                                           resettled
                                                                          Resettlement of only one
                                                                           shopkeeper (tenant) and
                                                                            reconstruction of a fuel
                                                                           station beyond right of way
                                                                           pending
     114 marble s hop      3660-2920 RHS,        Strong resistance from  Issues resolved through          Completed
     owners                JVLR-Il,              marble shop owners to     negotiations
                           Adi                   relocation moves;       MMRDA shall provide
                           Sankaracharya         demand for alternative    (a) equivalent shop area in
                           Marg                  land difficult to meet       exchange for affected shop
                                                 in view of scarcity of       area at Powai shopping
                                                 land in Mumbai               mall
                                                                           (b) TDRI2 for affected land
                                                                              area
                                                                           (c) shop area equivalent to
                                                                              the value of land in case of
                                                                              fully affected land area
                                             I

3.   Transfer of 1100 m    2080-3575           ApprovalofMHRD,                                             Transfer of lIT
     of lIT Land           LHS,13 JVLR-II;     Gol needed and MoU                                           land for civil
                                                       IS
                           Powai               with IlT to be signed                                        work for 30 m
                                               and executed;                                                road width and
                                               Challenges in inter                                          for 45.7 m by
                                               agency coordination                                          May 2010
                                             . involving lIT, GoM,                                      i . Relocation of
                                             i and Gol delayed the                                          structures (lIT) to 


        II RHS: Right Hand Side of the road
        12 Transfer of Development Rights
        13 LHS: Left Hand Side of the road
        14 Ministry of Human Resources Development
        15 IlT: Indian Institute for Technology, premier technical institute managed by the Union Ministry of
        Human Resource Development


                                                              38
                  Impediments            LoeationlName        DiffieuIties,                  Remedial Steps Taken!               Estimated         i
    I SN                                                    Challenges, Risks                 Progress Made So Far              Timeframe for
                                                                                                                                   Closure
                                                          process                    lIT has already transferred               be done by May
                                                                                      land for main carriage way                2010
    4.         Acquisition of           Cremation        LA 16 process has hit      MSRDC 17 plans to redraw               Green Field Society
               small parcels of          Ground wall,     road blocks due to          road alignment where LA                land not required;
               land in different         80-190 RHS,      cumbersome legal            process remains protracted 

               stretches 
               JVLR-J;          procedures, unclear         (Green Field Society)
                                         Pratap Nagar     title in some cases, and  LA for cremation ground
                                        Part of Green    lack of coordination        wall portion not needed in             Cremation place
                                         Field Society    between MSRDC and           view of plans for shifting             wall reconstruction
                                         compound,        MMRDA; joint                cemetery                               by May 2010.
                                         620-1400         measurements of land  LA from IES School, for
                                         RHS, JVLR-I      pending in some cases       PGSS dropped; alignment
                                         Opp. Fantasy                                 redrawn
                                         Land
                                       Land for the 

                                         required 

                                         pedestrian 

                                         subway 

                                         staircase; 4300 

                                         RHS, JVLR
                                         III, Pameri 

                                         Nagar
                                       IES School 

                                         compound, 

                                         4080-4160 

                                         EHS, JVLR-

i
                                         III, Pameri
           I                             Nagar                                        i
                                                                                18
    5.         Relocation of           Ganesh               Approval of ASI               MSRDC obtained ASJ              Relocation of
               Religious/common          temple!              required; Difficulty           approval; alternative land      Hanuman temple
               property structures       Condivita            faced due to                   identified and temple           and Ganesh temple
                                         cave; 2650           stringent ASI                  relocated;                      by August 2010
                                         2750,lVLR            norms;                       Police department has
                                        III; Sariput         Approval process               shifted its outpost
                                        Nagar                 stalled due to Public         Negotiations to shift Suvarna
                                       Buddha                Interest Litigation            Temple and Buddha Vihar
                                         Temple, 370          filed by NGD in                failed; road realigned
                                         RHS, JVLR-I,         Mumbai High Court            Relocation ofHanuman
                                         Pratap Nagar   Alternative                         Temple under way
                                       Hanuman               locations need to be
                                         Temple,              identified for 

                                        IVLR-II, 
            relocating temples
                                         Powai                in consultation with
                                       Suvarna               the structure
i                                       Temple,               custodians
                                        Powai, JVLR- I
I
;6.            About 150-200
                                     I  II, Powai
                                     000-210 RHS,         These squatters, said           MMRDA has redrawn work               Dropped

                 16 LA: Land Acquisition
                 17 MSRDC: Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation
                 18 Archaeological Survey oflndia




                                                                         39
     SN          Impediments        Location/Name         Difficulties,            Remedial Steps Taken/                 Estimated
                                                        Challenges, Risks           Progress Made So Far                Timeframe for
                                                                                                                           Closure
              Squatters            JVLR-II and        to be re-encroachers, 톚lan due to difficulties in listing   i

                                   4440-4480,         have to be relocated;  the squatters
                                   JVLR-I at the    톝urvey challenging
                                   Pipeline Bridge, i due to interference of
                                   Milind Nagar      local leaders
                                                     Santacruz-Cbembur Link Road
    I.        247 Shopkeepers     Kismat Nagar,         Shopkeepers            40 shopkeepers resettled at          MoU with USOA
              including about 140 000-325 RHS            strongly resisted       BKC l9                                signed;
              large and medium    SCLR                   R&Rprocess             MMRDA has completed                  Complete
              ones (USOA,                               Demand for in-situ      negotiations with 207                 resettlement by
              KNWA)                                      scheme                  shopkeepers (USOA and                 May 2010
                                                        Proposed private in-    KNW A) for in-situ
                                                         situ development        resettlement
                                                         scheme requires       KNWA (54 shops) cleared
                                                         administrative          the site after signing the
                                                         clearances              MoU with MMRDA
                                                         involving change in   85 members of the majority
                                                         land use regulations    group ofUSOA have signed
                                                        Final closure of        MoU with MMRDA for
                                                         agreement for in        relocation to a new shopping
                                                         situ scheme pending     complex at MN Nagar; have
                                                         due to internal         started to vacate affected
                                                         differences among       portions of their shops
                                                         shopkeepers           Another group of about 50
                                                         (USOA)                  USOA (breakaway faction)
                                                                                 shopkeepers willing to join
                                                                                 private in-situ scheme; if
                                                                                 they do not, MMRDA will
                                                                                 resettle them applying the
                                                                                 procedure for failed
                                                                                 negotiations.
                                                                                Rest willing to relocate to
                                                                                 shops at MN Nagar, BKC
                                                                                MMRDA has initiated LA
                                                                                 procedure for 15 land owner
                                                                                 shopkeepers, MMRDA has
                                                    i
                                                                                 already recommended in-situ                            I
                                                                                 scheme to the GoM                                       i
                                                                                 requesting change in land
i                                                                                use                                                     I
    2.    i   90 households of 3   925-1000, Netaji  Residents                Negotiations for in-situ              August 2010       !


              MHADA buildings      Nagar                 demanding in-situ       redevelopment completed
                                                         redevelopment or      MMRDA willing to
                                                         relocation within       recommend in-situ scheme
i                                                        BKC                   Netaji Nagar MHADA group.
                                                        Success of in-situ      has gone to Court
I                                                        scheme depends on       challenging the offer 360
                                                         consent of              square foot of floor space
                                                                            I

i                                                        households of2     렁 MMRDA has served legal


                19   Bandra Kurla Complex


                                                                    40
     SN       Impediments         LocationlName           Difficulties,            Remedial Steps Taken!                 Estimated    I
                                                        Challenges, Risks           Progress Made So Far                Timeframe for i
                                                                                                                           Closure
                                                        unaffected                notice for land acquisition
                                                        buildings                Joint meeting among PAPs,
                                                                                  MMRDA and MHADA held.
                                                                               
    3.     Relocation of 180          1700-2125 Sawle Survey was not done          Baseline survey carrie<;l out   Completed in May
           squatters for             Nagar              as part of original        PAHs resettled by MMRDA         2007 

           diversion of drain 
                         baseline survey. Drain      following approved 

           across road 
                                alignment was               procedure
                                                      , finalized after RIP was
                                                        prepared. Resettlement'
                                                        of affected households
                                                        required negotiations
    4.       About 4-5               2125-2500,         MMRDA cannot               MSRDC has deposited             August 2010
              structures and         Sawle Nagar        relocate these              required amount with 

             facilities on 
                            structures as these are      Railways for relocation of 

              Railways land 
                           Railways property,          these facilities
                                                        which needs to be         Railways' efforts underway
                                                        cleared for the
                                                        overbridge
    5.        Relocation of about    2125-2775, Tilak  Residents resist           MMRDA hired Tilak Nagar          Site clearance
             260 legal residents Nagar                     relocation to any        MHADA Resident                    done for all 13
             of13 MHADA                                    MUTP R&R site            Association's Architect to        buildings;
             buildings                                   Demand in-situ            prepare redevelopment plan
                                                           redevelopment of       Redevelopment scheme
                                                           their buildings          submitted to MHADA for
                                                           beyond road              approval
                                                           alignment               MMRDA recommended
                                                         Initial negotiations      redevelopment scheme
                                                           failed                   providing additional floor
                                                                                    space (50 percent more) to
                                                                                    resident households
                                                                                   MHADA and MMRDA have
                                                                                    agreed on layouts; Plan
                                                                                    approved; MoU with PAPs
                                                                                    pending
                                                                                   MMRDA giving rental
                                                                                    allowance to shift P AHs till
                                                                                    project materializes
    6.       About 50                2775-3000,        These structures were   Additional baseline survey           Completed
             residential squatters Rahul Nagar         identified to be             completed; allotment
                                                       relocated after final        proposal cleared; PAPs
                                                       alignment was shifted        shifted
                                                       to avoid affecting

i   7.     I About 40
           , shopkeepers
                                  13000-3200,
                                  . Santajog Marg
                                                       Railways land
                                                       Shopkeepers resistant
                                                       to relocation to any
                                                                              I.    28 shopkeepers relocated to
                                                                                , BKC; rest relocated to other
                                                                                                                    Resettlement
                                                                                                                    completed in
                                                       MUTP site                    sites                           December 2007
    8.    ~, 2 MCGM staff            2775-3200 Rahul Inter-agency               I. MMRDA willing to                   Relocation by
             residential             Nagar, 1000-294 coordination between           accommodate them in                May 2010
             structures (Row      . Panchsheel         MCGM and MMRDA               redevelopment scheme 

             house, building)      i Nagar 
           required
    9.       About 50                000-294,          Survey carried out for  Baseline survey started              Not likely to be



                                                                     41
SN        Impediments          LocationlName            Difficulties,              Remedial Steps Taken/             Estimated
                                                      Challenges, Risks              Progress Made So Far           Timeframe for
                                                                                                                       Closure
       shopkeepers at          Amarmal             9 m width; additional          RIP Note to be prepared         undertaken
       Arm-I                   Junction            survey required for 20         Shopkeepers to be relocated
                                                   m width as per final            as per RIP Note

10.     Relocation of
        public utilities and
                               3000-3200
                               Panchsheel
                                                 I.
                                                 : alignment
                                                    IdentifYing alternate   I
                                                                            i

                                                                            Host community relocated
                                                    land for relocation :  Dispensary demolished 

                                                                                                                 August 2010

        facilities: 
          Nagar                challenging            Land cleared for shifting I                             I
          2 electric pylons   Religious           Host communities        pylon and 8 religious
         I dispensary         structures in     : not cooperative          structures 

      !. 
1 we Ifare centre    diff."n~trong sensitiviti" 

          9 religious 
       stretches              involved in case of

           structures 
                               religious structures
11      Acquisition of         In different      : Joint measurements         LA process substantially          Complete LA by
        small parcels of       stretches along     yet to be carried out in    completed                         May 2010
        land in different      SCLR              : some cases for issuing 

      : stretches 
                                notIces, process slow
                                                   due to inadequate
                                                   coordination




                                                                 42 

