                                                65752

                       INDIA

       MUMBAI URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
       (LOAN NO. 4665-IN; CREDIT NO. 3662-IN)




FIFTH PROGRESS REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
   MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN IN RESPONSE TO THE
 INSPECTION PANEL’S REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION




                  November 10, 2011
 
                                                           C ONTENTS


Acronyms ........................................................................................................................... ii
Executive Summary ........................................................................................................... iii
I.         Background ............................................................................................................. 1
II.        Key Outcomes ......................................................................................................... 2
III.       Action Plan Status ................................................................................................... 5
IV.        Conclusion ............................................................................................................ 14
Annexes
Annex 1: Key Resettlement Implementation Progress ..................................................... 15
Annex 2: World Bank Supervision Missions, Since March 2006 .................................... 17
Annex 3: MUTP: Status of Issues as of October 15, 2011 ............................................... 21
Annex 4: MUTP: Status of Impediments and R&R Related
          Issues for JVLR & SCLR (October 2011) ...................................................... 29
Annex 5: Procedure for Implementation of Balance of Resettlement
          Activities for Road over Bridges (ROB) removed from
          MUTP as part of Project Restructuring .......................................................... 34
Annex 6: Status of Agreed Exit Actions Required to Improve
          Environment, Health And Hygiene (EHH) at
          MUTP R&R Sites as of October 15, 2011 ...................................................... 35




                                                                   i
                     ACRONYMS

BEST    Bombay Electricity and Suburban Transport Corporation
BKC     Bandra Kurla Complex
CY      Calendar year
GoI     Government of India
GoM     Government of Maharashtra
GRC     Grievance Redress Committee
GRM     Grievance Redress Mechanism
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     International Development Association
IMP     Independent Monitoring Panel
JVLR    Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road
KNWA    Kismat Nagar Welfare Association
LEAP    Livelihood Enhancement Action Plan
lpcd    Liters per capita per day
MCGM    Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai
MHADA   Maharashtra Housing Area and Development Authority
MMRDA   Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority
MN      Motilal Nehru
MoU     Memorandum of Understanding
MUIP    Mumbai Urban Infrastructure Project
MUTP    Mumbai Urban Transport Project
NGO     Nongovernmental Organization
PAH     Project-affected Household
PAP     Project-affected Person
PIC     Public Information Center
R&R     Resettlement and Rehabilitation
RIP     Resettlement Implementation Plan
ROB     Road-over-Bridge
SATIS   Station Area Traffic Improvement Schemes
SCLR    Santacruz-Chembur Link Road
USD     United States Dollar
USOA    United Shop Owners Association




                          ii
                                     INDIA
                    MUMBAI URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT
                      (Loan No.4665-IN; Credit No.3662-IN)

       FIFTH PROGRESS REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
          MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN IN RESPONSE TO THE
   INSPECTION PANEL’S REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION (No. 34725)

                              EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

i.      This is the fifth report documenting the progress in implementing
Management’s Action Plan for the India Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP)
following the Inspection Panel’s Investigation and Management’s Report and
Recommendation. Following complaints received from four groups of Requesters, which
mainly questioned the adequacy and quality of resettlement options, income restoration
opportunities and resettlement sites, the Inspection Panel (hereafter the Panel)
investigated the complaints and submitted its Report to the Board in December 2005.
Bank Management in its Response acknowledged the Panel’s concerns and prepared an
Action Plan to improve the quality and outcome of Resettlement and Rehabilitation
implementation. The Action Plan was included in the Management Report and
Recommendation that was discussed and approved by the Board of Directors on March
28, 2006. The Bank has been implementing the Action Plan in collaboration with the
Borrower, the Government of Maharashtra (GoM), since March 2006.

ii.    The Action Plan comprised ten actions, including negotiation and resettlement
of shopkeepers, post resettlement, consultation, information disclosure and grievance
redress process, strengthening borrower institutional capacity with clear roles and
responsibilities, resettlement data management, and implementation procedure. The
measures listed in the Action Plan were for the most part completed before the Project’s
closing date of June 15, 2011 (see paragraphs 17-40 in the main text and Annex 3). The
Project is complete with the exception of a few activities – mainly the Santacruz-
Chembur Link Road (SCLR) and procurement of a few rail bogies. The relocation
process is nearly complete, with successful relocation of 99.97 percent of affected
residences and 97.8 percent of shopkeepers. Those remaining include 40 shopkeepers and
six residences, whose relocation has been delayed due to court litigation and
administrative procedures associated with land/property acquisition. Of the 87 affected
community structures, only three religious structures are yet to be relocated.

iii.     Progress has been notable with regard to promoting sustainable self-
management of the resettlement sites with support for income activities, building
institutional capacity of housing cooperative societies, and provision of social services.
The remaining aspects of the post-resettlement strategy involve formal handing over of
the resettlement buildings to the cooperative societies. The preparatory work for this,
namely housing society registration and training, has been substantially completed. The
institutional capacity for managing Resettlement and Rehabilitation activities has


                                           iii
improved in respect of data management, communication and consultation with Project
Affected Persons (PAPs), streamlined grievance redress process, post resettlement
support strategy, and operationalization of the Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Implementation Manual.

iv.     Management is satisfied that the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development
Authority (MMRDA) has transformed its approach to Resettlement and Rehabilitation
management to one that is responsive and sustainable. This paradigm shift is
characterized by the client’s efforts to explore negotiated resettlement solutions in
consultation with PAPs. Management is confident that MMRDA will be able to complete
the remaining few Resettlement and Rehabilitation activities beyond the Project’s closing
date but Management will continue to monitor this. Post-resettlement activities have been
satisfactory, in spite of difficulties with handling specific issues such as individual
building repairs, and integrating the large resettlement sites fully into the urban services
network of the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM). Management
considers the post-resettlement process to be on track and expects MMRDA to complete
the remaining tasks with sustainable outcomes.

v.      Progress in resolving the concerns of the Requesters. The concerns of the first
group of Requesters, shopkeepers along the SCLR, have been resolved. There were three
key groups, the Kismat Nagar Welfare Association (KNWA) and two groups of
shopkeepers affiliated with the United Shop Owners Association (USOA). KNWA
entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with MMRDA to join a private in-
situ scheme and cleared the affected portions of their shops in 2007. The USOA group of
85 shopkeepers signed a MoU with MMRDA for relocating to a new shopping complex
at Motilal Nehru Nagar in the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC), and cleared their shops in
2010. The remaining 46 USOA shopkeepers concluded negotiations with MMRDA to
join the private in-situ resettlement scheme of KNWA and cleared their shops during
2010/11. The Second Requesters group from Gazi Nagar relocated to a non-MUTP site of
their choice. The Third group of Requesters from Bharti Nagar was left unaffected by the
SCLR work. The Fourth group of Requesters representing shopkeepers affected by the
Jogeshwari ROBs is not a part of the MUTP Resettlement and Rehabilitation process as
the ROBs were excluded from the Project during restructuring in 2008 (see Annex 5).
MMRDA has handed over the eligibility list of 389 shopkeepers affected by the RoBs
who will be resettled by MCGM with alternative shops provided by MMRDA as per the
agreed procedure explained in Annex 5.

vi.     Areas that require further attention include: relocating the remaining 40 shops
and six residences along SCLR and the three religious structures – two along SCLR and
one along Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road (JVLR); completion of a few remaining land
acquisition cases; integrating the resettlement sites into the urban service network of
MCGM and formally completing the Exit Strategy for the resettled PAP cooperative
societies. MMRDA has been slow in implementing the Exit Strategy due to its
preoccupation with registration of all new PAP cooperative societies including in the
non-MUTP sites. MMRDA is working on a comprehensive conveyance transfer policy
for all resettlement buildings, including the MUTP buildings. The integration of the
resettlement sites into the urban service network of MCGM has not been concluded.


                                            iv
MMRDA is working out modalities to establish housing federations of resettled PAP
housing cooperatives who will have to manage the resettlement sites in future. MMRDA
is concurrently working with the GoM regarding effective integration of the resettlement
sites into the urban service network of MCGM. Management has been following up these
issues and will continue its dialogue with the GoM in this regard. Management will
continue to follow up on the land acquisition, relocation of the remaining residences and
shopkeepers, and the completion of the post resettlement support process.

vii.    Going forward. In view of the substantial completion of the Action Plan and
Project closure on June 15, 2011, Management proposes to conclude the reporting on the
Action Plan with the next progress report which will occur by June 30, 2013. Lessons
learned and implementation experiences will be documented as part of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR), which is currently being finalized. The
mainstreaming of the resettlement sites into the urban services network remains a
challenge and MMRDA is pursuing the matter with GoM and MCGM to ensure that all
basic services are provided on a sustained basis to the resettlement sites. The Bank
recognizes the challenge and will remain engaged with the GoM for a permanent
resolution of this issue. Management will continue to monitor progress of the Action Plan
beyond Project closure through annual missions. This strategy for Bank monitoring of the
remaining Resettlement and Rehabilitation process has been discussed with the Borrower
during the ICR mission and the process for implementation, reporting and monitoring of
the remaining resettlement actions was agreed upon.




                                           v
 
                                I.     BACKGROUND

1.     The Project. The Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP) was approved by the
Bank’s Board of Executive Directors on June 18, 2002 (Loan No. 4665-IN; Credit No.
3662-IN). The total Project cost is about USD 1.1 billion, of which USD 463.0 million
was financed by an IBRD Loan, SDR 57.5 million (USD 92.0 million equivalent) by an
IDA Credit, and counterpart financing of USD 568 million by the Government of India
(GoI). The Project was implemented by several entities and coordinated by the Mumbai
Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA). The Project was extended four
times and the Project closed on June 15, 2011.

2.     MUTP supports the development of an efficient and sustainable transport system
in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. In 2008, the Project was restructured to focus on a
more limited set of key activities. The Project after restructuring included the following
components: Rail Transport, including improvement of the suburban rail network and
technical assistance; Road-based Transport, including traffic management infrastructure,
buses and road widening to facilitate two East-West link roads; and Resettlement and
Rehabilitation (R&R), comprising mainly: construction of housing, and provision of
services for R&R of Project-affected families, implemented by MMRDA and financed
with an IDA credit.

3.      Requests for Inspection. The Inspection Panel received four Requests for
Inspection submitted on behalf of several hundred residents and shopkeepers in 2004, in
two batches. The Requests questioned: (a) adequacy of resettlement options and income
restoration opportunities provided in the MUTP R&R Policy, especially for shopkeepers,
(b) suitability and quality of resettlement sites, (c) poor housing and living conditions,
and (d) access to information, disclosure, consultations and grievance redress process.

4.      Panel Investigation. The Inspection Panel undertook an investigation and issued
its findings in December 2005. The Panel found areas of non-compliance by the Bank
with various aspects of its operational policies concerning environmental assessment (OD
4.01), involuntary resettlement (OD 4.30), investment lending – identification to Board
presentation (OP/BP 10.00); economic evaluation (OP/BP 10.04), project supervision
(OD/OP/BP 13.05), project appraisal (OMS 2.20) and the Bank policy on disclosure.

5.      Management Report and Action Plan. Bank Management in its Response
prepared an Action Plan to improve the quality and outcome of R&R implementation.
The Action Plan was included in the Management Report and Recommendation
submitted to the Board and was discussed and approved by the Executive Directors on
March 28, 2006. The Action Plan focused on implementation issues, including the
resettlement procedures for shopkeepers with medium- and large-size shops, restoration
of incomes, post-resettlement services, baseline data, grievance redress mechanisms, and
the quality of supervision. The Board endorsed Management’s Action Plan, which was
prepared in close consultation with the GoM, and agreed that an update report would be
provided periodically on progress made in its implementation. The Project was put under
partial suspension in March 2006 in the light of R&R concerns. The suspension was
lifted on June 29, 2006 upon the Borrower substantially meeting the Bank’s conditions to


                                            1
address the outstanding R&R issues. The Bank has been implementing the Action Plan in
collaboration with the Borrower, the GoM, since March 2006. Since then there has been a
significant improvement in MMRDA’s capacity and the MUTP R&R process, which is
now recognized in India and abroad for its innovative approach.

6.       This is the fifth report documenting the progress in implementing Management’s
Action Plan for the MUTP. The Action Plan was comprised of ten actions, including
negotiation with and resettlement of shopkeepers, post resettlement, consultation,
information disclosure and grievance redress process, strengthening borrower
institutional capacity with clear roles and responsibilities, resettlement data management,
and implementation procedure. The measures listed in the Action Plan were for the most
part completed before the Project’s closing date of June 15, 2011.



                               II.    KEY OUTCOMES

7.      Action Plan implementation shows sustained improvement in the quality of
R&R measures. MMRDA has resettled 5,102 households (3,689 residences and 1,413
shops) since the Management Report and Recommendation was submitted to the Board
of Executive Directors in February 2006. To date, 99.76 percent (17,566 households and
1,782 shops) have received alternative houses or shops, have decided to resettle in
partially affected structures or have opted to settle under other non-MUTP
resettlement/housing schemes. This corresponds to 99.97 percent of residential Project
Affected Persons (PAPs) and 97.8 percent of shopkeepers (including 98.06 percent of
medium- and large-size shopkeepers and 97.7 percent of the small shopkeepers). The
17,566 relocated residential households include 120 residents of 4 Maharashtra Housing
Area and Development Authority (MHADA) buildings that have opted for private in-situ
redevelopment schemes, and 260 residential households who have vacated their flats in
13 MHADA buildings along the Santacruz-Chembur Link Road (SCLR). These PAPs
have reached an agreement with MMRDA according to which MMRDA will redevelop
their buildings and provide flats almost double the size of the previous ones at alternate
locations in the same locality. As the redevelopment process is under way, per the
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), MMRDA provides rental allowance to these
PAPs at market price. The remaining 64 residents of 2 MHADA buildings at Netaji
Nagar along SCLR have been offered a similar redevelopment solution and have been
provided with a rental allowance till the new building in the up-market BKC area is ready
for possession.

8.     Since the submission of the fourth progress report in May 2010, MMRDA has
made progress in relocating the remaining shops (United Shop Owners Association, or
USOA) at Kismat Nagar along SCLR. Along the Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road
(JVLR), the relocation process has been completed except for two commercial structures
and a temple. The two commercial structures involve court cases and will be left
unchanged or partially modified; alternative land has been identified to relocate the
temple. Along SCLR, final agreement has been reached with two USOA groups of
shopkeepers. Of these, 85 shopkeepers have opted for a shopping complex at Motilal


                                            2
Nehru (MN) Nagar, BKC; the other 46 shopkeepers have joined the private in-situ
scheme, which the Kismat Nagar Welfare Association (KNWA) had earlier chosen. The
data on relocated shops includes the USOA and KNWA shopkeepers that have opted to
join private in-situ redevelopment schemes or have decided to shift to a new shopping
scheme at MN Nagar. These large- and medium-size shops have cleared their front
portions affected by the SCLR and continue to do business in the unaffected parts of their
premises. The fully affected shopkeepers have relocated to new shops at MN Nagar.

9.      Some religious structures were relocated and a few remaining land acquisition
cases accelerated during the last year along SCLR. Out of 70 remaining resident owners
on SCLR, 64 living in MHADA buildings were offered alternative housing of 485 sq. ft.
in a new building to be constructed in BKC, along with a rental allowance or transit
accommodation until the building is completed. These residents had challenged the offer
in the High Court which has now validated MMRDA’s offer and directed them to vacate
their premises by November 6, 2011. The residents have received rental allowances and
are making arrangements to vacate. Land acquisition for the remaining six residences in
the Buddha Colony on SCLR has been initiated and is expected to be completed over the
coming months.

10.       Key achievements are listed below in Table 1 (details provided in Annex 1).

                             Table 1: Status of Resettlement (October 15, 2011)

 Unit       Totals      Revised     Resettled   Resettled   Resettled    Resettled   Resettled   Resettled   Remaining
 Type     (Baseline)     Totals       (as of      (as of      (as of       (as of      (as of      (as of      cases
                       (Baseline)   01/31/06)   12/31/06)   09/01/07)    02/01/09)   02/01/10)   10/15/11)
 House-   17,378          17,572       13,877      15,315      15,784       16,580      17,134      17,566           6
 holds
                         100.0%        79.0%       87.2%        89.8%       94.4%       97.5%      99.97%        0.03%
 Shops    2,469            1,822         369         752         1,104       1,437       1,490       1,782          40
                         100.0%        20.3%       41.3%        60.6%       78.9%       81.8%       97.8%        2.20%
 of       800                566      N/A             84           227        419         419         555           11
 which
 > 225                   100.0%       N/A         14.84%        40.11%     74.03%      74.03%      98.06%        1.94%
 sq.ft.


                          19,394      14,246      16,067        16,888     18,017      18,624      19,348           46
 Total    19,847
                         100.0%       73.46%      82.85%        87.08%     92.90%      96.03%      99.76%        0.24%


11.      MMRDA continues to make progress in implementing post-resettlement
activities aimed at strengthening sustainable self-management of the R&R sites. An
environment action plan has been prepared and implemented with the help of a
professional consultant. The registration of cooperative societies has increased to 182 or
97 percent of the 188 occupied buildings as of October 15, 2011. Transfer of common
facilities (society offices, welfare and women’s centers) has been completed for the 183
functional cooperative societies. Identity cards have been issued to some 18,547 Project-
affected households (PAHs), representing 96 percent of the total PAHs relocated,
including 100 percent of the squatter households. The Independent Monitoring Panel
(IMP) continues to monitor the R&R process and to advise MMRDA regarding any


                                                            3
outstanding issues. The IMP’s regular resettlement site visits and public interactions have
enormously benefited the resettlement process, by identifying and addressing issues
affecting the lives of the relocated people. The Livelihood Cell of MMRDA has started
implementing the second phase of a livelihood support program for economic
empowerment of poor resettled women’s groups.

12.     Progress in providing post-relocation financial assistance to the PAP
cooperative societies has been significant. Building maintenance funds in an amount
equivalent to USD 7.5 million have been transferred to joint accounts of 172, or 94.5
percent, of the registered cooperative societies compared to 157 in 2010; outstanding
interest on maintenance funds in an amount equivalent to USD 2 million has been paid to
162 or 86 percent of the 182 registered cooperative societies compared, to 157 in 2010
(172 cooperative societies who have joint accounts now receive interest on a quarterly
basis); and community management funds in an amount equivalent to USD 376,300 has
been handed over to 178, or 98 percent, of the 182 registered cooperative societies.

13.     Provision of key social services has improved in the resettlement sites including
schools, a health care/community center, internal roads and street lights, water supply and
transport services, and storm water drainage. MMRDA has been providing networking
and facilitation support to the resettled PAP cooperative societies in accessing various
services including health care, education, electricity, solid waste management, public
distribution systems, and citizen (voter) identity cards.

14.     Remaining challenges in achieving full implementation of the Action Plan
include: resolving litigation cases and relocating three religious and a few community
structures and utilities; resettling the remaining six residential and 40 commercial PAPs
(including 11 large- and medium-size and 29 small shopkeepers); completing the land
acquisition process; and concluding the post resettlement process. (A summary table
showing the locations and specifics of resettlement-related impediments is provided in
Annex 4.)




                                            4
                                 III.    ACTION PLAN STATUS

15.    The status of issues under the Board-approved Action Plan is summarized below
and in more detail in Annex 3.

                    Table 2: Progress in Implementing the Action Plan
No                      Action                        No. of    Completed                Comments
                                                       sub-
                                                      actions
1    Negotiation with and Resettlement of                   2               2   Negotiations complete,
     Shopkeepers along SCLR and other                                           resettlement near complete
     subprojects                                                                (40 of total 1822 shopkeepers
                                                                                remain including 34 court
                                                                                cases, five involving land
                                                                                acquisition and one that will
                                                                                be partially modified)
2    Publicizing RR Policy, listing and issuing ID          3               3   Completed
     cards to employees for offering assistance for
     jobs
3    Post-Resettlement (registration and training         10                9   Transfer of conveyance deeds
     of housing cooperative societies, social                                   is pending.
     services, transfer of maintenance funds and                                MMRDA is working on a
     conveyance deeds, disseminating building                                   comprehensive building hand
     maintenance manuals, improving water                                       over policy which will clear
     supply and transport, services and                                         the way for transfer of
     undertaking R&R impact assessment study)                                   conveyance deeds
4    Environmental management of R&R sites                  4               3   MMRDA is pursing the issue
     including building repairs, dissemination of                               of full integration of the
     maintenance norms, environmental                                           resettlement sites into the
     management plans, and waste management                                     urban services network of the
                                                                                city with GoM and MCGM.
                                                                                Building repairs being
                                                                                undertaken by MMRDA are
                                                                                at an advanced stage of
                                                                                completion.
5    Institutional Arrangements for R&R (staff              3               3   Completed
     capacity, clarity on NGO role, and training)
6    Improving R&R process (Implementation                10           10       Of 87 community assets only
     Manual, data management, RIP for SCLR,                                     3 remain to be relocated.
     ROB, SATIS; updating baseline surveys for                                  ROB and SATIS schemes
     JVLR, ROBs; R&R progress reporting, ID                                     were excluded in 2008.
     cards to PAPs, relocating Community Assets,
     Reestablishment of Independent Monitoring
     Panel)
7    Improving Database Management (procuring               2               2   Substantially completed with
     Oracle software and programming)                                           periodic updating
8    Improving Communication and Consultation               3               3   Bank technical support
     with PAPs, managing Public Information                                     continues
     Centers, enhancing Bank oversight of and
     technical support for communication and
     consultation




                                                      5
9    Streamlining Grievance Redress Mechanism       3           3   GRM process completed for
     (GRM) with provision of staff support,                         over 3,000 applicants
     dissemination of brochure on GRM, Bank
     oversight of grievance redress process
10   Operationalization of the Implementation       3           3   R&R IM prepared, disclosed
     Manual                                                         and operationalized



Action 1: Negotiations with each eligible shopkeeper will be held on the basis of options
listed in the Action Plan when applicable. Agreements reached will be recorded and
implemented.

16.     The resettlement of shopkeepers affected by MUTP has been 97.8 percent
completed. Along the JVLR, resettlement of shopkeepers, including land titleholders and
those having medium- and large-size shops, has been completed, except one hotel
involving court litigation, which will be left untouched with partial modification beyond
the road alignment. The protracted and challenging negotiation process with Kismat
Nagar shopkeepers along SCLR has been concluded. The USOA group of 85
shopkeepers has signed a MoU with MMRDA for their relocation to a new shopping
complex developed at MN Nagar in BKC. The KNWA group had signed a MoU with
MMRDA for a private in-situ resettlement scheme in 2007. The other USOA group of 46
shopkeepers negotiated with MMRDA for joining the KNWA resettlement scheme. All
these shopkeepers have cleared affected portions of their shops for civil work. MMRDA
has initiated legal procedures to relocate these shopkeepers. The Bank continues to
monitor the alternative in-situ resettlement schemes agreed by MMRDA with the USOA
and KNWA shopkeepers.

17.      Of the 566 large shopkeepers (whose premises are larger than 225 square feet),
some 555 or 98.06 percent have been relocated to date including those having opted for
redevelopment schemes. Of the remaining 11 large shopkeepers, five are in the court
receiver category due to title dispute and for another five the land acquisition process has
been started along SCLR; the remaining one along JVLR will be left untouched beyond
the road, with minor modifications to the structure. Negotiation with the 34 shopkeepers
in litigation along SCLR (of which 5 are large shopkeepers) has been completed, but their
relocation has been delayed due to a lack of legal clearance from the High Court.

Action 2: MMRDA will publicize policy provisions related to making available up to one
year of income on a one-time basis to those affected employees who are not reemployed
as a result of Project resettlement and will process the requests as and when received.

18.     Information regarding R&R benefits for affected employees explained in the
Implementation Manual is available for reference in the Public Information Center (PIC)
at MMRDA and on MMRDA’s website (www.mmrdamumbai.org). Affected employees
losing their job are entitled to receive a one-time assistance equivalent to one year’s
income. These employees were enumerated and issued Employee Identity Cards so that
assistance could be provided to those eligible who reported inability to find work for
three months. No request for assistance from the employees has been received by
MMRDA to date. There are multiple reasons for this. Firstly, no large employer was


                                                6
affected by the relocation; secondly, in most cases the employees moved with their
employer or found alternative employment. Since there is an availability of jobs in the
dynamic labor market of Mumbai, remaining unemployed for three months in order to
claim such income assistance was not attractive compared to employment, since
MMRDA verifies loss of employment with the previous employer.

Action 3: MMRDA will improve its resettlement implementation mechanisms through
various measures such as: (a) registration process for PAP cooperative societies and
cooperative management plan; (b) undertaking construction of additional social services
at R&R sites; (c) transferring maintenance funds from the Slum Rehabilitation Authority
to PAP cooperative societies; (d) transferring conveyance deeds from MMRDA to the
cooperative societies; (e) providing building maintenance manuals and brochures for
supporting proper management of cooperative societies; (f) taking steps to improve water
supply at resettlement sites; (g) improving transport connectivity at resettlement sites;
and (h) undertaking impact assessments to determine the improvements in the living
standards and proposing remedial measures for any improvement required as a result of
assessment findings.

19.     Registration of PAP Cooperative Societies and Cooperative Management.
PAP housing cooperative societies have been registered in 182, or 97 percent, of the 188
occupied resettlement buildings. Of the remaining six cooperative societies, registration
is in process for three of them, whereas the process is delayed for the other three due to
partial occupancy and challenges in gaining full PAP consensus. MMRDA has
transferred common facilities (society office, child welfare, center, and women’s welfare
center) to 183 functional cooperative societies.

20.     MMRDA continued the post-resettlement support program with its own staff after
the professional consultant’s assignment ended in June 2008. An action plan for
strengthening self-management of resettlement sites has been prepared and implemented.
Management training for institutional development has enabled the PAP cooperative
societies to function sustainably. They periodically elect their management committees
and use household contributions to meet recurring expenses, such as common electricity
and water bills, cleaning, and remuneration for teachers at the child care centers. They
manage their own accounts. As of October 15, 2011, 173 cooperative societies have
received the full course of management and financial management training. Management
committee elections have been held for 171 cooperative societies. MMRDA has been
providing networking and facilitation support to the resettled PAP cooperative societies
in accessing various services including health care, education, electricity, solid waste
management, public distribution systems, and citizen (voter) identity cards.

21.     Construction of Additional Social Services at R&R Sites. As noted in earlier
reports, two primary schools were built by MMRDA at Mankhurd and Anik resettlement
sites, which the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) manages. A
secondary school was established at Mankhurd in 2009. In addition, a few informal
education centers run by Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (Education for All Program) and private
schools managed by charities in and around the R&R sites also benefit the resettled
children. Some 9,499 children receive education at 39 formal schools located in and


                                            7
around MUTP resettlement sites and child care centers established within the
resettlement buildings. MMRDA has set up a community center at the Majas site which
will double as a primary health care center and has provided flour mills at different R&R
sites. MMRDA has transferred the required number of rooms at Anik resettlement site to
the MCGM, where it has started running a health center. MMRDA is in the process of
building a maternity cum health care center at Mankhurd. MMRDA is further assessing
the demand for various social facilities as well as the available vacant plots in
resettlement sites, so that a plan for setting up additional social facilities can be finalized.
In April 2008 the Urban Development Department of the GoM took a policy decision to
provide primary schools, dispensaries and health care centers at all large R&R sites
developed in Mumbai, if such facilities are not available within one kilometer of the
proposed resettlement site.

22.     Transferring Maintenance Fund Interest and Conveyance Deeds. Building
maintenance funds in an amount equivalent to USD 7.5 million have been deposited in
joint accounts of 172, or 94.5 percent, of the 182 registered cooperative societies.
Transfer of interest in an amount equivalent to USD 2 million on maintenance funds has
been updated for 162 cooperative societies (interest payable to the 10 cooperative
societies at Majaj has been adjusted as reimbursement to MMRDA against water bills
paid up on their behalf by MMRDA) or 86 percent of those registered. Community
management funds in an amount equivalent to USD 376,300 have been transferred to
172, or 94.5 percent, of registered cooperative societies. MMRDA is working on a
comprehensive conveyance transfer policy following which conveyance deeds will be
processed after the completion of the post-resettlement activities (in accordance with law,
legally conveyance deeds are transferable only after 10 years of relocation).

23.     Providing Building Maintenance Manuals and Brochures to Societies.
MMRDA has distributed maintenance manuals and brochures on society management to
the registered cooperative society committees. Additional information, education, and
communication materials on society management and cohesive living developed by the
post-resettlement consultant are being disseminated to the housing cooperative societies
to further strengthen self-management of assets and facilities.

24.     Steps to Improve Water Supply at Resettlement Sites. The water situation in
the resettlement sites has substantially improved since the summer of 2006, with a
relative dip in supply during April and May when Mumbai as a whole faces a supply
deficit. MMRDA along with MCGM has largely addressed the inadequacy in water
supply due to low pressure at the Anik and Mankhurd sites with necessary remedial
measures. These include construction of separate water pumping stations and elevated
water reservoirs at two locations near Anik. The water supply at the resettlement sites is
now comparable to that in most parts of Mumbai.

25.     Improving Transport Connectivity at Resettlement Sites. Since February
2006, there has been significant improvement in transport connectivity with the
resettlement sites. The provision of bus services is periodically updated based on
passenger load assessment by BEST, the agency providing bus services.



                                               8
26.    Independent Impact Assessments to Determine Improvements in Living
Standards and Remedial Measures. An independent resettlement impact study was
undertaken by the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, covering the Anik,
Mankhurd and Majas resettlement sites in 2007-8. a The study highlighted 80 percent
PAP satisfaction with resettlement buildings; a 50 percent increase in average monthly
household incomes and 80 percent job retention among relocated PAPs; the purchase of
additional household assets; and an enhanced sense of social security. The study also
noted the loss of supplementary incomes by women earlier employed in mixed
communities, building repair issues, etc. MMRDA has initiated remedial measures,
including establishment of a Livelihood Cell; repair works in several resettlement
buildings; and allotment of shopping kiosks/work sheds to poor PAPs. The ToR for the
final R&R Impact Assessment Study was prepared by the Bank and shared with
MMRDA and the study is expected to be commissioned in CY2011. This exercise will
evaluate the outcomes and document lessons learned from the R&R implementation
process.

27.      Since 2008, MMRDA has taken several measures to strengthen income
restoration and livelihood activities with special focus on poor resettled women. It
established the Livelihood Cell to promote income generating activities among the
resettled women’s groups. The Livelihood Cell since its inception in 2008 has taken
various initiatives to economically empower women across all resettlement sites.
Following the formation of the women’s industrial cooperative Sankalp to undertake
micro-enterprise activities, b the cell embarked on the first phase of a Livelihood
Enhancement Action Plan (hereafter LEAP-I) to provide income opportunities to
vulnerable women PAPs. Accordingly 64 Self-Help Groups and eight Livelihood Groups
were formed to enable about 1,000 women to secure sustainable monthly incomes and
improve their living standards. It was observed that gainful employment without
opportunities for skills development lead to stagnation and loss of interest in work. Based
on the experience of LEAP-I, the Livelihood Cell has revised its strategy for LEAP-II, a
sustainable livelihood generation and empowerment program for the 500 women PAPs
working at present with the Sankalp group. LEAP-II will focus on building women’s
entrepreneurial skills through training, marketing and credit access. The presence of these
vulnerable women engaged in gainful economic activities has had a positive
demonstrative influence on other resettled women. In various resettlement sites, over
10,000 women are enrolled in different group-based income activities through Self-Help
Groups. Of these, the NGO SPARC-Mahila Milan has enrolled 9,889 women, whereas
the NGO SRS has enrolled 791 women, who receive vocational training for income
activities. At Anik, the CAP Foundation c completed its employment training programs for
resettled youth.

a
  MMRDA had earlier undertaken an impact assessment through independent consultants in 2003 (Tata Institute of
Social Sciences, Mumbai) focusing on people resettled in the initial phase with a survey of 2,116 sample households
(20 percent) and 36 focus group discussions. The IA study results similar to that recorded in 2008.
b
  These activities include making and selling greeting cards, office stationery, and traditional earthen lamps; food
processing; buying and selling sarees, etc. While the women’s groups in Anik and Mankhurd are producing handmade
consumer items, the women’s group at Kanjurmarg has set up a small bakery.
c
  MMRDA and the Corporate Social Responsibility wing of the Tata Consultancy Services engaged the CAP
Foundation to teach English and computer skills to resettled youth.


                                                         9
28.      The 2009 impact assessment study observed that many resettled PAPs, who
earlier lived in slums and paid no levies towards water use and house occupancy, found
the payment of property taxes, water and electricity bills a burden. Responding to this,
MMRDA ensured concessions in property and water charges levied (through adoption of
the telescoping assessment method, where levies are increased gradually) in order to
enable the resettled families to adapt to their new conditions. MMRDA facilitated the
participation of people living in resettlement sites in the state assembly elections by
ensuring that they were issued voter identity cards. The majority of building repairs have
been completed and MMRDA has prepared an action plan to complete the remaining
repair works before program exit. These repair works are related to water proofing of
terrace and over head water tanks, replacement of cement drainage pipes with PVC pipes,
addressing dead wall seepage, repair of lifts and other fixtures. New buildings left
unoccupied for long periods report maximum problems due to lack of regular
maintenance. The complaint resolution centers, established at five R&R sites to
strengthen estate management and address maintenance related issues, have continued to
function.

Action 4: MMRDA will assist cooperative societies to maintain public assets and take
measures for solid waste management in resettlement sites.

29.     As a part of the post-resettlement support strategy MMRDA ensures registration
of PAP housing cooperative societies, provides them with eligible technical and financial
assistance, and prepares them to responsibly manage their assets and surroundings.
According to the exit indicators for individual buildings, about 100 cooperative societies
meet the key exit indicators for assuming self-management responsibilities. d However,
formal handover of buildings to the PAP cooperative societies has not materialized due to
MMRDA’s pre-occupation with registering new cooperative societies across resettlement
sites (so far 342 cooperative societies have been registered including 182 MUTP-PAP
cooperative societies). The exit procedure requires MMRDA to prepare and submit exit
proposals for individual housing cooperative societies for review and approval by the
Deputy Registrar of Societies and the IMP. The exit indicators for resettlement sites
include: (a) integration of resettlement sites into urban services network including street
lights, waste management, sewerage, and drainage maintenance; (b) formation of a
federation of PAP cooperative societies, where feasible; and (c) resolution of urgent civil
works related problems posing hazard risks (e.g. missing manhole covers). The exit
strategy has been agreed upon and disclosed on the MMRDA website.


d
   The achievement of overall exit indicators is as follows: (a) society registration completed for 183 buildings; (b)
transfer of common facilities completed for 182 buildings; (c) transfer of community management funds (CMF)
completed for 172 cooperative societies; (d) opening of joint accounts for depositing maintenance and management
funds completed for 172 cooperative societies; (e) payment of interest on maintenance funds until the joint accounts are
opened completed for 162 cooperative societies; (f) regular payment of water and electricity bills (bills should not be
outstanding for over 6 months) updated for 101 cooperative societies; (g) completion of urgent repair works to
minimize adverse safety implications completed for 42 cooperative societies reporting problems; (h) completion of the
yearly statutory audit of society accounts completed by 53 cooperative societies; (i) democratic management of the
PAP cooperative societies (at least one election held to choose the management committee) done by 171 cooperative
societies; and (j) housing society members trained in management skills in case of 173 cooperative societies.




                                                          10
30.     MMRDA prepared and implemented an action plan to improve environmental
management at the resettlement sites with the help of a professional consultant. This
involved implementation of a list of site specific actions for improving environment,
health and hygiene (EHH) in MUTP colonies. MMRDA has substantially implemented
this action plan (Annex 6). Major structure-related repair works have been completed in
42 resettlement buildings. MMRDA has replaced all the drain pipes in the buildings and
ensured one-time cleaning of storm drains. To improve waste management, some garbage
bins were supplied to the PAP housing cooperative societies and arrangements made with
the MCGM for removal of solid waste from the R&R sites. MMRDA has also prepared
overall environmental management plans for all MUTP sites for the local PAP
cooperative societies to implement.

31.     The sustainability of resettlement sites will largely depend on their integration
into the urban services network, which has been delayed. MMRDA is pursuing the matter
with the GoM and MCGM. MCGM has been providing basic urban services including
waste collection from pick-up points in the R&R sites. MMRDA will set up federations
of housing cooperatives who will take up the responsibility to manage the sites after
program exit.

Action 5: MMRDA will strengthen its institutional arrangements for day to day
management, assess NGOs’ capacity and roles and prepare and implement a training
program for sensitization and skills improvement of staff, NGOs and others involved in
implementation.

32.    MMRDA has strengthened its R&R capacity with additional staff, including a
Social Development Specialist, Community Development Assistants, a Deputy Registrar
of Societies, and a Special Land Acquisition Officer. The post-resettlement consultant
completed its assignment in 2008. To continue with the post-resettlement activities,
MMRDA hired two executive engineers and three social work professionals for the
Livelihood Cell. MMRDA’s earlier measures to streamline roles and responsibilities of
NGOs, consultants, and its own staff, documented in the previous progress reports, have
been sustained without deviation from the agreed guidelines. The consultative process,
through which the relocation issues with residence owners, large- and medium-size
shopkeepers, and the custodians of religious structures, could be resolved and progress
made in addressing post-resettlement challenges, is indicative of the increased R&R
management capacity of MMRDA. This also explains why MMRDA has been identified
as the nodal agency for managing R&R for new infrastructure projects in Mumbai
including Metro, Monorail, Airport, etc.




                                           11
Action 6: MMRDA will improve its R&R process through measures such as: (a)
finalizing the R&R implementation manual to define the procedures; (b) expediting the
finalization of outstanding RIPs; (c) expediting the issuance of identity cards and
payment of shifting allowances; (d) assessing the magnitude of relocation of community
assets and synchronizing their relocation with the civil works timetable; and (e) the GoM
filling the position of IMP Chairman and clarifying the IMP’s role.

33.    Finalizing the R&R Implementation Manual to Define Procedures. The
updated R&R Implementation Manual is available at the PIC and on MMRDA’s website.

34.     Expediting the Finalization of Outstanding Resettlement Implementation
Plans (RIPs). All RIPs have been prepared and implemented for the activities included in
the project.

35.     Expediting Issuance of Identity Cards and Payment of Shifting Allowances.
MMRDA has issued identity cards to 18,547 or 97 percent of the resettled PAHs. This
figure in percent terms may be higher as ID cards are not issued to legal property owners,
those who have opted for non-MUTP resettlement solutions, or who retain partially
affected shops/residences.

36.     Assessing Magnitude of Community Asset Relocation and Synchronizing
with Civil Works Timetable. MMRDA has completed the relocation of project affected
community and religious structures except for three religious structures. MMRDA had to
relocate host communities e in order to reconstruct three mosques, two temples, a social
welfare center, and two electric pylons along SCLR. Similarly, MMRDA also resettled
host communities along JVLR to relocate one temple, a Sikh shrine and a cremation
ground. The relocation of the three remaining religious structures (one along JVLR and
two along SCLR) is still pending due to difficulties in identifying acceptable relocation
sites.

37.     Position of IMP Chairman Filled by GoM and Clarification of IMP’s Role.
The IMP continues to play an important role in monitoring living conditions in the
resettlement sites through field visits and in facilitating MMRDA’s consultations with the
PAPs. To date the IMP has met 35 times and has undertaken 16 field visits for
monitoring the resettlement process. It is understood that the IMP will continue to
monitor the process.

Action 7: Improving data base management.

38.     MMRDA has continued using its Visual Basic/Excel database for managing data
and information relating to resettlement of eligible PAPs, and this database provides
sufficient control of the management of the current process. The Bank team has


e
  A host community is the community located on an area selected to relocate a structure affected by the road work. In
order to demolish and reconstruct such a structure at an alternative location, one has to find some land. MMRDA
identifies and resettles willing slums dwellers, referred to as host community here, to clear up land for relocating
religious/community structures. In such cases the host community itself is relocated as part of MUTP.


                                                        12
continued to monitor R&R data management and the disclosure of relevant R&R
information, including the lists of eligible PAPs prior to their actual relocation.

Action 8: MMRDA will engage in communications with Project-affected Persons and
improve documentation.

39.     MMRDA has made sustained efforts to maintain communications with the PAPs.
Specific weekday hours have been set aside for face to face to meetings with PAPs by the
Chief R&R, in addition to special meetings held with specific PAP groups, such as
residents, shopkeepers, and custodians of religious structures. In addition, the Chief-R&R
and his team meet PAPs on an almost daily basis. All relevant Project-related information
is available at MMRDA’s PIC and on its website.

Action 9: Improve grievance redress process.

40.     This action is completed. The grievance committees were reconstituted and the
process streamlined in April 2006. Since then the single member independent Grievance
Redress Committees (GRCs) have heard and dealt with cases registered with them which
pertained to eligibility for entitlements (claims for alternative houses or shops). The
deadline for registering such grievances was May 15, 2009. The GRCs had heard and
decided on all registered cases by October 10, 2011. Complainants whose claims were
declined by the GRCs retain the option to seek recourse in court. The field level
grievance committee has heard and resolved all 3,704 cases registered, of which 1,169
received favorable verdicts. Claimants not satisfied with the field level mechanism
outcome had the option to appeal to the senior level mechanism. The senior level GRC
has resolved all 902 cases registered with it as of October 10, 2011, of which it
determined 294 were eligible. Parallel to this GRC process focused on entitlements,
MMRDA has an established system for hearing and addressing a wide range of
grievances including post-resettlement issues with specific weekdays set aside for this
purpose. The PAPs will continue to have access to this mechanism through MMRDA’s
Chief R&R Office. In addition, PAPs will also retain access to the IMP for resolving
broader policy issues including those concerning group requests. The 2008 impact
assessment study recorded a high degree of PAP satisfaction with the grievance redress
process.

Action 10: Operationalization of the Implementation Manual.

41.    This action has been completed. The Implementation Manual was finalized,
taking into account the Bank’s comments, and is available at the PIC and on the
MMRDA website, which is currently being updated. The manual has been used to
administer the entitlements and apply relevant procedures.




                                           13
                                 IV.     CONCLUSION

42.     Resettlement. Management is satisfied with the sustained change in MMRDA’s
approach to resettlement management, characterized by efforts to explore negotiated
solutions in consultation with PAPs. MMRDA has demonstrated willingness and ability
to successfully pursue and conclude negotiations even with the more difficult or
challenging cases, including large- and medium-size shopkeepers, residences and shop
owners, and custodians of religious and community structures. MMRDA is in the process
of carrying out the agreed redevelopment schemes for the USOA shopkeepers and
resident families of 13 relocated MHADA buildings. Management continues to monitor
the process. Further, MMRDA has initiated the legal process in those cases where it has
not been able to resolve issues through negotiations. These include: six residences and 40
shopkeepers including 34 properties whose ownership is disputed in court. The Land
Acquisition process has been initiated for the remaining six residences and six shops.
MMRDA is in the process of concluding the relocation of the three remaining religious
structures. Management is reasonably confident that MMRDA will be able to address
these few remaining resettlement challenges in a compliant manner beyond project
closure and will monitor this.

43.     Post-resettlement. MMRDA’s overall post-resettlement activities have been
notable, despite the delay in exercising the exit strategy. The progress MMRDA has
achieved in registering and training 95 percent of PAP cooperatives and enabling them to
responsibly self-manage their affairs after program exit gives confidence that the post-
resettlement strategy can be concluded in a sustainable manner. Highlights of the post-
resettlement intervention include: implementation of LEAP for economic empowerment
of poor resettled women; provision of key social services in resettlement sites; substantial
progress in repair of works in buildings reporting problems; and some 100 cooperative
societies meeting key indicators for program exit.

44.     The mainstreaming of the resettlement sites into the urban services network
remains a challenge even as MCGM provides the basic services. MMRDA is pursuing
the matter with the GoM and MCGM regarding long-term sustainability of basic services
provision to the resettlement sites. The Bank has discussed the issue with the GoM and
will monitor the process. Overall, the quality of compliance in the R&R implementation
has improved and over the years MMRDA has begun to take informed safeguard
decisions even without the Bank’s technical advice. However, Management will continue
to monitor the progress of the remaining actions beyond project closure through annual
technical mission. This strategy for Bank oversight over the remaining R&R process has
been discussed with the Borrower. During ICR finalization, the Bank agreed with
MMRDA on a timetable for implementation, reporting and monitoring of the remaining
resettlement actions.




                                            14
                       ANNEX 1: K EY R ESETTLEMENT I MPLEMENTATION P ROGRESS

                                            Apr-
                                                        Feb         Dec 2006    Sep 2007    Jan 2009    Jan 2010       Oct 2011
                                            May
                               Revised                  2006          (First    (Second      (Third      (Fourth        (Fifth
No         Action     Target                2005
                               Target                  (Mgmt        Progress    Progress    Progress    Progress       Progress
                                           (Panel     Response)      Report)     Report)     Report)     Report)       Report)
                                           Visit)
1    No. of           17,378     19,394    12,396       13,877         15,315     15,784       16,580      17,134         19,348
     households                             (71%)       (80%)          (88%)       (91%)       (95%)       (98%)        (99.76%)
     shifted to
     permanent
     houses
2    No. of            2,469      1,822       249          369           752        1,104       1,437       1,490          1,782
     affected                              (15.6%)       (23%)         (47%)       (69%)       (90%)      (93.5%)        (97.8%)
     shopkeepers
     provided
     permanent         1,669      1,256       NA           NA       668 (61%)        877        1,018        1,071          1227
     alternative                                                                   (81%)       (71%)        (94%)        (97.7%)
     shops
     < 225 sq.ft.
     (small)
     > 225 sq.ft.        800        566       NA           NA              84        227         419          419             555
     (medium and                                                      (16.5%)    (44.5%)       (82%)        (82%)       (98.06 %)
     large}
3    No. of           19,847     19,491      1,685        5,616         6,319     15,011       17,467       18,432         18,547
     households                                (8%)      (28%)         (32%)      (75%)        (90%)    (98.5% of        (97% of
     issued                                                                                               resettled      resettled
     identity                                                                                               PAHs)          PAHs)
     cards f
4    Disclosure of    19,847     19,491        Nil      10,910         15,627     16,447       17,467      18,202          18,547
     beneficiaries                                      (55%)          (78%)      (82%)        (90%)      (94% of        (97% of
     list on the                                                                                         total and       resettled
     website                                                                                               87% of          PAHs)
                                                                                                         resettled
                                                                                                           PAHs)
5    No. of             200*        188        47           48            58          85         157           174           182
     cooperative                            (27%)‡       (28)‡        (33%)‡      (49%)‡      (90%)‡        (93%)          (97%)
     societies
     registered
     (approximate)
6    No. of             200*        188        23          23             46          46          52           157            162
     maintenance                            (13%)‡     (13%)‡         (26%)‡      (26%)‡      (30%)‡       of 174          of 182
     funds                                                                                              registered         (86%)
     (Interest)                                                                                             (90%)
     transferred to
     cooperative
     societies




       f
         The number of identity cards issued differs from the revised target of beneficiaries to be resettled due to
       the fact that some eligible beneficiaries who were issued identity cards are finally not required to be moved
       because of changes in the alignments.


                                                               15
                                                Apr-
                                                           Feb         Dec 2006     Sep 2007       Jan 2009       Jan 2010       Oct 2011
                                                May
                                    Revised                2006          (First     (Second         (Third         (Fourth        (Fifth
No       Action         Target                  2005
                                    Target                (Mgmt        Progress     Progress       Progress       Progress       Progress
                                               (Panel    Response)      Report)      Report)        Report)        Report)       Report)
                                               Visit)
7    No. of                200*         188        47          47            47            47             125             155            172
     cooperative                                (27%)‡     (27%)‡        (27%)‡        (27%)‡          (71%)‡         of 174          of 182
     societies that                                                                                                registered     registered
     received                                                                                                          (89%)        (94.5%)
     Building
     Maintenance
     Funds
8    No. of PAPs           2000         NA         NA         244           244           244      The fund is    The fund is    CMF given
     who received                                           (12%)         (12%)         (12%)      provided to    provided to        to 172
     assistance                                                                                    cooperative    cooperative      societies
     under                                                                                            societies      societies
     Community
     Management
     Funds
9    Transfer of             600        540        Nil         Nil          114           423             445         For 179            183
     common             (for 200                                          (18%)         (70%)           (82%)        societies      societies
     facilities (pre-    societie                                                                                    received     (100 % of
     school,                   s)                                                                                  (100 % of              the
     society office                                                                                                        the    registered
     and welfare                                                                                                   registered      societies)
     centre) to                                                                                                     societies)
     cooperative
     societies)
10   Issue of               152         157       Nil          Nil          100           100              157            174           182
     building                                                             (66%)         (66%)
     maintenance
     manuals to
     cooperative
     societies
11   No. of                 87*          75        NA          16            18            50               60             69             69
     community                                              (18%)         (21%)         (58%)
     assets
     reconstructed
12   Water supply             90         90         69       60-65       70-125          90-150        71-171             NA          71-88
     – Mankhurd                                                                               27         lpcd                          lpcd
     (sample                                                                          buildings
     buildings) –                                                                     get 90-95
     lpcd                                                                           lpcd; 2 get
                                                                                        121 and
                                                                                       150 lpcd
                                                                                     respective
                                                                                              ly
13   Water supply             90         90         25          30       70-125          60-129        57-197             NA             NA
     – Anik                                                                                    6    58% of 33
     (sample                                                                          buildings      buildings
     buildings)                                                                       get 60-85       received
     lpcd                                                                                  lpcd;    more than
                                                                                              27       90 lpcd
                                                                                      buildings
                                                                                         get 90-
                                                                                       129 lpcd

       * Revised target. A total of 188 buildings were occupied by Project closure.
       ‡ This represents the percentage of then fully occupied buildings where residents could register their housing
       cooperative societies.




                                                                  16
                      ANNEX 2: W ORLD BANK SUPERVISION M ISSIONS,
                                  SINCE M ARCH 2006

              March 9 – 14, 2006                               August 14, 2006
Task Team Leader                               Acting Country Director
Senior Procurement Specialist                  Social Development Consultant
Financial Management Specialist                Senior Social Specialist
Manager, Procurement
Senior Financial Management Specialist                       August 17 – 25, 2006
Senior Finance Officer                         Task Team Leader
Senior Social Development Specialist           Senior Procurement Specialist
Manager, Financial Management                  Transport Specialist
Lead Social Development Specialist             Environmental Specialist
                                               Transport Specialist
               April 12 – 21, 2006             Transport Specialist
Task Team Leader                               Financial Management Specialist
Senior Environment Specialist                  Social Development Consultant
Architect                                      Traffic Management Specialist
Regional Safeguards Advisor                    Rail Transport Specialist
Lead Urban Specialist                          Public Relations Specialist
Social Development Consultant                  Environmental Specialist
Senior Country Program Manager
Senior Social Specialist                                  September 25 – 26, 2006
                                               Social Development Consultant
               May 2 – 5, 2006                 Senior Social Specialist
Task Team Leader
Transport Specialist                                November 22 – 24 and 26 – 29, 2006
Transport Specialist                           Task Team Leader
Traffic Management Specialist                  Regional Safeguards Advisor
                                               Senior Social Specialist
                June 5 – 6, 2006               Social Development Consultant
Task Team Leader                               Senior Water and Sanitation Specialist
Safeguards Advisor
Country Director                                            January 16 – 25, 2007
Social Development Consultant                  Task Team Leader
Senior Social Specialist                       Regional Safeguards Advisor
                                               Lead Urban Specialist
               June 28, 2006                   Transport Specialist
Task Team Leader                               Financial Specialist
Social Development Consultant                  Senior Technical Advisor for Safeguards
                                               Social Development Consultant
               July 25 – 28, 2006              External Relations
Task Team Leader                               Senior Social Specialist
Environmental Specialist                       Senior Environmental Specialist
Transport Specialist                           Senior Water and Sanitation Specialist
Transport Specialist                           Railway Specialist (consultant)
Social Development Consultant                  Financial Analyst
Senior Social Specialist                       Environment Consultant
Environmental Specialist
Environmental Specialist




                                          17
               February 2, 2007                          November 20 – 21, 2007
Task Team Leader                              Task Team Leader
Civil Engineer                                Social Development Consultant
Railway Specialist (consultant)
                                                         December 16 – 18, 2007
                March 7, 2007                 Task Team Leader
Task Team Leader                              Social Development Consultant
Sector Manager, Transport
Social Development Consultant                  January 7–17, 2008 / January 23–February 4,
                                                                    2008
             April 16 – 19, 2007              Task Team Leader
Senor Transport Specialist                    Transport Specialist
Social Development Consultant                 Environmental Specialist
                                              Procurement Specialist
              April 25 – 27, 2007             Transport Specialist
Social Development Consultant                 Regional Safeguards Advisor
Senor Social Development Specialist           Transport Sector Manager
                                              Social Safeguards Specialist (consultant)
              June 6 – 7, 2007                Financial Specialist
Task Team Leader                              Financial Specialist
Social Development Consultant                 Social Development Consultant
                                              External Relations
                July 6 – 20, 2007             Senior Social Specialist
Task Team Leader                              Senior Water and Sanitation Specialist
Environmental Specialist                      Railway Specialist (consultant)
Procurement Specialist                        Financial Analyst
Regional Safeguards Advisor                   ATC Specialist
Lead Urban Specialist                         Environment Consultant
Transport Specialist                          ICT Specialist
Financial Specialist
Social Development Consultant                                April 6 – 10, 2008
External Relations                            Task Team Leader
Senior Social Specialist                      Transport Specialist
Senior Environmental Specialist               Rail Transport Specialist
Senior Water and Sanitation Specialist        Rail Transport Specialist
Railway Specialist (consultant)
Financial Analyst                                           May 14 – 15, 2008
ATC Specialist                                Task Team Leader
Environment Consultant                        Transport Specialist
ICT Specialist
                                                            May 22 – 23, 2008
             August 20 – 22, 2007             Task Team Leader
Task Team Leader                              Social Development Consultant
Country Director
Economist                                                    July 11 – 12, 2008
Social Development Consultant                 Task Team Leader
Water Resource Specialist                     Safeguards Regional Adviser
External Affairs Consultant                   Social Safeguards Specialist, (consultant)
                                              Environmental Safeguards Specialist
           September 26 – 28, 2007            Social Development Consultant
Task Team Leader                              Senior Social Specialist
Senior Transport Specialist
Social Development Consultant




                                         18
           July 23 – August 5, 2008
Task Team Leader                                             May 25, 2009
Transport Specialist                          Social Development Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Financial Specialist                                        June 17-28, 2009
Regional Safeguards Advisor                   Social Development Specialist
Transport Specialist
Financial Specialist                                          July 13-24, 2009
Environmental Specialist                      Task Team Leader
Social Development Consultant                 Transport Specialist
External Relations                            Procurement Specialist
Senior Social Specialist                      Transport Specialist
Senior Water and Sanitation Specialist        Transport Economist
Railway Specialist (consultant)               Economist
Financial Analyst                             Environmental Specialist
Environment Consultant                        Social Development Specialist
ICT Specialist                                External Relations
                                              Senior Social Specialist
           September 15 – 16, 2008            Railway Specialist Consultant
Transport Specialist                          Financial Management Consultant
Social Development Consultant                 Urban Transport Planner
                                              Traffic Management Specialist
      November 23 – November 26, 2008
Task Team Leader                                           August 16-20, 2009
Transport Specialist                          Social Development Specialist
Financial Management Consultant
Transport Specialist                                         October 15, 2009
Environmental Specialist                      Transport Specialist
Social Development Consultant                 Transport Specialist
                                              Social Development Specialist
        January 28 – February 6, 2009
Task Team Leader                                           February 15-19, 2010
Transport Specialist                          Task Team Leader
Procurement Specialist                        Transport Specialist
Regional Safeguards Advisor                   Procurement Specialist
Transport Specialist                          Project Management Specialist
Transport Specialist                          Economist
Financial Specialist                          Environmental Specialist
Environmental Specialist                      Social Development Specialist
Social Development Specialist                 External Relations
External Relations                            Senior Social Specialist
Senior Social Specialist                      Railway Specialist (consultant)
Railway Specialist (consultant)               Financial Management Consultant
Environment Consultant                        Urban Transport Planner
Financial Management Consultant               Traffic Management Specialist
ICT Consultant
                                                               April 9, 2010
              March 26-30, 2009               Transport Specialist
Social Development Specialist                 Social Development Specialist

                  May 6, 2009                                 April 22, 2010
Transport Specialist                          Transport Specialist
Transport Specialist                          Social Development Specialist
Social Development Specialist


                                         19
               May 12-14, 2010
Transport Specialist                                                 February 14-16, 2011
Social Development Specialist                           Vice President, Sustainable Development
                                                        Network
               May 22-23, 2010                          Sector Director, South Asia Sector Sustainable
Lead Transport Specialist                               Development
Social Development Specialist                           Country Manager, India
                                                        Country Operations Advisor
               July 14 – 26, 2010                       Country Sector Coordinator, Sustainable
Task Team Leader                                        Development Network
Transport Specialist                                    Task Team Leader
Senior Transport Specialist                             Social Development Specialist
Consultant
Regional Safeguard Advisor                                             May 2-4, 2011
Urban Transport Specialist                              Social Development Specialist
External Relations Advisor
Procurement Specialist                                                  May 15-16, 2011
Environmental Specialist                                Managing Director
Social Development Specialist                           Regional Vice-President, SARVP
Financial Management Consultant                         Country Director, India
Railway Specialist (consultant)                         Country Operations Advisor
Governance and Finance Specialist                       Sr. Rural Water Specialist
Junior Economist                                        External Relations Advisor
                                                        Task Team Leader
             October 18-19, 2010                        Social Development Specialist
Transport Specialist
Social Development Specialist
Country Operations Advisor                                             May 23-28, 2011
                                                        Task Team Leader
              February 3-4, 2010                        Transport Specialist
Sector Director, Social Development                     Senior Social Development Specialist
Sector Manager, South Asia Sustainable                  Financial Specialist
Development (Social)
Social Development Specialist                                         July 25-29, 2011
                                                        Social Development Specialist
        January 31 –February 11, 2011
Transport Specialist and Acting Task Team Leader                    September 20-23, 2011
Senior Transport Specialist                             Social Development Specialist
Lead Transport Specialist
Project Management Specialist                                         October 10-14, 2011
Sr. Procurement Specialist                              Transport Specialist and Task Team Leader
Environmental Specialist                                Senior Social Development Specialist
Social Development Specialist                           Senior Operations Officer, OPCQC
Financial Management Consultant                         Social Development Specialist
Financial Management Specialist
Railway Specialist (consultant)                                      October 17-18, 2011
Consultant, Railway Specialist                          Country Director
External Relations Advisor                              Operations Advisor
Governance & Finance Specialist                         Governance Advisor
                                                        Lead Transport Specialist
                                                        Transport Specialist and Task Team Leader
                                                        Social Development Specialist




                                                   20
                        ANNEX 3: MUTP: STATUS OF I SSUES AS OF O CTOBER 15, 2011

Issue                                  Status as of     Comments
                                     October 15, 2011
Resettlement of Shopkeepers
1. Shopkeeper Resettlement Options
1.1      Complete negotiations /     Completed          Negotiations have been completed with the affected shopkeeper
resettlement with all affected                          groups along SCLR. Over 95 percent of SCLR shopkeepers have
shopkeepers of SCLR.                                    been resettled, including 200 medium- or large-size shops. Both
                                                        groups of SCLR shopkeepers (KNWA) and USOA (IP Requesters)
                                                        have signed MoU with MMRDA for resettlement in-situ or close
                                                        by in MN Nagar. MMRDA has started legal process for relocating
                                                        34 shops having court cases and 6 land owners. (The 34
                                                        shopkeepers, mostly tenants, joined negotiations and have agreed
                                                        to join the in-situ schemes, however, are unable to vacate sites as
                                                        these shops are in the court receiver category due to title dispute)
                                                        Bank continues to monitor and advise MMRDA to expedite the
                                                        resettlement of shopkeepers.
1.2      Complete negotiations /     Completed          Thus far 1,782 shopkeepers have been resettled, including 555
resettlement of affected                                medium- or large-size shopkeepers. Negotiation and resettlement
shopkeepers of other sub-projects                       of shopkeepers from JVLR and Thana-Kurla Rail corridor was
(non-SCLR).                                             completed earlier. SATIS and ROBs were deleted from the Project
                                                        as a part of restructuring in 2008. Relocation of one hotel has been
                                                        delayed due to court litigation and shall be resolved by leaving the
                                                        structure undisturbed beyond the road, with some modification.
2. Affected Employees
2.1       MMRDA will publicize       Completed          The provision of assistance to affected employees is described in
the R&R policy, which provides                          the Implementation Manual which is disclosed in the PIC and
one year’s income on a one-time                         uploaded on MMRDA’s website.
basis to those employees who are
not re-employed as a result of
Project resettlement.
2.2      MMRDA will process          Action in          MMRDA is yet to receive any requests from the affected
such cases of assistance as and      progress           employees for assistance. The reasons are that large employers
when formal requests are                                were not affected, or carried their employees. Other employees did
received. The amount of income                          not claim benefits as this involved continuous unemployment for
will be determined by a valuation                       three months, whereas the dynamic labor market offered jobs.
committee, per the R&R policy.                          The Bank continued to monitor this issue.
Funding for this assistance will
come from the Bank-financed
portion of MUTP.
2.3       Employees will be issued   Completed          Issuance of identity cards to employees has been continued. The
identity cards prior to                                 Bank monitored the issuance of identity cards to employees prior
displacement of the business unit.                      to their displacement.




                                                          21
Issue                                 Status as of     Comments
                                    October 15, 2011
Post-Resettlement
3. Implementation
3.1       MMRDA will strengthen
the R&R management system and
engage additional staff for the
timely completion of the
registration process of the
cooperative societies.



3.1.1.          Complete            Completed          Society registration has been completed for 182 (97%) occupied
registration of 80 housing                             buildings and registration is in process for three cooperative
cooperative societies in addition                      societies. The remaining three cooperative societies have not been
to the initially registered 48                         registered due to partial occupancy or non-cooperation from the
societies                                              resettled residents.
3.1.2    Implementation of          Completed          MMRDA implemented the cooperative management action plan
cooperative management action                          through its consultant, Tata Consultancy Services, which
plan.                                                  completed its assignment in 2008. MMRDA carried forward the
                                                       process and continues to provide post R&R support to the resettled
                                                       people including training and mainstreaming linkage to the PAP
                                                       cooperative societies for self management and to poor women
                                                       groups for income restoration. Training has been completed for
                                                       173 cooperative societies, common facilities have been transferred
                                                       to 183 cooperative societies and maintenance funds deposited in
                                                       joint accounts for 172 cooperative societies. MMRDA is working
                                                       on a comprehensive conveyance transfer strategy. The Bank
                                                       continues to monitor the process.
3.2      Construction of social     Substantially      Key social services provided in the resettlement sites include
services at R&R sites.              completed          schools, a health care/community center, internal roads and street
                                                       lights, water supply and transport services, and storm water
                                                       drainage. MMRDA provides networking support to the resettled
                                                       PAP cooperative societies in accessing various services including
                                                       health care, education, electricity, solid waste management, public
                                                       distribution systems, and citizen (voter) identity cards. Primary
                                                       schools have been established at Anik and Mankhurd, with a
                                                       secondary school established at Mankhurd. In addition, one private
                                                       school at Mankhurd and two private schools at Anik are managed
                                                       by charities. Child care centers in resettlement buildings, 39
                                                       schools, education centers run by Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and
                                                       private schools managed by charities in and around the R&R sites
                                                       benefit some 9,499 resettled children. MCGM has started to run a
                                                       health center at Anik in rooms provided by MMRDA; a maternity
                                                       care cum health center is under construction at Mankhurd.
                                                       MMRDA has constructed a community hall at Majaj which will
                                                       double up as a health center. MMRDA is assessing further the
                                                       need for and availability of vacant plots for building other required
                                                       social facilities in different R&R sites.




                                                         22
Issue                                  Status as of     Comments
                                     October 15, 2011
3.3       MMRDA will facilitate,     Completed          Transfer of outstanding interest on maintenance deposits of USD 2
through the GoM, the transfer of                        million has been done for 162 cooperative societies; maintenance
maintenance funds to the                                funds of USD 7.5 million have been deposited in joint accounts for
cooperative societies that have                         172 of THE 182 registered cooperative societies; the cooperative
been established. If there is a                         societies directly withdraw the interest amount from these joint
delay, interest on the maintenance                      accounts. Community management funds of USD 376,300 have
funds will be transferred within 3                      been provided to 172 cooperative societies. The Bank is
months of the end of the financial                      monitoring the process.
year.
3.4       Transfer of conveyance     Action in          MMRDA is working on a comprehensive conveyance transfer
deeds to first 48 cooperative        progress           policy for the resettlement sites which will be implemented as a
societies.                                              part of the exit strategy.
3.5       Transfer of conveyance     Action in          MMRDA is working on a comprehensive conveyance transfer
deeds to next 80 cooperative         progress           policy for the resettlement sites which will be implemented as a
societies.                                              part of the exit strategy.
3.6        Training and building     Completed          The maintenance manuals have been distributed to 182
facilities maintenance manuals                          cooperative societies in the Mankhurd, Asgaonkar, Anik,
and brochures will be provided to                       Kanjurmarg and Majas sites. Tata Consultancy Services prepared a
cooperative societies’ committee                        range of information, education and communication materials on
members to support proper                               society management and cohesive living which are being
management of the societies,                            disseminated among the PAP cooperative societies.
maintenance of lifts and provision
of services, such as water supply,
sewerage, solid waste
management, etc. The Bank is
following up with MMRDA on
specific additional measures to
assure sustainable self-
management of cooperative
societies in the longer term.
3.7      MMRDA will work with        Completed          The water supply situation has considerably improved in the
the GoM to engage with MCGM                             resettlement sites, despite reports of relative short supply in a few
on steps required to improve                            buildings at Anik during April and May when the city experiences
water supply at the resettlement                        water scarcity. MMRDA in coordination with MCGM has largely
sites.                                                  addressed the inadequacy in water supply due to low pressure at
                                                        the Anik and Mankhurd sites with necessary remedial measures
                                                        including construction of separate water pumping stations and
                                                        elevated water reservoirs at two locations near Anik. Water supply
                                                        in resettlement sites is comparable to other parts of Mumbai.
3.8       The Bank is pursuing       Completed          Access to and availability of bus service from the resettlement
measures with GoM and                                   colonies is comparable to that of other areas of Mumbai. Major
MMRDA to improve transport                              bus routes are within 1-2 km of the Mankhurd and Anik
connectivity to resettlement                            resettlement colonies. The provision of bus services is periodically
colonies.                                               updated based on passenger load assessment by BEST, the agency
                                                        providing bus services.




                                                          23
Issue                                  Status as of     Comments
                                     October 15, 2011
3.9      Independent resettlement    Completed          Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) carried out an independent
impact assessments will be                              R&R impact assessment study in Mankhurd, Majas and Anik sites
carried out as and when due for                         in 2007-8. The study highlighted 80 percent PAP satisfaction with
each resettlement site. Remedial                        resettlement buildings; 50 percent increase in average monthly
measures, if required, will be                          household incomes and 80 percent job retention among relocated
implemented.                                            PAPs; the purchase of additional household assets; and enhanced
                                                        sense of security. The study also noted the loss of supplementary
                                                        incomes by women earlier employed in mixed communities,
                                                        building repair issues, etc. MMRDA has been implementing
                                                        remedial measures (livelihood strengthening and building repair
                                                        works) as a follow up to concerns raised in the report. The Bank
                                                        continues to monitor the process. The ToR for the final R&R
                                                        Impact Assessment Study has been shared with the Borrower and
                                                        the study is expected to be commissioned in CY2011.
Environmental Management of Resettlement Sites
4. Maintenance of Public Assets; Waste Management
4.1       MMRDA will assist the       Substantially     MMRDA has completed the majority of civil works related repairs
ad hoc cooperative housing           completed          at resettlement buildings. As part of the exit strategy, MMRDA
societies to survey repairs needed                      agreed on a set of indicators that require completion of pending
to rectify construction defects,                        civil/ repair works, which MMRDA has been implementing and
such as water and sewerage                              expects to complete in the coming months. The Bank will continue
networks, plumbing and civil                            to monitor the process.
works, before expiration of the
contractors’ liability period.
4.2      MMRDA has prepared          Completed          See Item 3.6.
maintenance manuals which will
be handed over to each registered
cooperative society.
4.3      MMRDA is liaising with      Substantially      MMRDA prepared environmental management action plans for
MCGM to provide necessary            completed          resettlement sites with the help of professional consultants, one of
community facilities, including                         which was implemented at Kanjurmarg as a pilot. The PAP
tree plantation.                                        cooperative societies are implementing the environmental
                                                        management plans in other resettlement sites, with the help of
                                                        NGOs if possible. These plans focus on waste management, health
                                                        and hygiene and tree plantation in resettlement sites. The Bank
                                                        continues to monitor the progress. Annex 6 provides an update.
4.4       Concerned Ward Offices     Substantially      MCGM is providing basic services to the resettlement sites
will be asked to route solid waste   completed          including water, solid waste management, drainage etc. MMRDA
collection vehicles to the                              is pursuing the matter with GoM and MCGM to ensure long term
resettlement sites for the timely                       sustainability of basic services provided in resettlement sites.
collection and disposal of waste.                       MMRDA will set up federations of housing cooperatives who will
                                                        manage the sites after program exit. The Bank will continue to
                                                        monitor the progress on this issue.




                                                          24
Issue                                    Status as of     Comments
                                       October 15, 2011
Overall Management of R&R Implementation
5. Strengthening Institutional Arrangements for R&R
5.1       Day-to-day R&R               Completed          MMRDA has strengthened its R&R capacity with a new Project
management (with delegated                                Director, additional managers, community development associates,
administrative and financial                              a social scientist, and estate managers. MMRDA has established a
authority) will be undertaken by a                        special Livelihood Cell to address income restoration issues.
Chief Officer (R&R) reporting to                          MMRDA is implementing the Livelihood Support Program-Phase
the Project Director. The R&R                             II for 1,000 women. In resettlement sites, over 10,000 women are
Chief will be supported by 12                             enrolled in micro credit and vocational activities. The earlier
officers with backgrounds in                              appointed Deputy Registrar-Cooperatives continues to support the
R&R management and                                        society registration process. MMRDA has completed registration
community development, data                               of housing cooperative societies in 372 resettlement buildings
base management, land                                     including 182 MUTP buildings. The Chief R&R manages overall
acquisition, environmental                                resettlement operations. MMRDA has hired additional staff to
management, estate management,                            carry forward the post-resettlement process. The resettlement unit
public relations, registration of                         has expanded its support to all resettlement sites including the
societies, legal, etc. Functions and                      MUTP sites.
responsibilities of key officers
will be documented soon.                                  The Bank social development specialist focused on MUTP has
Requirements for other support                            been working closely with MMRDA.
staff will be assessed and
provided accordingly. The Bank
Task Team will work closely with
MMRDA to ensure that effective
and efficient management systems
are put in place.
5.2      MMRDA will review             Completed          MMRDA has streamlined roles and responsibilities of NGOs,
and assess the NGOs’ capacity                             consultants and its staff members, which has been sustained
and future role.                                          without deviation from the agreed guidelines.
5.3       MMRDA will prepare           Completed          MMRDA has conducted training programs on issues of interest for
and implement a training program                          its staff. The Bank continues to monitor the process.
for the sensitization and skills
improvement of R&R staff,
NGOs, and others concerned with
R&R implementation.
6. Improving the R&R Process
6.1      MMRDA will further            Completed          The updated R&R Implementation Manual is disclosed at the PIC
define procedures in the R&R                              and uploaded on MMRDA’s website.
Implementation Manual.                                    No further action is required.
6.2      Strengthen data base                             See Items 7.1 and 7.2 below.
capability for effective
management of resettlement and
post-resettlement.
6.3 MMRDA will expedite:               Completed          The revised RIP for SCLR was finalized and endorsed by the Bank
                                                          and was disclosed on MMRDA’s website and PIC, and the Bank’s
6.3.1     Finalizing the draft RIP                        Info Shop in 2006.
for SCLR up to 45.7 meters with
flexibility to proceed on a section-
by-section basis.




                                                            25
Issue                                    Status as of     Comments
                                       October 15, 2011
6.3.2    Finalizing the draft RIP      N/A                The SATIS component was removed from the Project as a part of
for SATIS, to be submitted to the                         restructuring in 2008.
Bank when railway clearances are
obtained for the sub-project.
6.4    Finalizing the Vikhroli         Completed          The RIP for Vikhroli ROB was completed; however this was
ROB draft RIP.                                            removed from the Project in 2008.
6.5      Updating the baseline         Completed          MMRDA completed the updating of the baseline survey for JVLR
socio-economic survey data for                            in 2006 and resettlement has been completed. No further action is
JVLR and Jogeshwari ROBs.                                 envisaged.
6.6      MMRDA will improve            Completed          MMRDA sent periodic progress reports to the Bank in an agreed
on timely reporting and the                               format, which the Bank team reviewed. The Project came to
submission of progress reports.                           closure on June 15, 2011.
The Bank Task Team will work
with MMRDA on report content
and frequency.
6.7      MMRDA will expedite           Substantially      MMRDA has issued identity cards to 18,547 or 97 percent of the
timely issuance of identity cards      completed          resettled PAHs. The Bank continues to monitor the progress on
and payments of shifting                                  this issue.
allowances for PAPs shifting to
new resettlement sites.
6.8       Road project impacts on      Substantially      MMRDA has completed relocation of 69 religious and community
community assets will be assessed      completed          structures (except two religious structures along SCLR and one
and their relocation and                                  temple along JVLR) through negotiations with the local
reconstruction will be                                    custodians. Many of them received alternative apartments or free
synchronized with the timetable                           plots and financial assistance to reconstruct their structures. The
for civil works.                                          Bank continues to monitor the progress on this issue.
6.9     The GoM will fill the post     Completed          The IMP, re-constituted in mid-March 2006, has been actively
of Chairman, IMP and will                                 monitoring key resettlement implementation aspects. To date the
elaborate on and clarify the IMP’s                        IMP has met 35 times and has undertaken 16 field visits for
role. Secretarial assistance will be                      monitoring the resettlement process, which has enormously helped
provided to the IMP.                                      to monitor and improve lives of the resettled people. No further
                                                          action is required. The Bank continues to monitor action taken on
                                                          IMP decisions.
7. Improving Data base Management
7.1       MMRDA is in the              Completed          MMRDA is using its Visual Basic/Excel database for managing
process of procuring state-of-the-                        data and information relating to resettlement of eligible PAPs, and
art software for the management                           this database provides sufficient control of the management of the
of all the R&R-related data.                              current process. The Bank team has continued to monitor R&R
                                                          data management and the disclosure of relevant R&R information,
                                                          including the lists of eligible PAPs prior to their actual relocation.

                                                          No further action is required.




                                                            26
Issue                                 Status as of     Comments
                                    October 15, 2011
7.2       Systems will be put in    Substantially      MMRDA has decided to continue using its Visual-Basic and Excel
place for providing inputs,         completed          database while pursuing the refinement of the Oracle database, in
updating, using and retrieving                         view of delays involved in operationalizing the Oracle package.
various types of information                           The Bank continues to monitor data management.
related to R&R and post-
resettlement implementation. The
data base will be linked with
family photo IDs to facilitate
tracking and management of the
process. The resettlement support
consultants will conduct hands-on
training for MMRDA staff.
8. Improving Communications and Consultation
8.1     MMRDA will enhance          Completed          MMRDA has improved its communications and consultations with
communication with PAPs and                            the PAPs. Specific weekday hours have been set aside for face to
improve documentation.                                 face to meetings with PAPs by the Chief R&R, in addition to
                                                       special meetings held with specific PAP groups, such as residents,
                                                       shopkeepers, and custodians of religious structures. In addition, the
                                                       Chief R&R and his team meet PAPs almost on a daily basis. The
                                                       key Project-related documents are disclosed in the PIC and on the
                                                       website. The Bank continues to monitor the process.
8.2      MMRDA will make            Completed          MMRDA continue to maintain the PIC at its office. No further
separate space arrangements for a                      action is required.
PIC at MMRDA. It will also
ensure the timely availability of
relevant documents and
brochures.
8.3      The Bank Task Team         Completed          The Bank organized a one-day session on public consultation and
will work with MMRDA to assess                         communications for the staff of MMRDA and NGOs in February
and implement training needs in                        2006. The Bank social development specialist provided MMRDA
public consultation and                                technical guidance on consultation and communications with PAPs
communications.                                        on a regular basis.
9. Grievance Redress
9.1      MMRDA will provide         Completed          MMRDA provided necessary support (secretarial assistance and
support staff to the field level                       computers) to the field level GRC to improve the hearing and
GRC to expedite the hearing and                        disposal of cases. The field level GRC resolved 3,704 cases. The
disposal of cases and to improve                       senior level GRC has resolved all 902 cases registered with it.
recording and reporting of                             1169 cases received positive verdicts by the field level GRC
decisions.                                             whereas 294 cases were validated by the senior level GRC.
9.2      A separate one-page        Completed          The updated grievance redress process was incorporated in the
brochure on the updated grievance                      Implementation Manual (Chapter 29) and disclosed in the PIC and
redress process will be prepared,                      uploaded on the website. The main improvement in the process
circulated, and posted on the                          was the specification of a clear timeframe for registering a
Project website.                                       grievance and confirmation that the resettlement of a petitioner
                                                       would not be carried out before the grievance process was
                                                       completed. Brochures in English and Marathi were printed and
                                                       attached to allotment letters/eviction notices.
                                                       The field level GRC has resolved all the pending cases. No further
                                                       action is envisaged.




                                                         27
Issue                                    Status as of     Comments
                                       October 15, 2011
9.3       The Bank Task Team           Completed          The process has been streamlined and is improving. There has
will work closely with MMRDA                              been a remarkable shift in MMRDA’s approach to resettlement,
staff to evaluate the current status                      characterized by its openness to pursue negotiated solutions in
of the system, support its revision,                      consultation with PAPs. MMRDA has been managing post-
and facilitate its effective                              resettlement issues on its own after the management consultant’s
implementation.                                           exit. It established field level Grievance Redress Centers at five
                                                          key resettlement sites to resolve site specific issues. The IMP has
                                                          met 35 times and has undertaken regular field visits to resettlement
                                                          sites, has listened to PAPs and has monitored action-taken reports
                                                          submitted by MMRDA on remedial measures suggested. The Bank
                                                          social development specialist has focused on MUTP since March
                                                          2006. The resettlement Impact Assessment study (2007-8)
                                                          indicated a high level of PAP satisfaction with the grievance
                                                          redress process.
10. Operationalization of the Implementation Manual
10.1     MMRDA will finalize
the Implementation Manual in
consultation with the Bank, GoM,
and consultants. The MMRDA
will then identify procedures
specified in the Implementation
Manual that will be used for the
balance of R&R activities and
notify the relevant agencies
regarding its implementation:
10.1.1 Revise and amend                Completed          The Implementation Manual has been revised in close consultation
Implementation Manual to                                  with Bank staff.
include R&R and environmental                             No further action is envisaged.
procedures.
10.1.2 Finalization of                 Completed          The Implementation Manual has been finalized taking into account
Implementation Manual                                     the Bank’s comments and is now disclosed in the PIC and
                                                          uploaded on the website.
                                                          No further action is envisaged.
10.1.3 Operationalization of the       Completed          The Implementation Manual finalized in 2006 is being used to
Implementation Manual                                     administer the entitlements and apply procedures. The
                                                          Implementation Manual will be updated as appropriate.




                                                            28
                 ANNEX 4: MUTP: STATUS OF I MPEDIMENTS AND R&R R ELATED I SSUES
                              FOR J VLR & SCLR (O CTOBER 2011)

 SN     Impediments        Location/Name          Difficulties,           Remedial Steps Taken/              Estimated
                                                Challenges, Risks         Progress Made So Far             Timeframe for
                                                                                                              Closure
                                             Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road
1.    • About 250 shops    2000-2460 and  Prolonged deadlock in • Issues resolved through               The remaining case
        including about    2890-3600,     negotiations for R&R       negotiations                       (the hotel) will be
        180 shops with     RHS, 7 JVLR-II due to strong            • 170 shops >225 sq. ft              resolved by partially
        area above 225     (Powai)        resistance from owner-     resettled                          modifying the
        sq. ft including                  occupants                • Owner occupants offered            structure beyond the
        20 titleholder                                               equivalent shop area (even         RoW (expected by
        shops                                                        when exceeding 750 sq. ft,         December 2011)
      • 123 households                                               which is beyond MUTP
                                                                     R&R Policy)
                                                                   • 209 shopkeepers resettled at
                                                                     an attractive shopping mall
                                                                   • All residential PAHs
                                                                     resettled
                                                                   • Resettlement completed
                                                                     except for one case
                                                                     involving court litigation
2.    14 marble shop       3660-2920 RHS, Strong resistance from • Issues resolved through              Completed
      owners               JVLR-II,       marble shop owners to      negotiations
                           Adi            relocation moves;        • MMRDA provided
                           Sankaracharya  demand for alternative     (a) equivalent shop area in
                           Marg           land difficult to meet       exchange for affected shop
                                          in view of scarcity of       area at Powai shopping
                                          land in Mumbai               mall
                                                                     (b) TDR 8 for affected land
                                                                       area
                                                                     (c) shop area equivalent to
                                                                       the value of land in case of
                                                                       fully affected land area
                                                                       (above 80 percent) at
                                                                       Powai shopping mall
3.    Transfer of 1100 sq. 2080-3575      Approval of MHRD, 10 • MHRD, GoI approval                     • Transfer of IIT
                                9
      mts. of IIT Land     LHS, JVLR-II; GoI needed and MoU          obtained                             land obtained for
                           Powai          with IIT 11 to be signed • MoU for transfer of land             civil work for 30
                                          and executed;              signed between MMRDA                 mts. road width
                                          Challenges in inter-       and IIT-Mumbai                       and for 45.7 mts
                                          agency coordination      • Transfer of land requires          • Relocation of
                                          involving IIT, GoM,        relocation of IIT structures         structures (IIT)
                                          and GoI delayed the        affected by road work                started

        7
          RHS: Right Hand Side of the road
        8
          Transfer of Development Rights
        9
          LHS: Left Hand Side of the road
        10
           Ministry of Human Resources Development
        11
           IIT: Indian Institute for Technology, premier technical institute managed by the Union Ministry of
        Human Resource Development


                                                            29
 SN      Impediments        Location/Name           Difficulties,            Remedial Steps Taken/            Estimated
                                                  Challenges, Risks          Progress Made So Far           Timeframe for
                                                                                                               Closure
                                                process                                                  • Transfer of IIT
                                                                                                            land completed
4.    Acquisition of        • Cremation         LA 12 process has hit    • MSRDC 13 has redrawn the      Green Field Society
      small parcels of        Ground wall,      road blocks due to         road alignment where LA       land not required
      land in different       80-190 RHS,       cumbersome legal           process remains protracted
      stretches               JVLR-I;           procedures, unclear        (Green Field Society)
                              Pratap Nagar      title in some cases, and • LA for cremation ground
                            • Part of Green     lack of coordination       wall portion not needed in    Pyre place wall
                              Field Society     between MSRDC and          view of plans for shifting    reconstruction
                              compound,         MMRDA; joint               cemetery                      completed
                              620-1400          measurements of land • LA from IES School, for
                              RHS, JVLR-I       pending in some cases      PGSS dropped; alignment
                              Opp. Fantasy                                 redrawn
                              Land
                            • Land for the
                              required
                              pedestrian
                              subway
                              staircase; 4300
                              RHS, JVLR-
                              III, Pameri
                              Nagar
                            • IES School
                              compound,
                              4080-4160
                              EHS, JVLR-
                              III, Pameri
                              Nagar
5.    Relocation of         • Ganesh            • Approval of ASI 14      • MSRDC obtained ASI            Expected to be
      Religious/common        temple/             required; Difficulty      approval; alternative land    completed by
      property structures     Condivita           faced due to              identified and temple         December 2011
                              cave; 2650-         stringent ASI             relocated;
                              2750, JVLR-         norms;                  • Police department has
                              III; Sariput      • Approval process          shifted its outpost
                              Nagar               stalled due to Public   • Negotiations to shift Suvarna
                            • Buddha              Interest Litigation       Temple and Buddha Vihar
                              Temple, 370         filed by NGO in           failed; road realigned
                              RHS, JVLR-I,        Mumbai High Court       • Relocation of Hanuman
                              Pratap Nagar      • Alternative               Temple is explored by
                            • Hanuman             locations need to be      providing alternative site
                              Temple,             identified for
                              JVLR-II,            relocating temples
                              Powai               in consultation with
                            • Suvarna             the structure
                              Temple,             custodians
                              Powai, JVLR-
                              II, Powai
6.    About 150-200         000-210 RHS,        These squatters, said     MMRDA has redrawn work         Dropped

        12
           LA: Land Acquisition
        13
           MSRDC: Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation
        14
           Archaeological Survey of India


                                                              30
 SN      Impediments        Location/Name          Difficulties,           Remedial Steps Taken/             Estimated
                                                 Challenges, Risks         Progress Made So Far            Timeframe for
                                                                                                              Closure
      Squatters            JVLR-II and         to be re-encroachers, plan due to difficulties in listing
                           4440-4480,          have to be relocated;  the squatters
                           JVLR-I at the       survey challenging
                           Pipeline Bridge,    due to interference of
                           Milind Nagar        local leaders
                                              Santacruz-Chembur Link Road
1.    247 Shopkeepers     Kismat Nagar,        • Shopkeepers   • MMRDA resettled 40             Completed
      including about 140 000-325 RHS                            shopkeepers at MN Nagar,
                                                 strongly resisted
      large and medium SCLR                      R&R process     BKC 15 in 2006
      ones (USOA,                                              • Negotiation for an in-situ
                                               • Demand for in-situ
      KNWA)                                      scheme          redevelopment scheme with
                                               • Proposed private in-
                                                                 about 47 USOA shopkeepers
                                                 situ developmentand KNWA shopkeepers
                                                 scheme requires done; affected parts of their
                                                 administrative  shops removed for civil
                                                 clearances      works
                                                               • 85 members of USOA
                                                 involving change in
                                                                 signed MoU with MMRDA
                                                 land use regulations
                                               • Final closure offor relocation to a shopping
                                                                 complex at MN Nagar;
                                                 agreement for in-
                                                                 vacated the affected portions
                                                 situ scheme pending
                                                 due to internal of their shops in 2010
                                                               • 34 shop willing to join
                                                 differences among
                                                 shopkeepers     private in-situ scheme await
                                                 (USOA)          a Court permission to
                                                                 relocate as their structures
                                                                 are in dispute in Court;
                                                               • MMRDA has recommended
                                                                 in-situ scheme to the GoM
                                                                 requesting change in land
                                                                 use
                                                               • Land acquisition started for
                                                                 5 land owner shops
2.    64 households of 2 925-1000, Netaji • Residents          • Further to inconclusive
      MHADA buildings Nagar                 demanding in-situ    negotiations for in-situ
                                            redevelopment or     redevelopment, the MHADA
                                            relocation within    residents challenged
                                            BKC                  MMRDA’s offer of 485 sq.
                                          • Success of in-situ   ft. flats in a new building at
                                            scheme depends on    MN Nagar with rental
                                            consent of           allowance until the building
                                            households of 2      is ready; High Court has
                                            unaffected           validated MMRDA’s offer
                                            buildings            and has ordered residents to
                                                                 vacate premises latest by
                                                                 November 6, 2011.
                                                                 Residents arranging to
                                                                 vacate houses
3.    Relocation of 180  1700-2125 Sawle Survey was not done • Baseline survey carried out Completed


        15
             Bandra Kurla Complex


                                                             31
 SN      Impediments         Location/Name        Difficulties,           Remedial Steps Taken/               Estimated
                                                Challenges, Risks         Progress Made So Far              Timeframe for
                                                                                                               Closure
      squatters for          Nagar         as part of original         • PAHs resettled by MMRDA
      diversion of drain                   baseline survey. Drain        following approved
      across road                          alignment was                 procedure
                                           finalized after RIP was
                                           prepared. Resettlement
                                           of affected households
                                           required negotiations
4.    About 4-5           2125-2500,       MMRDA can not               • MSRDC has deposited              Expected to be
      structures and      Sawle Nagar      relocate these                required amount with             completed by
      facilities on                        structures as these are       Railways for relocation of       December 2011
      Railways land                        Railways property,            these facilities
                                           which needs to be           • Railways have removed key
                                           cleared for the               structures and a couple are to
                                           overbridge                    be relocated
5.    Relocation of about 2125-2775, Tilak • Residents resist          • MMRDA and MHADA                  Completed
      260 legal residents Nagar               relocation to any          residents jointly developed
      of 13 MHADA                             MUTP R&R site              redevelopment plan and
      buildings                            • Demand in-situ              signed MoU offering 50
                                              redevelopment of           percent extra floor space to
                                              their buildings            the residents
                                              beyond road              • MMRDA provides rent
                                              alignment                  allowance till the in situ
                                           • Initial negotiations        scheme is completed
                                              failed                   • MHADA residents vacated
                                                                         the site in 2010
6.    About 50              2775-3000,       These structures were     • Additional baseline survey       Completed
      residential squatters Rahul Nagar      identified to be            completed; allotment
                                             relocated after final       proposal cleared; PAPs
                                             alignment was shifted       shifted
                                             to avoid affecting
                                             Railways land
7.    About 40               3000-3200,      Shopkeepers resistant     • 28 shopkeepers relocated to      Completed
      shopkeepers            Santajog Marg   to relocation to any        BKC; rest relocated to other
                                             MUTP site                   sites
8.    3-5 MCGM staff         2775-3200 Rahul Inter-agency              • Negotiation completed and        Completed
      residential            Nagar, /000-294 coordination between        the houses included in the
      structures (Row        Panchsheel      MCGM and MMRDA              Netaji Nagar MHADA
      house, building)       Nagar           required                    redevelopment scheme
9.    About 50               000-294,        Survey carried out for    • This is excluded from            Not likely to be
      shopkeepers at         Amarmal         9 mts width; additional     MUTP. New elevated               undertaken
      Arm-I                  Junction        survey required for 20      exchange planned
                                             mts width as per final
                                             alignment
10.   Relocation of          3000-3200       • Identifying alternate   • Land cleared for relocating Expected to be
      public utilities and   Panchsheel         land for relocation      these structures              completed by
      facilities:            Nagar              challenging            • Affected religious structures December 2011
      • 2 electric pylons    Religious       • Host communities          relocated except the Mosque
      • 1 dispensary         structures in      not cooperative          for which alternative
      • 1 welfare centre     different       • Strong sensitivities      Mosque is being built
      • 9 religious          stretches          involved in case of    • Land for relocating Pylons
         structures                             religious structures     cleared by resettling
                                                                         squatters; Pylon relocation


                                                           32
SN      Impediments      Location/Name         Difficulties,           Remedial Steps Taken/       Estimated
                                             Challenges, Risks         Progress Made So Far      Timeframe for
                                                                                                    Closure
                                                                      completed
11   Acquisition of      In different      Joint measurements       LA process substantially   More time needed to
     small parcels of    stretches along   yet to be carried out in completed                  to complete a few
     land in different   SCLR              some cases for issuing                              critical LA cases
     stretches                             notices; process slow                               remaining along
                                           due to inadequate                                   SCLR
                                           coordination




                                                         33
   ANNEX 5: P ROCEDURE FOR I MPLEMENTATION OF BALANCE OF R ESETTLEMENT
  ACTIVITIES FOR R OAD OVER BRIDGES (ROB) REMOVED FROM MUTP AS PART OF
                          P ROJ ECT R ESTRUCTURING

1. All PAPs resettled to date will be considered as PAPs affected by MUTP and will be
extended all post-resettlement assistance as available to other PAPs.

2. Entitlements as available in Appendix-I of the R&R policy will be made available to
the balance of PAPs from the ROBs.

3. All remaining PAPs to be resettled from three ROBs will be given a choice of site
selection, depending on availability, from among all MUTP/Mumbai Urban
Infrastructure Project (MUIP) sites, including the Bhandup market complex for people
affected by the Vikhroli ROB.

4. A period of one month from the date of announcement in the newspapers will be
given to PAPs for choice of the site. The details of remaining eligible PAPs and number
of units available in all the sites will be posted on the website prior to newspaper
announcements.

5. MMRDA will share the list of eligible PAPs with the World Bank for information
and resettlement will be implemented using MMRDA procedures in place for other
projects outside MUTP.

6. If PAPs approach the Bank with grievances, the Bank shall direct them to MMRDA
mentioning that the applicable resettlement process is available on the MMRDA website.

7. MMRDA will publicly disclose the resettlement process and entitlements for ROBs
in at least one national and one local newspaper and invite eligible PAPs to choose the
site, subject to availability, on first-come first-served basis.

8. The payment of compensation for private land and proprieties will be carried out in
accordance with the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act and other applicable acts.

9. All the complaints and grievances including those pending will be addressed by
MMRDA using the existing grievance redress mechanism available under MUTP (this is
because the eligibility list was approved by MMRDA and the MUIP grievance
mechanism may not be available).

10. The relocation of affected common properties, including places of worship, will be
done in consultation with the affected people.

11. MMRDA will carry out the process of resettling the balance PAPs of ROBs
independent of World Bank supervision. MMRDA shall, however, act under the guidance
of the IMP appointed for MUTP.




                                          34
ANNEX 6: STATUS OF AGREED E XIT ACTIONS R EQUIRED TO I MPROVE E NVIRONMENT ,
    H EALTH AND H YGIENE (EHH) AT MUTP R&R SITES AS OF M AY 15, 2011

Exit Issues/ Actions                                                Indicator   Current Status
Kanjurmarg (East)
1. RG3 area to be reconstructed with toe wall, slope                    E2      Completed
    reconstruction, stepped access way and lands
2. Provide cover over storm water drains which are deeper               E2      Work will be executed after
    along recreation ground (RG2) area                                          encroachment issues are
                                                                                resolved
3.   Provide weather cover (sunshade or chajja) at the end of           E2      Completed
     corridors in each floor to prevent rainwater entering inside
     the buildings, wherever necessary and feasible
4.   Protect underground drinking water tanks near Building 11          E2      Proposal dropped as work not
     and 12 from contamination by flood water                                   necessary
5.   Replace all cement down take pipes for sanitary and sludge         E2      Work in progress
     to PVC pipes as part of ongoing plan
6.   Provide access to square pit or duct provided between the          E2      Proposal dropped as work not
     wings of a building to facilitate removal of decaying solid                necessary
     waste if feasible
7.   Construct compound wall around RG2 area                            E2      Tender invited
8.   Plant about 50 trees along drainage channels and boundary          E2      Work will be executed after
                                                                                encroachment issues are
                                                                                resolved
9.  Attend to overhead water tank leakages, re-clamp pipeline           E2      Completed
    fixtures on roof
10. Construct pending sub-way access to Vikhroli area from              E2      Completed
    R&R site
Nesco Site
1. Facilitate connection of the septic tank outlet to MCGM              E1      MCGM was notified; action
    main sewer line                                                             pending
2. Construct barbed wire fencing on the common low                      E2      Completed
    boundary wall near R-1 building after taking NOC from
    Nesco
3. Clean entire surface storm water drainage system once                E2      Completed
4. Correspond with Nesco to shift the solid waste dump                  E2      Completed
    located in their campus near R-1 building but causing
    health concerns to site
Nirlon Site
1. Attend to electricity meter room leakages at Building R-3            E2      Completed
    and other buildings, if any
2. Undertake plantation (about 15-20 trees) behind R-2 and                      Completed
    R-3 buildings.
Anik Site
General Issues across all Rockline and Runwal Building
Complex
1. Clean storm water drains once before exit and provide                E2      Completed
    cover at deeper cross sections
2. Provide vent pipes to septic tank to prevent sewage gas              E2      Completed
    explosion
3. Replace AC type down take pipes with PVC pipes; flush                E2      Completed



                                                     35
Exit Issues/ Actions                                             Indicator   Current Status
    clean the underground sewerage system and replace
    manhole covers as per ongoing program
4. Replace corroded metal door frames in electricity meter           E2      Completed
    room with PVC door frames. Address leakages through
    cable ducts and dampness of walls
Building 15-16 (Rockline)
1. Rectify engineering problems and flush clean the                  E2      Completed
    underground sewerage system between building 16
    (Rockline) and 1 (Runwal)
2. Inspect and provide covers for all manhole chambers               E2      Completed
    including BMC water line manholes/valve chambers
    located on pedestrian footpath
Building 1 through 5 (Runwal)
3. Install a notice board announcing “ Not for drinking              E2      Completed
    purpose? in Marathi and Hindi near the tube well
    constructed adjacent to kutcha
Building 6, 6A and 6B (Runwal)
4. Clean the vent pipes to avoid explosion and increase the          E2      Completed
    height of the vent pipes provided at septic tank
5. Safely close the bore well abandoned adjacent to septic           E2      Completed
    tank
6. Rectify engineering problems and flush clean the                  E2      Completed
    stagnating sewage cum litter between building 6 and 6A
7. Provide PCC flooring with slope around underground                E2      Completed
    drinking water tank at building 6B to avoid contamination
Building 7 through 11 (Runwal)
8. Clean the vent pipes to avoid explosion and increase the          E2      Completed
    height of the vent pipes provided at septic tank
9. Address one time the recurrent problem of sewage leakage          E2      Completed
    near underground drinking water tank of building 11
10. Construct a coping over the existing northern boundary           E2      Completed
    wall to prevent accidental fall near building 11
Building 3 and 4 (Rockline)
11. Address one time the recurrent overflow of underground           E2      Completed
    sewerage pipes that connect to network system
12. Water-proof the terrace in building 3 to prevent leakages                Completed
    during monsoon
Building 5 through 7 (Rockline)
13. Restore and water proof the roof slabs of the septic tank,       E2      Completed
    wherever damaged, behind building 5; replace
    broken/stolen manhole covers on septic tank
14. Address sewer manhole overflow near the underground              E2      Completed
    drinking water tank located close to building 5
Building 10 through 14 (Rockline)
15. Clean drinking water valve chambers provided on drinking         E2      Completed
    water line and provide cover (MCGM)
16. Address one time the recurrent engineering problem of            E2      Completed
    manhole overflow near building 11
17. Construct PCC flooring around the tube well near building        E2      Completed



                                                   36
Exit Issues/ Actions                                              Indicator   Current Status
    13 and 14 to address water logging problem
18. Construct storm water drainage for the small earthen              E2      Completed
    mound on the south of buildings 12, 13 and 14 and divert it
    away from the complex
Building 12 through 16 (Runwal)
19. Connect sewerage system of this complex to MCGM                   E1      MCGM was notified
    system on PRIORITY as there is inherent design problem
    over septic & water tank location (MCGM’s efforts
    required to improve system)
20. Construct storm water drainage for the small earthen              E2      Completed
    mound on the south of buildings 15 and 16 and divert it
    away from the complex
Mankhurd site
1. Complete the ongoing storm water drainage cleaning work            E2      Completed
    and clean the entire storm drainage system in the complex
    one time
2. Provide caps to the air vent pipes provided in drinking            E2      Completed
    water tanks across the entire complex
3. Replace stolen or broken manhole covers over                       E2      Completed
    underground drinking water tanks across the entire
    complex
4. Provide access to duct areas to facilitate cleaning and            E2      Completed
    removal of solid waste
5. Replace all AC type downpipes with PVC pipes; flush                E2      Completed
    clean flush clean the underground sewerage system and
    replace manhole covers
6. Replace the damaged electricity main meter boards that are         E2      Completed
    provided near the shopping complex
7. Clean the toilet complex one time and repair all damaged           E2      Completed
    plumbing lines near the shopping complex
Majas Site
1. Connect septic tank to MCGM sewer line and address the             E1      This work will be done by
    recurrent sewer choking problem at buildings 6 and 9                      MCGM
2. Fill sand and provide storm water drainage in play ground          E2      Completed
    area provided above the septic tank
3. Rectify the storm water drainage and flooding from                 E2      Not feasible
    adjacent hill near buildings 3&4
Ajgaonkar site
1. Address through MCGM the problem of sewage backflow                E1      Completed
    into the complex from MCGM sewer line on Western
    Express Highway
2. Rectify the storm water drainage system in the complex             E2      Completed
    between the buildings and near the slum colony on west




                                                   37
