                               INDIA

Mumbai Urban Transport Project




                      Report No. 106391
                             JUNE 15, 2016
© 2016 International Bank for Reconstruction   This work is a product of the staff of The World    RIGHTS AND PERMISSIONS
and Development / The World Bank               Bank with external contributions. The findings,     The material in this work is subject to copyright.
1818 H Street NW                               interpretations, and conclusions expressed in       Because The World Bank encourages
Washington DC 20433                            this work do not necessarily reflect the views of   dissemination of its knowledge, this work may be
Telephone: 202-473-1000                        The World Bank, its Board of Executive              reproduced, in whole or in part, for
Internet: www.worldbank.org                    Directors, or the governments they represent.       noncommercial purposes as long as full
                                                                                                   attribution to this work is given.
                                               The World Bank does not guarantee the
                                               accuracy of the data included in this work. The     Any queries on rights and licenses, including
                                               boundaries, colors, denominations, and other        subsidiary rights, should be addressed to
                                               information shown on any map in this work do        World Bank Publications, The World Bank
                                               not imply any judgment on the part of The           Group, 1818 H Street NW, Washington, DC
                                               World Bank concerning the legal status of any       20433, USA; fax: 202-522-2625; e-mail:
                                               territory or the endorsement or acceptance of       pubrights@worldbank.org.
                                               such boundaries.
                                                     Report No.: 106391




            PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                  INDIA

                 MUMBAI URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT

                        (IBRD-46650 AND IDA-36620)

                               June 15, 2016




IEG Sustainable Development
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                       ii


    Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

    India
    Currency Unit = Indian rupee (Rs)

    2002                      US$1.00                   Rs48.86
    2005                      US$1.00                   Rs43.45
    2011                      US$1.00                   Rs44.48
    2013                      US$1.00                   Rs59.52
    2015                      US$1.00                   Rs63.59


    Abbreviations and Acronyms

    ATC              Area Traffic Control
    BEST             Brihan Mumbai Electric Supply and Transport Company
    CPS              Country Partnership Strategy
    DCA              Development Credit Agreement
    IBRD             International Bank of Reconstruction and Development
    ICR              Implementation Completion and Results Report
    IDA              International Development Association
    IMP              Independent Monitoring Panel
    MCGM             Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai
    MMR              Mumbai Metropolitan Region
    MMRDA            Mumbai Regional Development Authority
    MRVC             Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation Ltd
    MSRDC            Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation
    MUAE             Ministry of Urban Affairs and Employment
    MUTP             Mumbai Urban Transport Project
    MUTP – 2A        Mumbai Urban Transport Project – 2A (follow on project)
    NGO              Non-government Organization
    PAD              Project Appraisal Document
    PAP              Project Affected Person
    PDO              Project Development Objectives
    PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
    RAP              Resettlement Action Plan
    R&R              Resettlement and Rehabilitation
    RIP              Resettlement Implementation Plan

    Fiscal Year

    Government of India:               April 1 – March 31


Director-General, Independent Evaluation                              :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Financial, Private Sector and Sustainable Development   :   Mr. Marvin Taylor-Dormond
Manager, IEG Sustainable Development                                  :   Ms. Midori Makino
Task Manager                                                          :   Ms. Fang Xu
                                                                  iii


Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................ iv
Key Staff Responsible........................................................................................................ iv
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 3
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................... 6
4. Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 13
5. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 20
6. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 27
References ......................................................................................................................... 29
Appendix A Basic Data Sheet........................................................................................... 30
Appendix B List of Persons Met ....................................................................................... 34
Appendix C Project Performance Indicators at Closing ................................................... 35
Appendix D Resettlement and Rehabilitation Post Project .............................................. 40
Appendix E Borrower Comments ..................................................................................... 45
Map of Road and Rail Components .................................................................................. 47


Tables
Table 1. Project Costs and Financing.................................................................................. 7
Table 2. Resettlement and Rehabilitation Implementation Status (June 10, 2013) .......... 12
Table 3. Suburban Rail Traffic Growth in Mumbai ......................................................... 14




This report was prepared by Fang Xu and Peter Freeman (consultant), who assessed the project in
December 2015. The report was peer reviewed by Jean-Charles Crochet and panel reviewed by George T.
Keith Pitman. Richard Kraus provided administrative support.
                                                              iv


Principal Ratings
India: Mumbai Urban Transport Project (IBRD – Ln. 4665; IDA – Cr.3662)

                                   ICR*               ICR Review*                 PPAR
Outcome                    Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to                              Moderate                          Moderate                          Moderate
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance                   Satisfactory               Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower                   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible World Bank department. The ICR Review is
an intermediate Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible
India: Mumbai Urban Transport Project (P050668)
                                                               Division Chief/
Project                 Task Manager/Leader                     Sector Director                     Country Director
Appraisal                A.K. Swaminathan                      Mieko Nishimizu                       Edwin R Lim
Completion                   Atul Agarwal                     Isabel M Guerrero                    N Roberto Zagha
                                                          v


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
     The Independent Evaluation Group (IEG) assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two
purposes: first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is
producing the expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                            vi


Preface
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), prepared by the Independent
Evaluation Group (IEG), evaluates the Mumbai Urban Transport Project in India. An
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) loan of US$463 million
(Ln. 46650) and an International Development Association (IDA) credit of US$79
million (Cr. 36620) were approved on June 18, 2002.

At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$945 million, while the final cost
was US$1,128 million. The borrower‘s contribution at appraisal was US$482 million and
at completion was US$759 million. No other financiers were involved. The closing date
was originally June 30, 2008, but the project actually closed on June 15, 2011, nearly
three years later. US$92.7 million was cancelled from the Loan for activities not
completed by closure and US$9.5 million from the Credit because of savings that
accrued.

The project was selected for evaluation by IEG as an input to the proposed study on the
effectiveness of the World Bank Group’s support to urban transport development
scheduled for FY2017 because of the sheer size of the suburban rail component and the
scale of the resettlement activities (over 100,000 persons). The resettlement process
encountered difficulties following complaints by project-affected persons to the World
Bank Inspection Panel in 2004. This resulted in the end in a better project after
management intervention. There is considerable learning from the investigation report,
the subsequent management action plans and the six progress reports to the Board to
rectify the situation.

IEG prepared the PPAR on the basis of the project appraisal documents, implementation
completion reports (ICRs), development credit agreements, project papers, related reports
and documents for the Inspection Panel, as well as memoranda and working papers. An
IEG field mission visited Mumbai in December 2015 to validate the results reported by
the ICR and to assess the sustainability of the project. Meetings were held with Bank staff
at the resident mission in New Delhi. Discussions were held with the Mumbai
Metropolitan Regional Development Authority, the Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation
Ltd., the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai, the Tata Institute of Social Sciences,
and some of the project affected persons.

The mission also expresses its appreciation for the cooperation and attention given by the
borrower and all concerned parties. A list of persons met by the mission is in Appendix
B.

Following IEG practice, copies of the draft report will be sent to government officials and
implementing agencies, and comments received from the government are attached as
Appendix E.
                                            vii


Summary
This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the World Bank-supported
Mumbai Urban Transport Project in India. At appraisal, the total project cost was
estimated at US$945 million, while the final cost was US$1,128 million. An International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) oan of US$463 million (Ln. 4665)
and an International Development Association (IDA) credit of US$79 million (Cr. 3662)
were approved on June 18, 2002. The closing date was originally June 30, 2008, but the
project actually closed on June 15, 2011, nearly three years later.

The Mumbai Metropolitan Region is one of the world’s largest urban areas with a
population of 20.7 million. Mumbai is the major commercial, entertainment, and fashion
center in India and one of the world’s top 10 centers of commerce in terms of global
financial flows. Suburban rail services are the backbone of the region’s transportation
system, but at project appraisal they were carrying more passengers than capacity,
resulting in extremely overloaded trains. Rail service demand in Mumbai went up from
6.1 million to 7.2 million passengers per day between the project start and closure. For
this project, the World Bank supported a comprehensive urban transport plan, which was
in line with the Bank’s strategy to help overcome infrastructure bottlenecks, thus
promoting economic growth and reducing poverty. Capacity building for all relevant
entities was included.

The project development objectives were to facilitate urban economic growth and
improve the quality of life by fostering the development of an efficient and sustainable
transport system including effective institutions to meet users’ needs in the Mumbai
Metropolitan Region. There were three components: the first was to improve the capacity
and performance of the suburban rail system through service efficiency improvements,
procurement of rolling stock, and the expansion of network capacity. The second, aimed
at the road sector, involved support for Area Traffic Control to optimize the functioning
of traffic signals, as well as pedestrian facilities, traffic improvement schemes, and
parking controls. In addition it was intended to increase the road network functionality by
improving two east-west link roads and eliminating the main road-level crossings across
railway tracks. The bus system was to be improved through support for organizational
reforms, efficiency measures and the procurement of environmentally, and user-friendly
buses. The third component involved the relocation of over 100,000 people affected by
the project–some who were living in squatter settlements adjacent to the rail tracks and
others, many of whom had shops and other enterprises, to make way for the east-west
roads. At the time, this was the largest urban resettlement project in which the Bank had
been involved. However, the component turned out to be more complex than anticipated
and grievances expressed by the project-affected persons were not adequately addressed,
resulting in an Inspection Panel investigation.

Concerns raised by the panel led management to suspend disbursements of the road and
resettlement and rehabilitation components in March 2006. Disbursements were resumed
in June 2006 after the Board of Executive Directors accepted a 10-point action plan. By
project closure, virtually all households and 98 percent of the affected shopkeepers were
successfully relocated and a grievance redress mechanism handled over 4,600 cases.
                                             viii


Bank procedures for resettlement and rehabilitation are now being used in the Mumbai
region for all subsequent infrastructure projects involving relocations whether funded by
the Bank or not.

Regarding the transport improvements, the average peak-hour rail passenger load per
train was reduced from 5,400 to 4,016, but fell short of the target of 3,600 because better
services increased demand more than had been expected. Some 250 road junctions were
equipped with the Area Traffic Control system technology, achieving the target for
reduced delays and thus improving traffic flows at intersections. In addition, 644 low-
emission, user-friendly buses were purchased to replace old vehicles, providing
additional seats and improving service quality. Only one of the two east-west roads was
completed by closure due to protracted negotiations with project-affected people. This
road was only completed using borrower funds in April 2014, six years after the original
completion date. Moreover, some contracts were cancelled including most pedestrian
crossings because of reduced funding availability due to exchange rate fluctuations, while
the supply of 108 bogie assemblies for electric multiple unit coaches had to be deferred to
the follow-on project.

A significant achievement was the development of a Resettlement Division within the
Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority for management of resettlement
implementation and various innovative approaches that were introduced. The authority,
on the other hand, did not succeed in persuading other stakeholders to establish a Road
User Charging Policy as originally planned. The government and stakeholders continue
to discuss a draft policy. This said, both the suburban rail and bus fares have been revised
upwards to levels agreed with the Bank, but there does not yet appear to be significant
political support for radical reforms, such as congestion pricing, land use reform, and
parking restrictions. Meanwhile, air quality, as in most Indian cities, is deteriorating due,
in part, to the rapidly increasing number of vehicles.

The outcome is rated moderately satisfactory taking into account the objectives were
mostly achieved albeit with moderate shortcomings. The risk-to-development outcome is
rated moderate since although a Bank follow-on project is ensuring continuity on the rail
side and institutional capacity continues to be strengthened, the authorities still need to
agree on a comprehensive plan to restrain traffic in the central area through appropriate
policy reforms. Adequate attention continues to be given, however, to maintenance
issues. Both Bank and borrower performance are rated as moderately satisfactory.
Shortcomings in achievements were largely due to an underestimation of the complexity
of the project and the time it would take to negotiate and implement the resettlement
component. The procurement function also could have been speeded up through high-
level intervention. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority initially
had limited capacity, but was strengthened considerably during the course of the project.
There was no question as to the level of commitment of all parties to the project.
                                            ix




Lessons
Project development objectives should be specific and measurable. The overall
development objectives in this project were too generalized and the results had to be
based on sub-objectives, which were effectively proxies for the overall objective. This
detracted from clarity on what the project was seeking to achieve and how well the
project goals were met.

Large-scale resettlement is a complex operation that needs considerable planning,
adequate provision of time, good negotiation skills, and strong capacity to
implement successfully. At the time of appraisal, the scale of the Mumbai Urban
Transport Project was unprecedented in an urban context in India. Not all groups being
displaced were alike and initially there were insufficient opportunities for grievances to
be heard empathetically. Poor inter-agency coordination and too many implementing
agencies can also become a serious obstacle to the implementation of the key activities of
such a project.

A lack of adequate synchronization of resettlement activities with civil works can
cause significant time and cost overruns. This project demonstrates that civil works
began prematurely before all the resettlement issues were resolved, especially those
businesses and households affected by road links. This led to dissatisfied project-affected
groups appealing to the Inspection Panel for assistance and this delayed project progress
significantly. Prior to the commencement of civil works, substantial land acquisition and
resettlement should always be completed.

Transition from an administrative compensation approach to a win-win negotiated
approach can resolve seemingly intractable problems with project-affected groups.
There is a need to understand the nature of peoples’ grievances in a transparent way. In
this project the state government went beyond normal procedures and was flexible in
negotiating the resolution of some extremely contentious resettlement issues.

Introducing entitlements and market-based solutions was a major contributor to
resettlement success. Provision of free, alternative housing with title has had an
empowering effect on the project-affected households, which have acquired new social
status and gained wider access to employment in the formal sector. The market solution
of offering transfer of development rights as a tradable benefit in lieu of land
compensation proved to be an attractive form of compensation to the legal owners for
allowing resettlement on part of their land.


                                                        Marvin Taylor-Dormond
                                                        Director, Financial, Private Sector, and
                                                        Sustainable Development Evaluation
                                                        Independent Evaluation Group
                                               1


1. Background and Context
Economic Background

1.1     India is the seventh largest country in the world by area and the second most
populous with nearly1.3 billion people. It had a gross domestic product (GDP) per capita
of US$1,627 in 2014, at which time it was the world’s fourth-largest economy.1 The
World Bank’s 2014 overview of the country declared: “India’s recent growth and
development has been one of the most significant achievements of our times. Over the six
and half decades since independence, the country has brought about a landmark
agricultural revolution that has transformed the nation from chronic dependence on grain
imports into a global agricultural powerhouse that is now a net exporter of food. Life
expectancy has more than doubled, literacy rates have quadrupled, health conditions have
improved, and a sizeable middle class has emerged. India is now home to globally
recognized companies in pharmaceuticals and steel as well as information and space
technologies. It also has a growing voice on the international stage that is more in
keeping with its enormous size and potential.”2 The service sector, focused around the
major urban areas has been a major contributor to India’s rapid economic growth in
recent years. India has eight cities with more than five million people, and three with over
10 million (Mumbai, Delhi, and Kolkata). It is projected that the urban population will
grow to 473 million by 2021 and 820 million by 2051.3

Mumbai Urban Transport Context

1.2      The Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) is one of the world’s largest urban
areas with a population of 20.7 million, according to the 2011 census.4 It covers 4,355 sq.
km. and has 20 urban local bodies spread over an 18 km-long peninsula running north-
south. This results in a linear urban transport network with long average journey lengths.
Within the next 25 years, MMR is expected to overtake Tokyo to become the largest city
in the world. Mumbai is the major commercial, entertainment, and fashion center in India
with a nominal GDP of US$278 billion in 2014. It is one of the world’s top 10 centers of
commerce in terms of global financial flows. The MMR accounts for six percent of
India’s economy, 10 percent of factory employment, 20 percent of income tax
collections, 60 percent of customs duty collections, 20 percent of central excise tax
collections, and 40 percent of foreign trade. Headquarters of a number of Indian financial
institutions, such as the Bombay Stock Exchange, the Mint, and numerous Indian
companies, such as the Tata Group, Essel Group, and Reliance Industries are located in
Mumbai. On the other hand, more than half of Mumbai’s population now lives in slums.
This is the result of unchecked migration into the city by people in search of jobs,


1
    IMF World Economic Outlook (April 2015)
2
    www.worldbank.org/en/country/india/overview
3
 Agarwal, A, 2013, Mumbai Urban Transport Project – A Multi Dimensional Approach, CODATU
Special Issue, Research in Transportation Economics 40 (2013) 116-123,
www.elsevier.com/locate/retrec
4
 Press Information Bureau, 2011, Million Plus Cities in India as per the 2011 Census,
Government of Indiq
                                             2


antiquated housing laws, and accelerating real estate prices.5 Records from the
Maharashtra Pollution Control Board also show that pollutants in Mumbai’s air
frequently cross the permissible levels.6

1.3     Mumbai has long been dependent on public transport. Although 50 percent of
trips are made on foot, of the remainder, 80 percent are by bus and suburban train
services. In 2013-14, some 4.8 million passengers were carried daily by bus at average
speeds of 12 km/hr. and 7.9 million passengers were conveyed daily by rail. The rail
services are the backbone of the transportation system, but suburban trains at project
appraisal were carrying more passengers than capacity, resulting in the now legendary
photographs of people hanging on to the sides of overloaded carriages. Prior to the
Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP), nine car trains used to carry more than 5,000
passengers–that is, more than 16 persons per sq. meter–the highest density passenger
service anywhere in the world.7 On the positive side for users, the fares charged were
among the lowest in the world. The main priority, however, was to increase the capacity
of the railway. The squatter settlements adjacent to the railway tracks were a problem and
resulted in trespassing and accidents. Moreover, stations did not have sufficiently good
passenger dispersal systems to handle the high volumes of people.

Urban Transport Institutional Arrangements and Priorities

1.4     Urban infrastructure was primarily funded from the state budget until 1998 when
the then Ministry of Urban Affairs and Employment (MUAE) endorsed a report entitled
Traffic and Transportation Policies and Strategies in Urban Areas in India. The Ministry
of Urban Development, the successor to MUAE, adopted some of the recommendations,
including granting aid to cities that aligned with their policy. The Government of
Maharashtra accepted the conditions of such grants to improve transport in the MMR. It
undertook, with Bank assistance, a comprehensive transport study under the auspices of
the Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA). The preferred
strategy emanating from the study was to strengthen the public transportation system and
put in place appropriate demand management measures in congested parts of the MMR
(like the island city of Mumbai). This was accepted both by the Government of
Maharashtra and the Indian Railways. Priority measures were to improve existing railway
capacity, improve east-west road connectivity, better parking controls and traffic
management, and improved road safety. Other issues to be addressed included enhancing
bus services, reducing pollution from motor vehicles, improving road maintenance and
greater involvement of stakeholders.

1.5    The allocation of resources for rail services is subject to the approval of both the
Planning Commission and Indian Railways. Two zonal railways (western and central)
operated with the MMR as separate agencies with their own lines, but no integration of
services. To overcome this issue, during the preparation of MUTP the Mumbai Railway
Vikas Corporation (MRVC - hereafter called Vikas) was established, jointly owned by

5
  Infochange Poverty, 2016 www.infochangeindia.org/poverty/news/54-of-mumbai-lives-in-
slums-world-bank.html
6
  Huffington Post, India, December 21, 2015
7
  ICR, MUTP, page 2
                                             3


Indian Railways and the Government of Maharashtra in the ratio 51-49 of equity capital.
It developed an operating plan including separation of costs for the suburban railway
system–this was considered a first step towards the eventual separation of the suburban
services from the main line operation.

1.6    Other institutions involved in MMR were the Municipal Corporation of Greater
Mumbai (MCGM), responsible for the planning and implementation of traffic
management schemes and the municipal bus company, Brihan Mumbai Electric Supply
and Transport Undertaking (BEST).

World Bank Assistance and Strategy

1.7      The World Bank supported the comprehensive transport study and agreed with
the approach proposed, which was in line with the Bank’s strategy to help overcome
infrastructure bottlenecks, thus promoting economic growth and reducing poverty. Since
the scale of the problem in Mumbai was so large it was decided that it was not possible
for the Bank or the Mumbai authorities to tackle all issues in the life of one project.
Accordingly, it was agreed that a programmatic approach should be pursued and that the
Bank would consider a series of loans. Timing would be based on an evaluation of the
impacts and the level of commitment of the counterpart agencies involved. A second loan
Mumbai Urban Transport Project – 2A (Ln 7941, approved June 29, 2010) partially
funded by the Bank extends and consolidates the railway investments already supported
in the first project. Project 2B was funded by the state government.

2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
OBJECTIVES

2.1    The project development objectives for the Mumbai Urban Transport Project in
the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and the legal documents are identical:

“To facilitate urban economic growth and improve quality of life by fostering the
development of an efficient and sustainable urban transport system including effective
institutions to meet the needs of the users in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR).”

2.2     The project underwent a first order restructuring on September 30, 2008, as a
result of which several outcome targets were revised (see Appendix C), but the
development objectives remained unchanged:

RELEVANCE OF OBJECTIVES

Substantial

2.3     At appraisal, it was recognized that the city’s transport system was unprepared to
face the issues accompanying rapid urban growth. These included insufficient and
inefficient public transport, fast motorization growth, heavy traffic congestion, a stressed
road network as well as poor traffic safety, high levels of traffic-related pollution, and
weak institutional arrangements to coordinate the work of government agencies. This
                                             4


project was intended as a first step in a program to overcome these problems. The project
development objectives were consistent with the Government of India's development
priorities mentioned in the 10th and 11th Five Year Plans (covering the period 2002-
2012). These priorities included rapid and inclusive growth and accelerating economic
growth to sustain industrial competitiveness. It also accorded with the World Bank Urban
Strategy Review (2002), Cities on the Move, which had a strong focus on linking better
urban transport with improving accessibility for the poor.8 The objectives were also in
line with the state government’s transport plan

2.4     The World Bank’s country strategies of 2002-2005 and 2006-2008 reflected the
Government of India’s 10th and 11th five-year plans in respect of alleviating infrastructure
bottlenecks and sustaining rapid economic growth, but the overall project objectives were
rather generally framed. The objectives professed to encompass the “facilitation of urban
economic growth and improvement of the quality of life,” but were not linked to any
measurable indicators in this regard. Although there was no mention in the objective of
poverty alleviation, as the project had a component to relocate very poor people this was
obviously intended. The three sub-objectives used as proxies on the other hand were
offset by a fairly good set of indicators in the PAD. At project closure, project
development objectives remained highly relevant. The World Bank Group’s 2009-2012
Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) key goals included inclusive growth, ensuring
sustainable development, and removing structural constraints to growth through
expanding and improving the quality of infrastructure service delivery. The CPS
overarching goal was to help India achieve its long-term vision of a country free of
poverty and exclusion. Finally, the objectives were in line with the Bank’s transport
sector strategy to strive for safe, clean and affordable transport.9

DESIGN

COMPONENTS

The project had three components:

2.5     Component 1: Rail Transport Component (appraisal cost US$654.27 million;
actual cost US$848.47 million). The component aimed to improve the capacity and
performance of the suburban rail system through service efficiency improvements
(increasing existing track capacity, direct to alternating electrical current conversion,
improved signaling, electrical and telecommunication systems), procurement of new
rolling stock and upgrading of existing rolling stock, as well as expanding the network
capacity. The component further supported studies and technical assistance, so as to
improve, among other things, the maintenance capabilities of Indian Railways for their
railway tracks and rolling stock, their financial management and control systems, the
railway safety and quality assurance systems.



8
  World bank, 2002, Cities on the Move: A World Bank Strategic Review of Urban Transport,
Report 24910, Washington DC
9
  World Bank, 2008, Safe, Clean and Affordable Transport for Development, Transport Business
Strategy 2008-2012, Transport Sector Board, Washington DC
                                             5


2.6     Component 2: Road-based Transport Component (appraisal cost US$183.02
million; actual cost US$143.95 million). This component supported increases in the
capacity, efficiency and safety of the road network, better facilities for pedestrians,
improvements to the operating efficiency and quality of bus services, and reductions in
motor vehicle emission levels. It also aimed to strengthen the capacity of the responsible
agencies to plan, deliver, maintain and operate efficiently road based urban transport
infrastructure and services. Sub-components were:

    Support traffic management programs including Area Traffic Control (ATC) to
     optimize the functioning of traffic signals, pedestrian facilities, Station Area
     Traffic Improvement Schemes and parking control;
    Increase the road network functionality by improving two east-west link roads
     and eliminating the main road level crossings across railway tracks;
    Improve the bus system through support for organizational reforms, efficiency
     measures and procurement of environment and user friendly buses; and
    Strengthen the capacity of transport agencies in Mumbai in road in traffic
     management, road maintenance, road safety, and communication, and air quality
     monitoring as well as providing technical assistance for updating of the
     Comprehensive Transport Study, review of user charges, and developing a Motor
     Vehicle Emission Control Strategy.

2.7     Component 3: Resettlement and Rehabilitation (appraisal cost US$92.0
million; actual cost US$127.68 million). This component would enable the Government
of Maharashtra to undertake the timely implementation of the Resettlement Action Plan
(RAP) and resettle those affected by investments under the rail and road based transport
components. It would also provide assistance to those displaced to improve their overall
living standards. This component was to provide for the procurement of about 19,200
housing units to resettle project affected households.

2.8     The other activities under this component included the acquisition of a limited
amount of land for civil works, reconstruction of some of the basic civic amenities for the
leftover population and payment of compensation for increased distance to work place
and permanent loss of livelihood opportunities. The technical assistance under this
component included consultancies for baseline surveys, preparation of RAPs, supervision
consultants, Non-government organization (NGO) support for implementation, and
training of project staff/ NGOs involved with the implementation.

2.9    As noted above, the project underwent a first order restructuring in September
2008, at the borrower’s request. The main reasons were to take account of the
appreciation of the Indian Rupee against the US dollar and slow progress in
implementing the components. Some sub-components were dropped (the main ones
being road over rail bridges and station area traffic improvement schemes) and a few
added (mainly related to bus efficiency).
                                             6


RELEVANCE OF DESIGN

Substantial

2.10 The project objectives were framed as fostering the development of an efficient
and sustainable urban transport system including effective institutions to meet the needs
of the users in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, and were expected to lead to the
facilitation of urban economic growth and improvement of the quality of life. This
indicated three sub-objectives namely, foster the development of an efficient urban
transport system; foster the development of a sustainable urban transport system; and
enhance the effectiveness of institutions. This PPAR assesses efficacy against the three
sub-objectives, which are assumed to contribute to the overall objective.

2.11 Based on the above sub-objectives, the project results framework provided a
logical link between the activities financed by the project and the outputs and outcomes
related to the attainment of the development objectives (see Appendix C). For example,
with regard to physical investments in the rail and road system (Components 1 and 2), the
activities were expected to improve rail travel comfort and enhance suburban rail service
frequency and availability, reduce road journey times and junction delays, and improve
public transport cost recovery. These, reinforced by strengthened institutional capacity
for transport development, particularly in traffic management, the bus system, road
safety, emission control, and resettlement, were intended to lead to a more efficient and
sustainable urban transport system in the MMR. The priority of the activities included in
the design was assured as they were based on the state government’s comprehensive
transport study.

2.12 Two exogenous factors that potentially could affect the outcome were taken into
account. First, the possibility of a lack of coordination between institutions was tackled
through the strengthening of the coordinating agency, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region
Development Authority. The fragmentation of suburban rail service operations was
addressed through the establishment of Vikas, which had a separate business and
operating plan, including separation of costs from main line operation by the Indian
Railways. The project design supported these initiatives to bring decision making for the
suburban rail system closer to users and local authorities and to ensure the suburban
railway system in Mumbai was seen as a distinct business with adequate funding.

2.13 However, the proposed implementation period of five-and-a-half years was
simply unrealistic for this immensely complex project given the huge number of people
to be relocated and the absorptive capacity of some of the institutions involved. The
objectives were also very broad and could have been made more specific to the project.

3. Implementation
Institutional Framework

3.1   There were five implementing agencies involved in the project -- Mumbai
Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), Mumbai Railway Vikas
Corporation Limited (Vikas), Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM),
                                              7


Brihan Mumbai Electric Supply and Transport Company (BEST), and Maharashtra State
Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). The creation of Vikas was a major
improvement for providing suburban railway service in Mumbai. Vikas, although it is
still evolving, has proved to be a good institutional entity to improve the coordination
decision-making between Indian Railways and the Government of Maharashtra. The
project also led to the positioning of MMRDA as the key agency responsible for major
transport and land developments in Mumbai.

IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE

Loan and Credit Details

3.6     An IBRD Loan of US$463 million (Ln. 46650) and an IDA Credit of US$79
million (Cr. 36620) were approved on August 5, 2002. At appraisal the total project cost
was estimated at US$945 million, while the final cost was US$1,128 million. The
borrower‘s contribution at appraisal was US$482 million and at completion was US$759
million. No other financiers were involved. US$92.7 million was cancelled from the
Loan for activities not completed by closure and US$9.5 million was cancelled from the
Credit. Table 1 shows the appraisal and actual costs of the project.

Table 1. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component
                               Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest        Percentage of
Components                       (US$ millions)      Estimate (US$          Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Rail Transport Component             654.27              848.47                130
Non-Rail Transport Component         183.02              143.95                 79
R &R Component                        92.00              127.68                139
P.P.F. Reimbursement                  3.00                3.00                 100
Total Baseline Cost                  940.37             1,123.10               119
Front-end fee PPF                     0.00                0.00                  0
Front-end fee IBRD                    4.63                4.63                  0
Total Financing Required             945.00             1,127.73               119
Project Financing
Source of Funds                Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest        Percentage of
                                 (US$ millions)      Estimate (US$          Appraisal
                                                       millions)
Borrower                              403                 674                 167
IBRD                                  463                 371                  80
IDA                                    79                  83                 105
Total                                 945                1,128                119
Source: ICR
                                            8


Project Restructuring

3.8     The closing date was originally June 30, 2008, but the project actually closed on
June 15, 2011, nearly three years later. There were four Level II restructurings mostly to
extend the date of closure and one Level I restructuring, but the development objectives
were not changed throughout. An interim extension of three months, from June 30, 2008
to September 30, 2008, was approved to allow sufficient time to finalize the Level I
restructuring process, which the Board approved on September 30, 2008; this extended
the loan period by 15 months to December 31, 2009 and provide a more realistic
implementation schedule and reduced the scope taking into account the delays during the
Inspection Panel process (see below). Two additional extensions were later granted on
December 30, 2009 and June 15, 2010 to complete outstanding activities making the final
closing date June 15, 2011. A further minor restructuring approved on April 26, 2011
canceled a small remaining part of the IDA credit.

Procurement

3.9     Although the Inspection Panel request led to an eighteen-month suspension of
activities on the project, the lengthy time periods required for completing procurement
procedures also negatively affected its progress. Some implementing agencies struggled
to follow the procurement process schedule and clearance deadlines agreed at appraisal.
For example, Vikas, as the major procurement entity in the project, regularly and
significantly exceeded the 75 days allowed after bid opening for the evaluation of bids.
This was in part because of some disagreements between the Vikas and its suppliers,
which took a long time to resolve. In addition, differences between Bank procurement
guidelines and those of the Indian Railways caused some misunderstandings at times. For
example, a few requests were made that the Bank could not initially approve without
further explanation, and in one case there was a double claim for the same expenditure.
The IEG mission was given copies of correspondence regarding an amount of US$20,561
that was reimbursed to the Bank after the auditors highlighted this.

Of greater significance, however, was an important contract that was not finalized before
the project closing date. It concerned 108 bogie assemblies for electric multiple unit
rolling stock. These assemblies were subsequently transferred to follow on project
MUTP-2A in a restructuring of that project dated August 4, 2011. The bogies have now
been procured and are currently undergoing testing according to information in the
project portal.

Financial Management

3.10 Two agencies were responsible for financial management - the railway
corporation (Vikas) and the Regional Development Authority (responsible for the road
and resettlement components). The latter also had the role of coordinating with Vikas, the
bus company (BEST), the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai, and the
Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation.

3.11 In terms of financial management compliance, acceptable financial reports and
annual project audit reports were submitted regularly by both agencies and reviewed by
                                             9


the Bank. In a few cases, audit reports were submitted with delays resulting in temporary
suspensions of disbursements of the road component. The railway corporation showed
sufficient financial management capacity except for some miscommunication between
the state government and the Ministry of Railways. The corporation misunderstood the
Government of India’s general financial rules, which required it to deposit the rupee
equivalent of special commitment payments with the Controller of Aid Accounts and
Audit in a timely manner. The internal controls in the railway corporation were
strengthened during the project following an entity-wide internal audit.

3.12 The MMRDA experienced difficulties with financial management issues during
the early stages of implementation, but improved as the project progressed. The root
causes were insufficient institutional capacity due in part to a delay in appointing
accounting professionals, and because of the complex funding flow mechanisms, which
resulted in funds transfers between the implementing agencies and book adjustments in
order to apportion the funds and expenditure equally between them. After the Authority
appointed an accounting professional towards project closure and intensified its efforts to
improve financial management, there was a marked improvement in the handling of
financial management.

3.13 Regarding auditing, the project external auditors’ opinions were unqualified
except for the audit period FY 11-12. In this case although the audit report was found to
be “acceptable” the auditor held an amount of INR 8.25 million (US$184,977 equivalent)
under objection. Of this amount INR 0.24 million (US$5,381) was eventually found to be
in order with a difference due to exchange rate fluctuations, but an amount of INR 1.14
million (US$25,560 equivalent) was a duplicate claim, while INR 6.87 million
(US$154,035) needed to be re-certified. This matter was discussed by IEG with the Bank
financial specialists who confirmed that these matters had been simple errors and the
parties concerned resolved all the outstanding issues in due course. Although the project
financial management was rated as “moderately unsatisfactory” in the implementation
supervision report at the time of project suspension, it had improved to moderately
satisfactory in these reports by closure.

Safeguards

3.14 This was classified as an environmental Category “A” project under OP/BP 4.01
Environmental Assessment. Three other safeguard policies were triggered - OP 4.12
Involuntary Resettlement, OP4.04 Natural Habitats, and OP4.11 Cultural Resources.

Environmental Safeguards and Management

3.15 The ICR reported the project closed with a moderately satisfactory performance
on environmental aspects. This was due to the mixed performance of the implementing
agencies. There was at times a lack of capacity in MMRDA due to an overburden of
responsibilities handled by the Joint Project Director for Environment during the course
of project implementation, and insufficient support staff in the Environmental Cell.
MMRDA partially overcame this by deploying other qualified staff to the cell, but their
frequent rotation/movements, as more interesting opportunities became available to them,
both within MMRDA and beyond, remained a persistent issue.
                                             10


3.16 The project faced some challenges on environmental management related issues
during implementation. For example, there were inadequate facilities for workers in
contractors’ camps and a concrete mixing plant that had been suspended from operation,
was found to be still in use by another (unauthorized) contractor. In such cases,
shortcomings were brought to the attention of the relevant implementing agencies and the
agreed follow-up actions were subsequently monitored. Nonetheless, such scrutiny only
resulted in compliance with OP4.01 requirements “to a large extent” - full compliance
was not achieved. Even after continued follow-up, the removal of a concrete batching
plant installed for the Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road was not in compliance. Similarly,
the removal of a toilet block situated within the Coastal Regulatory Zone did not occur,
because it was being used for other projects.

3.17 Positive aspects, on the other hand, included high survival rates for plantations
provided as compensation and this even attracted accolades from journalists and
environmental activists. Out of 1,550 transplanted trees over 1,400 (90.3 percent)
survived, while out of a further 2,200 planted as compensation, the survival rate was
about 2,000 (90.9 percent). In addition, provision of environmental services and
compliance with the safety-related aspects at resettlement sites was eventually
accomplished. and improvements made to the living quarters of the laborers. For the rail
component, Vikas benefited substantially from the capacity building initiative on
environmental aspects under the project and in addition to the practical training for staff,
the assignment also contributed to sensitizing the organization to environmental
management issues. During implementation of MUTP, Vikas’ management system was
also certified to be ISO 14001 compliant.

Natural Habitats

3.18 The project had triggered the Natural Habitats policy due to the impact that would
be caused on the mangroves in the Mumbai area. In order to compensate for such loss,
Vikas undertook the plantation of 12,000 mangrove plants in relatively undisturbed areas
using the services of the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra. The
stakeholders recognized the high survival rates of mangrove flora and fauna as a project
achievement and the Bank considered this policy to have been satisfactorily complied
with.

Cultural Resources

3.19 No cultural heritage properties were directly affected. In one case where the
Jogeshwari Vikhroli Link Road passed within the 100 meters of a cave listed by the
Archeological Survey of India, due permission was sought and obtained for the road
work. However, a number of religious buildings and “structures” were affected by the
project including five by the Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road and 10 near the Santacruz-
Chembur Link Road. All these structures were unauthorized but erected on public land.

3.20 Under the project's Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) procedures, these
structures were surveyed and listed as “affected other structures" in the Resettlement
Implementation Plans. Consultations were held with the locally recognized custodians of
the structures and their views recorded. Relocation options were explored consensually
                                            11


and reconstruction took place with the cooperation of the custodians. In the majority of
the cases, an alternative site was provided. The custodians were provided with an
additional construction allowance of INR 1,000 (US$20) per square foot, which they used
to rebuild their religious shrines, often to a more substantial structure than the one that
they had funded previously through their own contributions. Two religious structures
were left untouched in view of extreme local sensitivities, and in these cases the road
alignment was partially modified to accommodate their presence. The Bank considered
compliance with this safeguard policy to be satisfactory. IEG found these matters were
well handled with appropriate sensitivity to local customs and beliefs.

Involuntary Resettlement and Social Aspects

3.21 At the time of appraisal, it was estimated that the project would displace 19,228
households, or roughly 100,000 people, the majority of whom lived in informal
settlements in challenging circumstances along the roads and adjacent to the railway
tracks. In compliance with the Bank’s Policies, the Government of Maharashtra adopted a
project-specific R&R policy to provide compensation and assistance to the affected
people. The project was able to speedily relocate over 6,000 households living adjacent to
the railway tracks with the help of community mobilization support from some non-
government organizations (NGOs). Most people in this group wanted to relocate because
it was clearly advantageous to them. However, as implementation progressed, the client’s
relative inexperience and the NGOs’ limited capacity undermined efficient management
of the complex task of relocating the shopkeepers, land owners and religious structures
along the east west road corridors. The implementation of resettlement and rehabilitation
for the road component experienced escalating difficulties due to mounting resettlement
grievances.

3.22 In 2004, the Inspection Panel received four Requests for Inspection submitted on
behalf of several hundred residents and shopkeepers. The nature of the complaints
focused on the adequacy of resettlement options and income restoration opportunities,
especially for shopkeepers; the suitability and quality of resettlement sites; poor housing
and living conditions in the resettlement sites; as well as inadequate access to information
concerning disclosures, consultation and grievance redress procedures. Unlike the
squatters adjacent to the railway tracks, most of the people affected by the east west road
projects did not want to move - they were satisfied with their dwellings and businesses,
and considered the compensation inadequate and the process flawed.

3.23 The Inspection Panel undertook an investigation and issued its findings in
December 2005. The report found areas of non-compliance by the Bank with various
aspects of its own operational policies. Management in its response acknowledged these
shortcomings and prepared an Action Plan to improve the quality and outcome of R&R
implementation. The Action Plan was included in the Management Report and
Recommendation submitted to the Board and it was discussed and approved by the
Executive Directors. The Action Plan focused on implementation issues, including the
resettlement procedures for shopkeepers with medium to large-size shops, restoration of
incomes, post-resettlement services, baseline data, grievance redress mechanisms, and the
quality of supervision.
                                             12


3.24 Several steps were taken to improve the quality of the R&R process, including
finalization and disclosure of the implementation manual, improved database
management, disclosure of updated baseline surveys and Resettlement Information Plans
prior to relocation. In addition, further steps included regular implementation reporting,
distribution of identity cards among the project affected persons (PAPs), establishment of
procedures for relocating affected religious/community structures through negotiations,
streamlining of the grievance redress committees, strengthening of the post resettlement
support to PAPs and the reconstitution of an Independent Monitoring Panel. Management
submitted six progress reports on the implementation of the Action Plan to the Board.10
The final report submitted in 2013, confirmed that the measures listed in the Action Plan
were mostly completed (see Table 2 below).

Table 2. Resettlement and Rehabilitation Implementation Status (June 10, 2013)
     Unit Type      Totals     Revised Totals Resettled at (05/05/13)     Remaining cases
                  (Baseline)    (Baseline)
 Households                        17,572              17,566                       0
                   17,378          100%                100%
 Shops                              1,822              1,783                        39
                    2,469           100%               97.9%                      2.20%
 of which                            566                556                         10
 > 225 sq. ft.       800            100%               98.2%                      1.94%
                                   19,394                19,354                    39
 Total             19,847
                                   100.0%                99.8%                    0.19%
Source: MMRDA

3.25 The final report to the Inspection Panel in mid-2013, two years after the project
closed, documented those remaining activities still to be carried out. All cases regarding
households and all but two religious structures had been resolved, but the cases of 34
shops were still in process in the court system. Five more were subject to land acquisition
procedures. It was also decided to amend the road design to accommodate the remaining
religious structures. IEG confirmed from documents perused at MMRDA that most of
these litigation cases have since been resolved, but it was not possible for the IEG
mission without considerable research to determine the exact number because data are no
longer kept specifically for MUPT, but for all the many involuntary relocations
undertaken under the Authority.

3.26 The MMRDA registered and trained over 98 percent of housing societies formed
by PAPs, enabling them to responsibly self-manage their affairs. This increased
confidence that the post-resettlement strategy would continue to be sustained long after
project closure. Efforts by the Bank and the borrower in response to the resettlement and
rehabilitation challenges led to a significant improvement in both the Authority’s
capacity and the way in which the resettlement process itself was handled. The sheer
scale of the accomplishment of the resettlement activities has led to many visitors from

10
 Some of these steps would nowadays be covered at least in part by a Government
Accountability Plan.
                                              13


elsewhere in India and abroad to view and learn from the innovative approaches (see
Appendix D for a more detailed description of post resettlement progress). During the
course of this project, MMRDA created a permanent internal unit to manage resettlement
impacts. The Authority is now using the benchmark approaches to resettlement
developed under the project for subsequent infrastructure projects that require
resettlement, not just those funded by the Bank.

4. Achievement of the Objectives
4.1     The objectives were: fostering the development of an efficient and sustainable
urban transport system including effective institutions to meet the needs of the users in
the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. This was expected to facilitate urban economic growth
and improve the quality of life in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. As explained under
relevance of design, this PPAR assesses efficacy against the three sub-objectives, which
are assumed to contribute to the overall objective.

Objective 1. Foster the development of an efficient urban transport system.

Substantial

Rail Services:

Outputs

4.2    Complete direct current (DC) to alternating current (AC) conversion of 645 km of
suburban rail system. Target Achieved.

4.3   Increase size of train fleet by 251 nine-car rakes (electrical multiple units). Target
exceeded, 285 rakes were added.

4.4     . IEG observed that delays in procurement led to the failure under MUPT to
procure 108 bogie assemblies for electric multiple unit coaches from Siemens (Austria).
This large item was subsequently transferred to follow on project MUTP-2A in a
restructuring of that project dated August 4, 2011. According to the MUTP-2A project
paper field tests were to be carried out on 18 prototype bogies before the remaining 90
bogies were supplied.

4.5    The length of suburban train tracks was increased by an additional 93-railway line
km. (but not shown as an indicator).

Outcomes

4.6     Peak hour average frequency of train services was increased. The baseline was 13
trains per hour and the target of 16 trains per hour was met. The figure for 2015 is 16.1
trains per hour.

4.7     However, train fleet availability at the peak hour, that is, the proportion of trains
that would be available to be put into operation, remained at around 91.5 percent, rather
than increasing to the target of 94 percent, because old train sets were still operating in
                                            14


the system and required more downtime for maintenance. This indicator was not
achieved

4.8      Regarding a reduction in overcrowding, the baseline (2002) was 4,500 passengers
per rake. The target was 3,600, but 4,016 was actually achieved at project closure. The
latest figures available for the Central line (2015) are now for 12-car rakes, which carry
more people, but converting the ridership into 9-car units, there would be 3,675 per rake
(close to the target). The reduction was only partially achieved in the project period
mainly because the better services increased demand more than had been expected. Rail
service demand in Mumbai went up from 6.1 million to 7.2 million passengers per day on
the central lines between the project start and closure (the volume for 2014-2015 is 7.94
million). The average trip length has increased, but only marginally. In summary, the
trains are more frequent and less crowded, but the full benefits will only be realized once
the follow up project, MUTP-2A is completed, which will add 864 additional units to the
2,260 in the system.

Table 3. Suburban Rail Traffic Growth in Mumbai
Millions except           2001-2002    2011-2012          2012-2013      2013-2014
trains (number)
Passengers                  2,288.49      2,899.95          2,918.50       2,918.50
carried per year
Ave trip length              27.16          32.43            32.49           32.77
(km) per year
Passenger km/yr.           6,2151.61      94,047.56        95,072.35       95,628.88
No of trains                 2,049          2,718            2,813           2,813
Source: Indian Railways


Road Services:

Outputs

4.9    The target to equip 250 road junctions with Area Traffic Control (ATC) systems
was achieved.

4.10 The 10.6 km. Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road section was constructed under the
project, thereby increasing the two-lane highway to six lanes with an additional 43 km. of
traffic lanes. Achieved.

4.11 The works on the 6.45 km. Santacruz-Chembur Link Road, with Mumbai’s first
double-decker flyover, were not completed during the life of the project. Not achieved.

Outcomes

4.12 It had been originally planned to reduce the incidence and severity of pedestrian
road traffic accidents by 10 percent in the areas where 26 new pedestrian facilities were
to be constructed. In the event this indicator was dropped at restructuring and only two
such facilities were completed.
                                             15


4.13 The 250 junctions were equipped with the ATC system technology, which
contributed to improved traffic flows at intersections. The target was a reduction by 10
percent in passenger car units/hour at such intersections. This target was exceeded and
the delay reduction was calculated to be 23.4 percent. Cameras now detect the intensity
of traffic and feed data to the computers for real time adjustments of traffic signals.
Traffic police are able to respond more quickly to traffic accidents and real time changes
can be made to traffic signal cycles as required by circumstances observed in the control
room.11 The Ministry of Urban Development made an award for the “Best Intelligent
Transport System Project” for the ATC system. IEG visited the control room and was
given a demonstration of the system’s capabilities.

4.14 The target to reduce journey times by six minutes per vehicle on the Jogeshwari-
Vikhroli link was not achieved because the actual traffic was three times higher than
forecast and also because some resettlement was still under way. In 2011 the saving in
time was only two minutes. Since the project closed, traffic flows have been improved
through better signalization, but in the peak hours there is still considerable congestion.

4.15 The target of reducing journey times on the Santacruz-Chembur Link Road by
four minutes per vehicle was not achieved at closure because the works were not
completed. At the project closure in 2011, the traffic congestion were worse than the
baseline figure. IEG confirms that 12 years after project approval in 2002 the link was
finally completed in April 2014 financed through MMRDA. The IEG mission observed
that the road appeared to have generated more traffic than anticipated because it already
backs up in the rush hours. There are now plans to extend the road by three kilometers to
the Western Express Highway because of traffic congestion, especially at Vakola
junction.12 The Centre for Urban Research reports that there are now plans to widen both
the Jogeshwari-Vikhroli and the Santacruz-Chembur links in the Maharashtra
Development Plan to accommodate more traffic.13

Objective 2. Foster the development of a sustainable urban transport system.

Modest

Road Services

Outputs

4.16 The Brihan Mumbai Electric Supply and Transport Company (BEST) procured
644 low emission and user-friendly buses to replace used or over-aged buses, to provide
additional seats for users and to improve the service quality. Originally the target was
450, but was increased to 644 at restructuring. The acquired buses were newer EURO III
compliant, single-deckers with reduced noise levels and better emission control



11
   The World Bank in India, 2011, Mumbai Uses cutting Edge Traffic Management Technology to
Ease Congestion on the Roads, Vol. 9, No 6, New Delhi, May 2011
12
   The Asian Age, April 22, 2016
13
   www.urbanresearch.in accessed on April 23, 2016
                                               16


especially of particulates. Older buses were upgraded to slightly lower EURO II
standards.14 The target was achieved.

4.17 The MMRDA did not establish the Road User Charge Policy as originally
planned, nor was there an indicator for this subcomponent.

4.18 Another sustainability output indicator was the strengthening of the ambient air
quality and reporting system. This comprised of a study to recommend a system and the
installation of three air quality-monitoring stations and both tasks were carried out. In
addition, in 2004 the ambient air quality at the resettlement sites was measured and found
to meet the standards for a residential area.15 However, 12 years later in 2016 relatively
little progress appears to have been made in controlling emissions in Mumbai. Records
maintained by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board show that pollutants in
Mumbai’s air are consistently over the permissible levels in respect of both nitrogen
oxide and particulate matter. As in most Indian cities air quality is deteriorating due in
part to increasing numbers of vehicles.16

Outcomes

4.19 Car-restraining charges have not been introduced. The state government and
stakeholders continue to discuss a draft user charging policy. There does not yet appear to
be significant political support for radical reforms such as congestion pricing and
stringent parking regulations.

4.20 The Brihan Mumbai Electric Supply and Transport Company (BEST) operate
public buses in Mumbai as well as an electric utility. Bus fares have been subsidized from
electricity revenues.17 The target of full cost recovery of bus services (100 percent of
revenues covering costs) was not achieved during the project period. At project closure,
cost recovery was 74 percent, less than the baseline indicator of 90 percent. This
backward progress was due to an increase in operating costs that included inter alia a
delay in revenue from depot commercialization, and voluntary retirement scheme
payments for 530 abolished posts. According to the information subsequently provided to
IEG, BEST has taken several measures to augment revenue using a financial model
developed under the project for revenue enhancement and cost cutting. The company put
up bus fares twice during 2012 (in April and November), so that by January 2013, the
cost recovery stood at 85 percent (93.2 percent if income from depot commercialization
is also considered). Full cost recovery was only achieved in 2015 when two further




14
   European Emission Standards were introduced to define limits for the exhaust emissions of
new vehicles. Euro II and III compliance is now below the limits currently expected in Europe,
but in a developing country they can be regarded as a significant step in the right direction.
15
   Inspection Panel Report, 2004 Report and Recommendation in respect of the Mumbai Urban
Transport Project, Appendix 4
16
   Economist, 2015, Air Pollution in India, February 7, 2015
17
  Cropper M and Bhattacharya S, 2007, Public Transport Subsidies and Affordability in Mumbai,
India, Policy Research Working Paper No 4395, World Bank
                                             17


increases in February and April eliminated the transport subsidy. This move was heavily
criticized in the press since it adversely affected the poorest section of the community.18

Rail Services:

Outcome:

4.21 The target of reducing the working ratio (costs excluding depreciation and
interest/income) of rail services from 0.88 to 0.85 was not achieved as tariff surcharges
had not been implemented and remained at 0.88 at project closure. The project team
subsequently confirmed that on January 1, 2013 the suburban fares were revised levying
all the surcharges agreed to under the project, thus improving cost recovery ratio.

Objective 3. Enhance effectiveness of the institutions.

Substantial

Railways:

Outputs

4.22 Eleven technical studies were completed. In addition to pre-investment studies,
these technical support sub-projects covered topics such as station design, track
maintenance and drainage improvements, strengthening of the rolling stock maintenance
system, overhead equipment system improvement study, an urban rail strategy simulation
study, and the development and strengthening of financial, costing, and project
management systems.

4.23 In addition, separate accounting and financial management systems were
established for Vikas, which was seen as a first step to the eventual separation of the rail
suburban services from the Indian Railways main line operation.

Outcomes

4.24 The creation of Vikas (supported by the project) was an institutional step to
improve the organizational structure and efficiency for the management of the suburban
railway system. Previously, two zonal railways (Western Region and Central Railway)
operated as independent agencies with their own lines and no integration of services.
There was also no participation of the state and city governments in the decision making
process. However, Indian Railways and the state government now own Vikas jointly, so
the suburban railway business plan involves input from users and local organizations.
The plan is updated annually.




18
     Hindustan Times, January 16, 2015.
                                            18


Roads:

Outputs

4.25 An Annual Business Plan was developed for BEST operations as part of its
annual budget process.

4.26 BEST procured and installed a fuel efficiency monitoring system deployed to its
bus fleet. It also now procures only buses running on compressed natural gas and is
gradually phasing out diesel buses.

4.27 Training of staff in the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai’s Traffic
Management Unit was completed increasing the technical capacity to manage traffic.

4.28 A MMRDA communication strategy was implemented, and a Road Maintenance
Management System was installed. However, the installation of the Management
Information System was only completed after project closure.

Outcomes

4.29 Increased technical capacity of transport planning, road maintenance and road
safety was achieved. New procedures were developed and implemented, a road
maintenance study was completed and implemented, a road management system was
installed, and 15 qualified professionals were available to implement such activities. The
systems were still in operation at the time of the IEG mission.

4.30 The hitherto limited capability of the environmental management unit was
strengthened. Procedures were put in place and capacity partially established to carry out
the necessary tasks. On the basis of interviews by the IEG mission, it appears that support
for environmental management could be further strengthened.

Resettlement and Rehabilitation:

Outputs

4.31 The target of 100 percent affected households living in houses of at least 225
square feet was achieved. The baseline was 9 percent.

4.32 The target of 100 percent of households having access to individual tap water was
achieved. The baseline was 1 percent.

4.33     The MMRDA created a permanent unit to manage the resettlement impacts.

4.34 At the closure of the project 17,566 of the residential households (99.97 percent)
and 1,782 (97.8 percent) of shops, including 555 large or medium size shops, had been
resettled in permanent buildings, joined other redevelopment schemes, or retained by
agreement their partly affected houses beyond the road alignment (see Table 1). In the
final Inspection Panel Report in 2013 the percentage resettled grew to 99.8 percent.
                                            19


Thereafter, separate data were not kept for MUTP as all data regarding resettlement
throughout the Mumbai Metropolitan Region was consolidated.

Outcomes

4.35 The most significant achievement was developing the capacity of the MMRDA
for management of resettlement implementation. The Authority is now successfully
undertaking similar complex resettlement activities for other projects. The social
development cell is led by a social scientist with 18 assistant field workers. This work
was previously undertaken by NGOs.

4.36 A post resettlement strategy was put in place, which has been acknowledged as
innovative and close to best practice in developing countries. This has been replicated in
other schemes in Mumbai and elsewhere - see also Appendix D.

Efficiency

Modest

4.37 The overall weighted economic rate of return (ERR) for the project at closure was
estimated to be 53.7 percent as compared with 37.7 percent at appraisal. However, IEG
has reservations about the assumptions made. The ERR was calculated for the rail and
road components, as well as the ATC subcomponent, amounting in total to 87 percent of
the final project cost.

4.38 For the rail component, the actual traffic carried by the suburban railway, its
operating cost and level of comfort were considered from 2002 to 2010 along with actual
expenditure in investments. The ERR went up from 36.4 percent at appraisal to 60
percent at closure, but this was because the fare structure was not increased as had been
planned, so considerably more passengers traveled by rail and diverted from the buses
than had been anticipated. This would not to have occurred if the updated comprehensive
transport strategy and harmonized user charges had been in place as envisaged. Also, the
railways had a large order of bogie assemblies in process for the electric multiple unit
coaches, but this was not procured before project closure and was funded from the follow
on project. This was not adequately factored into the rate of return calculations.

4.39 For the road component, the ERR for the new link road sections was reduced
from 39.7 percent at appraisal to 27 percent at closure mainly due to an almost 50 percent
increase in cost, at constant 2002 prices, and a delay of four to six years in the
construction of the Santacruz-Chembur Link Road. In the event the situation was much
worse than expected, as the Santacruz-Chembur road was not completed as expected and
its cost continued to soar – it was only opened to traffic in April 2014, some 12 years
after approval. Since the Bank project had closed the balance of this sub-component had
to be financed by MMRDA. The estimated ex-post ERR for the ATC is 19 percent. This
calculation was made based on the costs of stops and delays derived from information
supplied by Regional Development Authority supplemented by analysis in the United
                                           20


Kingdom Highways, Economic Note 2.19 ATC represented about five percent of total
project costs. It is not clear that a weighted average for the rail, road and ATC
components can be assessed together since each was calculated on different assumptions
including elapsed time for the benefit stream.

4.40 The project experienced a delay of three years and high cost overruns (20 percent
overall, and much higher in the case of the two new link roads). Following the Inspection
Panel investigation and the preparation of the Management Action Plan, the delays led to
a restructuring in which a number of sub-components were dropped. These included road
over rail bridges, pedestrian facilities (including pedestrian footbridges, pedestrian
crossings, sidewalks and underpasses), and station area traffic improvement schemes at
six major stations. In addition, road safety and black spot improvements were dropped
and air quality monitoring was reduced in scope. The lack of a traffic management policy
meant that the traffic volumes were higher than expected on the link roads requiring
further investments very soon after opening to cope with the pent up demand, which was
under-estimated.

4.41 Given all the shortcomings, the overall efficiency of the project is rated as
modest.

5. Ratings
OUTCOME
5.1    The project’s objectives, though rather broad, were relevant to the needs of urban
transport users in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Design relevance was substantial,
given that the sub-objectives were proxies for facilitating urban economic growth and
improving the quality of life. Through two of the three sub-objectives the project
contributed substantially to the goals of achieving efficient urban transport systems in
Mumbai with enhanced effectiveness of the key institutions. However, progress towards
sustainability was only modestly achieved. The efficiency is modest. Outcome is assessed
as moderately satisfactory.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME
Moderate

5.2    The railway investments are part of a program to upgrade the suburban passenger
system and improve the carrying capacity in greater comfort. Two follow-on projects
(one funded by the Bank) are continuing this process and the risk to development
outcome is considered negligible. For roads the results are less clear. While east-west
connectivity has been improved and greater efficiency achieved in the central city

19
  Highways Agency (UK), 1997, Design Manual for Roads and Bridges, TA 46/97, United
Kingdom
                                              21


through the ATC system, these will be short-term gains only unless there are policy
changes regarding road user charging, land use and parking. Although under discussion
for some years now the solution will be politically difficult and so far decisions have
been deferred. Until this impasse is overcome the risk to development outcome is
significant. Taking into account the positive picture in terms of transport infrastructure
maintenance arrangements, the overall risk is rated as moderate.

5.3     Regarding maintenance, the project investments have become part of the critical
infrastructure facilities for the city and the expenditure required for their maintenance
constitutes a relatively small proportion of total funds available. In 2012-13 total
revenues for the city’s public infrastructure was US$5.32 billion of which US$5.29
billion was expended. Of this amount US$293 million was budgeted for roads and
US$113 million was spent on road maintenance. In the 2015-16 budget there was a 20
percent increase in the amount allocated.20

5.4     Rail: The maintenance expenditure for Mumbai suburban railways constitutes a
small fraction of the overall budget of the Indian Railways and, hence, the risk of Vikas
not receiving its due allocation is relatively low considering the fact that the system is
considered the lifeline of the city. For instance, the allocations for maintenance have been
sustained with progressive increases over the years: e.g., US$52.7 million (FY09),
US$61.1 million (FY10) and US$61.6 million (each in FY11 and FY12). These amounts
reflect actual needs in the railway system of accounting, where passenger safety is the
first consideration.

5.5     Buses: BEST is a municipal corporation responsible for electricity and bus
transport. It subsidizes bus fares from its electricity revenues.21 In the case of bus
services, maintenance funding is accorded a high priority because BEST’s 4,700 fleet
constitutes a very important part of the city transport system. In 2014-2015 the
Corporation’s Annual Report (latest available) showed that about 62 percent of fare box
revenue was allocated to repairs and maintenance. In addition, BEST is phasing out 272
older buses and replacing them with better quality air-conditioned buses that run on
compressed natural gas. The fleet as a whole will thus incur lower maintenance and
repair costs.

5.6      Roads: MCGM has established a system for maintenance for over 1,950 km. of
city roads and important roads such as the Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road receive top
priority. For example, an allocation of US$8 million was made for FY 14 for the
maintenance of city roads in the Eastern suburbs, which include Jogeshwari-Vikhroli. It
is also noteworthy that this road has a concrete pavement because of the high volumes of
traffic, and this type of construction is hard wearing and requires less maintenance in the
short-to medium-term. However, the public expressed some concerns in 2013 that the
city focus was on new construction rather than maintenance. There must have been some
truth in this because the municipal corporation responded by introducing a 24-hour
helpline for residents to report potholes and, more importantly, announced that in the

20
 Indian Express, January 28, 2015
21
 Cropper C, and Bhattacharya, S, 2007, Public Transport Subsidies and Affordability in
Mumbai, India, World Bank Policy Research Working Paper 4395, Washington DC
                                            22


2015-16 financial year there would be no new roads and the focus would be road
maintenance.

5.7      Area Traffic Control: MCGM has engaged an agency to maintain the ATC system
procured under the project, (initially from November 1, 2012 to October 31, 2014 at a
cost of about US$three million). IEG established that this arrangement has been
extended. Spurred by the results of this system, MCGM is in the process of expanding
ATC to cover the entire city by year 2017 with an investment of about US$28 million.
However, Mumbai has not yet adopted and enforced a policy to restrict traffic through
parking fees, user charges and other restraint measures. This means that the additional
capacity created by new and rehabilitated roads and the ATC system will be relatively
short-lived because demand is much greater than supply. This is the reason why new
facilities are virtually running at capacity as soon as they are commissioned.

5.8     Resettlement: The experience gained in MUPT has served the agencies well
especially the MMRDA. The procedure introduced by the Bank and refined by MMRDA
is now mainstreamed and used on all similar projects, whether funded by the Bank or not.
Progress with post resettlement support has been significant (figures for mid 2013 – after
this date data for all resettlement projects under MMRDA were consolidated):

    185 housing societies had been registered by 2013 and 18,547 identity cards
     issued;
    181 maintenance grants have been provided to these societies;
    Community management funds to the value of INR 93.18 million (US$1.6
     million) had been paid to the registered societies;
    Internal street lights have been provided on the understanding that the residents
     will provide for the recurrent costs.

For further details of how MMRDA has mainstreamed resettlement support see Appendix
D.

5.9     The sustainability of building management was probed during the field visits of
the IEG mission. Cooperative housing societies questioned revealed that they had issued
share certificates to their members, had their financial reports audited and also maintain a
substantial reserve fund balance for unforeseen expenditures. They are carrying out minor
repairs of the buildings and regularly paying the electricity dues and property taxes, thus
ensuring the security of the buildings, and maintaining details of the flat owners.

BANK PERFORMANCE
QUALITY AT ENTRY

Moderately Unsatisfactory

5.10 The Project design appropriately targeted the highest priority issues of the urban
transport sector in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, in particular the urgently needed
physical investments in the rail and road system, and the strengthening of the institutional
capacity required for sustainable transport development, particularly in traffic
                                             23


management, the bus system, road safety, emission control, and resettlement. The project
had a complex design with ambitious implementation arrangements involving five
implementing agencies. Effective coordination, however, was not assured. Although
project preparation recognized that successful implementation would require a major
coordination effort, the Bank’s preparation team underestimated the high cumulative
risks faced when so many institutions from different levels of government are meant to
act in harmony under the umbrella of a nascent institution (the MMRDA), which required
more time to mature and assume its responsibilities.

5.11 A broad variety of risks were evaluated during project preparation and mitigation
measures were considered. However, risks, which were overlooked, included project cost
and time overruns due to factors such as delays, currency fluctuations, capacity
insufficiencies, and weak empowerment of the MMRDA to manage adequately all the
components and to take necessary action when other implementing agencies were not
delivering. In the effort to have the first year program ready by project appraisal, the risks
of poor coordination of engineering design and resettlement, and the risk of poor project
engineering design were underestimated.

5.12 During preparation of the project, the team strived to ensure that the different
levels of government were committed to the project, and encouraged the establishment of
Vikas as implementing agency for the rail component. However, the Corporation could
not approve major projects without clearances from all levels of the Indian Railways, and
the process was fraught with delays and disagreements.

5.13 In 2004, the Inspection Panel received four Requests for Inspection due to
concerns regarding the equitable resettlement and rehabilitation of the people affected by
the road component. The Panel found that, although merging of the resettlement
component into the project was appropriate, the component was not ready for
implementation when the project was launched. Due to the failure to consider a number
of significant resettlement and impoverishment risks at appraisal, the Inspection Panel
stated noncompliance by the Bank with the requirements of risk analysis in Bank
policies, including OMS 2.20 on Project Appraisal and OP/BP 10.04 on Project
Economic Evaluation of Investment Operations. The complexities involved in relocating
such a large number of people were seriously underestimated. The project involved the
largest urban resettlement of any Bank project at the time. Given the large number of
people to be relocated, the team initially considered undertaking the resettlement activity
as a separate project. However, in order to align the resettlement activities with the civil
works in an efficient manner, it was decided to include the resettlement activities in the
project rather as a separate component.

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION

Satisfactory

5.14 Supervision missions were carried out frequently and 19 supervision reports were
filed between August 2002 and June 2011. The ICR reports that the teams had the
appropriate skills for the tasks. In addition, there were separate financial management,
social development and procurement supervision missions that took place at least once
                                                24


every year. Supervision was substantially enhanced, however, following the Inspection
Panel investigation and the subsequent implementation of the Action Plan to address the
issues of non-compliance.

5.15 The team in IEG’s view worked diligently to respond to the Inspection Panel
investigations and with the borrower to implement the Action Plan and Inspection Panel
Recommendations. Bank Management provided strong support and an adequate budget
allocation to supervise the project. The quick response allowed the lifting of the
Inspection Panel-related suspension in less than four months. Nevertheless,
implementation suffered a knock-on effect from the investigation and the finalization of
resettlement took longer than originally anticipated. The Mid-Term Review was
thorough. Management kept the Board informed through periodic (six) Progress Reports
of the implementation of the agreed action plans following the Inspection Panel
investigation.

5.16 The Task Team provided advice and proposed solutions to the borrower to
address the implementation problems, for example by agreeing to reallocate Bank
financing of some components when the US dollar depreciated in relation to the Indian
Rupee, and used local consultants based in Mumbai to help supervise technical and
procurement issues.

5.17 According to the project team, this Category “A” project complied with
environmental safeguards “to a large extent,” but a few environmental issues remained
unresolved at closure. The project team reported that the latest external audit of the
project for the financial year 2011-2012 was qualified, i.e., the auditors had objected to
an amount of INR 8.25 million (US$184,977), but this too was eventually fully resolved.

Overall Bank Performance Rating Moderately Satisfactory22

BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Government

Moderately satisfactory

5.18 The Government showed strong commitment to the project during its preparation
and throughout implementation. During preparation, both the Government of India and
Government of Maharashtra supported the necessary studies, estimated the investment
needs, recognized institutional weaknesses based on previous experiences with Bank
operations, and initiated reforms such as the creation of Vikas and authorizing the
MMRDA to implement the project. The Government of Maharashtra was able to address
22
  The Bank’s harmonized evaluation criteria states that when the rating for one performance
dimension is in the satisfactory range, while the rating for the other dimension is in the
satisfactory range the rating of overall Bank performance normally depends on the outcome
rating. Since the outcome rating is in the positive range the overall performance is considered
moderately satisfactory.
                                            25


quickly the requests made during the Inspection Panel and took careful steps to ensure
that most of the resettlement and environmental management was done according to
Bank guidelines. The state government also took notice of the recommendations of the
mid-term review, and subsequently requested the loan restructuring in view of the slow
progress of some of the components and the currency fluctuation.

5.19 However, the MMRDA proved to be insufficiently empowered to perform
effectively its coordinating role. Moreover, during implementation, there were significant
delays related to protracted procurement in key contracts of the rail component. These
might have been resolved more quickly if the Government of Maharashtra had
approached the Chairman of Indian Railways and the Minister of Railways for faster
decision-making and resolution in a timely manner.

Implementing Agencies

Moderately satisfactory

Five separate agencies were involved:

5.20 Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority: At project
commencement, MMRDA was not fully equipped to handle resettlement and
rehabilitation; its capacity to handle both resettlement and environmental management
improved considerably, however, during implementation. Its ability to coordinate the
various agencies involved in project implementation was also initially weak because it
lacked a clear mandate to do so. MMRDA developed innovative solutions to increasing
the supply of land available for resettlement. It encouraged private sector participation by
offering Transfer of Development Rights for private developers willing to allow
resettlement on part of their own land. In return the developers could utilize their
remaining land for permitted development projects. Such rights could also be sold to
other builders. MMRDA’s post project program for improving the conditions for resettled
people has been acclaimed by many as evolving best practice and these ideas have been
replicated in other schemes in Mumbai and elsewhere.

5.21 Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation: Vikas succeeded in implementing the
railway component and carried out the activities assigned to it. However, its performance
was marked by long procurement delays due to the numerous clearances required to
approve the bids and the evaluation reports. The ICR reported that the coordination
between Vikas and Indian Railways was, at best, inefficient as demonstrated by the
several changes in the location of the pier on the Santacruz-Chembur Link Road, which
needed to be built on a railway right-of-way.

5.22 Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai: The Corporation successfully
completed the implementation of the ATC component, the most important activity for
which it was responsible. It ensured the provision of adequate training to the Traffic
Management Unit, and Traffic Police, which operate the ATC control center. MCGM
was, however, unable to complete the Road Maintenance Management System by project
closure, and construction of most pedestrian crossings was not achieved after budget cuts
led to a substantial reduction in the number of crossings supported by the project.
                                             26


5.23 Brihan Mumbai Electric Supply and Transport Company: The Company
acquired the buses as planned, improved its management information system and
installed fuel consumption monitoring devices in the buses. It implemented all the
activities that it was assigned with only minor delays. However, it was unable to fully
meet cost recovery targets in the project period and did not measure the expected
improvements in pollution and noise factors after the introduction of the new vehicles.

5.24 Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation: The MSRDC was in charge
of implementing the Jogeshwari-Vikhroli and Santacruz-Chembur Link Roads. These
investments took longer than expected because of resettlement problems, which in some
cases were also caused by engineering design changes. According to the ICR, the
coordination between MMRDA and MSRDC, which received a fee from MMRDA to
implement the links, was “not very good and caused several problems.” This was
vehemently denied in a letter from MSRDC dated November 11, 2011, but no one from
MSRDC was available to meet with the IEG mission during its visit to Mumbai.

5.25 On balance, the implementing agencies’ performance was moderately
satisfactory. Although coordination between the agencies remained weak, the
performance of MMRDA, BEST and Vikas grew steadily throughout implementation as
capacity was built. MMRDA’s achievements in its resettlement activities were in the end
close to best practice.

Overall Borrower Performance: Moderately Satisfactory

MONITORING AND EVALUATION ARRANGEMENTS
Substantial

Design

5.26 The project's indicators were appropriately linked with the project objectives and
included baseline data and measurable targets set at appraisal (See Appendix C). The key
performance indicators for the development objectives were: (i) rail travel comfort
substantially improved - average loads in trains reduced; (ii) reduce the incidence and
severity of pedestrian road traffic accidents; (iii) suburban rail service frequency and train
availability enhanced; (iv) road journey times and junction delays reduced; (v)
improvement in public transport cost recovery; (vi) poor households resettled
satisfactorily from hazardous slum/squatter areas to permanent housing with improved
living condition; and (vii) increased technical capacity through trainings and development
of systems for traffic management, road maintenance, and air quality monitoring.
However, there were no indicators to measure attainment of the project’s final objectives
of higher urban economic growth and improved quality of life, nor was there an indicator
concerning the establishment of a road user charging policy based on updating the 1994
comprehensive transport plan. Responsibility for collecting, analyzing and reporting the
data was with the MMRDA. It was tasked with coordinating with the other implementing
agencies and reporting the progress on a quarterly basis.
                                            27


Implementation

5.27 As part of the level one project restructuring approved by the Board the project
scope was decreased. Consequently, the indicators associated with the reduction of the
incidence and severity of pedestrian traffic accidents was dropped as was the multi year
black spot improvement and road safety program and the station area traffic improvement
schemes at six stations. Instead of “increasing the technical capacity of the Traffic
Management Unit in the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai to a fully functional
level,” the target became “completion of training.” Instead of “road maintenance
procedures to be in place,” the target became “completion of road maintenance study.”
All these revisions pointed to somewhat lower achievement, (though likely more realistic,
than the original expectations).

5.28 However, indicators for strengthening capacity for resettlement implementation
and environmental management were added:

    Developing the capacity for management of resettlement implementation through
     a reasonably well functioning Resettlement and Rehabilitation division in
     MMRDA; and

    Strengthening capacity for environmental management in urban infrastructure
     projects through staff training.

In addition, the number of low emission and user-friendly buses purchased by BEST was
increased from 450 to 644.

5.29 The project team appropriately used the physical and financial output indicators to
supervise the progress of the works and the delivery of equipment. To measure the
institutional development progress and compliance with related covenants, the semi-
annual monitoring reports included useful updates on the progress of the studies and
technical assistance financed by the project.

Utilization

5.30 The monitoring and evaluation system was used to support recommendations or
inform management decisions during the course of implementation. For example, it
informed the decision to restructure the project, and enabled a focus on those activities
that were critical for the achievement of the objectives.

6. Lessons
6.1    Several lessons can be drawn from the evaluation; some are adapted from the ICR
and others from the final progress report in respect of the implementation of the
Management Action Plan. The lesson on project objectives is based on IEG observations.

6.2     Project development objectives should be specific and measurable. The
overall development objective in this project was too generalized and the results had to be
based on sub-objectives, which were effectively proxies for the overall objective. This
                                            28


detracted from clarity on what the project was seeking to achieve and how well the
project goals were met.

6.3    Large-scale resettlement is a complex operation that needs considerable
planning, adequate provision of time, good negotiation skills, and strong capacity to
implement successfully. At the time of appraisal, the scale of the Mumbai Urban
Transport Project was unprecedented in an urban context in India. Not all groups being
displaced were alike and initially there were insufficient opportunities for grievances to
be heard empathetically. Poor inter-agency coordination and too many implementing
agencies can also become a serious obstacle to the implementation of the key activities of
such a project.

6.4     A lack of adequate synchronization of resettlement activities with civil works
can cause significant time and cost overruns. This project demonstrates that civil
works began prematurely before all the resettlement issues were resolved, especially
those businesses and households affected by road links. This led to dissatisfied project
affected groups appealing to the Inspection Panel for assistance and this delayed project
progress significantly. Prior to the commencement of civil works, substantial land
acquisition and resettlement should always be completed.

6.5     Transition from an administrative compensation approach to a win-win
negotiated approach can resolve seemingly intractable problems with project-
affected groups. There is a need to understand the nature of peoples’ grievances in a
transparent way. In this project the state government went beyond normal procedures and
was flexible in negotiating the resolution of some extremely contentious resettlement
issues.

6.6     Introducing entitlements and market-based solutions was a major
contributor to resettlement success. Provision of free, alternative housing with title has
had an empowering effect on the project-affected households, which have acquired new
social status and gained wider access to employment in the formal sector. The market
solution of offering transfer of development rights as a tradable benefit in lieu of land
compensation proved to be an attractive form of compensation to the legal owners for
allowing resettlement on part of their land.
                                                       29


References
Aide memoires, project progress reports, audit reports, implementation status reports, restructuring report and
       two restructuring memoranda.
Agarwal, A, 2013, Mumbai Urban Transport Project – A Multi Dimensional Approach, CODATU Special
        Issue, Research in Transportation Economics 40 (2013) 116-123, www.elsevier.com/locate/retrec
Bhide A et al, 2015, Engendering Mumbai Suburban Railway System, Working Paper prepared for Mumbai
        Rail Vikas Corporation, by the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai.
Cropper C, and Bhattacharya, S, 2007, Public Transport Subsidies and Affordability in Mumbai, India, World
        Bank Policy Research Working Paper 4395, Washington DC
Highways Agency (UK), 1997, Design Manual for Roads and Bridges, TA 46/97, United Kingdom.
IEG, 2013, Mumbai Urban Transport Project, ICR Review
Innovations in Development, 2012, Urban Resettlement: Mumbai Urban Transport Project, Issue 7, India
         Ministry of Finance, Department of Economic Affairs, Government of India, and the World Bank,
         New Delhi, India.
Ministry of Urban Affairs and Employment, 1998, Traffic and Transportation Policies and Strategies in Urban
         Areas in India. Government of India
National Environmental Energy Research Institute, 2010, Air Quality Assessment, Emissions Inventory and
         Source Apportionment Studies: Mumbai, final report; sponsored by the Central Pollution Control
         Board, New Delhi, November, 2010.
Sodhi, Z, 2015, Woman Power – the Amazing Enterprise of the Women of Sankalp, My Livable City, (Oct-
         Dec, 2015).
The Inspection Panel, 2004, India: Mumbai Urban Transport Project, Report and Recommendations; also five
        progress reports between 2004 and 2011.
Tiwari, P, 2015, Toilet Torture in Mumbai’s Slums, Observer Research Foundation, Mumbai, India.
Vasudevan P and Mulukutla P, 2014, Bus Karo 2.0: Case Studies from India, Embarq India and WRI India.
World Bank, 2002, Mumbai Urban Transport Project, Project Appraisal Report, Report 24004
World Bank, 2002, Mumbai Urban Transport Project, Loan Agreement,C3662 and Credit Agreement C3662 –
       conformed copies.
World bank, 2002, Cities on the Move: A World Bank Strategic Review of Urban Transport, Report 24910,
        Washington DC World Bank, 2008, Safe, Clean and Affordable Transport for Development, Transport
        Business Strategy 2008-2012, Transport Sector Board, Washington DC.
World Bank, 2010, Mumbai Urban Transport Project -2A, Project Appraisal Report, No 54171
World Bank, 2011, Mumbai Urban Transport Project – 2A, Restructuring Paper, No 63374
World Bank in India, 2011, Mumbai Uses cutting Edge Traffic Management Technology to Ease Congestion on
       the Roads, Vol. 9, No 6, New Delhi, May 2011.
World Bank, 2011, Mumbai Urban Transport Project, Implementation Completion and Results Report, Report
       2015.
                                                   30


Appendix A Basic Data Sheet
India: Mumbai Urban Transport Project (IBRD Loan 46650 and IDA
Credit 36620)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                               Appraisal          Actual or              Actual as % of
                                               estimate        current estimate         appraisal estimate
Total project costs                              945                1,128                      119
Loan amount                                      463                     369                    80
Credit amount                                     79                       83                  105
Cancellation                                       -                     102                       -


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                  FY03 FY04       FY05   FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13
Appraisal         12.5     21.2   23.7   26.2     30.0      21.7     0           0     0       0        0
estimate
(US$M)
Actual                0    4.6    8.6    9.7       2.5      12.4    12.1        18.7   9.4     0       -20,5
(US$M)
Actual as % of        0    21.6   36.2   37.0      8.3      57.1     -           -      -      -         -
appraisal
Date of final disbursement: September 1, 2012


Project Dates
                                                        Original                         Actual
Negotiations                                           10/20/2000                      05/06/2002
Board approval                                         12/28/2000                      06/18/2002
Signing                                                                                08/05/2002
Mid-term review                                                                        10/17/2005
Restructurings (level 2)                                                               06/17/2008
Level 1                                                                                09/30/2008
Level 2                                                                                12/30/2009
Level 2                                                                                06/15/2010
Level 2                                                                                04/27/2011
Closing date                                           06/30/2008                      06/15/2011
                                           31                                    Appendix A


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                                           Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle                                     US$Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                                travel and consultant costs)
Lending               FY98                       0                          49.15
                      FY99                       0                         143.98
                      FY00                     58                          302.82
                      FY01                     42                          188.00
                      FY02                     79                          256.67
Supervision/ICR       FY03                     66                          204.05
                      FY04                     55                          169.19
                      FY05                     72                          207.34
                      FY06                     90                          400.07
                      FY07                     98                          368.40
                      FY08                    102                          455.26
                      FY09                     68                          343.08
                      FY10                     82                          314.00
                      FY11                     51                          114.00
                      FY12                     22                            0.00
       Total                                1,369                        3,516.01

Task Team Members
   Lending
                Names                                Title                       Unit
    A.K.Swaminathan            Task Team Leaders                                SASEI
    Edward Dotson              Task Team Leader                                EASTR
    K Mukundan                 Sr. Urban Specialist                             SASEI
    Arnab Bondyopadhyay        Highway Engineer                                 SASEI
    Jit Sondhi                 Consultant                                       SASEI
    Sameer Akbar               Environment Specialist                          SASES
    Bilal Rahill               Environment Specialist                          SASES
    I.U.B.Reddy                Social Development Specialist                   SASES
    Reidar Kvam                Resettlement and Rehabilitation Specialist      SASES
    Ellen Schaengold           Resettlement and Rehabilitation Specialist      SASES
    Alok Bansal                Transport Economics                             SASIN
    Arun Mokashi               Consultant                                      SASIN
    Gladys Stevens             Program Assistant                               SASIN
    Sangeeta Anand             Team Assistant                                  SASIN
    Christopher Hoban          Operations Advisor                              SACIN
    Sumir Lal                  Communications Specialist                       SAREX
    Rajat Narula               Financial Management Specialist                 SARFM
    N Raman                    Procurement Specialist                          SARPS
    P Illangovan               Environment Specialist                          ASTEN
    Zhi Liu                    Transport Economist                             SASEI
Appendix A                               32


    Richard Podolski          Urban Transport                               ECSIN
    Raj Soopramanien          Legal Counsel                                LEGAF
    John Flora                Transport Economist                          TWUTD
    Lou Thompson              Railway Adviser                              TWUTD
    John Cracknell            Consultant                                   TWUTD
   Supervision/ICR
                  Names                               Title                  Unit
    Atul Agarwal                   Sr. Transport Specialist                SASDT
    Hubert Nove-Josserand          Operations Advisor                      SASDT
    Binyam Reja                    Sr. Urban Transport Specialist          SASDT
    Arnab Bandyopadhyay            Sr. Transport Engineer                  SASDT
    Shigeyuki Sakaki               Sr. Urban Transport Specialist          SASDT
    Jorge Rebelo                   Lead Transport Specialist /Consultant   SASDT
    Bogdan Filip Popescu           E T Temporary                           SASDT
    Sujit Das                      Consultant                              SASDT
    Krishnan Srinivasan            Consultant                              SASDT
    A.K. Swaminathan               Consultant                              SASDT
    Sangeeta Anand                 Sr. Program Assistant                   SASDE
    Sonia Chand Sandhu             Sr. Environmental Specialist             SASDI
    Gaurav D. Joshi                Environmental Specialist                SASDI
    Vaideeswaran Sankaran          Consultant                              SASDI
    Ritu Sharma                    Program Assistant                       SASDO
    Gizella Díaz                   Program Assistant                       SASDO
     I. U. B. Reddy                Sr. Social Development Specialist       SASDS
    Satya N. Mishra                Social Development Specialist           SASDS
    Sudip Mozumder                 Sr. Communications Officer              SAREX
    Ramola Bhuyan                  Sr. Financial Management Specialist     SARFM
    Priya Goel                     Sr. Financial Management Specialist     SARFM
    Manmohan Singh Bajaj           Sr. Procurement Specialist              SARPS
    Jitendra Sondhi                Consultant                              AFTEG
    Rakhi Basu                     Transport Specialist                    EASIN
    Frederick Edmund Brusberg      Consultant                              ECSS4
    Sumir Lal                      Manager                                 EXTOC
    Sally L. Burningham            Operations Adviser                      LCSDE
    Guang Zhe Chen                 Sector Manager                          LCSUW
    Stephen F. Lintner             Sr. Adviser                             OPCQC
    Qays Hamad                     Sr. Operations Officer                  OPCQC
    Marc Jean-Claude Pierre Davy   Sr. Urban Transport Spec.               TWITR
                                         33                                   Appendix A


Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: India: Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation Ltd.
Follow-on Operations
Operation                                Loan no.   Amount (US$million)   Board date
Mumbai Urban Transport Project – 2A        79410         430.00           June 29, 2010
                                           34

Appendix B List of Persons Met
World Bank Country Office, New Delhi, India

Atul Agarwal                        MUTP TTL and Senior Transport Specialist
Guarav Joshi                        Senior Environmental Specialist
Shanker Lal                         Senior Procurement Specialist
Atin Rastogi                        Procurement Specialist
Shanker Lal                         Senior Procurement Specialist
Geeta Shivdasani                    Procurement Analyst
Tanuj Mathur                        Senior Financial Management Specialist
Barjor Mehta                        Lead Urban Specialist
Satya Mishna                        Social Development Specialist
Monica Bhatnagar                    Supervisor – Travel and VMSU Services

India Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance

Bhaskar Dasgupta                    Director, Department of Economic Affairs

Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority

Urvinder Madan                      Metropolitan Commissioner
Vishram Patil                       Chief, Social Development Cell

Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation Ltd

Prabhat Sahai                       Chairman and Managing Director
Ravi Agarwal                        Executive Director Planning
RS Khurana                          Director Projects
Smriti Verma                        Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer

Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai

Ajay Mehta                          Municipal Commissioner

Tata Institute of Social Sciences

Payal Tiwari                        Researcher
Appendix C                                            35


Appendix C Project Performance Indicators at Closing
(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                Original Target                            Actual Value
                                                                       Formally
                                                 Values (from                               Achieved at
     Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised Target
                                                   approval                                Completion or
                                                                        Values
                                                  documents)                               Target Years
 Indicator 1 :     To reduce peak hour overcrowding, average loads in trains reduced
 Value
 quantitative or   4,500                         3,500                3,600            4,016
 Qualitative)
 Date achieved     11/06/2002                    06/30/2008           06/15/2011       06/15/2011
 Comments
 (incl. %          Partially Achieved (the reasons include increased ridership than projected).
 achievement)
                   To reduce incidence and severity of pedestrian road traffic accidents in areas where
 Indicator 2 :
                   facilities are proposed
 Value                                                               Deleted as part
 quantitative or   100%                         90%                  of the
 Qualitative)                                                        restructuring
 Date achieved     11/06/2002                  06/30/2008
 Comments          Some of the subcomponents were undertaken: 2 PGSS were implemented within the
 (incl. %          project, & MMRDA undertook the construction of numerous skyways outside the
 achievement)      project.
 Indicator 3 :     To increase peak hour average frequency for train services.
 Value
 quantitative or   13                            15                   16               16.1
 Qualitative)
 Date achieved     11/06/2002                    06/30/2008           06/15/2011       06/15/2011
 Comments
 (incl. %          Achieved
 achievement)
 Indicator 4 :     To increase train availability at peak
 Value
 quantitative or   91%                           94%                                   91.5%
 Qualitative)
 Date achieved     11/06/2002                  06/30/2008                                06/15/2011
 Comments          Not Achieved (Some of the old train sets are still operating in the system requiring more
 (incl. %          maintenance. The value should improve once these are replaced by new trainsets being
 achievement)      procured under MUTP2A).
 Indicator 5 :     To reduce journey times by road on JVLR (from WEH to EEH).
 Value
 quantitative or   30 Minutes                    24 Minutes                            28 minutes
 Qualitative)
 Date achieved     11/06/2002                    06/30/2008                            06/15/2011
 Comments          Not Achieved. The reasons include; (a) actual traffic was three times higher than the
 (incl. %          forecast, and (b) some of the resettlement work was still underway at the time of
 achievement)      evaluation.
 Indicator 6 :     To reduce journey times by road on SCLR (from WEH & EEH).
Appendix C                                           36


 Value
 quantitative or   20 Minutes                   16 Minutes                             36 minutes
 Qualitative)
 Date achieved     11/06/2002                   06/30/2008                             06/15/2011
 Comments
 (incl. %          Not Achieved because the construction works were not completed.
 achievement)
 Indicator 7 :     To reduce delays at ATC controlled junctions
                                                                                     Average reduction by
                   617 PCU hours/ hour                                               23.4% at 116
 Value                                                                Reduction by
                   (phase I:53 nodes)2,900      85 PCU hours/per                     intersections where
 quantitative or                                                      10% PCU
                   PCU hrs/ hour (phase II:     hour                                 new adaptive traffic
 Qualitative)                                                         hours/per hour
                   200 nodes)                                                        control system is
                                                                                     functioning
 Date achieved     11/06/2002                   06/30/2008            06/15/2011     06/15/2011
 Comments
                   Achieved. The base line was originally set at 100 pcu hours/hour and revised as part of
 (incl. %
                   the restructuring.
 achievement)
 Indicator 8 :     To reduce working ratio (costs/incomes) of rail services.
 Value
 quantitative or   0.88                         0.85                                   0.88
 Qualitative)
 Date achieved     11/06/2002                   06/30/2008                             06/15/2011
 Comments
 (incl. %          Not Achieved due to no changes in fare and significant increase in the operating cost.
 achievement)
 Indicator 9 :     To increase cost recovery (income/costs) of bus services.
 Value
 quantitative or   <0.9                         >1                                     0.74
 Qualitative)
 Date achieved     11/06/2002                    06/30/2008                             06/15/2011
 Comments          Not Achieved due to (a) delay of depot commercialization, (b) unexpected popularity of
 (incl. %          bus passes, and (c) increases in dearness allowance (due to inflation) and Voluntary
 achievement)      Retirement Scheme payments for the abolished 530 posts.
 Indicator 10 :    To increase % of PAH living in houses of at least 225 square feet.
 Value
 quantitative or   9%                           100%                                   99.97 %
 Qualitative)
 Date achieved     11/06/2002                   12/31/2007                             06/15/2011
 Comments
 (incl. %          Achieved
 achievement)
 Indicator 11 :    To increase % of PAH having access to individual tap water and toilets.
 Value
 quantitative or   1%                           100%                                   99.97%
 Qualitative)
 Date achieved     11/06/2002                   12/31/2007                             06/15/2011
 Comments
 (incl. %          Achieved
 achievement)
                                           37                                                 Appendix C



Indicator 12 :    To increase the technical capacity of the Traffic Management Unit (TMU) in MCGM.
Value
                                                Fully functional     Training
quantitative or   No TMU.                                                             Training Completed
                                                TMU.                 Completed
Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/06/2002                    06/30/2008           06/15/2011       06/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved
achievement)
                  To increase the technical capacity of transport planning, road maintenance and road
Indicator 13 :    safety so that new procedures to develop and implement the programs for which they are
                  responsible are in place.
                                                                     Procedures in
                                                                     place for
                                                                                      15 qualified full time
                                                                     transportation
                                                                                      professionals and
                                                                     planning and
                                                                                      technical assistance
                                               New procedures in road safety.
Value                                                                                 consultancies in
                                               place, to develop
quantitative or   Limited capacity                                                    place.
                                               and implement         Road
Qualitative)
                                               programs              maintenance
                                                                                      Road Maintenance
                                                                     study completed
                                                                                      Management System
                                                                     and
                                                                                      installed.
                                                                     recommendation
                                                                     accepted
Date achieved     11/06/2002                   06/30/2008            06/15/2011       06/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. The indicator was revised as part of the restructuring.
achievement)
Indicator 14 :    To strengthen the ambient air quality monitoring and reporting system.
Value                                          Plan implemented as                    Three monitoring
quantitative or   No reliable reports          per study                              stations being
Qualitative)                                   recommendations                        installed.
Date achieved     11/06/2002                   12/31/2004                             06/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved
achievement)
Indicator 15 :    To develop capacity for management of resettlement implementation
                                                                  Reasonably well
                                                                  functional R&R
                                                                                   MMRDA has
                                                                  division in
                                                                                   established capacity
                                                                  MMRDA with
                                                                                   to manage urban
                                                                  procedures in
Value                                                                              resettlement with
                  Project R&R Unit created                        place.
quantitative or                                                                    rules and procedures
                  with few staff in MMRDA
Qualitative)                                                                       in place; has been
                                                                  Various
                                                                                   identified as the
                                                                  implementation
                                                                                   nodal agency for
                                                                  procedures are
                                                                                   R&R in Mumbai.
                                                                  adopted for non-
                                                                  MUTP projects.
Date achieved     11/06/2002                                      06/15/2011       06/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %          Achieved. The indicator was added as part of the restructuring.
achievement)
Indicator 16 :    To strengthen capacity for environmental management in urban infrastructure projects.
                                                                 Staffed trained Joint Project Director
Appendix C                                               38


                                                                          in                in charge of
 Value
                                                                          environmental     environment is in
 quantitative or       No reliable reports.
                                                                          management        place, working on
 Qualitative)
                                                                          with procedures   MUTP and other
                                                                          in place.         MMRDA
                                                                                            infrastructure
                                                                                            projects. Other
                                                                                            qualified staff is also
                                                                                            intermittently
                                                                                            available for
                                                                                            environmental
 Date achieved         11/06/2002                                         06/15/2011        06/15/2011
 Comments
 (incl. %              Partially Achieved. The indicator was added as part of the restructuring.
 achievement)
(b) Outputs



                                              Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                Values (from                             Achieved at
    Indicator           Baseline Value                            Revised Target
                                                  approval                             Completion or
                                                                      Values
                                                 documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :      Complete DC to AC conversion of 645 line km. of suburban rail system.
Value
(quantitative      0                               645 line km                            645 line km
or
Date achieved      11/06/2002                      06/30/2008                             06/15/2011
Comments
                   Achieved. Despite the completion of the work, some sections cannot be commissioned
(incl. %
                   on AC traction because of non-availability of dual voltage AC-DC EMU rakes.
achievement
Indicator 2 :      Increase size of train fleet by 251 x 9-car rakes.
Value
                                                   251 x 9-car rakes                      285 x 9-car rakes
(quantitative      200 x 9-car rakes (EMUs)
                                                   (EMUs)                                 (EMUs)
or
Date achieved      11/06/2002                      06/30/2008                             06/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved.
achievement
                                             39                                                 Appendix C

Indicator 3 :      Equip junctions with Area Traffic Control (ATC).
Value
                                                250 junctions                          250 junctions
(quantitative      No junctions equipped.
                                                equipped.                              equipped.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/06/2002                   06/30/2008                             06/15/2011
Comments
(incl. %           Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Increase length of urban arterial roads.
Value              1. JVLR (only 4 lane road)                                          1. Additional 43 lane
                                                 Additional 45 lane
(quantitative      2. SCLR (portion not                                                kms constructed.
                                                 kms constructed
or Qualitative)    existing)                                                           2. Works in progress
Date achieved      11/06/2002                    06/30/2008                            06/15/2011
Comments
                   1. Achieved.
(incl. %
                   2. Not Yet Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :      Provide permanent housing with adequate physical amenities to 19,200 PAHs.
Value              N/A.                       19,200 PAHs           Total           1. 17,566 or 99.97%


(quantitative or                                                                 families permanently re-
Qualitative)                                                                     housed.
                                                  19,394 PAHs                    2. 1,782 (97.8%)
                                                  1. 17,572                      shops including 555 large
                                                  households 2. 1,822            or medium size shops.
                                                  shops including 566 large or
                                                  medium size shops


Date achieved             11/06/2002 12/31/200406/15/2011                        06/15/2011
Comments (incl. %
achievement)               Achieved.
                                                  40


Appendix D Resettlement and Rehabilitation Post
Project
Land acquisition and resettlement and rehabilitation (R&R) are dominant issues in
Indian cities: A large share of the Indian urban population (50 percent in Mumbai) live in
slums that often encroach on unutilized land and in the past this has been a major
impediment to developing the infrastructure networks. In this context, MUTP is a
landmark project as it was the first attempt to resettle such a large number of people in an
urban area. MUTP was the largest urban R&R project undertaken by the Bank and the
largest in India at appraisal. The project involved the displacement of 19,394 households,
and about 100,000 people (PAPs).

Long-term benefits and impacts: This resettlement translated into positive impacts in the
form of secured housing with title and improved basic amenities, which in turn has
improved the overall living standards of the PAPs in the form of better housing, access to
running water, separate sanitation facilities, etc. One of the long-term impacts was the
increased expenditure on recurring costs of maintenance and municipal services for
housing cooperative societies. To offset this, the implementing agency contributed INR
20,000 (US$500) for each household as a Maintenance Fund and the interest earned on
this amount was used for payment of taxes and maintenance. The shifting of a large
number of affected people away from the railway tracks had a significant impact in the
form of increased speed and frequency of the local trains in Mumbai, besides reducing
rail-related accidents and improving personal safety.

Quantification of resettlement benefits: PAPs were provided at no cost with a house or
shop of up to 225 sq. ft., and cash assistance towards one-time maintenance charges,
relocation costs and a contribution towards a community revolving fund, to be managed
by the respective cooperative societies. In the absence of land cost, ready reckoner rates23
used for registering a property when a sale transition took place were used to estimate the
costs involved for each household resettled under the project. The data indicates that the
project incurred expenditure between INR 333,000 and INR 785,000 (US$6,800 -
US$16,000) for each residential household, consisting of alternative accommodation,
cash assistance and technical assistance for different sites. In the case of commercial
households, the expenditure incurred varied between INR 506,000 and INR 1,714,000
(US$10,300 - US$35,000) for a unit size of 225 sq. ft. for each commercial household,
consisting of an alternative shop, cash assistance and technical assistance for different
sites.

Resettlement of shopkeepers: A shopping mall (the Powai Plaza shopping complex) was
developed in order to offer a more attractive resettlement option to the shopkeepers along
Jogeshwari-Vikhroli Link Road, many of whom had owned shops on private land with
formal or informal land title and therefore refused to be treated in the same way as the
squatters on public land. This shopping complex contains high quality shops that were
provided to some of the affected shopkeepers to reestablish their businesses. A private
developer undertook the construction in exchange for development rights.

23
     Ready Reckoner Rates are used to calculate stamp duty for real estate property
                                      41                                        Appendix D


Income Restoration Measures with a Focus on women: Mumbai has the highest number
of workingwomen in the country. MMRDA nevertheless took several measures to
strengthen income restoration and livelihood activities with a special focus on poor
resettled women. It established the Livelihood Cell to promote income-generating
activities among the resettled women groups. As a result of various initiatives undertaken
by the Cell, women have engaged in a number of businesses, which afford them financial
independence and secured education for their children. The Sankalp Mahila Audyogik
Sahkari Sanstha, set up by the Livelihood Cell, runs canteens at many institutions
including MMRDA. It produces and sells office stationary, gifts and seasonal items and
also offers housekeeping to various public and private organizations. In addition, 64 Self-
help Groups and eight Livelihood Groups were formed to enable about 1,000 women to
secure sustainable monthly incomes and improve their living standards. The presence of
these vulnerable women engaged in gainful economic activities has had a positive
influence on other resettled women. In various resettlement sites, over 10,000 women are
now enrolled in different group based income activities through Self-help Groups.

Resettlement of Apartment Owners: Another highlight of the resettlement process was the
resettlement of affected legal owners of residential apartment buildings through
Memoranda of Understanding. Under this process, MMRDA constructed the houses for
this category of people under a redevelopment scheme close to the affected area and the
PAPs were provided with apartment space almost double that of their previous houses.
During the transition period of three years or until the houses were built, PAPs were paid
a rental allowance (at market rate and inflation adjusted) of about INR 10,000 per month
(US$200). However, retrospectively, MMRDA decided that the use of transit
resettlement should be avoided to minimize uncertainties regarding permanent
resettlement. A total of 444 households residing in 19 Maharashtra Housing Area
Development Authority buildings opted for such private in-situ redevelopment schemes.

Institutional Capacity: The implementing agency progressed in addressing these issues,
with the active support and advice of the Independent Monitoring Panel. MMRDA
developed substantial capacity over the life of the project. It created a permanent unit to
manage resettlement impacts of various projects in the city. A Chief Officer reporting to
the Additional Metropolitan Commissioner headed the R&R unit in MMRDA. With the
increase in work related to post resettlement, a new position, Chief Office (Post
Resettlement), was created and a Senior Officer was assigned to it. Two NGOs with long
experience of working in the slums of Mumbai provided complementary support for
implementation of resettlement activities.

Independent Monitoring Panel: In addition to the above arrangements, the Independent
Monitoring Panel, headed by a former Metropolitan and Municipal Commissioner and
consisting of members from the fields of journalism, the legal profession and academia,
regularly met and reviewed progress in key activities and also undertook field visits to
assess the extent of improvement in the resettlement communities and to hear from PAPs.

Grievance redress process: A two-stage grievance redress process was established at the
beginning of project appraisal, which was streamlined during implementation. The
Grievance Redress committees (Field Level and Senior Level), handled complaints and
grievances from PAPs and were administered by independent persons not associated with
 Appendix D                                  42


the project implementation. The field level committee heard and resolved 3,704 cases and
the senior level committee resolved 902 cases. An independent impact assessment study
recorded a high degree of PAP satisfaction with the grievance redress process.

Post-resettlement Support: The post-resettlement support in this project is considered by
Bank and other social safeguards specialists to be close to best practice. Such support
includes assistance with registering PAP cooperative societies; support for Community
Management Funds and Maintenance Funds; undertaking building repairs; training in
building management and provision of maintenance manuals; allotment of additional
locations for common facilities; strengthening of basic services such a community halls,
health centers and schools; and establishment of a Livelihood Cell to support and monitor
income activities. MMRDA’s overall post-resettlement activities were notable in
achieving the registration and training of 99 percent of PAP cooperatives and enabling
them to responsibly self-manage their affairs.

Independent Impact Assessments Show Improvements in Living Standards and Remedial
Measures: MMRDA commissioned three independent resettlement impact assessment
studies in 2003, 2008, and 2013 respectively. The first two studies were undertaken by
the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, and the final assessment by Nirmala Niketan
(School of Social Work), Mumbai. Typical sample surveys were of 1,500 project affected
households and 30 focus groups. The latest results show 80 percent PAP satisfaction with
resettlement buildings, a 50 percent increase in. average monthly household incomes and
80 percent job retention among relocated PAPs.

Maintenance and Repairs: The 2008 impact assessment study observed that many
resettled PAPs, who earlier lived in slums and paid no levies towards water use and house
occupancy, found the payment of property taxes, water and electricity bills a burden.
Responding to this, MMRDA ensured concessions in property and water charges levied
in order to enable the resettled families to adapt to their new conditions. The majority of
building repairs have been completed and MMRDA has prepared an action plan to
complete the remaining repair works before a formal exit. The sustainability of building
management was probed during the field visits of the IEG mission. Some of the
cooperative societies visited revealed that they had issued share certificates to their
members, had their financial reports audited and also maintained a substantial reserve
fund balance for unforeseen expenditures. They are carrying out minor repairs of the
buildings and regularly paying the electricity dues and property taxes, thus helping to
ensure the security of the buildings, while maintaining details of the apartment owners.

Environmental Management: MMRDA prepared and implemented an action plan to
improve environmental management at the resettlement sites with the help of a
professional consultant. This involved implementation of a list of site-specific actions for
improving environment, health and hygiene in MUTP colonies, which was implemented
by MMRDA with the completion of major structural repair works. MMRDA has replaced
the drainpipes in the buildings and ensured one-time cleaning of storm drains. To
improve waste management, some garbage bins were supplied to the PAP housing
societies and arrangements made with MCGM for removal of solid waste from the
resettlement sites. MMRDA has also prepared overall environmental management plans
for all MUTP sites for the PAP societies to implement.
                                       43                                         Appendix D


Mumbai Relocated People Respondents (IEG focus
group survey) November 10, 2015
Respondents: interviewed by the IEG mission in two groups:

   i)      8 women at a health clinic, and
   ii)     6 men and 2 women at a management committee office

The selection was random, but the respondents were displaced from alongside the rail
tracks (not the roads). Persons relocated from the roads projects, according to survey data
were better off.

Ages ranged from early twenties to late fifties. All but one household was male headed.
On average there were three to four people per household sharing the physical space.
Respondents were literate with basic school education.

Transport:

Males: most journeys occur in the peaks (70 percent, local 30 percent): by mode: rail 60
percent; bus 20 percent; taxi 15 percent; walk 5 percent. One person owned a motorcycle,
but did not use it for commuting.

Females: journeys mostly off peak: modes: rail 30 percent; bus 20 percent; taxi 20
percent; walk 30 percent. Most women had informal sector jobs before resettlement. Now
most have formal sector part time jobs that pay more and in some cases have benefits.
Unmet travel needs were mostly to see relatives living elsewhere.

Issues for females were crowded women-only carriages in off peak times, (which was
when they traveled), poor and unclean toilet facilities on stations (usually at the far end of
the platform, whereas the men’s facilities were centrally situated), and poor lighting at
intermodal transfer points. Sometimes women got off at an earlier station to hire a taxi to
the final destination, either because there were no taxis at the station nearest their
intended destination or because of safety reasons. They appreciated the fact that there
were now women police on the trains, but thought they could be better trained. Taxi
drivers were sometimes abusive or made unwelcome advances. Buses were considered
relatively safe, but pedestrian infrastructure was generally lacking or inadequate, except
at a few railway stations.

Resettlement:

All respondents’ had received resettlement packages and the titles were in the names of
both the head of the household and the spouse. They were given the opportunity to attend
community consultations, but sometimes only the head of the household attended.
Responses were vague on how many meetings occurred. A free bus service was
temporarily provided immediately after relocation so that children did not have to change
school midway through the academic year.
 Appendix D                                  44


Economic Empowerment:

Most interviewees were former shack dwellers. Those with access to electricity in the
former slums (likely illegal connections) had TVs and fridges. After moving to the new
apartment many bought furniture and appliances. Prior to relocation income for females
was primarily from hawking and informal work as maids. Some men had full time jobs,
which they retained. One man had found a full-time job locally. All female respondents
had access to small business credit and four had taken up such credit opportunities. Once
the first loan is paid off, a slightly larger loan may be taken out. All respondents believed
they were better off after the relocation except during the first year when they had, in
many cases, to look for new employment. They now had to pay for utility services, but on
the other hand their status was improved because they had formal sector jobs.

General:

Access to health services and credit has improved. Accommodation was often a great
improvement. Each titled apartment, though small, had a separate bathroom and toilet
providing privacy. Each resettlement building had space for women’s activities, and a
pre-school children’s center with day care facilities to make it possible for women to
engage in productive activities. Management committees were democratically elected and
two places were reserved for women in each committee.

The big issue was schools. Their new local schools usually taught in the local language
and not in English. They realized, however, that their children would have more
opportunities if they were fluent in English. Some of the shack dwellers said their
children were taught in English at the school near their previous location. In one case the
family continued to send the child (at great expense to the household) back to the former
school.

Other complaints concerned insufficient trash removal, and the need to repaint the
exterior of the building, which had become discolored after exposure to the polluted
Mumbai air. One woman wanted a wall erected around the community to keep out the
slum dwellers (they now considered themselves in a class above such people). Class was
seen as very important – their daughters could expect to get a better marriage partner
now. One negative factor sometimes mentioned was the challenge of adjusting from
horizontal community living to high-rise living.
                                           45


Appendix E Borrower Comments
Comments and Observations on IEG Report – India-Mumbai Urban Transport
Project – IEG Draft Project Performance Assessment Report.

                                                                             Annexure

From: Ravi Agarwal [mailto:edmrvc@gmail.com]
Sent: Monday, June 20, 2016 6:15 AM
To: Peter Nigel Freeman
Cc: Onno Ruhl
Subject: IEG Report - comments & observations

Dear Mr. Freeman,

Comments & observations on IEG Reports are attached herewith.


With regards
Ravi Agarwal
Executive Director (Planning)
Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation Ltd.,Mumbai
Ph : +91 22 22070761
फ़ै क्स Fax : +91 22 22070761
मोबाईल Mob : 9821931647
Email : edmrvc@gmail.com

IEG Draft Assessment Report has been examined. The report generally reflects the facts
on MUTP – I for rail component. Observations are as under -

Page (viii) and 1.3

       The average peak hour rail passenger load per train was 4500 prior to MUTP, not
       5400 as mentioned (Refer PAD)

1.5    Zonal Railway works out separate costing for suburban railway system. The
       reference of operating plan may be provided. Further separate costing has no
       linkage with separation of the suburban services from the mainline operation.

1.7    (last line) – The same needs to be corrected as – “Project MUTP 2B is funded by
       Ministry of Railways and State Government.

2.12   The suburban rail operation is looked after by Zonal Railway not by Vikas
       (MRVC)

4.3    The sentences needs to be corrected as -
                                          46                                    Appendix E


       At the end of MUTP, the size of train fleet will be 251 nine car rakes (electrical
       multiple units). Target exceeded as total rakes was 285 rakes at end of MUTP

4.4.   In first line, MUPT to be corrected as MUTP.

       Procurement of bogies was a small component of Rolling Stock which was
       included in 2006/2007 as development project. The contract for 108 no. bogies for
       6/9 car Rakes, was placed on M/s Siemens, Austria in August 2008. The testing
       and trials of prototype bogies could not commence during the currency for the
       World Bank loan and therefore this was transferred in the follow up project
       MUTP 2A. However, main objective of inducting 101/9 car EMU Rolling Stock
       into services was achieved. At present, prototype bogies are not been cleared in
       testing and therefore no further supply has been made

4.8    The reduction in overcrowding was not only based on induction of new Rolling
       stock for Mumbai Suburban Railway system under MUTP but also other mode of
       transports such as Road projects (JVLR, SCLR etc), Metro etc. in the City. As
       alternate modes of public transport could not be realized as planned during
       intervening period which resulted the stress on Mumbai Suburban Railway
       System and therefore crowding could not be reduced as targeted.

5.4    The operation and maintenance of suburban is assigned to Zonal Railway. The
       data given in the Para is not clear as the maintenance cost of suburban system is
       much more than what has been mentioned.

5.19   The major delay was in finalization of contract for procurement of propulsion
       system for 101/9 car EMU rakes.

5.21   Vikus to be corrected as Vikas
       The issue of coordination with Zonal Railways for working in Railways premises,
       are dealt directly by executing agencies i.e. MMRDA, MSRDC etc. For MUTP
       also, MMRDA and MSRDC were coordinating with Zonal Railways directly and
       there was no role of MRVC.
                       47


Map of Road and Rail Components
