Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15885
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
(CR. 1961-SU)
June 24, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official currencies of the SuLian are the Pound (I-Sd) and the Dinar (DSd)
DSd I 0-                        LSd 1O 00
At Appraisal USS I 0t)         ILSd 4 5 (Official - Mav 1988)
At IC R  UtS$ I t        -      LSd 788
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
; mter (ml)              3.28 feet
I kilometrc (kkm)        0 62 miles (ml)
I tonne (ton)            1 .000 kg =  'n1 pounds (lb)
I feddatn (Ed)  1-       I 04 acres = 0 42 ha
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
At Appraisal I July - 30 June
At I R  I Januar% - 31 Decembcr
ACRONYMS
ARC           Agncultural Research Corporation
CIDA          Canadian Intemational Development Auence
DAP           Dc\clopment Action Plan
DC            De%elopment Centre
ElRR          Economic Rate of Retum
ESU           Extcnsion Sub-Units
FAO           Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FAO/CP        FAO/World Bank Co-operative Progranmme
FD            Forestrx Department
GOS           Govemrment of Sudan
IA            Implementation Agenc\
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           International Development Association
1PM           Integrated Pest Managemcnt
LUP           Land l.se Pl.n
MEU           Main Extenision Units
MTR           Mid-Term Rcvie%w
MFC           Mechanized Farming Corporation
MOANR         kiimstri ot'Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOF           Ministr of Fiuancc
NEA           National Extension Adminstration
NGO           Non.-Governmental Organization
NSA           National Seed Administration
PCU           Proicet Coordination Unit
PMU           Project Mlaniagement Unit
PPD           Planit Protectioni Directorate
PPU           Project Preparation Unit
RRU           Rural Roads Unit
RWC           Rural Water Corporation
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawving Rights
SKAP          Southem Kassala Agriculttiral Project
TA            Technical Assistance
T&D           Training and Demonstration
T&V           Training and Visits Svstem of Agricultural Extension
TOR           Terms of Reference
UNHCR         United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Emergencx Fund
UfNSO         UN Sahelian Organization
WB            World Bank
WSARP         Westem Sudan Agricultural Research Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTlJRAL PROJECT
(CR. 1961-SU)
CONTENTS
PREFACE .................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ................................................                                       ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ................................................1I
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ....    I
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ... .. .....
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ............. ... .............. . .
D.  PROJECT   SUSTAINABILITY  ........ . . .. .... ..... .........               ........  .....  .        7
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ... ........ ... .... ... ..........
F. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE                                    ........ ...                                 '3
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ... ................... ..
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS             .  . .                ..... .................. ..................I)
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNT .                         . .                                         .   . .    i(!
PART IL: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ............................. 12
APPENDICES
A.      Mission's Aide Memoire
B.      Economic Re-Evaluation
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
(CR. 1961-SU)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for thc Southem Kassala Agricultural Project
(SKAP) in Sudan, for which Cr. 196 1-SU in the amount of SDR 15.6 million (US$ 20.0 million
equivalent) was approved on November 8. 1988 and made effective on July 27. 1989.
2.     Following the suspension of disbursements to Sudan by IDA. the credit was closed on April 30.
1994. compared with the original closing date of September 30, 1995. The last disbursement transaction
was effected on August 4, 1994, at which time a balance of SDR 11.2 million remained undisbursed. Co-
financing arrangements for this project included a grant of US$ 10 0 million from United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). However, after an initial disbursement of US$ 0.5 million,
UNHCR withdrew from the project because of its replenishment difficulties. Comments received from
UNHCR have been reflected in the ICR. as appropriate.
3.     This ICR' was prepared bv a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme on
behalf of the Agriculture and Environment Operations Division (AF2AE), Eastern Africa Department of
the World Bank and reviewed by Sushma Gangulv, Division Chief (AF2AE) and S. Aganval, Projects
Adviser (AF2DR). Preparation of this ICR started with the mission's visit to Sudan in November 1995.
The report is based on material gathered from the project files and supervision reports, as well as findings
from field visits and discussions with Bank and Government of Sudan (GOS) staff associated with the
project. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by arranging field visits and meetings, and
by providing comments on the mission's Aide Memoire and the draft ICR. In view of the suspension of
Bank operations in Sudan, the ICR was not fonrarded by IDA to the Government of Sudan for
review/comment.
This ICR was modified to reflect the input of various Bank staff who reviewed the draft report prepared by
the FAO/CP Completion Mission, and may not exactly mirror the FAO/CP mission's assessment of the
project's performance, sustainability and some of the lessons of experience.






- HI -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT (SKAP)
(Cr. 1961-SU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Rainfed agricultural production provides for about 80% of Sudan's foodgrain production;
however, this subsector has been experiencing a significant decline, largely due to environmentally
inappropriate practices, the absence of farmer support services, diminishing rural water supplies, and poor
infrastructure. Recent droughts have exacerbated these problems and created an increasing awareness of
the need to reverse the trend of a deteriorating resource base. The Southern Kassala area of Sudan.
however, has considerable unfulfilled potential for increased agricultural production. The Southern
Kassala Agricultural Project (SKAP) was thus, designed, with a view to enhancing agricultural
productivity through improved infrastructure, farming and forestry techniques in a region which has proven
potential, but where environmental degradation is rapidly increasing.
Project Objectives
2.     The two major objectives were: (i) to increase production on a sustainable basis; and (ii) to
improve environmental management. Within the framework of these objectives, the project would aim: to
improve economic self-reliance of refugees (financed largely by UNHCR), to incrcase production through
improving yields; and to provide enhanced agricultural research, extension and plant protection services
and distribution of inputs.
3.     Special emphasis was given to improving infrastructure, forcst rehabilitation, introduction of
environmentally sound agricultural practices, and strengthening provincial institutions through provision of
facilities, training and technical assistance -- to ensure sust.iuiiability of project activities.
4.    In order to achieve these objectives, the project supported: (i) the introduction of research and
extension services, and strengthening of the Plant Protection Department; (ii) the National Seeds
Administration for provision of improved local cereal and oilcrop varieties; (iii) a reorganization of the
forestry services to carry out reforestation and forest protection through improved resource management;
(iv) the strengthening of planning and management capability of the Rural Water Corporation (RWC) and
carrying out a rural water supplies construction and rehabilitation program; and (v) the improvement and
maintenance of the rural roads network.
5.     The management structure proposed the setting-up of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and a
Project Management Unit (PMU), supported by Advisory and Steering committees.
6.     The objectives were attainable and the risks clearly identified. The key project risk was clearly
identified as the reliance on new entities for project planning and implementation, particularly the PMU and
the extension and research services.



- iii -
Implementation Experience and Results
7.     The Credit Agreement in the amount of SDR 15.6 million (US$20.0 million equivalent) was
approved on November 8, 1988 and became effective on Julv 27, 1989. The project was to be
implemented over six years. Initial implementation was seriously delayed, due to the inability of UNHCR
to meet their financing commitment of US$ 10.0 million. The project was, therefore, reformulated with
reduction in costs for the majority of components. Implementation was delayed until mid- 1991. The credit
was closed on April 30, 1994, having disbursed US$6.4 million. 32% of the original credit amount. Total
project costs are estimated at US$8.1 million.
8.     The Borrower's performance and commitment to the project throughout the project life werc
commendable. In view of the fact that, the project did not really become operational until June 1991, and
the significant financial constraints imposed by both, the withdrawal of UNHCR, and the suspension of
IDA disbursements to Sudan in 19932' SKAP's achievements in the short period until closure
(April 1994). were creditable. Notwithstanding the financing problems encountered and the reduced time
frame of the project, the overall project performance was satisfactory, with partial achievement of all
objectives. Research and extension3' services with effective linkages were established and were successful
in promoting sound, low-cost recommendations to a substantial farm population, which resulted in
significant increases in yields. The revolving seed fund was effectively used to provide selected and
processed local varieties of sorghum and sesame. Two nurseries were rehabilitated and provided with
water supplies for the production of planting material. Resource inventories of forest resources were made
and legislation promulgated for the protection of vulnerable areas. Reforestation and rehabilitation was
carried out over 23.500 feddans. Employment of refugees, however, fell short of targets, due to the
withdrawal of UNHCR support. The rehabilitation of watervards and hafirs, and the support for the Rural
Water Corporation's (RWC) repair and maintenance facility was achieved partially, due to funding
constraints and weak linkages with the PMU. The disbursements for rural roads represented 5% of SAR
estimates. Designs were, however, produced for the Gedaref-Doha road which is now under construction
using local funds.
9.     A comprehensive and high quality study entitled, "Land Use and Development Action Plan" was
undertaken, and became the blueprint for project implementation. TA was limited to the recruitment of a
financial controller; this proved effective in introducing a financial system, which was later on used under
other donor-supported projects. Given the critical financial problems and the inevitable delays incurred,
significant achievements were recorded, largely due to the effectiveness of the PMU and the support by the
Government of Sudan (GOS) for the project.
10.    The special emphasis given to: (i) strengthening the coordination between Implementation
Agencies (IA). and, (ii) the low-input program resulting from the scaling-dovn of the project, undoubtedly
increased the level of sustainability. With continued efforts to promote cost recovery for water, seeds and
agro-chemicals, key initiatives under the project are likely to be sustainable.
2! Disbursements of all IDA credits were suspended in April 1993, then reinstated in mid-July 1993, only to be
suspended again in mid-September 1993. The suspension was lifted, but for a day in January 1994. Sudan
was placed in non-accrual status on January 19, 1994, with disbursements being made only selectively for TA
contracts, training, etc. approved by IDA earlier on.
3' An extension service was introduced in the area for the first time, using a low-cost Training and
Demonstration (T&D) methodology, as the Training & Visit (T&V) system was not considered to be
sustainable locally, due to high recurrent cost.



- iv -
11.   IDA performance was satisfactory, particularly in developing an early commitment by the
Govenmment of Sudan (GOS) to the project concept. Supervision was regular and effective. The
Borrowers' performance, particularly by the PCU and PMU. was also satisfactory. The success, achieved
under serious financial constraints, was largely due to the experience and motivation of the project
management.
12.   In view of serious financing problems and the inevitable delays incurred, the project's physical
achievements fell short of appraisal estimates. However. dcspite the limited foreign exchange resources,
and an actual implementation period of about two years only, significant progress was made due to the
excellent performance of the PCU and the PMU. The project concept had the full support of GOS and
strong management was provided. The project management team succeeded in instituting a co-ordinated
approach and inducing the Implementing Agencies (IA) strong commitment to achieving project objectives.
13.    Overall, project outcome is considered satisfactory  The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at
appraisal was estimated to be 32%. The ERR at project completion of 24.3%, compares favorably with the
ERR of the scaled-down project (which was re-estimated at 25%). The ERR at completion is satisfactory,
in view of the fact that the scope and activities of the project were considerably reduced after the (off-and-
on) suspension of all IDA credit disbursements to Sudan, starting in 1993. In particular, the rate of
implementation of the horticultural and livestock activities of the project was below the SAR target. The
Mafaza nursery, rehabilitated under the project. was able to distribute only 7.500 seedlings and the increase
in livestock offtake expected to result from the additional water supply from wateryards, hafirs and shallow
wells, represents a fraction of the target estimated at appraisal. On the other hand, the distribution of
improved seeds was very successful and adequately sustained by the efficient extension service and
agricultural research. Some 7.000 farmers have benefitted under the project from the improved seed
distribution campaign. Yields of sorghum and sesame increased on average, by about 30%. At project
completion, a total of 240,000 feddans of sorghum and 40,000 feddans of sesame were planted with
improved seed. Net farmer's income based on an average holding size of 40 feddans, increased by
about 40%. in line with SAR targets.
14.    The project contributed significantly to improving environmental and natural resources
management through reforestation programs, the designation of forest reserves, and strengthening of plant
protection services. The management structure which evolved during the project's life, and the
strengthening of key institutions have effectively reduced staff recurrent expenditures, improved
coordination and increased operational efficiency. Cost recoverv has been promoted, to the extent possible,
for water supplies, roads and agricultural inputs.
15.    The key lessons learnt are as follows:
(a)    The relative success of the project, notwithstanding the severe constraints under which it
operated, was largelv due to the GOS support for the project's integrated rural
development concept. Local expertise was involved from an early stage in project design
and preparation, and a strong management team -- committed to the project -- delivered
satisfactory results
(b)    The early formulation of the Land Use Plan (LUP) and the Development Action
Plan (DAP), was extremely useful in setting priorities and agreeing on implementation
responsibility and related funding arrangements. The necessary re-scaling of the project
helped develop a lower-cost option, and objectives and resources were carefully matched.
(c)    Budget cuts did not permit the establishment of a formal T&V system. Instead a lower-
cost training and demonstration (T&D) system was effectively instituted. The approach of



-v -
on-farm demonstration of research recommendations, particularly improved seeds, proved
to be low cost and effective in producing immediate production benefits.
(d)    Full cost recovery was achieved for the agricultural inputs supplied, e.g. improved seeds,
agro-chemicals; some cost-recovery/community financing measures have also been
successfully instituted for rural roads and water supplv. Cost recovery mechanisms to
support provision of useful services. proved to be a viable solution for ensuring
sustainabilitv of services.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALk AGRICULTURAL PROJECT (SKAP)
(Cr. 1961-SU)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    Rainfed agricultural production provides for about 80% of Sudan's foodgrain production;
however, this subsector has been experiencing a significant decline, largely due to environmentally
inappropriate practices. the absence of farmer support services, diminishing rural water supplies, and poor
infrastructure. Recent droughts have exacerbated these problems and created an increasing awareness of
the need to reverse the trends of a deteriorating resource base. The Southern Kassala area of Sudan,
however, has considerable unfulfilled potential for increased agricultural production. The Southern Kassala
Agricultural Project (SKAP) was thus, designed with a view to enhancing agricultural productivity through
improved infrastructure, farming and forestry techniques in a region which has proven potential, but where
environmental degradation is rapidly increasing.
2.     The two major project objectives were: (i) to increase production on a sustainable basis; and (ii) to
improve environmental management. Within the framework of these objectives, the project intended to:
(a)   improve economic self-reliance of refugees (financed largely by United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), essentially by utilizing refugee labor for
reforestation and rural roads rehabilitation/maintenance programs;
(b)   increase production through improving yields,
(c)    provide improved agricultural research, extension and plant protection services, and
enhanced distribution of inputs, and
(d)   introduce environmentally sound agricultural and land use practices, reforestation and
improved forest management.
3.     Special emphasis was given to improving water and road infrastructure, strengthening of provincial
institutions through provision of facilities/equipment, training and technical assistance -- to ensure
sustainability of project activities.
4.    The technology base was to be strengthened through the introduction of research and extension
services using, initially, proven recommendations to yield relatively quick benefits. The project supported:
(i) the establishment of a main research station at Gedaref with two sub-stations, representative of the two
main ecological zones; (ii) the appointment of a research team covering the major technical disciplines; and
(iii) the provision of buildings, vehicles, equipment and operating expenditures.
5.     Three main extension units and twelve sub-units were to be set up and staffed by the National
Extension Administration (NEA) and operated under the T&V system. Training was to be provided,
together with facilities, transport and supplies.



- 2 -
6.    Improved seed was identified as a core requirement for enhanced extension operations; provision
was made to increase availability through a revolving fund, supported by processing equipment to improve
seed quality. One nursery for production of planting material was to be rehabilitated, and another was to
be constructed.
7.     The responsibilities of the Plant Protection Department (PPD) were to be expanded to cover
control of local pests; pesticides, sprayers and supporting facilities were included.
8.     Environmental management was to be supported, largely by strengthening of the Forestry
Department (FD) through reorganization and training. A rational program of reforestation, forest
protection and management was proposed, to be based on the recommendations of a Land Use Plan (LUP)
prepared through Technical Assistance (TA).
9.     The main objectives of the water supply component were to: (i) assess water demand and supply,
including ground water, in the project area; (ii) strengthen the Rural Water Corporation (RWC) with
respect to planning, financial management, full cost recovery, and repair and maintenance capability;
(iii) prepare a comprehensive program of wateryards, shallow tubewells and hafir rehabilitation and
construction, part of which would be implemented under the project; (iv) initiate coordinated community
and Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO) involvement in rural water supply; and (v) introduce, on a
pilot basis, wind-and solar-powered wateryard equipment.
10.    The main objectives of the rural roads component were to: (i) improve and maintain dry weather
roads serving areas with concentrations of villages and refugee settlements; (ii) provide employment to
Sudanese and refugee residents; and (iii) promote private enterprise in road rehabilitation.
11.    The objectives were clearly articulated and achievable; these objectives had been defined, based on
the experience gained from earlier projects which had generated replicable technologies -- successfully
applied in Sudan (under a proven project organization and management structure).
12.    The key project risk was clearly identified as the reliance on new entities for project planning and
implementation, particularly the PMU and the extension and research services. The close coordination
necessary between Implementation Agencies (IA) was to be ensured through the creation of Advisory and
Steering Committees.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
13.   In 1991 UNHCR withdrew from the project, being unable to meet its commitments; the project
financing plan was then reformulated by substantially reducing the costs of most components. The
suspension of all IDA disbursements to Sudan in 19934' also imposed severe financial constraints on the
project's implementation.
4i  Disbursements of all IDA credits were suspended ir April i993, then reinstated in mid-July 1993, only to be
suspended again in mid-September 1993. The suspension was lifted, but for a day in January 1994. Sudan
was placed in non-accrual status on January 19, 1994, with disbursements being made only selectively for TA
contracts, training, etc. approved by IDA earlier on.



-3-
Agricultural Research
14.    The objectives were to test new crops for introduction, develop improved practices and cultivars
and conduct forest research. This program was to be carried out by officers seconded from the
Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in an area which previously had no research services or
facilities, although a research program on the development of improved tillage techniques had been carried
out with support from the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) at Sam Sam.
15.    The research program was defined on the basis of the Development Action Plan (DAP), and
focused on immediate actions to increase production of the main crops of sorghum/sesame through
provision of improved and selected seeds of local varieties, and cultural practices introduced from similar
ecological conditions. Four Research officers (Agricultural Engineer, Agronomist, Breeder and Forester)
were posted to oversee the program. Transport was supplied. The practices recommended were widely
adopted by farmers. Land was made available at Gedaref, Sam Sam and El Hawata, as outlined in the
SAR. but civil works, housing officers and laboratories were not constructed.
16.    The research staff maintained a close working relationship with other technical cadres of the PMU
and the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC). The research program on Integrated Pest
Management (IPM) was canceled during the reformulation of the project. However, support to the national
IPM program continued through the Netherlands Government.
Agricultural Extension
17.    An extension service was introduced in the area for the first time, using a low-cost Training and
Demonstration (T&D) methodology. The T&V system, as proposed in the SAR, was not considered to be
sustainable locally, due to high recurrent cost.
18.   Three Main Extension Units (MEU) at Gedaref, El Hawata and Doka and nine Extension
Sub-Units (ESU) were established. Civil works contracts for housing and facilities, although approved,
were not implemented. The extension personnel operated from rented accommodation. The staff were
appointed in line with the proposed organizational arrangement in the SAR and transport was provided.
The "motor tractors" procured for field staff were unsuited to the requirements. Five officers received
overseas training, but the study tours (India and Kenya) were not undertaken through lack of funds. Terms
of Reference (TOR) for Technical Assistance (TA) for extension support were produced and approved by
IDA. but consultants were not appointed, in view of the constraints discussed earlier.
19.   The extension recommendations were based on the positive results achieved by ARC and West
Sudan Agricultural Research Project (WSARP), under similar ecological conditions. The main
recommendations included:
(a)   the introduction of locally selected, pure seed with suitable maturity for the given rainfall
distribution. Varieties: Eadam Hamam, Tub (Tosi) and Wad Ahmed;
(b)    summer ploughing; and
(c)    optimum plant populations and planting date/period.
20.    The reconmmendations were widely accepted and coverage achieved through demonstrations was
creditable. Yield increases were recorded at 20-40%, and it was reported that 25% of project area farmers
participated. Full cost recovery was achieved for the seed supplied. By 1993, the extension units had



- 4 -
absorbed Forest, Horticulture and Plant Protection Services and were established as Development
Centres (DC). operating on a co-operative basis.
Improved Seeds and Seedlings
21.    The objective of increasing the availability of improved seed was fully achieved, and the
performance of the National Seeds Administration (NSA), Extension and Research Services, was
considered to be highly satisfactory.
22.   Improved sesame and sorghum seed va5 produced and made available through a project revolving
fund (LSd 4.0 million). Selected farmers' fields of sesame and sorghum were put under the supervision of
the National Seed Administration (NSA). The crops were rouged and seed graded. Three local varieties of
sorghum and one variety of sesame were selected and the seed was purchased from farmers, and made
available for widespread distribution. The scheme was successful and provided the basis of the extension
package. During the 1992/1993 growing season, the revolving secd fund was used to purchase 270 tons of
sorghum and 21 tons of sesame. Benefits from this initiative accrued to about 7,000 farmers who received
improved seed with suitable maturity, according to environmental requirements. At project completion, a
total of 240,000 feddans of sorghum and 40,000 feddans of sesame were planted with improved seed. Seed
cleaning, grading and packaging equipment was procured for NSA. However, the civil works program to
provide adequate buildings to house this equipment was not completed under the NSA program, and is now
being completed with GOS funds.
23.    The establishment of a new horticultural nurserv at El Hawata, as foreseen in the SAR, was not
carried out because of an unreliable water supply. Instead, it was agreed with IDA to rehabilitate and
expand the existing nurserv at Mafaza. The Showat nurserv, susceptible to flooding, was moved and
provided with a borehole to secure year-round irrigation. The production and distribution of seedlings fell
short of SAR projections, largely due to lack of qualified staff and shortage of operating funds. Production
improved with the posting of a qualified horticulturist and provision of transport. Lemon, guava,
grapefruit, papaya and ornamentals were produced (7,500 seedlings in 1993/94); a full cost recoverv
system is in place and functioning effectively.
Plant Protection
24.    The Plant Protection Department (PPD) was strengthened through the training of 15 officers at the
University of Gezira, and a senior specialist received overseas training in IPM., Training was provided to
field staff, at the farm and forest level, in the handling and application of chemicals. The responsibility of
the department was widened to include the control of local pests, as called for in the SAR.
25.    The procurement of chemicals (approved by IDA) for the control of local pests was completed in
line with SAR estimates. Full cost recovery was also introduced. However, the progressive devaluation of
the Sudanese currency and high rate of inflation have now created problems, both in the procurement of
chemicals and sustaining full cost recoverv from farmers.
26.    Transport was procured according to plan, but knapsack sprayers, radios and camping equipment
were not received, due to lack of funds.
Environmental Management
27.   The project aimed to address the serious problems of environmentally unsound agricultural
practices and indiscriminate forest exploitation. The actions proposed included strengthening the Forestry



- 5 -
Department (FD), reforestation and training in basic forest management. The DAP provided the basis for
an action program which was successfully implemented.
28.    The PMU achieved a consolidation of the State Forestry Organization and appointed a Deputy
Regional Director to oversee the program and establish an operational linkage with extension services and
RWC. Some 20 forest wardens received local training in nursery management and extension.
29.    Legislation to protect the Dinder Wildlife Forest Reserve and other watershed vulnerable areas was
prepared and promulgated by the Federal Govemment. As a result, 225,000 feddans of existing forest
were demarcated and declared forest reserve. The reforestation program included the rehabilitation,
through direct seeding, of 40,000 feddans at three sites: Um Brush, Sheib and Um Jerra. Actual
implementation rate reached about 60% or 23,500 feddans. A resource inventory for the Upper Atbara, as
recommended in the Land Use Plan, was also completed.
30.    The envisaged program of circumplanting hafirs was not implemented, and indeed the effect of tree
planting on water balance should be re-examined. Seed collection by rural residents was effective and
casual labor was employed in the forest rehabilitation program. However, the 10,000 person-days of work
created by the project were well below the target estimated at appraisal. This was largely due to the
withdrawal of UNHCR -- originally responsible for the mobilization of the program. Civil works,
laboratory equipment and TA were not financed, and the proposed seed bank was financed by the
UN Sahelian Organization (UNSO). Three vehicles and one truck were provided under the project and
tractor services were hired from the MFC.
Rural Water Supply
31.    The physical and development objectives of the project in this regard could only be partially
attained; twelve wateryards and three hafirs were rehabilitated and two wateryards constructed.
Rehabilitation of shallow tubewells, and construction of hafirs and shallow tubewells was not implemented.
The two foreseen pilot activities, including wind-and-solar-driven pumping equipment, were suspended.
The planned rehabilitation program to promote RWC's repair and maintenance facilities was supported,
partly through the provision of spare parts and vehicles.
32.    The strengthening of RWC through training and provision of TA with respect to planning,
standardization of equipment, procurement procedures, financial management, operational efficiency and
monitoring of the rural water system, was canceled due to lack of funds.
Rural Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
33.    The funds disbursed on the rural roads subcomponent represented only about 5% of the appraisal
estimates. This allowed for purchase of spare parts, tyres, tools, two vehicles and the engagement of a
local consulting company to design the realignment of the Gedaref-Doka road. The provision of spare
parts allowed the newly established Rural Roads Unit (RRU) to maintain some of the rural roads within the
State throughout the project period.
34.    The testing of altemative soil stabilization methods on a section of road near Gedaref, the proposed
purchase of road construction and maintenance equipment, training of engineering staff and assistance to
improve financial management, was not achieved as a result of shortage of funds. Nevertheless, the State
Government has used the project-provided road design to commence construction of the Gedaref-Doka road
using other funds. Tax collection for road consLruction from benefiting farmers was reported to be
operative in the State of Gedaref. The effective use of the engineering design and the maintenance of some



- 6 -
of the rural roads during the project period, leads to the conclusion that in view of the circumstances, the
implementation of the subcomponent was marginally satisfactory.
Studies
35.    To support project implementation, a series of studies were to be carried out under the project.
However, a number of studies could not be undertaken due to financial constraints. The Land Use and
Development Action Plans (LUP and DAP) were produced to a high standard and took into consideration
environmental and economic criteria for land use; the LUP also included the "Upper Atbara Resource
Inventory" which was not foreseen at appraisal. This study greatly assisted in the reformulation of the
project, following the withdrawal of UNHCR.
36.   The Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources' (MOANR) view is that future rural
development prograrns should be based on a similar integrated approach and think that, as local staff were
involved in the production of the plan, future land use plans could be produced using local resources.
37.    The complete assessment of water demand and supply was not carried out; however, RWC did
produce a useful (for planning/development purposes) inventory of all water points in the project area and
their status. The study to propose how rural communities could become more involved in water supply was
also not carried out. The evaluation of the extension program and a review of implications of the
integration of the local extension services into a Provincial Extension Service was not implemented, due to
lack of funds after the suspension of disbursements in 1993. The study to recommend revenue generating
methods to finance rural road maintenance was not undertaken, as by the time the RRU, responsible for the
study, was established, IDA disbursements were suspended. However, a cost recovery mechanism is in
place. The study to estimate appropriate water charges for full cost recovery was not initiated; however,
water charges have recently been doubled. Thus, although various studies proposed under the project were
not carried out, measures such as cost-recovery mechanism for water and effective provisioning of
extension services have nevertheless been put in place, and are working satisfactorily.
Technical Assistance
38.    Of the 253 person-months provided, only the Financial Controller was appointed. This TA was
highly effective in introducing a project financial system which was later expanded to cover all IDA and
IFAD-supported projects. The PMU proposed and IDA approved the release of TA funds to contract local
consultants for the design of the Gedaref - Doka road. The cancellation of other inputs was due to cuts
imposed during project re-scaling and the eventual suspension of disbursements.
Economic and Financial Objectives
39.    Actual project costs amount to some US$ 8.1 million (Part II, Tables 8A and 8B) -- about 24% of
the amount estimated at appraisal. In 1991, after the withdrawal of UNHCR5' from the original financing
plan due to replenishment difficulties, IDA and the GOS reformulated the project by scaling down the size
of each component to reach a new total project cost of US$ 24.4 million. Taking this revised project cost
into consideration, actual total costs at completion represent 33% of the estimate made as a consequence of
the reformulation. The main reasons for the low level of disbursements were the serious delays in
implementation resulting from UNHCR's withdrawal in 1991, and the suspension of all IDA credit
disbursements to Sudan in 1993.
5/  Actual UNHCR disbursement amounted only to about US$ 0.5 million.



- 7 -
40.    The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at appraisal was estimated to be 32%. The high ERR
reflected the assumption that the farmers would adopt simple and inexpensive technologies such as
improved seed and better farming practices, leading to substantial gains in productivity. The ERR of the
scaled-down project was re-estimated at 25%. The ERR at project completion is calculated at 24.3%,
which compares favorably with the ERR of the scaled-down project. Detailed analysis and assumptions
are given in the appendices. The ERR at completion remains satisfactory given the fact that the rate of
project implementation was considerably reduced after (off-and-on) the suspension of all IDA credit
disbursements to Sudan starting in 1993 In particular, the rate of implementation of the horticultural and
livestock activities of the project was well below the SAR targets. The Mafaza nursery, rehabilitated under
the project, was able to distribute only 7,500 seedlings and the increase in livestock offtake expected to
result from the additional water supply from v.zaeryards. hafirs and shallow wells, represents a fraction of
the target estimated at appraisal.
41.    On the other hand, the distribution of improved seeds was very successful, and adequately
sustained by the efficient extension service and agricultural research. Some 7,000 farmers have benefitted
under the project from the improved seeds distribution campaign. Yields of sorghum and sesame increased
on average, by about 30%. At project completion. a total of 240,000 feddans of sorghum and 40,000
feddans of sesame were planted with improved seed. Farmer's net income, based on average holding size of
40 feddans, increased from LSd 218,000/year under the "without project" situation to LSd 305,000/year at
full development, representing an increase of about 40%, in line with SAR targets.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
42.    Project implementation was seriously affected by the inability of UNHCR to meet its financing
commitment. This necessitated a reforrnulation and scaling-down of most components. Additionally, due to
the suspension of IDA disbursements, in 1993, only SDR 4.4 million or 28% of the original credit amount
had been disbursed, by April 1994.
43.   In view of serious financing problems and the inevitable delays incurred, the project's physical
achievements fell short of appraisal estimates. However, despite the limited foreign exchange resources,
and an actual implementation period of about two years only, significant progress was made due to the
excellent performance of the PCU and the PMU. The project concept had the full support of GOS and
strong management was provided. The project management team succeeded in instituting a coordinated
approach and inducing the lAs' strong commitment to achieving project objectives.
44.    The fornulation of the LUP and the definition of a DAP was very effective in setting priorities
which were approved by the Steering Committee. GOS remains committed to the integrated rural
development concept, and its replicabilitv, as developed under SKAP.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
45.    The project design addressed the sustainability issue upfront. Special emphasis was given to
supporting IAs, and strengthening linkages and interactions between them and their parent departments at
the central and State levels. If pursued, this strategy will continue to ensure the sustainability of the
implementation arrangements for project activities. The project made determined efforts to promote cost
recovery for water and agricultural inputs, e.g., seeds and agro-chemicals. This will have a substantial
impact on enhanced project sustainability.
46.    The decentralization policy has recently transferred funding responsibility for SKAP to the State.
Salaries of PMU staff are being paid, but there is no operating budget as yet. A committee under the State
Minister for Agriculture has been established to decide on the future financing of the project activities.



- 8 -
47.   It is clear that the implementation structure developed under SKAP is favored by the state
authorities. The team approach and integration of activities were prominent features of the implementation
strategy and eamed the support of the Federal Government. The institutional structures developed are
considered to be replicable and are deemed to be significant improvements over previous donor-supported
area development projects. The future of the project will depend upon the availability of state-supported
funds for development activities, vis-a-vis, maintaining priority departmental programs. It should be noted
in this regard that the Southern Kassala area has a comparative advantage, with revenues accruing from
sorghum and sesame exports.
48.    The GOS puts considerable emphasis on strong local participation/commitment, e.g., via cost-
recovery mechanisms in all development programs. However, with the fragile state of the economy and the
largely subsistence level of agricultural production and shortage of foreign exchange, the levels of cost
recoven, which could realistically be achieved will be modest. The issues related to sustainabilitv are,
therefore, linked to the broad financial constraints on the part of the Government and communities, rather
than to the manner in which the project was designed and implemented. The involuntary scaling-down of
the project activities and the emergence of a low-cost program should assist in its sustainability by
matching available GOS funding to priority activities.
49.    The continuation of low-cost research and extension activities is envisaged to be feasible. Fanner
support for services provided under the project is strong, and considerable benefits have been achieved.
These benefits, so far, have resulted largely from promoting on-the-shelf technologies. The sustainability
of the research component will depend on the development of equally adaptable recommendations in the
future.
50.    Sustainability of the water supply component depends upon the ability of the RWC to effectively
maintain the works. Experience with the existing wateryards - and to some degree the hafirs - is not very
encouraging, largely due to lack of O&M funds. Beneficiaries' contribution to actual cost of water is only
about 20%. depending upon capital cost of the wateryards. As the use of hafir water is presently free,
sustainabillty would also be a function of RWC's access to Government funds for O&M. Indications are
that much of the work implemented is in need of rehabilitation. Community action is the only viable
alternative for operating rural water supply systems, but will only work effectively if spare parts and fuel
are readily available. Water charges were recently doubled. The sustainability of this measure remains to
be tested out.
51.    Project funds were used for the Gedaref-Doka road design, which is being constructed with funds
collected from beneficiaries, rather than project funds as foreseen. The road's sustainability is thus outside
the project's scope. However, it should be noted that tax collection for road construction (from benefiting
farmers) was reportedly undertaken successfully in Gedaref.
52.   In assessing sustainability, the current financial constraints and continuing inflationary pressures
must be weighed against a strong Government commitment to the project approach and its implementation!
management system. Strong GOS commitment was clearly demonstrated by Government increasing its
share of project financing, following UNHCR's withdrawal.
53.   In closing, it can be stated that, the special emphasis given to: (i) strengthening the coordination
between Implementation Agencies (IA); and, (ii) the low-input program resulting from the scaling-down of
the project, undoubtedly increased the level of sustainability. With continued efforts to promote cost
recovery for water, seeds and agro-chemicals, key initiatives under the project are likely to be sustainable.



- 9 -
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
54.   The project was identified in late 1986 by IDA, assisted by UNHCR, UNDP and a local Project
Preparation Unit (PPU). The project was appraised during 1988 and became effective in July 1989. The
integrated rural development approach proposed under SKAP provided an achievable set of objectives; it
was a logical follow-up to other conceptually similar agricultural sector projects, wvhich had produced
replicable results in Sudan.
55.    While the withdrawal of UNHCR could not have been foreseen, the response of both IDA and the
Borrower in the scaling-down of the project and the effective execution of its components despite serious
constraints, was creditable.
56.    Regular supervision (nine missions) was effectively applied and a Mid-Term Review (MTR) took
place in January 1994, shortly before the project's premature closure.
F. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
57.    The Borrower's performance and commitment to the project throughout the project life were
commendable. In view of the fact that, the project did not really become operational until June 1991. and
the significant financial constraints imposed by both, the withdrawal of UNHCR, and the suspension of
IDA disbursements to Sudan in 1993, SKAP's achievements in the short period until closure (April 1994)
were creditable.
58.    The PCU and PMU were very effective in reorganizing and consolidating the state agencies to
ensure sustainability of project activities. The success of the project management was largely due to the
experience and motivation of the officers concerned and their ability to promote an effective cooperation
between the lAs.
59.    This high level of performance was achieved under serious financial constraints, requiring
complete rescaling of the project activities and eventual reliance on local financing.
G. ASSESSMEN'r OF OUTCOME
60.    Notwithstanding the critical financial problems faced by the project as a result of UNHCR
withdrawal, the consequent inevitable delays in implementation, and the off-and-on suspension of IDA
credit disbursements to Sudan in 1993, followed by Sudan's placement in non-accrual status in January
1994, the overall outcome of the project has been satisfactory. As mentioned above, the project was
operational for only about twvo years; its achievements in this short time-frame are creditable. The ERR of
the scaled-down project was re-estimated at 25%. The ERR at project completion has been calculated as
24.3%, which compares favorably with the ERR of the scaled-down project. Average farmer's net income,
based on a holding size of 40 feddans, increased from LSd 218,000/year under the "without project"
situation to LSd 305,000/year at full development, representing an increase of about 40%, in line with SAR
targets. The project was successful in establishing basic research and extension services, which were able
to provide simple low-cost recommendations and improved seeds to a large farmer population.
61.    The project contributed significantly to improving environmental and natural resources
management through reforestation programs, the designation of forest reserves, and strengthening of plant
protection services.
62.    The rural water supply component was seriously constrained through lack of finance. Nevertheless,
the activities implemented have been rated as satisfactory. Likewise, while the activities under the rural



- 10 -
roads component were slashed due to shortage of funds and delays, the engineering designs for the roads
civil works, and the utilization of funds for road maintenance were effectively executed; achievements of
the rural roads component are deemed as marginally satisfactory.
63.    The project's development program and priorities were defined on the basis of a comprehensive
DAP which received strong support from GOS, both for the SKAP, but also as a model for future
integrated rural development programs.
64.    The overall organization and management of the project proved effective, particularly in the
direction and coordination of the various lAs.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
65.    The SKAP management approach, particularly with regard to the establishment of development
priorities, and designing strategies for collaborative development activities, has earned Government's
support. The DAP proved very effective and highlights the way for future increased efficiency and direction
of the public services, as well as for greater institutional and managerial impact.
66.    The financial crises during implementation provided indirectly for a reorientation and prioritization
of programs for GOS funding. This resulted in the development of low-cost options which bodes well for
the continuation of the project supported activities.
67.    The management structure which evolved during the project's life, and the strengthening of key
institutions has effectively reduced staff recurrent expenditures. The returns to these costs have also been
significantly improved through the coordination of services and their increased operational efficiency.
68.    Cost recoverv has been promoted, to the extent possible, for water supplies, roads and agricultural
inputs.
69.   It is likely that the project will continue to operate with state funding and self-financing through
cost recoverv, supporting priority activities, as defined in the DAP. The promising natural resource base of
Southern Kassala and the positive experience under the project, provides an added incentive for GOS to
continue its support for the SKAP concept and programs.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNT
70.    The key findings and lessons learnt are as follows:
(a)    The relative success of the project, notwithstanding the severe constraints under which it
operated, was largely due to the GOS support for the project's integrated rural
development concept. Local expertise was involved from an early stage in project design
and preparation, and a strong management team -- committed to the project -- delivered
satisfactory results.
(b)    The early formulation of the Land Use Plan (LUP) and the Development Action Plan
(DAP), was extremely useful in setting priorities and agreeing on implementation
responsibility and related funding arrangements. The necessary rescaling of the project
helped develop a lower-cost option, and objectives and resources were carefully matched.
(c)    Budget cuts did not permit the establishment of a formal T&V system. Instead a lower-
cost training and demonstration (T&D) system was effectively instituted. The approach of



- 11 -
on-farm demonstration of research recommendations, particularly improved seeds, proved
to be low cost and effective in producing immediate production benefits.
(d)    Tax collection for road construction from benefiting farmers was reportedly undertaken
successfully in the State of Gedaref Also charges for water have recently been doubled.
Full cost recovery was also achieved for the agricultural inputs supplied, e.g. improved
seeds, agro-chemicals. Cost recovery measures to support provision of useful services
proved to be a viable solution for ensuring their sustainability.



- 12 -
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial     Partial    Negligible  Not Applicable
Macro policies                        0           E9            1               
Sector policies                                                 Eli           FEl
Financial objectives                 El                         El            El
Institutional development                            l          El            El
Physical objectives                  El                         El            El
Poverty reduction                    F                          E             El
Gender issues                        E             E            E             E
Other social objectives              E             E            E             E
Environmental objectives                           E            El            El
Public sector management             E             E            E             E
Private sector development           E             E            E             E
Other (specify)                      E             l            E             E
B. Proiect sustainability            Likelv       Unlikely    Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank performance              satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient
Identification                     9             [ 93
Preparation assistance             E           El 
Appraisal                          E            E             E
Supervision                        E           El 



- 13 -
Highly
D. Borrower performance            satisfactory   Satisfactorn   Deficient
Preparation                       9             1              J
Implementation                    F             m             C
Covenant compliance                C            m I
Operation (if applicable)          m           EL            EL
Highly                                       Highly
E. Assessment of outcome         satisfactory   Satisfactorv    Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactorv



- 14-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Page I of 2
Loan/Credit Title                     Purpose            Year of         Status
l                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Approval
Proceeding Operations
1.  Roseires Irrigation                 Irrigation                    1961          Closed
(Cr. No. 0002-SU)                                                           December 1971
2.  Second Mechanized Farming           Agricultural mechanization    1972          Closed
(Cr. No. 0311-SU)                                                           December 1980
3.  Rahad Irrigation                    Irrigation                    1973          Closed
(Cr. No. 0364-SU)                                                              June 1980
4.  South Region Agricultural           Area development              1974          Closed
Rehabilitation (Cr. No. 0476-SU)                                            December 1979
5.  Savannah Development                Rainfed area development      1977          Closed
(Cr. No. 0718-SU)                                                              June 1984
6.  Livestock Marketing                 Livestock                     1978          Closed
(Cr. No. 0782-SU)                                                           December 1986
7.  Third Mechanized Farming            Agricultural mechanization    1978          Closed
(Cr. No. 0804-SU)                                                           December 1985
8.  Agricultural Research               Research and extension        1978          Closed
(Cr. No. 0834-SU)                                                           December 1987
9.  Southern Region Agriculture         Area development              1979          Closed
(Cr. No. 0904-SU)                                                              June 1984
10. Agricultural Rehabilitation Programme   Area development          1980          Closed
(Cr. No. 1000-SU)                                                             March 1983
11. New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation  Irrigation improvement       1980          Closed
(Cr. No. 1022-SU)                                                              June 1989
12. Blue Nile Pump Scheme Rehabilitation   Irrigation improvement     1981          Closed
(Cr. No. 1118-SU)                                                           September 1990
13. White Nile Pump Scheme              Irrigation improvement        1981          Closed
Rehabilitation (Cr. No. II 19-SU)                                           December 1987
14. Western Savannah                    Rainfed area development      1981          Closed
(Cr. No. 1181-SU)                                                              June 1986
15. Agricultural Services               Support services              1982          Closed
(Cr. No. 1201-SU)                                                           September 1989
16. Agricultural Rehabilitation 11      Area development              1983          Closed
(Cr. No. 1389-SU)                                                           November 1986



- 15 -
Page 2 of 2
Loan/Credit Title                    Purpose             Year of          Status
Approval
17. Sugar Rehabilitation               Agro-industry                 1984           Closed
(Cr. No. 1506-SU)                                                            December 1993
18. Drought Recovery Programme         Area development              1985           Closed
(Cr. No. 1614-SU)                                                              June 1988
19. Western Savannah II                Rainfed area development      1985           Closed
(Cr. No. 1640-SU)                                                              June 1993
20. Agricultural Extension and Training    Support services          1985            Closed
(Cr. No. 1639-SU)                                                              June 1993
21. Agricultural Rehabilitation III    Area development              1987            Closed
(Cr. No. 1866-SU)                                                            December 1992
22. Southern Kordofan Agricultural     Rainfed area development      1987            Closed
Development (Cr. No. 1867-SU)                                                December 1994
Following Operations
23. Emergency Flood Reconstruction     Emergency Relief & Area       1989            Closed
(Cr. No. 201 1-SU)                 development                                October 1993
24. Emergency Drought Recovery         Drought Relief&               1991            Closed
(Cr. No. 2290-SU)                  Preparedness                                Sept. 1993



- 16 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned             Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification1                                                     December 1986
Preparation2                                                        October 1987
Pre-Appraisal                                                       January 1988
Appraisal                                                           May 1988
Negotiations                         September 1988                 September 15-16, 1988
Board approval                      March 1989                      November 8, 1988
Signing                                                             April 26, 1989
Effectiveness                       March 1989                      July 27, 1989
Mid-term review                                                     April 1994
Completion                          March 31, 1995                  August 1994
Credit closing4                      September 30, 1995             April 30, 1994
The project was identified by an IDA led mission which included GOS, UNHCR and UNDP staff.
Prepared by FAO/CP, UNHCR and the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) of the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MOFEP).
3   Mission led by IDA with the participation of UNHCR and PPU.
4    Last disbursement took place on August 4, 1994.



- 17 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Fiscal Year
1988/89 | 1989/90 | 1990/91 | 1991/92 | 1992/93 | 1993/94  | 1994/95  | 1995/96
.............................................................(US000) .............................(US
A. Expressed in US$
- Appraisal estimate                            1,000            3,600            7.20()           11,600           14,800            17,200              19,400            20,000
- Actual                                           -             1,858            2,520             4,026            5,297             5,912               5,949              5.949
- Actual as % of estimate                          -              51.6              35.0             27.2              35.8              34.4               30.7               29.7
.............................................................. (SDR'000).............................(
B. Expressed in SDR
- Appraisal estimate                              780            2,810            5.615             9,050           11,540            13,415             15,130              15,600
- Actual                                           -             1,463            1.930             3,019            3,924             4,363              4,388               4,388
- Actual as %of estimate                           -              52.1             34.4               33.4             34.0              32.5               29.0               28.1
Date of Final Disbursement: August 4, 1994



- 18-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
SAR Estimates                       Actual
A.  Agricultural Research
Sub-stations:
- new    - Sam-Sam (unit)
- El Hawatha (unit)                                         I
- experimental site at l)oka (unit)                                  I                               -
- expansion Gedaref station (in2)                                 25,000                          25,000
Allotment of GOS Land:
- Gedaref(feddans)                                                 250                             250
- Wad El Hun (teddans)                                             750                             750
- El Hawatha (feddans)                                              50                              50
- Doka (ieddans)                                                   100                             100
Integrated Pest Management (sub-component)             To be implemented during PY3          Not implemented
Vehicles (no.)                                                     n.a                              5
Trainine (LPM  (no. staff)                                          6                                1
B.  Agricultural Extension
Reorganization of extension service:                                3
- Main Extension Units (MEU) (unit)                                 12                              3
- Extension Sub-Units (ESU) (unit)                                                                  9
Vehicles (no.)                                                     n.a                              5
Audiovisual equipment (set)                                      various                          various
Training: ST overseas courses (no. stafl)                          n.a                              6
C.  Improved Seed and Seedlings
Equipment (seed processing) (set)                                 various                         various
NurserY - new (no.)
- rehabilitation (n(.)                                      1                               2
Vehicles                                                           n.a
D.  Plant Protection
Procurement of pesticides (L.S.)                                   n.a                         US$ 300,000
Stores (rehabilitation) (no.)                                       2                               2
Knapsacks (no.)                                                    250                             250
Equipment (radio. etc.) (set)
Vehicles (no.)                                                      -                                1
Training - study tours (staff)                                     n.a
- local (Ulrniversity. Gezira) (staff)                     n.a                              15
E.  Environrnental NManagement
Reforestation (feddans)                                           40,000                          23,500
Circum planting hafirs (no)                                         65
Forest demarcation (park) (feddans)                                n.a                           225,000
Training (local) (no. staff)                                        40                              20
Land use survey (see Studies, Table 7)
Vehicles (no.)                                                     n.a                              8
Buildings (officer houses) (no.)                                   n.a
F.  Rural WA'ater Supply
Wateryards construction (no.)                                       -                               2
Wateryards rehabilitation (no.)                                     30                              12
Hafirs (no.)                                                        65                              3
Shallow tubewells (no.)                                            n.a
G.  Rural Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Road realignment:
- Gedaref - Doka (segments)                                       various
- Gedaref - El Hawatha (segments)                                 various
Pipe curvets (m)                                                  1,000
Irish bridees (no.)                                                 30



- 19 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
No key indicators for project operation were defined in the SAR. Key indicators for futurc operation are as
follows:
1.  Cost recovery has been promoted, to the extent possible, for water supplies, roads and agricultural inputs.
2.  The promising resource base of Southern Kassala provides added incentives for GOS to support the SKAP
concept and programmes.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined at
Study                    Appraisal/Redefined         Status                     Impact of Study
1. Land5                 Land use and development    Completed                 Action plan presented to GOS and useful
plans"                                                in project implementation Effective also
in establishing development priorities and
defining objectives.
2. Water                 Assessment of water demand   Inventory of water points,   Useful for planning/development
& supply..                  status, etc. Completed    purposes
3. Rural communities     Involvement of rural        Not carried out.
communities in water supply.
4. Extension             Implications of integration of  TORs prepared, review
extension services into the  not completed because of
Prov. Extension Service.    lack of funds
5. Revenue generating    To finance rural road       Not carried out.          Cost-recoverv mechanism is however in
methods               maintenance.                                           place
6. Water charges         Full cost recovery.          Completed by RWC          Recommendations under GOS
consideration; effectivc cost-recovery
mechanism is however in place
5   It also included the "Upper Atbara Resource Inventorv" (completed) not foreseen at appraisal



- 20 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate              Actual/Latest Estimate
Local    Foreign      Total6      Local      Foreign    Total 7
Item                       Costs      Costs                   Costs      Costs
................................................. (US$'000) .....  l
Extension Service            1,994      1,260      3,254          75         390        465
Agricultural Research         820        860        1,680         84         120        204
Horticulture and Seed         112         130        242         105         165        270
Improvement
Plant Protection              688       1,085       1.773         44         100        144
Rural Roads                  1,915      2,905      4,820          35         130        165
Rural Water Supply          2.668       6.420      9,088          17         280        297
Project Management           1,698      2,417      4,115        1,243      4,300      5,543
Environmental Protection    5,798       3.660      9,458         119         464        583
TOTAL:                   15,693     18,737      34,430      1,7228     5,949"       8,130
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
Local     Foreign     Total        Local      Foreign    Total9'
Source                   Costs      Costs                   Costs        Costs
.............................................. ...... (US$'000) ......l
IDA                        9,116      10,884     20,000            -       5,949      5,949
UNHCR                      4,558       5,442     10,000         n.a.        n.a.        459
GOS and Project            2,019       2,411      4,430        1,772           -      1,722
Beneficiaries
TOTAL                    15,693      18,737     34,430      1,7228'      5,9498!     8,130
6/  Source: SAR.
7   Data provided by PMU (details are given in Appendix B, Tables I to 4). Figures will not add up to the total as these do
not include the US$459,222 disbursed by UNHCR.
8   Does not include some US$ 0.5 million disbursed by UNHCR.
9'  Details are given in Appendix B, Tables I to 4.



- 21 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) at appraisal was estimated to be 32%. The high ERR reflected
the assumption that the farmers would adopt simple and inexpensive technologies such as improved seed and better
farming practices. After having contributed about US$ 0.5 million. UNHCR was unable to meet its remaining
financing commitments because of its own replenishment difficulties. As a result, the project was scaled down in such
a way as to maintain its original core objectives with a total project cost of about US$ 24.4 million or about 70% of
the original SAR cost estimate. The ERR of the reformulated project was estimated at 25%. The ERR at project
completion has been estimated at 24.3% in line with the ERR of the reformulated project. The economic re-evaluation
of the project has been carried out in constant 1994/95 prices and detailed analysis and assumptions are given in
Appendix B. The re-estimated ERR remains very satisfactory inspite of the fact that the scope and activities of the
project were considerably reduced after the suspension of all IDA credit disbursements to Sudan in 1993. In
particular, the rate of implementation of the horticultural and livestock components of the project was far below the
SAR target. The Mafasa nursery, rehabilitated under the project, was able to distribute only 7,000 seedlings and the
increase in livestock offtake expected to result from the additional water supply from wateryards, hafirs and shallow
wells, represents a fraction of the target estimated at appraisal.
On the other hand, the distribution of improved seed was very successful and adequately sustained by the efficient
extension service and agricultural research. Some 7,000 farmers have benefitted under the project from the improved
seed distribution campaign. Yields of sorghum and sesame increased on average, by about 30%. At project
completion, a total of 240,000 feddans of sorghum and 40,000 feddans of sesame were planted with improved seed.
Net farmer's income based on a holding size of 40 feddans, increased from LSd 218,000/year under the without
project situation to LSd 305,000/year at full development, representing an increase of about 40% in line with SAR
estimates (Appendix B).



- 22 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Sudan
Southern Kassala Agricultural Project
Original    Revised
Covenant   Present   Fulfilment  Fulfilment
Agreement    Section         Type        Status      Date        Date    Description of Covenant         Comments
DCA           4.01(a)          1          C       Continuous             Borrower shall maintain accounts   Accounting system
in accordance with sound       developed under TA was
accounting practice.           highly satisfactory.
DCA           4.0 1(b)(i)      I           C      Continuous              Accounts audited in accordance
with appropriate auditing
principles.
DCA           4.0 1(b)(ii)     I          C       Continuous             Certified copy of audit not later
than 6 months after end of each
financial year.
DCA           4.01(b)(iii)     I          C       Continuous             Fumish information accounts and
audit clarification requested by
IDA.
DCA           4.0(cXi-iv)      I          C       Continuous              Expenditures with respect to
withdrawals to maintain all records.
Proj. Agr.    8.01(a)          I          C        3/31/89               F tablish a project account for local Operation of project account
funds, make an initial deposit and   was generally satisfactory.
maintain at least LSd 300,000 in   Temporary cash flow
the account. IA's would maintain   problem, however,
special accounts in the province.    experienced.
Proj. Agr.    8.01(b)          1          C       Continuous              Audits of project and special  A general delay was
accounts and statement of       experienced. Overall
expenditures to be provided to IDA  performance improved with
within 6 months of the close of the  the appointment of TA for
fiscal year.                   financial systems.
Proj. Agr.    8.01(c)          6          C                              Pesticides supplied to be approved   Done.
by IDA.
Proj. Agr.    8.01(e)          3          CP      Continuous             Cost recovery arrangements and    To the extent possible there
handling of revenues would be   was compliance.
established and enforced.
Covenant Types:
I Accounts/audit                                                      8 Indigenous people
2 Financial performance/operating revenue from beneficiaries          9 Monitoring, review and reporting
3 Flow and utilization of project funds                               10 Implementation
4 Counterpart funds                                                   11 Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5 Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency        12 Sector or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
6 Environmental covenants                                             13 Sector policy conditionality: administrative change
7 Involuntary resettlement                                            14 Sector policy conditionality: regulatory change
15 Other
Present Status:
C =   Covenant complied with             CP  -  Complied with partially
CD     =  Complied with after delay      NC  =  Not complied with



- 23 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title                      Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
OD   4.00    Environmental policies            The project activities improved conditions with respect to cultivation
practice, forest establishment and rehabilitation. IDA approved agro-
chemicals imports. Compliance.
OD   4.07    Water resources management        The project sub-component is economically viable, environmentally
acceptable and socially equitable. Partial cost recovery. In compliance.
OD   4.14    Poverty reduction                 Support programs for refugees were not implemented due to the
withdrawal of UNHCR from project financing although alternative
employment opportunities were developed under the forestry component.
The project helped improve overall economic situation. Partial
compliance.
OD   6.00    Cost recovery                     Government of Sudan's policy supports full recovery of investment and
O&M costs. Concerted efforts are being made and cost-recovery of
expenditures incurred for water, roads, agricultural inputs, have been
introduced. Compliance.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                  Revised                 Actual
Stage of Project Cycle
Weeks      (USS'000)     Weeks    (USS'000)   Weeks | (US$'000)
Through appraisal          n.a          n.a          n.a         n.a         53.6        94.3
Appraisal-Board            n.a          n.a          n.a         n.a         18.7        37.7
Board-effectiveness        n.a          n.a          n.a         n.a          4.1         7.5
Supervision                n.a          n.a          n.a         n.a         52.2       106.2
Completion'l' /ICR         8.0          n.a          9.0         n.a         11.0        47.3
TOTAL                     n.a          n.a          n.a         n.a        139.6       293.0
Carried out by FAO/CP.



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of Project Cycle              Month/Year           Number of        Days in      SpecializedI/ Staff Skills   Implementation    Development         Types of
Persons         Field             Represented               Status          Objectives       Problems
dnitification                     December 1986              n.a            n.a                  n.a                     n.a              n.a                n.a
Pre-preparation                     August 1987               3              1 1             A, F, C (Er,g)              n.a               n.a               n.a
Preparation                        October 1987              3              25               A, E,C (Eng)                n.a              n.a                n.a
Pre-appraisal                      Januaiy 1988              4              n.a          A, F. E, C (Eng) T.S.           n.a              n.a                n.a
Appraisal                            May 1988                8              n.a          A, F. E, C (Eng) T.S.           n.a               n.a               n.a
--penision:
1.     December 1989              2              n.a                MS, FA                    I                 I                 F
2.        May 199()               3              n.a              MS. FA,.AE                  2                  1                F
iRe' ised Project Costs) 3.   December 1990              4              n.a            MS, FA, AE, A                 2                 I                 F
4.        May 1991                3              n.a               MS, AE, L                  2                  1                F
5.     November 1991              4               7              MS, FA, AE, A                2                  I                F
6.        July 1992               4               8              MS, AE, FA. A                2                  1                F
7.      February 1993             3               9                MS, FA, A                  2                 1
8.     December 1993              2               2                   n.a                     n.a              n.a                n.a
(Mid-term Review)  9.        April 1994               5              n.a                  n.a                    n.a               n.a               n.a
ICR                              October/November            3               10                E, A, IE                 n.a.              n.a                n.a
1995
MS = Management Specialist; FA = Financial Analyst; AE   Agricultural Economist; A = Agronomist; L   Lawyer; E   Economist; IE  Irrigation Engineer.
12/  F = Financial; availability of funds.



SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT (SKAP)
APPENDIX A
AIDE MEMOIRE






SUlDAN   Soutilem Kassala Agricuitiural Pr)ject (SAl') - Cr 1961-St
Appendix A: Aide Mrnoire
SUDAN
Southern Kassala Agricultural Project (SKAP)
(Cr. 1961-SU)
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
FAO/CP Mission
AIDE MEMOIRE
A. Introduction
An FAO/WB Cooperative mission comprising Messrs. R. Suppa (Economist/Mission
Leader), V. Branscheid (Land and Water Development Engineer) and J. Macartney (Agricultural
Research/Extension Specialist - Consultant), visited Sudan from 26 October to 12 November
1995 for the preparation of the ICR of the above project"'. The mission held meetings with the
concerned officials of the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (MOANR) and worked closely with staff of the Project Management Unit (PMU) both
in Khartoum and in Gedaref Meetings were also held with officials of the various Implementing
Agencies (IA). During a visit to the project area, the mission had the opportunity to present its
preliminary conclusions to the Gedaref State Minister of Ag.iculture. A debriefing meeting with
H.E. the Federal Minister of Agriculture was held in Khartoum on 6 November 1995 with the
participation of the FAO Representative.
The mission acknowledges the cooperation and courtesy extended to it by the
Government of Sudan (GOS) and its agencies. The mission findings and recommendation, as
indicated below, are subject to review and confirmation by the IDA management.
B. Background
The project was appraised in May 1988 and was estimated to cost US$ 34.4 million. It
was co-financed by IDA with US$ 20.0 million, the Ulnited Nations High Commission for
Refugees (UNHCR) with US$ 10.0 million and GOS with US$ 4.4 million. The Credit
During the same period, the mission also carried out the preparation of the ICR relative to the Emergency
Drought Recovery Project (Cr. 2290-SU) for which a separate Aide Memoire has been prepared.
I



SUDAN: Southem Kassala Agricultural Project (SKAP) - Cr. 1961 -SU
Appendix A: Aide Mernoire
Agreement was signed on 26 April 1989 and the credit became effective on 27 July 1989. The
main objectives of the project were to:
increase agricultural production on a sustainable basis;
improve environmental management; and
strengthen and support Government institutions implementing the project.
The project components included:
Agricultural Research;
Agricultural Extension,
Horticulture and Improved Seeds;
Plant Protection;
Rural Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance;
Rural Water Supply;
Project Management Unit; and
Environment Protection.
Appropriate technical assistance, training and specified studies were also foreseen to
support the Project Implementation Agencies.
1JNHCR, having contributed US$ 450,000 to the project after seven months delay, was
unable to meet its further financing commitments because of its own replenishment difficulties. As
a consequence, and to avoid further delays in project implementation, PMU advised the GOS to
reformulate the project on the basis of the existing IDA Credit 1961-SU and corresponding GOS
local cost financing. The GOS created a Committee chaired by the Director of Planning MOANR
to prepare a scaled down proposal without jeopardizing the achievement of the original
objectives of the project. Two options were considered:
eliminating one or more components from the package and concentrating the project into a
reduced number of core activities, or
scaling down of all components corresponding to the reduction in available funding resources.
The decisive factor for the committee was the consideration of the synergetic effects each
component would have on the rest and the desirability for achieving the original benefits.
2



SUDAN: Southem Kassala Agricultural Project (SKAP) - Cr. 1961 -SU
Appendix A: Aide Mernoire
C. Project Implementation
General
Physical implementation of the project is below the original SAR target. However, inspite
of the limited external financial resources made available as a consequence of the UNHCR
withdrawal in 1991 and the suspension of all IDA credit disbursements to Sudan in 1993, the
overall outcome of the project may be deemed satisfactory. The implementation performance of
each individual project component is described below:
Agricultural Research
The main activity of the research component was to establish, for the first time in the
project area, a research operation which would focus on the testing of recommendations
developed by the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) under similar agro-ecological
conditions. The main short-term objectives were to produce early returns to sorghum and sesame
production and establish an extension linkage over a wide farmer population.
Although the land was made available by the GOS the construction programme for the
Research Station at Gedaref and for the seeds stations at Sam Sam and El Hawata which included
housing, offices and laboratories, never materialized because of lack of funds. Nevertheless, a
research programme, defined by the Development Action Plan (DAP) prepared under the Land
Use Plan Study and approved by the Steering Committee, was put in place.
A team of one agronomist and four research officers, seconded from ARC, was
responsible for operating the programme based on practical and simple recommendations, which
proved to be very acceptable to farmers and cost effective. The research workers maintained a
close working relationship with other technical cadres of the PMU. The research programme on
Integrated Pest Management (IPM) was cancelled during the reformulation of the project.
Vehicles, including one station wagon, two pick-ups and one lorry, and one tractor were
provided. Tractor services were hired from Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC).
Agricultural Extension
A formal extension service was also introduced in the project area for the first time using a
Training and Visit (T&V) methodology. The organizational structure proposed in the SAR was
scaled down as a consequence of the reformulation of the project. The three Main Extension
Units (MEU) at Gedaref, El Hawata and Doka, and 9 Extension Sub-Units (ESU) were
3



SUIDAN: Southem Kassala Agricultural Project (SKlA) - Cr. 1961-SL
Appendix A  Aide Menioire
established, using rented accommodation. The civil works contracts for the construction of
offices, although approved, were not funded.
The recommended research packages for the project area were demonstrated through
farmer plots and field days supported by advisory pamphlets. Six senior extension officers
received overseas training but the foreseen study tours to Kenya and India, to provide
familiarization with the T&V system, could not be undertaken because of lack of funds. As a
result of the financial difficulties of the project, the Extension Department of MOANR suggested
a low cost extension service and a T&D (Training & Demonstration) method was adapted and
proved successful.
The terms of reference for extension support to be provided by TA were produced and
approved by IDA but consultants were not appointed due to the suspension of IDA credit
disbursements. At project closure the extension units had been expanded into Development
Centres (DC) to provide for forestry, horticulture and plant protection services. GOS funding
was approved for continuing support. The extension department reported high acceptance rates of
the recommendation provided. Improved seed, locally produced, was widely distributed on a
revolving basis and yield increases were reported to range from 20% to 40% under farm
conditions. Improved cultural practices, including summer ploughing and optimum seed rates,
were generally well accepted by farmers. The audio-visual equipment and vehicles were procured
according to the scaled down programme.
Improved Seed and Seedlings
Improved seed was made available through a project revolving fund (LSd 4.0 million)
which performed satisfactorily. Selected farmers plots of sesame and sorghum were put under the
supervision of seed inspectors of the National Seed Administration (NSA). The crops were
rouged and the seed graded. Five local varieties were selected and the seed was purchased from
farmers, and made available for widespread distribution. The scheme was successful and provided
the basis of the extension package. During the 1992/1993 growing season, the revolving seed
fund purchased 270 tons of sorghum and 21 tons of sesame and some 80,000 feddans and 20,000
feddans were planted respectively benefitting about 2,000 farmers who received improved seed
with suitable maturity according to environmental requirements. Seed cleaning, grading and
packaging equipment was procured for NSA. However, the civil works programme to provide
adequate buildings to house this equipment was not completed under the NSA programme and is
now being completed with GOS funds.
The establishment of a new horticultural nursery at El Hawatta as foreseen in the SAR,
was not carried out because of unreliable water supp,v It was later agreed with IDA to
4



SUDAN: Soutilen Kassala Agricultural Project (SKAP) - Cr. 1961-SU
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
rehabilitate the existing nursery at Mafaza, which benefits from a continuous source of water and
works were completed as scheduled. The nursery at Showak was also rehabilitated and provided
with buildings, equipment and a bore hole. Vehicles were provided, training was given to by
nursery staff; funds to cover operating costs for five years were made available. However, during
the 1993/94 only 7,500 seedlings mainly (lime, guava and papaya) were released. These nurseries
now face difficulties in obtaining the necessary operating funds.
Plant Protection
The procurement of chemicals for the control of local pests
was completed in line with SAR estimates. Distribution to farmers also took place as foreseen but
the cost recovery system put in place by the project was ineffective in real terms due to rapid
inflation. A total of 15 technicians of the Plant Protection Directorate (PPD) received local
training at the University of Gezira and a senior specialist received overseas training in IPM.
Training on pesticide handling was also given to farmers and forest guards. Procurement of
transport took place in line with the scaled down programme. However, the procurement of
Knapsack sprayers was not effected due to withdrawal of IDA funds.
Environmental Management
The implementation of this component concentrated on strengthening the Forestry
Department (FD) through training and the development of an operational linkage with extension
and the Rural Water Corporation (RWC). Legislation to protect the Dinder Wildlife Forest
Reserve and other watershed vulnerable areas was prepared on the basis of the land use plan
produced by the project and promulgated by the Federal Government. As a result, 225,000
feddans of existing forest were demarcated and declared forest reserve. The reforestation
programme included the rehabilitation, through direct seeding, of 23,500 feddans at three sites
namely Um Brush, Sheib and Umm Jerra which are near refugee settlements camps. The
envisaged programme of circum-planting hafirs was not implemented and indeed the effect of tree
planting on water balance should be re-examined. Seed collection by rural residents was effective
and casual labour was employed in the forest rehabilitation programme. However, the 10,000
mandays of work created by the project were far below the target estimated at appraisal largely
due to the withdrawal of UNHCR foreseen to be responsible for the mobilization of the
programme. Civil works, laboratory equipment and TA were not financed and the proposed seed
bank was financed by the UN Sahelian Organization (UNSO). Three vehicles and one truck were
provided under the project and tractor services were hired from the Mechanized Farming
Corporation (FC). Some 50 forest wardens received training locally and extension staff were
also trained in forest nursery management.
5



SUDAN: Southem Kassala Agricultural Project (SKAP) - Cr. 1961-SU
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
Rural Water Supply
Only about 10% of the total funds made available after the revised programme of 1991
have been disbursed resulting, in physical terms, in the rehabilitation of 12 wateryards and 3 hafirs
and in the construction of two new wateryards. Funds were also originally provided for
equipment, spare parts, vehicles, studies and technical assistance. However, only vehicles and
spare parts were procured under the project.
The intended involvement of communities and NGO's in the construction, operation,
maintenance and cost recovery of local water points was not initiated. Nevertheless, water
charges for pumped water (LSd 275/m3) cover about the operation of the pumps and a portion of
the spare parts and in practice, only 20% of the total cost of providing water is actually collected.
As most of the rehabilitation of wateryards and hafirs took place in 1990 a new
rehabilitation programme is overdue again at this time particularly regarding the pumping
equipment. The same applies to the majority of the 130 existing wateryards in the State of
Gedaref It is estimated that almost 60% of them would require either replacement or
rehabilitation.
Inspite of the above, and considering that at project completion only 5% of the
investments estimated at appraisal have been undertaken, this component is regarded, overall, as
satisfactory both in respect to the PMU's management performance as well as in providing water
to the public.
Rural Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Funds used for this component, less than 10% of the amount foreseen under the
reformulated package, were used largely to purchase spare parts, tires, tools and fuel, vehicles and
to cover additional operating costs. In addition, the PMU engaged a local consulting company to
design the new Gedaref - Doka Road. Roads were maintained as part of the overall task of the
newly established Rural Road Unit (RRU) under the State of Gedaref s Ministry of Engineering
Affairs. The State Government of Gedaref, on the basis of the designs financed under the project,
commenced to re-construct the Gedaref - Doka Road in 1993. Out of the total 74 km of road, 28
km have so far been completed and construction of the remaining section is on-going albeit at a
low speed due to financial constraints. It is relevant to note that funds are currently collected from
benefitting farmers in the area (through the Gedaref - Doka Road Committee which obtains 1% of
farmers crop sale value from State crop markets). Both the PMU and the RRU, through their
devoted and dedicated staff, contributed considerably in building up this sense of responsibility
among beneficiaries. It is mainly for this reason, which represents a good base for establishing an
6



SUDAN: Southem Kassala Agricultural Project (SKAP) - Cr. 1961-Slt
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
effective cost recovery system, that the implementation of this component is considered highly
satisfactory.
Studies
To support project implementation a series of studies were to be carried out by the
project. The Land Use Survey and Land Use Plan was produced to a high standard and a
"Development Action Plan" taking into consideration environmental and economic criteria for
land use was also produced. The study also included the "Upper Atbara Resource Inventory"
which was not foreseen at appraisal. This study, which greatly assisted in the reformulation of the
project following the withdrawal of UNHCR, was accepted at Federal and State level as the blue
print for future development projects in the State of Gedaref The assessment of the water
demand and supply was also completed by local consultants under the guidance of RWC. It
provides an inventory of all water points in the project area and recommendations are given for
future rehabilitation programmes of wateryards, hafirs and shallow wells. The study propose how
rural communities could become more involved in water supply was not carried out. The
evaluation of the extension programme and the integration of the extension services into a
Provincial Extension Service was not carried out due to lack of funds after the suspension, of
disbursements in 1993. Similarly, the study to recommend revenue generating methods to finance
rural road maintenance was not financed. The RRU, responsible for the study, was established as
a result of Land Use Plan (LUP) and by that time, IDA disbursements were suspended. The study
to estimate appropriate water charges for full cost recovery has been completed by RWC and is
available only in arabic. The mid-term review was finalized in January 1993.
D. Actual Project Cost and Disbursement
Actual cost is estimated at US$ 7.67 million. Final overall disbursement includes: IDA
US$ 5.95 million and GOS US$ 1.72 million. IDA disbursement expressed in SDR amounted to
4.4 million or 28% of the original credit amount of SDR 15.6 million. The credit was declared
closed on 30 April 1994 and last disbursement took place on I August 1994.
E. Institutional Performance
The Organization and Management of the project was established as indicated in the SAR
under the MOANR with a Project Management Unit (PMU) established in Gedaref and a Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) in Khartoum. Actual activities of the PMU, particularly procurement,
were delayed for about seven months as a result of the UNHCR withdrawal from the project. A
merge of the financial and administrative sections of the PMU took place at the early stage of the
7



S 'DANN Southern Kasxala Agricultural Project (SKAP) - Cr. 1961-SU
Appendix A AZdc Menoire
project. However, the two sections were later re-established as proposed in the SAR organization
chart. In 1992, a monitoring and evaluation section, as proposed by the LUP, was established but
proved to be ineffective because adequate training in M&E techniques to its staff could not be
provided. The PNMU was able to achieve a consolidation of the forestry and horticulture services
by creating two posts of lDepuly Regional Director who actively participated in the Advisory
Comnmittee. TIle PCU proved to be very effeetive particularly in establishing communication with
ihe Federal Government. Furthermore, the PMUJ in line with the recommendations of the Land
Use Plan, established the "SKAI' forum" for coordinating the activities of the various
implementing agencies.
F. Project Results
Given the critical financial problems faced by the project and the consequent inevitable
delays in disbursements, the overall performance of the project must be considered very
satisfactory. The strengthening of the key agricultural institutions was effectively carried out and
the PMU was successful in achieving a cooperative approach and commitment to agreed project
activities under the MOANR The formulation of the LUP and its acceptance by the Federal and
State gover-nments provided fof an inter-agency approach to set priorities and collaborative
activities relative to food security and environmental management as foreseen under the project.
Extension services have been established and are progressively expanding coverage with farmers
support. The mission was imprtessed by the degree of cooperation which had been established
between the technical sections of the PM1. This resulted in substantial benefits at farm level over
a three season period at modesi cost. The provision of a revolving fund, operated by NSA to
provide foi 'imriediate relcase c f inproved, selected local varieties provided the main incentive for
the research package acceptance.
The project made considerable physical impact on the expansion of forest land. The
sesame and sorghum yields are estimated to have increased in average by 20%. However, the
expected creation of employment opportunities were considerably below SAR expectations
mainly because of'the withdrawal of IJNHCR fiom the project.
G. Sustainability
The potential exists in the project area to provide for increased production of food grain
for self-sufficiency and export. With this attractive resources base the area is likely to attract
continuing government priority support.
The team approaclh and integration of activities were prominent features of the
implementation process and attracted support from Federal Government. The institutional
8



SUDAIN  Southei KiLssalIa  grieultiiral 'roect (SK,API - Cr. 1i16 1-SI
Appendix A. Aide Ieinimrc
structures, developed are considered to be replicable and show significant improvements over
previous foreign funded area development projects
The enforced scaling down of the project activities and the emergtence of a low inpLlt
programme should assist in its sustainability by matching GOS funding to priority activities.
Sustainability issues were addressed up-front in project design and the pl)ioect made
determined efforts to promote cost recovery for water. seed anic cheiicalk
H. Key Lessons Learnt
The key lessons learnt are as follows:
The availability of Government funds was essential for the continuation of tie project after the
suspension of all credit disbursements to Sudan.
Whilst the implementation of activities directly under the line departments of MOANR were wel
coordinated, problems were encountered in developing cooperation with RWC' and RRU who
reported through different Ministries. In retrospect, it would Ih\e been more efrectie I>O, the
PMIU to directly contract water and road works (either from public corperations.l or the private
sector).
The Land Use Plan provided the basis upon which priorities were set and programmes developed.
It is very important that these kind of studies are carried out at the very early stage of a project
and it is the GOS view that such an exercise should be stand Ird praciice inr area development
projects.
The satisfactory performance of the project was largelv due to the simplicity of design and a
rational prioritization of objectives which would have been achievable hiad the project financing
continued as planned.
The necessary reformulation of the project helped to develol a  L,. cosI O;i.in aid obljectI%es anTd
expenditure were carefully matched. This was particular+l- effective .ni vr: opeia ion of ihe
extension service where simple farm demonstration and szed producti, ai pi o.rmulcs prov ided
considerable benefits.
The difficulty to obtain spare parts for machinery would suggest to considei for ;Futu-e similar
operations technologies which would allow local manUfwcn.ire O0 SUCh spare par,
9



SUDAN: Southern Kassala Agricultural Project (SKAP) - Cr. 1961-SU
Appendix A: Aide Memoire
Construction of hafirs should be considered for manual work in view of labour's competitiveness
to machinery.
At design stage of new area development projects a bottom-up approach should be considered to
allow for a more responsible participation of project beneficiaries.
SKAP forum proved to be very successful in coordinating the smooth implementation of project
activities.
Tax collection for road construction from benefitting farmers appears acceptable in the State of
Gedaref
I. Follow-Up
The mission will return to Rome on 12 November 1995 and during the following two
weeks will prepare a draft ICR which will be transmitted to the WB by mid December 1995. It is
recommended that the GOS should also finalize its completion report and send it to the WB by
the end of December 1995.
KHARTOUM, 11 NOVEMBER 1995
10



SUDAN: Southemn Kassala Agricultural Project (SKAP) - Cr. 1961-Sl
Appendix A: Aide Mkmoire
List of Institutions/Persons Visited
A. Khartoum
Ministry of Finance
I.    Mr. El Fatih Ali Siddig, Deputy Undersecretary
2.    Mr. Babiker Abdalla Babiker, Deputy Director, IFCD
3.    Mr. Isam Bashir Ibrahim, IFCD
4.    Mrs. Amna Abdalla Erzein, IFCD
Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
1.    Dr. A.A. Genaif, Federal Minister
2.    Dr. A. Razig El-Bashir, First Undersecretary
3.    Mr. A.A. Abdalla, Deputy Director, PPD
4.    Mr. Abubakr Abdelazim, Director of the Minister's Office
5.    Mr. Hassan Abbas El Tom, Acting First Undersecretary
6.    Dr. Ali Abdel Aziz Salih, Director Agricultural Policy and Food Security
7.    Mrs. Salwa Agu Haraz, Agricultural Policy and Planning Department
8.    Mrs. Shaida Ahmed, Agricultural Policy and Planning Department
9.    Mr. Ahmed Muddathir Mahmoud, Chief, Agr. Eng - Agr. Eng. Department
10.   Mr. Elrayah Ahmed Elzubeir, Director, Agr. Eng. Adm.
National Seed Administration
Mr. Mahmoud Hussein, Deputy Director
FAO Representation
Mr. O. S. Ahmed, FAO Representative in the Sudan
Project Management Unit (PMU): SKAP
I.    Mr. E.A. Simsaa, Former Executive Director
2.    Mr. Hassan Ali El Obeid, Coordinator
11



SUDAN: Southem Kassala Agricultural Project (SKAP) - Cr. 196 1-SU
Appendix A: Aide Mrnoire
B. GEDAREF
1.    Mr. Elsherief Ahmed Omer Badr, Governor of Gedaref State
2.    Mr. Ismael Yacoub Mohmed, Ministry of Agriculture, Gedaref State
3.    Mr. Esmat Hassan Abdulla, Director of Environment, PMU - SKAP
4.    Mr. Zein Elabdeen M. Mahmoud, Acting Executive Director, PMU - SKAP
5.    Mr. Shadrach Pudo Zuggar, Accountant, PMIU - SKAP
6.    Dr. Musa Babiker, ARC
7.    Mr. Abdelmuniem, M., NSA
8.    Mr. M. Osman, PPD
9.    Mr. Abdana Elchier, Forestry
10.   Mr. Omar Izzat, RWC, Managing Director
12



SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT (SKAP)
APPENDIX B
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION



Table 1. Project Total Cost by Component
(in current terms)
1989/90                 1990/91                   1991/92                    1992/93                   1993/94                    1994/95                       Total
Comp        ISd'000    USS$'S00       SS LSd'000  tSS'000    1,Sd'000                              | S$'000        LSd'000        S$'000     LSd'000 I  ISS$000           1,Sd'000        US$W000
PMU         8.605.9      1.955.7      8.114.2       6657      47.019.4     1,191.7      151.5350       1,224.1     79,707.2       339.3      86.721.9       166.7         381,703.5       5,543.2
NEA           135X8        30.9       1,417.3       116.2      8.473.3      214.8        6.331.8         49.7       10.895.7      53.8           -             -           27.253.9         465.3
RWC           372          8.5        3.140.3       257.4       620.0        15.7         952.1          7.5        1,514.5        7.5           -            -             6,264.1         296.5
PPD           36.0         8.2         480.3         39.3      2.223.7       56.4        4,976.2         39.1         172.1        0.8           -             -            7,888.3         143.8
FNC           113.6        25.8       1,170.2        95.9     10,260.0      260.1        15.789.7       124.0       15,735.4      77.7           -             -           43068.9          583.5
ARC           97.4        22.1         778.8         63.8      1.360.7       34.5        3,242.7         25.5       11.815.0       58.3          -             -           17,294.6         204.2
RRU           413.9       94.1         165.8         13.6      1.211.8       30.7        3.389.3         26.6          -            -            -             -            5.80.8          165.0
HORT           7.2         1.6          82.9         6.8        374.3         9.5          617.7         4.8        5,037.6       24.9           -            -             6.119.6          47.6
Seed           -           -            -            -           -            -             -            -          45.020.8      222.2          -             -           45.020.8         222.2
Total       9,446.9      2,146.8     15,349.6      1,258.8    71,543.2     1,813.4      186,834.6      1,501.3     169,898.3      784.4       86,721.9       166.7        539.794.5        7,671.4
Source: PMU - Khartoum



SUDAN: Southern Kassala Agricultural Project
Appendix B Econeomic Rc-evaluation
Table 2. Project Total Cost by Category
(in current terms)
1989/90                1990/91                  1991/92                    1992/93                     1993/94                     1994/9S                         Total
ISd'000 |tSS000    LSd'000        USS000     I1Sd'000      US0           I.So |Sd'O0   US$000       USd'000       I !S5'000   ILSd'000  |      S$000          LSd'000          US$, 000
Catl     2,097.3     476.7       193.0        15X          8123         478         67.3513        5219        33379.6        154.2       18,4319         3s4           122.2654          1,251.8
Cat 2      3428       77.9       2904         238        10,025.8      279.9        16.765 7       139.6       40.4285        1872           -             -             67.853 1          7084
Cat3     2.371 6      5388      1.9544        1608       2,269.3        183.2          18.0          02           -            -             -             -              6.6133           8830
Cat4        -          -          -            -         34,418.7       629.3       50.107.3       392.0       8,638 9        40 0           -             -             93164.9          1.061 3
CatS       29.0        6.6      1,078.5       88.4           8.1         07         6,490.2         54.1       5.953 1        274          1.289.0         25            14.848 0           179.7
Cat6        -          -          30.5         2.5          -            -            132.0          1.1          -            -             -             -                162.5            3 6
Cat 7       70-4      16.0       499.5        40.9       8.365 1       228.1        7,827.1         67 5       7,214.6        33 3           -             -             23.9767            385.8
Cat8     2,2416       509.4    11.303.3      9265        156044.0      4444         38.143 0       324.9       74.283.6       342.3       67.0010         128.8         208.616.4         2.676.4
Cat9     2.294.2     521.4        -            -            -            -                          -             -            -             -                            2.294 2           521 4
Total    9,446.9    2,146.8    15.349.6     1,258.8      71,543.2     1,813.4      186,834.6      1,501.3    1i69,898.3      784.4        86,721.9        166.7         539,794.5         7.671.4
Source: PMU - Khartoum
-2



SUDAN: Souther iKassala Agricultural Project
Appcndix B Economic Re-evaliation
Table 3. IDA Con(ribution of the Project Cost by Category
(in current terms)
1989/90                  1990/91                  11991192                   1992193                   1993/94                   1994/95                       Total
t|Sd|00 0                                                   |  US$'000      ISd000 USS'000   |  I.Sd'000   |tS$'000  I _.Sd'000  I  USS'000                 LSd'000          US000
Cat l       2,042.9       464.3       112.2         9.2          92.3          33        63,365.7       483.6       27,318.0      126.5      18.431.9      35.4          111,363.0        1.122.3
Cat2          342.8        77.9       2904          23.8       10,025.8       279.9      16,765.7       139.6       40,428.5      187.2         -            -           67.853.1          708.4
Cat3        2,371.6       538.8      1,954.4       160.8       2,269.3        183.2         18.0         0.2           -            -           -            -            6.613.3          883.0
Cat4           -           -            -            -         34.418.7       629.3      50,107.3       392.0        8,638.9       40.0         -            -           93.164.9         1,061.3
Cat5           29.0        6.6       1,078.5        88.4           8.1         0.7        6,490.2        54.1        4,203.1       19.4         -                         11.809.0          169.2
Cat 6          -           -           30.5         2.5           -            -            132.0         1.1          -            -           -            -              162.5            3.6
Cat 7          -           -          313.5         25.7       5,969.1        80.2        4,055.1        31.2        4,989.6       23.1         -            -           15.3273            160.2
Cat8         1,097.4      249.4      4,287.1       351.4       13,788.0       329.8      21,984.6       169.5       47,347.2      219.2         -            -           88504.2          1.319.3
Cat9        2,294.2       521.4         -            -            -            -            -            -             -            -           -            -            2.294.2          521.4
TotWl       8,177.9      1,858.4     8,066.6       661.8       66,571.2     1,506.4     162,918.6      1,271.3     132,925.3      615.4      18,431.9      35.4         397,091.5         5,948.7
Source: PMU - Khartoum
3



SU DAN  Southern Kassala AgricultUral Project
Appendix B Econornic Rc-evaluation
Table 4. GOS Contribution of the Project Funds Disbursement by Category
(in current terms)
1989/90                1990/91                   1991/92                   1992/93                     1993/94                      1994/95                        Total
|LSd'OOO  | lS$'000    LSd'OOO       USS'001   |ISd'000         USS'000      LSd'OOO      USS'000      LSd'O00       USS'000        1|Sd000       ISS5000          LSd'OOO     |   S$000
Cal 1        54 4       12 4        80 8         66          720 0        44 5        3.985 6        38.3       6,061 6         27.7            -             -             10.902 4          129 5
Cat2          -          -           -           -            -             -            -            -            -             -              -             -                -               -
Cat3
Cat4                                                                                                                             -              -             -                -4
CatS          -          -           -           --                        -             -            -          t750            8 0         1.289 0         2.5            3.039 0           10 5
Cat 6        -           -           -           -            -            -             -            -            -             -              -             -                -               -
Cat 7        70.4       16.0       186.0        15.2       2,396.0        147.9       3.7720        36.3        2.225 0         102             -             -             8.649.4          225 6
Cat 8      1.144.2     260.0      7.016.2      575.1        1,856.0       114.6      161584        155.4       26,9364         123 t       67.001 0        1288           120.1 12.2       1.357 1
Cat 9        -           -           -           -            -            -             -            -            -             -              -             -                -               -
Total      1,269.0     288.4      7.283.0      597.0       4,972.0       307.0       23,916.0       230.0       36,973.0       169.0        68,290.0        131.3          142,703.0        1,722.7
Source: PMU - Khartoum
4



Table 5. Inflators for Economic Re-evaluation
Consumer Prices                             Fiscal Year
Index (1990 = 100)        Inflators                              Inflators
1988                  36.3                 78.51             1988/89              62.8
1989                  60.5                 47.11             1989/90              37.8
1990                 100.0                 28.50             1990/91              20.6
1991                 223.6                 12.75             1991/92               9.3
1992                 486.6                  5.86             1992/93               4.4
1993                 979.6                  2.91             1993/94               2.2
1994                1,900.0                 1.50             1994/95               1.3
1995                2,850.0'                1.00             1995/96
Source: IMF: International Financial Statistics (Sudan).
Mission's Estimate.
5



Table 6. Total Project Costs for Economic Re-evaluation
Year                Costs in Current Terms2                 Costs in Constant 1994/95 Prices3
.......................................................  000........................LSd'0     .....
1989/90                          9,447                                       357,000
1990/91                          15,350                                      316,210
1991/92                         71,543                                       665,350
1992/93                         186,835                                      822,074
1993/94                         169,898                                      373,776
1994/95                         86,722                                       112,739
Details are given in Tables I and 2.
Using inflators indicated in Table 5.
6



Table 7. Crop Budgets per feddan) in Financial Terms
Sorghum                         Sesame
W/O Project I With Project   W/O Project I With Project
A. Yields (Kg/feddan)                 220             290             90              120
B. Prices (LSd,kg)                     44              44            154              154
C. Crop Revenues (LSd/feddan)        9,680          12,760         13,860           18.480
......................... .LSd/feddan ....,.,,  ....l
D. Production Costs
- Land rent                          26              26              26              26
- Land tax }                         540            760             860            1,200
- Zakat }
- Seed                               158             5206           3857            7008
- Labour - Casual                   1,570          2,040           2,800           3,640
- Permanent                   390             390             390             390
- Overheads                   200             200             200             200
- Mechanization                     1,700          1,700           1,300           1,300
- Sacks and strings                  240            310             160             210
- Transport to market9             (300)           (39.Q)          (220)           (290)
Total Costs                       4,824           5,946          6,121            7,666
E. Net Income                        4,856          6,814           7,739          10,814
Data provided by PMU-Gedaref (1994/95 prices).
Local seed: 3.6 kg/feddan at LSd 44/kg.
6   Certified seed: 4 kg/feddan at LSd 130/kg.
Local seed: 2.5 kg/feddan at LSd 180/kg.
8   Certified seed: 2.5 kg/feddan at LSd 280/kg.
Transport costs to market have not been included because farm-gate prices have been used.
7



Table 8. Representative Farm Budget
(holding size of 40 feddan)
W/O Project       With Project      Incremental
A. Land Use (Feddans)
- Sorghum                                        32                32
- Sesame                                          8                 8
Total                                           40                40
B. Yields (Kg/feddan)
- Sorghum                                       220                290                70
- Sesame                                         90                120                30
C. Production (Tons)
- Sorghum                                        7.04              9.28              2.24
- Sesame                                         0.72              0.96              0.24
D. Gross Value of Production (LSd'000)
- SorghumI1                                     310                408                98
- Sesame12                                      III                148                37
Total                                          421                556               135
E. Production Costs (LSd'000)
- Sorghum13                                      154               190                36
- Sesame'3                                       49                61                 12
Total                                          203               251                 48
F. Net Farm Income (LSd'000)                      218               305                87
10  Based on assumptions given in Table 7.
At LSd 44/kg (1994/95 farn-gate price).
12  At LSd 154/kg (1994/95 farm-gate price).
13  Based on production costs per feddan given in Table 7.
8



Table 9. Soybeans and Sorghum: Import Parity Prices
Soybeans"4                     Sorghum14
1994      2000      2005       1994   1  2000       2005
Projected prices in 1990 constant        222       233        248         95        91         84
(USS/ton) -
MUV index                                1.13       1.15       1.28      1.13       1.15       1.28
Prices in 1994/95 constant (US$/ton)     251       268        317        107        105       108
Ocean freight and insurance               30        30         30         30        30         30
Cif Port Sudan (US$)                     281       298        347        137        135       108
Cif Port Sudan (LSd/kg)16               108.2      114.7     133.6       52.7      52.0       53.1
Port charges and handling                 4.0       4.0        4.0       4.0        4.0        4.0
Transport costs: Port-wholesaler17       15.0       15        15.0       15.0       15.0      15.0
Priceatmarket                           127.2      133.7     152.6       71.7      71.0       72.1
Transport costs: market-farm1            (6.0)     (6.0)      (6.0)     (6.0)      (6.0)      (6.0)
Economic price at farm-gate             121.2      127.7     146.6       65.7      65.0       66.1
Financial farm-gate price               154.0      154.0     154.0       45.0      45.0       45.0
Conversion factor                        0.79       0.83      0.95       1.46       1.44       1.47
Average conversion factor              ...................... 0.86 ....................... ................. 1.45.
Import parity price.
WB Commodity Price Projection: August 1995.
16   Exchange rate: I US$ = LSd 385 (September 1994).
17  At LSd 15/ton km: distance Khartoum-Port Sudan I,000 km.
18   Khartoum-project area 400 km; @ LSd 15/ton km.
9



Table 10. Gross Value of Production in Economic Terms
W/O Project      With Project       Incremental
A. Area (Feddans)
- Sorghum                                      240,000           240,000
- Sesame                                        40.000           40.000
Total                                         280,000           280,000              -
B. Yields (Kg/feddan)
- Sorghum                                         220               290               70
- Sesame                                           90               120               30
C. Production (Tons)
- Sorghum                                       52,800           69,600             16,800
- Sesame                                         3,600            4,800             1,200
D. Gross Value of Production (LSd million)
- Sorghum19                                      3,432            4,524             1,092
- Sesame20                                        475               634               159
Total                                           3,907            5,158             1,251
E. Production Costs Economic
(LSd/feddan)
- Sorghum                                        3,944            4,752               808
- Sesame                                         4,675            5,712             1,037
F. Total Production Costs: Economic
(LSd million)21
- Sorghum                                         947             1,140               193
- Sesame                                          187               228               41
Total                                           1,134            1,368               234
G. Net Value of Production Economic               2,773             3,790             1,017
(LSd million)
Economic Price of LSd 65/kg (see Table 9).
20  Economic Price of LSd 132/kg (see Table 9).
21  Based on production costs/feddan given in Table 7: Financial costs have been converted in economic costs by
applying a conversion factor of 0.8 to casual labour and by eliminating land taxes and Zakat taxes.
10



Table 11. Economic Rate of Return
Year              Incremental Gross            Incremental            Investment23            Balance
Value of Production22       Production Costs
.............................................................   million)...........................(LSd. )   .........
1(1989/90)                       20                       10                    357                 (347)
2)                              100                       50                    316                  (266)
3                               200                       80                    665                  (545)
4                               400                      150                     822                 (572)
5                               600                      200                    373                    27
6                              1.251                     23424                112 + 26524             640
7-20                           1.251                     234                    26524                 752
Economic Rate of Return: 24.3%
22   See Table 10.
23   See Table 6.
24   Including incremental project operating costs and replacement of equipment estimated at Lsd 265 million per yer.
11



2 2'                    2!                        2a'              32'             22               34'             U1d'              33-
22'                                                    ARA ARAB       REPUBLIC            OF       EGYPT                                         22'
.                              ~~~~~~~~Wod, Hollo . 
LIBYA A
\.   I                          NOR[HERN
20          N.                                                                                                                                   202
.'                        .                      N O R T H E RiN                                                      PORI SUDAN
rONGOL                                         RED SEA
it.                   i                                                                        )  NI[E      ACRR  .' N
-Ed D       /b      ADb.'             EASATERN
C H A D    j   NORTHERN                                                     R E G I-O  N
j    DARFUR                                                 4                ked  
U'                                                         |                                                            \ / REGI N/
Irod0 \i~    AR;IRTOU                   I      E R I T R E A
I                     |              ~~~~~~~~            ~        ~~~~~~NORTHERN  HA                    KASSAtA
.(       D   A   R  F  U   R           tKORDOFAN                                                I A       ASSALA
KORDOFAN
r   L  _                                                                                   S tl 08EID 0   } Ko9l/ \>E0EDKASA /
g Zl5N NAHULI . R.                          5wCENT
12'              H OL m    tiaroz  *NYALA  I.LE                                                         R
(,SOUTHERN  DARFUR                                               ON                           DAM
r   _t            ~      ~       bOuI 14  IA14-                  KORDOFAN                      BLFNf 
F       . ~~~R E G I O N                                              ',                                 /
10' \ _Ps / , Fo l Oni b a )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
WESTERN                               ~                              r~_........................SAtAA4
(t    BAHR E L  E ASTERND                       81  NILE          \  /-
GHAZAL: BAHR EL                                                                         E T  H  I O  P I A
C E N T R A L                                               EtRAA GHAZAL    REGION   \ .          AS 
A F R I C A N    i                                            \~li,
\            : O'o4        \              ~~~~~~JONGLEI  
\BAHR EL GHAIAL                                 ol                P.to o   '
R E P IJ BL I C 
6'-
S UJ D A N              .4EQ UA TO R IA E fQ U8,     REG8ON
SOUTHERN KASSALA                                  QATOR, ,. "TlUhA REG/ON                                                ,
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT    "N                                      X                EASTERN ictu   kO-= 
PROJECT AREAEQUATORIA ,o                                                                           KENYA 3A
PROJECT AREA
030CR PROIECI AREAS ERb.EFDU                                          1U G   A   N   D   A
o s EDVI I AIE,olE[VI                                                                                   . 5  c1  
Z   1D  PRsDv t41 e | Fo1 Al 5                                                 Z'  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~2  CE,AD  K--<sm     E/
&    AS (,NAI(A,'PAI                                                                                            E   S U D A t1
-   RSG.CA   [  U[,At A                                          I                                                 A        RICAN REP  "U
?~~~~~~-           ' .' 1  S' l A.,A., .I, ,,,.,i...... ,( 1. U T,   AC'               12dr..J' ZAIR                          7    tOO ' KLa E lA. tA '_






IBRD 21042
SUDAN
SOUTH KASSALA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HAFIRS AND WATERYARDS
|     I 1Basalt
Nubian Sandstone                           c(       Council Headquarters
r     1 [Basement Complex                             0  0   Towns and Villages
Hafirs                                             Rivers
Wateryards
Province Boundaries
Wadi Madani-Port Sudan Highway
Railroad                                -          International Boundary
Kahon El Girba
To  IVadi AMadani
- 14                                                              * -EDAREF
Gudambalya  *e 
Kassabo       *                    '
Ma<            0 Qala En                                                i
0
~6Nahal
'DOKA
\,= Hawata               Unm Rakoba                             I
0~~~~~~
'        O~                         b            .j
Urn                              B        Wad
Sagata       Sma                            K(owli
Sam-Sam                              /
$UDA>^NEIiAreaoP csi                                                       Gallabat O/
!        OAN  hr.r of
0 2s so _ _ . _ w~~~~~~d-                          di  -     -   I   0, lb
Th 'f,d I aAu,  . P. 8
red'   td1   hre,  ho- th
0       25       50                                     -/nead bhe6nda,,- lh,tn
*            tn~~~~, Ah"o o'p do  -rA  -py'. -,   h
Kilometers                                             AO' OAG.tO  no helegl ,A
34                                                        ~~~   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~36'  'I AlYttrA1    'l 
August 1988






E   I                     ~~bUDAN                                      .A
f  gzbuHomod9: \SOUTH  KASSALA,  
o i - -/   \x\\                DEVELOPMENT PROJ ECT    '( 
O $             0 \0               ~~REFUGEE SETTLEMENTS                             %p 
/           \   ~~~~Ad Dme,     \\                                     Dub   
.     0   R   T   H f\E    R N                                              ---           (  
>,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                          A., XK \  
t~~~    ~~~           i /       rtfa%                            S A LA|,,..             ; 
X    0  (   <  G    t. .  >   /                    \   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U m Sa g    i   , 1 < H1 SX   .  /
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'    -'                                      \. Wd Mv ij   X   
/1 \ \\ F \~m.d                                       IA.IS  ;C 0\, H1o eu_f-   rlrAe
I  \f   W;     WC1       MOF.  Z        *              k       lX          T]MFCX+PSIO5n0
()   ll }-, EIT F\   V /\E   V9  a  S><                      \      tj          IN  UNHCR~~~~.,e  Flonc  H_ rSbrs
Ed ME   I.6 L.6 I2  '                 5     ~                                      'l'   eelo el
X   '   / |      /                           tIsobl~~~~~~~~~~~~,.e In A- IFsbeI bdwoh. 
.____ _ | Ed Dsmzzin -) ~~~ ~~ IS e Nnilonol A      C      Aj. old K-AU    D
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E 1-                             U!         =..b   Reio                UNHColr  .,I P--c,AheRF  P
N           I  t   I                                                                                       IRte1        
..   L   L   .   _/   .   _  _  .__.  _. X __ j. _ __ _ I_ _ _ / 741RE U>AMzr ^ I Ftl~~~~~~~~1-hy, (~o






IBRD 211044
SUDAN
SOUTH KASSALA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ROAD NETWORK
Wadi Medani-Port Sudan Highway                 3      Council Headquarters
All-Weather Roads                             0  0    Towns and Villages
---         Dry Season Tracks                                     Rivers
....... Raised Track                                    -       Province Boundaries
I   Railroad                                    -          International Boundary
36
Kashon El Girba
Si}/ r i  Nl' J        r ad
14            ^$\ \5B              Gudambalya                 E Sa a  F
'v,  >,                         ,/2   ~~~~~~~~~Kassq!t
Qalg Q al a  En                         a          '  \
Nahal~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~                       Tstpaseneprdt
<   !         \,</           \             ,_              <~~~~~~~DOKA
<  X   'o   Hawata  /   ,~JUm Rakoba     o        o
\ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     h Li 'd an  st'f esc\  I
>,   K   Um                                   Wad      e.             f
, Sagata  \                                    0  Kowli
.  11 l 111 |      *.                 * ~~~Sam-Sam                               /
I~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    a dt! Int Rt ont-pa.
lm  S >,    ,                                       t~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gallabat\b
-~~~~~~~~  orh mporatto>n.The oteoottnattottszv
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |useder and teharndaese                               s hoe 
I~~~~~~~                    25        sQ                               S       *  or/onthtsneapdonot ttnly.on th
l l l i                    95        50                   * ____________    *    pa'rt of/ rhe World DanA and the
J4  t l -                 ~~~~~~~Kilometers                                36       enoreent or aretate at
*                         such boundartes
,   I  I          I                                -n
August 19o88






IBRD 21045
S U D A N
SOUTH KASSALA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FORESTRY - RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
_ Reforestation Areas (4)                        Wadi Madani-Port Sudan Highway         (3           Council Headquarters
Q      Main Extension Units (3)                   All-Weather Roads                         0  0   Towns and Villages
0     Extension Sub-Units (12)        - -  -   Dry Season Tracks                                    Rivers
Raised Track                                   - Province Boundaries
I4---~-  Railroad                               -          International Boundary
34                                                                             36
Kashon El Girba 
7- rOV1a'di Madani
- t4  .,,    0\v{;C              G~~~udarmbalya  .,E A          F(
Kassj M SAWANI HAKUA                      j
AL M~z   S           Qala En     -         *           /EL CURESHI
-M-AFAZ Ar   AL     < </Na             *AL HA,MRA \       ,             E
\AA ' '    _,/v>'BA \ OALA EN                      _    DOKA  TABRAKALLAH
NO NAHA I
\ ^ Hawata     /           ~ ,* Um Rakoba 0
Um        '                                Wad
Sagata                                    O  AAF_  Kovlii;
_ZD  ~       SARAF ER
UN   _  Sam-Sam         SAEED                 /
BRRUSH_  SAM-SAM)
red o                                                         Gallabat  /
-  s   ,  /   BASUNC)A   \ T;-rhe  Thp d,nar,nn.v
0       25       50                                         nn(n,smapdonnr,n,'_  _  ,n th,
,,'                             Kilometers                    J              36d ,, any -e-ritory-  n,
August 1988









I 11 N\'v I N',
Rep,cirt  No:          1-5i385
Type: ICR



