Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C-ilZ
Report No. 7385-SU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
October 12, 1988
Agriculture Operations
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
is docmet has a resticted distib on and may be used by recpient only in the peornnaice of
their official duties. Its contetsl may not otherwise be disdosed whout Wodd Bak a_toution.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Sudanese Pound (LSd)
US$1.00 = LSd4.5 (Official Rate at
appraisal - May. 1988)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1.00 hectare (ha)   =   2.47 acres (ac)  =    2.38 feddans (fd)
0.42 hectare             1.04 acre        =    1.00 feddan
1 litre             -   0.26 US gallons  =    0.22 imperial gallons
1 m3=10.000 litres  =   2.600 US gallons =    2.200 imperial gallons
1 kilogram          =   2.206 lbs         =    0.022 small kantar
45 kilograms             99.27 lbs        =    1.0 small kantar
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
1 July - 30 June



FOR 19mCL41 USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABS       Agricultural Bank of Sudan
ARC       Agricultural Research Corporation
CIDA      Canadian International Development Agency
COR       (Sudanese) Commissioner for Refugees
DRC       Domestic Resource Cost
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
GOS       Government of Sudan
IA        (Project) Implementing Agency
MFC       Mechanized Farming Corporation
MOFEP     Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MOANR     Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
MOEM      Ministry of Energy and Mining
MPWH      Ministry of Public Works and Housing
NSA       National Seed Administration
NWC       National Water Corporation
PMU       Project Management Unit
PPD       Plant Protection Directorate
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PPU       Project Preparation Unit
PY        Project Year
RBPC      Roads and Bridges Public Corporation
RWC       Rural Water Corporation
SCLUPA    Soil Conservation and Land Use Planning Administration
SKAP      Southern Kassala Agricultural Project
TA        Technical Assistant/Assistance
UNHCR     Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Education Fund
USAID     United States of America International Development Agency
WSARP     Western Sudan Agricultural Research Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
Southern KaLsala Agricultural ProJect
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Suamry                                                 i-ii
I.        BACKGROUND
A.      Economic Performance and Government Policy ..............  1
B.      The Agricultural Sector .......            ........................   1
C.      The Rainfed Sub-sector ..................................  1
II.       BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A.      Assistance Strategy .....................................  3
B.      Experience with Past Lending ............................  4
C.      Project Formulation .....................................  5
III.      PROJECT AREA
A. Introduction.                                                              6
B.  Physical Features.                                                        6
C. Population .7
D.  Land Tenure and Farming Systems.                                          7
E. Infrastructure.                                                            9
F.   Supporting Services to Agriculture .10
G.  Foreign Assistance .12
IV.       THE PROJECT
A.  Project Objectives .13
B.  Pro,ect Description .13
C.      Project Costs and Financing ....... .      .................... 23
D.      Procurement ............................................. 25
E.      Disbursements ............................                          26
F.      Accounts and Audits ............................                    26
G.      Environmental Impact ............................                   27
V.        PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.      Organization and Management ............................. 28
B.      Annual Work Plans ...................................               29
C.      Staffing ...................................                        30
D.      Monitoring and Evaluation ............................... 31
VI.       PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND COST RECOVERY
A.      Incremental Production ..............................                31
B.      Markets and Prices ..............................                   34
C.      Cost Recovery ..............................                        35
VII.      ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A.      Quantifiable Benefits ................................... 36
B.      Farmers Income ...................................                  36
C.      Non-Quantifiable Benefits ............................... 37
D.      Impact on Women ...................................                  37
E.      Economic Analysis ...................................                38
VIII.     AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.      General Conditions ..............................                    39
B.      Condition of Credit Effectiveness ....................... 40



TABLES
1. Project Components by Year
2. Summary Account by Preject Component
3. Procurement Procedures
4. Proceeds of the IDA/UNCHR Credits
5. Estimated Annual Disbursements by Financing Agency
6.  Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursements
7. Training and Studies
8. Technical Assistance
9. Project Preparation Facility
10. Initial Membership of Committees
11. Selected Data and Documents Available in the Project File
12. Cost of Farm liachinery and Equipment
13. Labor Use and Costs for Sorghum and Sesame Production
14. Economic Prices and DRC Estimates
15. Crop Budgets with Current Practices
16. Crop Budgets with Project at Full Development
17. Representative Farm Budget (40 feddans)
18. Representative Farm Budget (15 feddans)
19. Incremental Sorghum Production
20. Incremental Sesame Production
21. Orchard Development - Grapefruit
22. Orchard Development - Lime
23. Orchard Development - Guava
24. Orchard Develcpment - Mango
25. Fruit Production - Grapefruit
26. Fruit Production - Lime
27. Fruit Production - Guava
28. Fruit Production - Mango
29. Orchard Cost Estimates (T,Sd per Feddan)
30. Orchard Costs (Grapefruit, Lime. Guava, Mango)
31. Financial Analysis - Grapefruit
32. Financial Analysis - Lime
33. Financial Analysis - Guava
34. Financial Analysis - Mangoes
35. Agriculture Sub-component
36. Water Component
37. Estimates of Water Benefits
38. Rural Water Supply Component
39. Environmental Protection Component
40. Economic Analysis
41. Sensitivity Tests
CHARTS
1.  Project Organization             2.  Project Managem2nt Unit
MAPS
1. Project Area                      2. Hafirs and Waterya-1s
3. Refugee Settlements               4. Road Network
5. Forestry, Research and Extension
TECHNICAL VOLUMES
Annex 1.         Agricultural Research, Crop Protection and horticulture
Annex 2.         Agricultural Extension
Annex 3.         Forestry
Annex 4.         Rural Water Supply
Annex 5.         Rural Roads - tehabilitation and Maintenance
Annex 6.         Project Managemaent and Organization/
Assessment of Implementing Agencies
Annex 7.         Project Cost Tables
Annex 8.         Economic Analysis of the Environmental, Forestry and
Water Components.



REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
SOUTEERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          The Republic of Sudan
IDA Credit:        US$20.0 million (SDR 15.6 million)
Terms:             Standard with 40 years maturity
Co-finencing:      UNHCR Grant US$10 million
Beneficiariest     Smallholder farmers and refugees, and agricultural
institutions in Southern Kassala Province.
Proiect Obiectives and Description:
Two main interrelated project objectives are: (i) to increase
production on a sustainable basis, and; (ii) to ix*prove environmental
management. Within tha framework of these objectives the project would aim
to improve economic self-reliance of refugees in southern Kassala.
Production would be increased through higher yields, increased production
near rehabilitated water points, improved agricultural services and
distribution of inputs. Improved environmental management would result
from better land use planning and monitoring, environmentally sound
agricultural practices, reforestation, alkd improved forest management.
Special emphasis would be given under the Project to strengthening key
Provincial institutions in the area to ensure sustainability of Project
activities.
Benefits:
The benefits of the Project would derive from: (i) increased
production of crops and horticultural products; (ii) employment generation;
(iii) environmental protection; (iv) greater water availability; (v)
improved marketing and (vi) strengthening of Provincial Government
institutions. Principal beneficiaries would comprise Sudanese and refugee
smallholder farmers.
Risks:
The weakness of existing institutions and the need to recruit key
staff may affect timely planning and implementation of project activities.
Sudan's tenuous economic situation may jeopardize the sustainability of
project initiated activities due to shortage of operating funl,. spare
parts and maintenance programs. The project includes measures to minimize
these risks through a strong training and technical assistance program,
recruitment incentives, and establishment of a cost recovery system.



- ii -
Proiect Components and Estimated Costs:
US$ million
Local     Foreign      Total
Extension Service                                1.3        1.0         2.3
Agricultural Research                            0.6        0.7         1.3
Horticultural and Seed Irprovement               0.1        0.1         0.2
Plant Protection                                 0.5        0.9         1.4
Rural Roads                                      1.2        2.4         3.6
Rural Water Supply                               1.6        5.8         7.4
Project Management                               1.1        2.1         3.2
Environmental Protection                         3.5        2.7         6.2
Total Baseline Costs                          9.9       15.7        25.6
Physical Contingencies                           1.6        1.4         3.0
Price Contingencies                              4.3        1.5         5.8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                            15.8       18.6        34.4
Financing Plan
US$ million        Z of Total
(equivalent)
GOS and Project Beneficiaries                4.43              12.9
IDA                                        20.0                58.1
UNHCR                                       10.0               29.0
's otal                                     34.43             100.0
ESTIMATED ANNUAL DISBURSEMENTS BY FINANCING AGENCY
(USS MILLION)
Yr 1    Yr 2     Yr 3   Yr 4   Yr 5      Yr 6    Yr 7    Total
IDA          4.5a1   4.4      3.1    2.4    2.7       2,3      .6b/    20.0
UNHCR        1.7      1.8     1.8    2.1    1.6       1.0               10.0
GOS           .3       .6      .7      .8     .9      1.1     -          4.4
TOTAL        6.5      6.8     5.6    5.3    5.2       4.4       .6      34.4
2 of Total  18.9    19.8    16.3   15.4   15.1       12.8     1.7      100.0
a/     Incluies US$ .5 million which would be disbursed under a PPF prior to
project start-up.
bl     Would be disbursed within six months after project completion.
Economic Rate of Return:      32Z
MAP:   IBRD Nos. 21041-5



I. BACKGROUND
A. Economic Performance and Government Policy
1.01     Sudan's economic performance during the eighties has been poor.
Between 1981 and 1988 GDP rate of growth averaged less than 12 a year.
Excessive Government (GOS) regulation of the economy, inappropriate pricing
and exchange rate policies discouraging production, operational
inefficiency, particularly in the public sector, deteriorating terms of
trade, and the severe droughts of 1982-84 and of 1987 contributed to the
s_agnation of the economy. To reverse the economic deterioration the GOS
initially undertook partial and tentative measures which failed to provide
significant improvements. However, in October 1987, the Government, with
Bank and Fund assistance, started preparing a program of comprehensive
policy reforms. As a first step under this program. the GO8 unified the
exchange rates at a more realistic level, and prepared a plan to revise the
tax system, reduce subsidies, de-regulate the economy and rationalize the
role of the public sector. Subsequently the GOS prepared a comprehensive
policy reform program and action plan (the Fou;-year (1988/89 - 1991/92)
Plan for Salvation, Reform and Development) centered on agriculture,
irrigated and rainfed, as the major source of economic growth.
Implementation of the reform program would be supported by an IDA funded
Economic Recovery Credit, currently under appraisal.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.02     Agriculture contributes significantly to Sudan's economy.  It
accounts for about 352 of Sudan's Gross Domestic Product (GDP), is the
source of virtually all exports, employs 702 of the labor force and
supplies inputs for a substantial portion of industrial activity. It has
two distinct sub-sectorst irrigated and rainfed. The irrigated sub-sector
occupies about 4 million feddans. Major crops include cotton, sugar,
sorghum, groundnuts and wheat. A recent review of the irrigated sub-sector
is included in the Bank report "Agricultural Rehabilitation Project III"
(Report No. P-4684-SU) published on December 1, 1987. The rainfed sub-
sector is described below.
C. The Rainfed Sub-Sector
1.03     Rainfed agriculture is the most important economic activity in the
country with bout two thirds of the population dependent on rainfed
farming for their livelihood. Farming in the rainfed subsec..or occupies an
estimated 22 million feddans of which about 10 million feddans are under
mechanized farming and 12 million feddans are farmed traditionally. The
subsector is vital to the country's food security producing 802 of
foodgrains, 70Z of oilseeds and 852 of livestock in the country. Major
rainfed crops and their respective 1986/87 production include sorghum (2.8
million tons), millet (280,003 tons), sesame (220,000 tons), groundnwus
(190,000 tons) and gum arabic (35,000 tons).



1.04     Sector Performance and Issues. Rainfed production has declined
significantly during the past fifteen years. During the 1972-1987 period
rainfed production of groundnuts decreased by 30Z, sorghum 39?, sesame 40Z,
gum arabic 42: and millet 601. Many inter-related factors contributed to
this decline: (i) Inappropriate Government policies in the form of low
prices paid to producers often for compulsory sales to the Government,
overvalued exchange rates, and inefficient marketing monopolies acted as
disincentives to production, particularly of export crops; (ii) the absence
of research and extension services, except in a few pzoject areas, has
constrained farmers from raising their productivity; (iii) rapid expansion
of mechanized farming together with environmentally inappropriate practices
have contributed to serious ecological damage inhibiting both crop and
livestock production; (iv) dimnrishi.ag rural water supply due primarily to
inadequate system maintenance has often resulted in abandonment of fertile
land; (v) poor road infrastructure has constrained both markeding and input
distribution, and; (vi) the lack of credit and the unavailability of
foreign exchange have prevented timely supply of farm input:, spare parts
and supplies. Traditional farmers have been particularly affected because
GOS credit policy and the limited rural banting network prevents their
access to formal credit. The 1982-1984 drought accentuated these problems
of the rainfed sub-sector but also resulted in greater awareness and
concern about its unfulfilled potential and deteriorating resource base.
1.05     Government Policy on Rainfed Agriculture.  The Government's
attetntion to the rainfed sub-sector was heightened during the 1982-84
drought and the attendant crop failure and widespread famine. Greater
awareness of the long-standing issues affecting rainfed agriculture (para
1.04) led to the realization that sustainable agricultural production in
these areas could be increased while the effect of future droughts could be
reduced.   To help bring this about the GOS prepared, with IDA assistance,
a "Strategy for the Development of Rainfed Agriculture" published in 1986.
It aims to increase production and incomes in rainfed areas through
strengthened agricultural services, technological improvements,
environmental protection, enhanced infrastructure and incrqased private
sector investment. The strategy would be implemented through a series of
projects funded primarily from external agencies. Priority would be given
to the savannah belt between latitudes lO  and 150 and annual rainfall of
400mm to V1O0mm which has significant potential for increased production.
The proposed Project, together with earlier projects in rainfed areas,
(para. 2.04) form part of this Strategy to develop rainfed agriculture on a
sustainable basis.
1.06     Refugee Impact on Rainfed Agriculture.  There are about one
million authorized refugees in Sudan, about 700,000 of whom reside in the
rainfed areas of the Eastern region.  While a more comprehensive study
would bo required to precisely assess the actual impact of refugees, both
negative and positive, it is evident that they constitute an important
source of unskilled and semi-skilled farm labor especially during peak
demand periods. At the same time the large numbers of refugees have
exacerbated an already critical situation of natural resource degradation,
inadequate rural services, and limited infrastructure.



1.07     The Republic of the Sudan has for many years followed a tradition
of openness and hospitality towards refugees from neighboring countries.
However, due to the deteriorating situation of the economv, the presence of
refugees has caused additional strain on resources. In this regard the GOS
has called on the international community to share responsibility with
Sudan in implementing its policy of support for .efugees. 1 In response,
the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR),
long active in Su'an, has undertalan to broaden the scope of its activities
from relief related operations to programs aim at economic self-reliance of
refugees and development of refugee impacted areas. This project would
help implement UNHCR and GOS policy toward refugees in Southern Ka3sala, an
area of significant refugee population (para 1.06).
II. BANK GROUP OPiIcATIONS
2.01     World Bank Group commitments to Sudan equal US$1.2 billion, of
which US$33.0 million are from IFC. There have been eight loans (two on
Third-Window terms) and 41 credits, for a total of 49 projects. Twenty-two
projects are under implementation. Half of the Ban1!IDA lending has been
for agricultural development; the other half covers projects in a wide
range of sectors. A summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC
iuv, tments as of March 30, 1988 is attached to the Report and
Recommendation of the President of IDA to the Executive Directors.
A. Assistance Strategy
2.02     The Bank Group's assistance strategy has been to encourage and
support, in conjunction with the IMF, Government mairo-economic reforms
addressing structural imbalances in the economy aE the foundation to self-
sustaining growth. The Economic Recovery Credit, to be appraised shortly,
would focus on this objective. Concurrently the Bank is assisting the
Government resolve bottlenecks to development through specific project
investments. The Bank's lending portfolio, including thIs credit, reflects
the position that realizing the country's agricultural potential is the key
to sustained growth and improvtvd export performance. Bank lending for both
irrigated and rainfed agriculture, including livestock development, has
therefore been substantial.
Overview of IDA Lending to Sudan's Agriculture 1975-1987
Proiects in Irriaated Areas                         Proiects in Rainfed Areas
Irrigation                     9             Mechanized Farming          3
Smallholder Development        5             Research                    1
Rehabilitation                 2              Livestock Marketing        2
Research and Extension         1             Agricultural Develop.       3
TOTAL            17                                         9
=                                      1 .
1/ Speech by the Prime Minister of Sudan to the General Assembly, 1986.



- 4 -
2.03     Initially Bank lending to Sudan's agricultural sector emphasized
the development of irrigated agriculture.  While the Bank intends to
continue supporting this subsector, it also aims to assist the Government
in its efforts to exploit fully the puential of rainfed areas.  Thus, the
Bank's future lending program for rainfed agriculture envisages investments
and technical assistance directed toward: (i) development of research,
extension and support services to the traditional and mechanized sub-
sectors; (ii) revamping the management of Sudan's natural resources; (iii)
upgrading rural infrastructure necessary for increased agricultural
production; (iv) improving farm ir.put supply, and; (v) promoting private
sect r operations.
B. Experience with Past Lending
2.04     IDA funded rainfed projects directly relevant to the proposed
Project include the Western Savannah Pro,ect I (WSPI, Cr.1181-SU); the
Weste:n Sudan Agricultural Research Project (WSARP, Cr.834-SU), and; the
Western Savannah Project II (WSPII, Cr.1640-SU). Of these, WSPI has been
completed (PCR dated May 6, 1987) and the other two are tn-going.
Implementation experier.ce with these projects has been mixed. WSPI was
successfully completed on-time while the other two have run into delays.
Both projects are located in relatively isolated parts of Sudan and have
been particularly vulnerable to difficulties in recruiting qualified staff
and in procuring construction materials and other supplies.
2.05     Experience from the projects above (para 2.04), from the EEC-
funded Nuba Mountains Rural Development Project (NMRDP) irL Southern
Kordofan and from the CIDA-funded Dryland Agricultural Project (DAP) in
Southern Kassala (para 3.20) have been taken into account in designing this
project. Specific lessons learned regarding crop production include the
following: (i) use of seed dressing under the WSP I project has resulted in
yield increases of 5-1OZ for sorghum and sesame; (ii) farm trials under
NMRDP of improved seed available in Sudan together with improved
cultivation practices have resulted in yield increases of 20-50Z for sesame
and millet and over lOOZ for sorghum; (iii) early sowing under DAP has
increased sorghum yields by about 30Z; (iv) WSPI demonstrated that simple
and inexpensive technologies such as use of clean seed, seed dressing and
crop geometry would be readily adopted by most farmers whereas more
complicated, expensive or labor intensive practices would have a slower
adopt:con rate. The earlier projects have also provided a useful guide for
the appropriate project organization and management structure.
Specifically, for the need of a centralized unit to coordinate and
strengthen the project implementing agencies, with a view to enhancing the
sustainability of prcject activities. To avoid creating permanent
Government structures the Project Unit would be established for the
duration of the Project. Through the above projects the Bank has
accumulated substantial experience in agricultural development anid
technology generation applicable to rainfed areas in Sudan.  *hese would be
further tested and refined during this project and, if successful, they
could be replicated in other rainfed areas of Sudan and similar zones of
Africa.



C.  Project Formulation
2.06     Proiect Rationale.  The project is designed to assist the
Government to: (i) implement the rainfed subsector strategy in the project
area (para. 1.05); and (ii) channel external resources to promote economic
self-reliance of refugees (para 1.07). Support for the above is justified
by: (i) the significant potential response by the subsector to the policy
and institutional changes to Sudan's economic recovery program: (ii) the
importance of the subsector, and particularly, of the Southern Kassala
area, to the country's food security and export earnings particularly in
view of grain production lagging behind population growth by 1-2Z; (iii)
the technical and financial support required for the implementation of the
Government's recovery program; (iv) the critical problems faced by farmers
in southern Kassala, especially with respect to steadily declining yields,
environmental degradation and deteriorating infrastructure, and; (v) the
large preserce of refugees in Sudan, particularly in the project area, and
the need to involve them in the economic development process on a self-
sustaining basis. The proposed Project would aim to reverse the decline in
yields by dirseminating improved technological packages through extension;,
develop new packages through applied research; increase crop production and
marketing by improving crop protection and upgrading water and road
infrastructure; arrest environmental degradation through sound land use
planning, reforestation and appropriate farming practices. A major effort
under the Project would be directed at strengthening provineial services to
sustain these activities in the post-project period.
2.07     Rationale for Bank Involvement.  To help implement the rainfed
sector st-ategy the GOS request*d IDA in 1986 to identify a project in the
Eastern Re,ion. At approxiirstely that time the UNHCR and the Bank agreed to
cooperate i.' the preparation and implementation of projects aiming at the
economic dev.lopment of refugees. Thus the rationale for Bank involvement
is twofold: (.i) the project fits the Bank's strategy for assistance to
Sudan particu arly with respect tv improvement of agricultural services,
development And dissemination of improved technology, improved
environmental management and enhancement of rural infrastructure (paras.
2.02-2.03). The Bank has accumulated considerable experience with similar
projects (para. 2.05); and (ii) the Project would initiate the
implementation of the Bank/UNHCR policy of cooperation in Africa and could
serve as a pilot for other projects in sub-Saharan Africa.
2.08     Proiect Processing.  The Project was identified by an IDA led
mission in December 1986 which included GOS, UNHCR and UNDP staff. In the
spring of 1987, the GOS requested assistance from the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) to prepare the project. In response, FAO/CP,
UNHCR and the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) of the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Planning (MOFEP) fielded a mission in October 1987 and
subsequently issued a preparation report in January 1988. 2 A pre-appraisal
2/ FAO/CP SUDAN - South Y.ssala Development Ptoject Preparation Report,
January 1988.



mission led by IDA with the participation of UNHCR and PPU took place in
January 1988 to complete the preparation and prepare the ground for project
appraisal, which took place in May 1988. 3
III. PROJECT AREA
A. Introduction
3.01     The project area (IBRD Map 1) corresponds to the southern part of
Kassala Province. It produces the bulk of Sudan's sorghum and sesame and
is, therefore, very important to the country's food security and exports.
In spite of declining yields, aggregate production has increased during the
last three decades mainly through the expansion of mechanized farming.
However, this has been at the expense of: (i) serious environmental
degradation, and; (ii) encroachment on traditionally farmed land, nomadic
routes and forest resources. As in other rainfed agricultural areas of
Sudan, development in southern Kassala is constrained by inadequate
agricultural services, poor farming practices and limited infrastructure. A
rapidly growing population and a large influx of refugees have exacerbated
the demand for land and services and increased the pressure on the
environment. Southern Kassala, therefore, is a priority area in the
Government's plan to develop rainfed agriculture and provide assistance to
refugees (paras 1.06).
B. Physical Features
3.02     The project area covers about 30,000  km2 and is delineated in the
east by the Ethiopian border, in the west and south by the boundary with
the Blue Nile Province and in the north by an arbitrary line close to the
400mm isohyet. It consists of a predominantly flat plain which rises to 670
m above sea level near Gedaref. The Atbara and Rahad rivers cut through
the eastern and the western parts of the area, respectively, and support
irrigated horticulture in narrow bands along the banks. Climatic conditions
are typical of semi-arid areas. Temperatures vary from an average of 400 C
in May to 180 C in January. Rainfall is concentrated in the months of June
to September. The mean annual average rainfall increases from 400 mm in
the north to 800 mm in the south, although annual totais can vary by up to
50Z from the mean. The major soil type in the project area is heavy black
clay (clay content of 65-75Z) characterized by low infiltration and poor
internal drainage which make cultivation very difficult. Lighter soils
easier to cultivate because of less clay content and, therefore, more
suitable for small farmer settlement, are found on a line from Gedaref to
Doka, at basement rock intrusions south of El Havatta and Qala en Nahal,
and along the Atbara and Rahad rivers.
3/ The apprsisal mission comprised Messrs. Y. Karmokolias, F. Walker, G.
Mukami, M. Mahmoud, A. Pagoulatos (IDA), V. Chordi, S. Asproudas and E.
Dorff (UNHCR).



- 7 -
C. Population
3.03     The population of the project area is estimated at 740.000 of
which 200,000 or 27Z, are refugees.
Southern Kassala Population. 1987 ('000)
Urban           Rural       Total       (Z)
Sudanese            195               347       542         73.0
Refugees             50  a/           150 b/    200         27.0
TOTAL               245               497       742         100.0
Z of Total         33.OZ             67.OZ     100.OZ
Note: al Spontaneous; b/ In settlement and reception centres.
Gedaref is the main urban center (190,000 inhabitants including 40,000
refugees) where most provincial authorities are represented. The rural
population lives in some 200 villages concentrated near water sources along
the line Gedaref - Doka - Gallabat, around jebels (hills) between Qala en
Nahal and Um Sagata, and in riverine settlements along the Atbara and Rahad
rivers. There are few permanent villages in the mechanized farming areas.
The largest refugee settlements are located at Um Rakuba (20,000), Um
Sagata (36,000) and Qala en Nahal (20,000). (IBRD Map 3).
D. Land Tenure and Farming Systems
3.04     Land Tenure.  All rural land is owned by the Government.
Traditional rights of access and land use are specific to local communities
and distinguish between the rights to cultivate, graze and access.
Individual rights within the tribal and village jurisdictions are acquired
through the cultivation of virgin land and cannot be lost, even if the land
is not utilized continuously. The GOS, through the Mechanized Farming
Corporation, (MFC), has demarcated large tracts of land leased to
individuals at minimal fee (Ls 1.00/fd/year). Obligation by the lessees to
respect established crop rotation, including fallow and establishment of
shelter belts, have been largely ignored. Undemarcated large scale
mechanized schemes established without central government authority are
recognized and taxed by regional and local authorities.
3.05     Historically, southern Kassala has been the granary of Sudan.
Observing a shifting cultivation system called 'harig" farmers used to
cultivate areas which enabled them to produce considerable surplus
quantities of grain for marketing. "Harig,n however, vanished with the
rapid spread of tractors which allowed farmers to cultivate much larger
areas without resting the land for weed control. To control weeds most
mechanized farmers instead opt to delay final harrowing and seeding
operations. This practice together with continuous monocropping,
infrequent fallow, absence of fertilizers and, perhaps, soil compaction due
to mechanization, have resulted in an appreciable decline in yields. MOANR
statistics show that average yields in the area have decreased by more than
202 between 1961/64 and 1977/80. Some farmers interviewed during the
preappraisal mission reported yield declines of 20-30? in the last ten
years.



3.06     Mechanized FarminR. Most land in the project area is under large
scale mechanized farming. There are about 1,000 large holdings in
Government-demarcated or undermarcated schemes with an average size of
3,000 feddans per holding. Since the 1982184 drought total annual
production from the mechanized farming areas in southern Kassala has
averaged about 1.0 million tons of sorghum, 352 of the national total, and
60,000 tons of sesame, 28Z of the total. Sorghum and sesame production have
increased by about 80Z and 502, respectively, compared to the 1973/76
average as area expansion outweighed yield declines (para 3.05). This
expansion has resulted in a nearly complete alteration of the ecosystem. It
is estimated that 5 million feddans have been cleared of their natural
vegetation. At least 20Z of the one million feddans under reserved forests
in the Gedaref area have been cleared for mechanized farming, while
additional forests have been denuded for fuel and building material.
Recently there has been pressure by mechanized farmers to expand southward
because of low yields in the existing schemes. However, as land is
becoming increasingly scarce, further expansion would exacerbate conflicts
among large-scale mechanized and smallholder farming, livestock production,
forest development and areas reserved for refugees.
3.07     Smallholder Agriculture.  There are three types of smallholder
farmers in the project area: (i) farmers with holdings from 5 to 15 feddans
practicing semi-subsistence, low input agriculture on the lighter soils;
(ii) horticultural smallholder farmers mainly concentrated along the Rahad
and Atbara rivers; and (iii) farmers with access to tractors, usually hired
from largeholders, whose holdings typically range from 15 to 100 feddans.
Smallholder production is estimated at about 170,000 tons of sorghum and
15,000 tons of sesame. Refugee farmers reside in 11 agricultural
settlements ranging from about 200 to 8,000 families per settlement. Each
family has been allocated 5 feddans but many rent an additional 5-15
feddans. Many refugees have access to tractor services donated by NGUs.
Data on smallholders is very unreliable but the total number of holdings is
estimated at about 15,000 Sudanese and 16,000 refugees, farming an area of
about 0.6 and 0.2 million feddans, respectively. About 10,000 feddans are
under horticultural crops, well below the area's potential. Many
smallholders keep small numbers of livestock as a source of milk and meat
and of ready cash when needed.
3.08     Farming conditions in southern Kassa.la are mainly characterized
by: (i) significantly lower, and declining, yields than the potential
afforded by the natural resources, water and climate; (ii) natural resource
degradation resulting in serious deterioration of the crop environment,
especially soil fertility, and loss of income to smallholders derived from
forest trees and natural pasture. These conditions are the result of (i)
inadequate cultivation practices, especially monocropping, late sowing, and
poor crop geometry; (ii) nearly total reliance on low-yield, poor-quality
traditional crop seeds; (iii) proliferation of weeds, particularly striga,
pests and diseases; (iv) environmental degradation, especially
deforestation. The absence of applied research and extension together with
inadequate water supply, poor transport network and no institutional credit
for smallholders, are the major constraints to development in Southern
Kassala. These constraints would be addressed through this Project except
for credit. The latter would require changes in GOS policy, and substantial
institutional strengthening, physical investments and intensive supervision



- 9 -
during implementation, these matters form part of an ongoing study which is
now under process.
3.09     Livestock Production. Based on the 1976 census the livestock
population in the project area is estimated at about 400,000 head of
cattle, 400,000 sheep and goats, and 325,000 camels. Two major nomadic
routes traverse the area but information on nomadic herds is rather
sketchy. Major problems encountered by livestock owners include the
increasing scarcity of grazing areas due to expansion of mechanized
farming, scarcity of water, limited veterinary services and medicine, and
lack of extension services. Gedaref and Doka are the major livestock
marketing centers where local livestock, and Ethiopian cattle crossing the
border, are marketed. A study reviewing the livestock sub-sector is
currently being carried out under the IFAD/IDA funded Stock Routes Project
(Cr. 1525-SU).
E. Infrastructure
3.10     Inadequate water supply is a major constraint to agricultural
development in the area. Consi.derable time is spent, mostly by women, to
carry water and in some instances fertile land is not utilized because of
water unavailability. The few operational water points available attract a
disproportionate number of people and livestock leading to overexploitation
of natural resources in the area.
3.11     Surface Water.  The water of the Atbara river is impounded in the
Thashm el Girba reservoir north of the project area. During the dry season
pools remain in the stream bed providing water to nearby villages and
livestock. Similar sources of water are available in the Rahad river. In
the south-western part of the project area where groundwater is
unavailable, hafirs are the main source o' water supply.4   Due to
siltation and high surface water evaporation most hafirs do not provide
water for the entire dry season. Of the 100 hafirs in the project area
about 62 are either completely silted or hold less than 25Z of their
original capacity. The remainder hold about 60-75Z of their original
capacity.  Silt accumulation reduces effective s-orage in haffirs by 2 to
3Z per year and evapiration accounts for the loss of 2 - 2.5m of surface
water per year.
3.12     Groundwater.  Available geological data indicate a relatively
impervious basement complex which tilts in a NE direction. Fresh water in
this complex occurs near infiltration areas around jebels and drainage
systems and is often not available throughout the dry season. Water is
obtained from wateryards usually consisting of one or two deep boreholes
(100 m - 350 m) equipped with reciprocating pumps driven by diesel engines.
Water is pumped to an elevated steel storage tank from which it is
distributed to a multi-tap distribution bench for humans and to watering
troughs for livestock. About 84 wateryards exist within the project area.
Insufficient funding has not allowed regular maintenance to be performed
and wateryard conditions have seriously deteriorated. About 40? of the
4/ Hafirs are small reservoirs 4 m to 8 m deep excavated in the black
cotton soils.



- 10 -
wateryards are out of operation at any given time and the remaining 602
operate, on average, at less than half of their capacity. The large influx
of refugees and of Sudanese from drought stricken areas has strained all
public services but particularly the water system. Although additional
water is needed, further development should follow a study on the aquifer
system to determine the groundwater potential in terms of recharge.
3.13     Transportation.  In view of the considerable agricultural
production which could be exported from the region, the poor road
infrastructure poses a serious constraint to development. During the rainy
season access is nearly impossible to villages, district administration
centers at Doka and Qala en Nahal, and to refugee reception centers and
settlements. Tractors can negotiate tracks in wet weather but cause
considerable damage. To restore the tracks to a reasonable condition,
regrading (4 to 5 passes) needs to be carried out at the start of the dry
season before the soil hardens to a rock-like consistency. Limited grading
is presently carried out and there is no program of soil stabilization.
Construction of permanent structures (irish bridges or culverts) at khor
crossings would greatly improve transportation.
F. Supporting Services to .2ariculture
3.14     Research. There is no research activity by the Agricultural
Research Corporation (ARC) in the Project area. However, an ARC regional
director is stationed at Kassala town to conduct research on horticultural
and irrigated crops only. Although ARC has, in the past, proposed the
establishment of a rainfed research station in southern Kassala to work on
the adaptability of alternative crops, improved varieties, and farming
practices, these proposals have no; been realized due to lack of funds.
The Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) is funding a research
project in southern Kassala to investigate alternative techniques of
mechanized farming. It is implemented jointly by CIDA and the Mechanized
Farming Corporation (MFC). (Para 3.19).
3.15     Extension. The National Extension Administration (NEA) maintains
its Regional Headquarters at Kassala town. It has a total staff of six,
and is only involved in horticultural development in the Gash Delta. There
is no extension service in southern Kassala except for refugee farmers
(para 3.21). Consequently, Sudanese farmers, especially smallholders,
have very limited information on improved technologies.
3.16     Farm Input5. The National Seed Administration (NSA) operates a
1,500 feddan seed farm near Sam-Sam. In the 1986/87 season about 500t of
sorghum and 16 t of sesame seed were produced. Because of the limited
processing facilities locally most of the seed is processed in Sennar,
outside the project area. Cor.sequently, almost none of the smallholders and
only a few of the mechanized farmers in southern Kassala have access to
improved seed. A new processing plant under construction in Gedaref would
allow processing and packaging in the Province. However, a distribution
system has not yet been worked out. There is a horticultural nursery in
Mafaza producing about 3,000 seedlings of lime, grapefruit and guava.
These are raised from seeds and are sold without grafting or budding. The
Plant Protection Department (PPD) maintains a unit in Gedaref with two



- 11 -
entomologists and an adequate number of support staff, and two field
offices in Showak and El Haw%tta. PPD is primarily concerned with
migratory, i.e. "national', pests but also helps control 'local' Dests at
subsidized charges. However, most smallholder farmers receive i. egular
service from PPD as its meager resources are mainly devoted to naticnal
pest control.
3.17     Credit.  The Gedaref branch of the Agricultural Bank of Sudan
(ABS) extends credit to about 700 farmers in demarcated schemes.
Guaranteed by the MFC, they receive up to 702 of production cost as credit.
Credit is only available to farmers with recognized land rights or
tenancies and normally ABS requests the guarantee of MFC for each loan.
Thus, practically all smallholders are not eligible for credit.
Certificates are also required that indicate payment of the religious tax
(Zakat) and produce tax. Smallholders have to rely on the informal credit
system (sheil) which not only is very costly but requires payment
immediately after harvest when market prices are lowest.
3.18     Marketing. GOS auction markets exist in Gedaref and El Hawatta
where most of the sesame and gum arabic are traded and relevant regional
and national taxes are paid. Taxes on traded crops total 15-202 of the
value of the crop and are almost equally divided between buyers and
sellers. However, the major marketing constraints include the poor road
network (para 3.13), and limited market information.
3.19     The Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC) is represented at
Gedaref. About 15 graduate agriculturists are posted at different parts of
the area (not all positions are presently filled) to provide fuel,
lubricants and seed to mechanized farmers in demarcated schemes and to
assist them with land clearance. Although the MFC is supposed to provide
extension services to farmers in the schemes, only two extension agents are
posted in southern Kassala and neither is involved in extension at this
time.  The Soils Survey Administration (SSA) maintains a substation for the
Eastern Region in Gedaref. Its small laboratory is staffed with one soil
chemist and four technicians. While reconnaissance soil surveys exist for
the whcle project area, no specific work has been done on the main small
farmer areas. The Soil Conservation and Land Use Administration (SCLUA)
maintains a regional office at Kassala with a staff of 15 graduates, 7
technical assistants and 12 assistant technicians in the land-use section.
However, due to lack of funds, little practical work is undertaken. This
applies also to the sub-office at Gedaref. The Veterinary Services
Administration (VSA) maintains a staff of 10 veterinarians, 9 technicians
and 60 skilled laborers for the Eastern Region. Centered at Gedaref, major
duties include the control of rinderpest, "blackleg," and anthrax.
Vaccinations are free of charge but treatment of other ailments is at cost.
The regional office of the Department of Agricultural Economics and
Statistics (DAES) at Gedaref has a staff of 4 graduates and 5 technical
enumerators. Prices of sorhgum and sesame are reported regularly to
Khartoum. Other duties include groundtruth checks for main crops and the
estimation of production and marketing cost on the basis of standard
questionnaires. The information collected refers only to the mechanized
farming areas.



- 12 -
G. Foreign Assistance
3.20     On-going Agricultur . Development Proiects.  Three externally-
assisted projects in rainfed agriculture are currently operating in the
project area: (i) The firs_ is a component of the AFDB-funded national
seed production project supporting improved seed production in Sam-Sam
(para.3.16). A processing plant is under construction in Gedaref which
should be operational by the time this Project starts and would supply
improved seed for farmers adopting the extension messages; (ii) The second
is a large-scale joint demonstration "Dryland Agricultural Project" (DAP)
implemented by the MFC and CIDA. The project is designed to determine the
technical viability of improved agronomic practices under large scale
mechanized farming. Main findings to date indicate higher yields from deep
plowing, early sowing and use of improved seed. Trials on use of fertilizer
have not proven that it would be cost effective. In general the DAP project
has emphasized the tec.hnical aspects of mechanized farming but few
conclusions have been reached to date on their economic viability. The
research program under the proposed Project would coordinate with DAP
particularly since there is an ARC site at Sam Sam near this project. DAP
scientists would also be invited to the Extension seminars (para 4.09);
(iii) The third is a project funded by Japan to drill 20 new boreholes
and to supply spare parts and equipment to RWC. This project has just
started but its objectives and scope have been taken into consideration in
the design of the water supply component of the proposed Project.
3.2j.    Assistance to Refugees is provided primarily by UNHCR through the
Sudanese Commissioner of Refugees (COR). The UNHCR program aims to improve
refugee set.lement infrastructure, particularly water supply, and to
support services in the fields of administration, health and education.
About 40 expatriate organizations fund or implement projects for refugees
in the area, in association with UNHCR. Except for those who have settled
spontaneously, refugees live either in wage-earning settlements or in land-
based settlements: (i) Wage earning settlements near Gedaref allow refugees
to become self-employed in small-scale activities or work as wage earners.
Those in rural areas are within zelatively easy access to mechanized farms
or to irrigated schemes near the Project area. The peak labor demand
periods are July to September for weeding and October to November for
harvesting. It has been estimated that more than 502 of labor in Gedaref
is contributed by refugees and that a landless refugee ard a smallholder
may be employed 150 and 95 days per year, respectively; (ii) There are
eleven land-based settlements (IBRD Map 3) where each family is allocated 5
feddans for rainfed farming. Additional land is often rented from
Sudanese, usually on a share cropping basis. The farming pattern, similar
to that of Sudanese farmers, is based on sorghum and to a lesser extent on
sesame. Refugee agricultural activities are supervised by a senior
agriculturist assisted by an agriculturist posted in each settlement.
Recently extensionists, all BSc, have been posted in eight settlements
where they conduct various on farm trials on hybrid sorghum, fertilizer,
inter-cropping of legume and sorghum. It is still too early to evaluate
the impact of this service on the farm operations. However, there is no
coordination between the NEA regional extension in Kassala town and the COR
extensionists and there are no systematic links to research.



- 13 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Objectives
4.01      The project would aim to address two key constraints to
agricultural development in southern Kassala: (i) declining productivity in
the face of increasing population and relative scarcity of land, and; (ii)
environmental degradation. Accordingly, two main interrelated project
objectives are: (i) to increase production on a sustainable basis, and;
(ii) to improve environmental management. Within the framework of these
objectives the project would aim to Improve economic self-reliance of
refugees in southern Kassala. Production would be increased through higher
yields, increased production near rehabilitated water points, improved
agricultural services and distribution of inputs. Improved environmental
management would result from better land use planning and monitoring,
environmentally sound agricultural practices, reforestation, and improved
forest management. Special emphasis would be given under the Project to
strengthening key Provincial institutions in the area to ensure
sustainability of Project activities. Smallholder farmers and refugees
would be targeted as the main Project beneficiaries.
B. Project Description
Agricultural Development
4.02     This component consists of applied research, the introduction of
Training and Visit (T&V) extension on a pilot basis, horticultural seedling
production, and improved crop protection.
4.03      Agricultural Research. The objectives of this component would be
to: (i) test new crops for their possible introduction into the crop
rotation pattern; (ii) develop improved agronomic practices; (iii) test new
varieties of crops cultivated in the project area, and; (iv) conduct
forestry research. To realize the objectives ARC would establish a
research station at Gedaref with two sub-stations at Sam Sam and El Hawatta
and an experimental site at Doka. The sites have been selected because
they represent che area's main variations in farming systems and in soil
and rainfall conditions. The main station would be in Gedaref because the
social services and educational facilities available there would entice
qualified scientists to fill the positions at the research station, often a
serious constraint in more remote areas. The Provincial Commissioner
agreed to provide a 25,000 m2 site in Gedaref for the sub-station buildings
which would be adequate for the project's needs and for possible post-
project expansion. Also the Commissioner agreed to allot Government land,
250fd near Gedaref, 750fd near Wad El Huri, 50fd near El Hawatta and 106fd
near Doka for the research farms. Land for the Sam Sam site would be
provided by the DAP project as previously agreed with the DAP management
and the preparation team for this project. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that ARC will undertake to obtain all necessary land allotment
documents by March 31, 1989 (para 8.01).



- 14 -
4.04     Research in the station and its satellites would concentrate on
yield increases, soil fertility and rainwater conservation and utilization.
New cultivars to increase yields and new crops to enable better crop
rotations would be sought, and the most appropriate agronomic practices for
these crops and cultivars would be established. Methods and implements for
tillage to maximize water conservation and minimize soil deterioration and
cost of production would be investigated. A related objective would be to
develop pest control techniques aimed at reducing chemical pesticide use
and increasing yields. These techniques would be: (i) early sowing to
evade most sorghum and sesame pests; (ii) crop rotation to minimize the
incidence of weeds, insects and disease, and (ii') development of pest
resistant crop varieties. Chemical pesticide use in the project area,
already wide spread on horticultural crops, is reportedly on the rise for
both horticultural and field crops. Therefore, to complement the pest
control techniques mentioned above, the ARC would undertake during PY2 a
study of chemical pesticide use in the area and would subsequently design a
program of research on Integrated Pest Management (IPM) which would start
being implemented during PY3.
4.05     In establishing research priorities consideration would be given
to the magnitude of the problem to be solved, the feasibility of its
solution, the related social and economic impact of such a solution and
prospects of its adoption hv farmers. Research benefiting small farmets
would be given priority.  A preliminary work program for PY1 is outlined in
the Technical volume - Annex 1 with emphasis on construction, staffing,
research farm demarcation, elaboration of a medium term research program
and initiation of its implementation. 5
4.06     In view of the most urgent research needs in the project area,
senior staff would initially include an agronomist, an agricultural
engineer and a soil scientist. A research forester would join in PY2 to
conduct research on agrofozestry. A senior technician at the El Hawatta
site would be a specialist on horticultural research. This team would be
backed up by scientists from ARC headquarters in Wad Medani, particularly a
plant breeder, an entomologist, a plant pathologist, a botanist and an
agricultural economist. A plant breeder stationed at Abu Naama
specielizing on sesame would also provide support to the Gedaref team.
Exchange visits would be arranged with other research stations in rainfed
areas established under WASRP. The research team would work very closely
with the extension service (para 4.09) and, through them, farmer leaders to
ensure that the research program addresses farmer's needs. ARC has agreed
to provi.- the scientists for this component. Coordination with the ADP
Sudanese- .nadian project at Sam Sam would be ensured by ARC.
4.07     All scientists (four) would be transferred to the project area by
ARC as well as most senior technicians and some support staff. ARC has
agreed to use its vacant posts for the recruitment of staff which would not
be transferred. ARC has also started the process of identifying and
nominating the sub-station director who would be responsible for the
implementation of this component. He would be based in Gedaref and report
to ARC headquarters in Wad Medani.
5/ A detailed description i the research component is provided in the
Technical Volume, Annex 1.



- 15 -
4.08     Project funds would be provided for office buildings, housing,
farm equipment, vehicles, office and laboratory equipment and operatir.g
expenditures (US$1.7 million). 6
4.09     Agricultural Extension.  The objective would be to establish a
provincial extension service in southern Kassala and to introduce the
Training-and-Visit (T&V) system there on a pilot basis. At present, there
is no extension service in the area except to a few refugee and Sudanese
farmers by MOANR officials seconded to COR and by NGOs.   However, their
link to research is very weak and training of extensionists is not
systematic. Although MFC is supposed to provide extension to farmers in
MFC schemes, this is not done in practice as MFC has neither the staff nor
the means required. Once the provincial extension service is established,
under this project, it would initially extend messages promoting the use
of improved inputs and improved cultivation practices (para 4.15). These
messages have been developed by the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC)
and WSARP. They have been tested under the WSPI, and the Sudanese-Canadian
project in southern Kassala where they have resulted in significant yield
increases. Messages would be modified as more research findings are
developed, especially under the applied research compcnent of this
project.
4.10     The provincial extension service would be organized into three
main extension units (MEU) and 12 extension sub-units (ESU) which would be
gradually established at the locations indicated below:
Location and Timetable for Establishment
of Extension Main Units and Sub-Units
(IBRD Map 5)
Main Units        _ub-lPnits
Year 1           Year 2             Year 3                     Year 4
Gedaref          Kassab             Um Sawani. Al Hamra        Al Huri
El Hawatta       Qala en Nahal      Ban, Beila                 Al Mifaza
Doka             El Gureshia        Tabrak Allah, Hakuma       Basunda
The main units would be located at the major administrative and
agricultural centers of the area.  Sub-:ait locations have been selected
because of the relative concentration of smallholder farmers, the
relatively better transportation network, and the anticipated ease of
recruitment.
4.11     The management structure of the provincial extension service would
be as follows: It would be managed by a Deputy Regional Director of
Extension based in Gedaref who would report to the Regional Director in
Kassala. To expedite implementation of the component the Deputy Director
would be appointed prior to project start-up. Each main unit would be
staffed by 2 senior extensionists and by administrative support staff
6/ A detailed description of component costs is provided in the Technical
Volume - Annex 7.



- 16 -
including an accountant. Each sub-unit would be staffed by one
extensionist and 4 local extensionists (LEs). The National Extension
Administration (NEA) has indicated that the Deputy Director, the senior
extensionists and the extensionists would be transferred from NEA to the
provincial extension service. Local extensionists who would operate at the
village level would be locally recruited. In view of the NEA staff
strength and the number of graduates from Sudan's 4 agricultural secondary
schools, availability of potential recruits should not pose a problem.
4.12     The Gedaref unit would set policies for the service, review and
approve the work programs of the other MEUs. monitor and evaluate their
activities and provide logistical and technical support. The Gedaref MEU
would organize regular training workshops for the senior extensionists and
the extensionists. The trainers would normally be scientists from ARC, the
Plant Protection Department (PPD), the Forestry Administration, the Soil
Conservation and Land Use Planning Administration (SCLUPA), the MFC, and
the Horticulture Administration.
4.13     MEUs would have similar functions with their respective sub-units
on work programs, support, and monitoring and evaluation. Each MEU would
organize a monthly workshop conducted by the MEU senior extensionists and
attended by the ESU extensionists and the LEs. During workshops the
content of e;tension messages, the methods of communication, the adoption
rates, relevant problems and feedback from farmers would be discussed and
appropriate responses would be decided. SEU extensionists would visit LEs
and farmer cooperators on a systematic schedule to review the acceptability
and relevAnt impact of extension messages.
4.14     Each LE would organize about 20 farmers' groups, of 10 farmers per
group, in 4 or 5 villages. Each group would have a farmer co-operator who
would take the lead in trying out extension messages and discussing these
with his fellow farmers in the group. Each LE would visit with each group
on a fixed schedule. He would maintain a systematic record of his
extension activities, farmers' responses and comments and any other
relevant observation. SEU extensionists would also enter their
observations during their field visits (para 4.i3'.
4.15     Extension packages would aim at yield improvement and crop
diversific tion. Initially efforts would be concentrated on extending:
improved agricultural practices with respect to crop rotation, timely
planting, plant population, crop geometry and weed management; use of seed
dressing; use of improved seeds; crop protection; water conservation; tree
planting, and; horticultural production. The expected impact of the
extension service on production is discussed in para 4.09.
4.16     Linkages would be developed under the project between the
Provincial Extension Service and NEA, the ARC, the NSA, the F3restry
Administration (FA), and other agencies or projects in the area involved in
extension. The Deputy Director of Extension would be responsible for close
coordination with NEA so that activities of the provincial extension
service would be consister.t with national extension policy. He would keep
NEA informed of the T&V experience for possible replication in other
regions. Coordination would be ensured by systematic visits to NEA by the
Deputy Director, participation of NEA staff in the workshops, joint



- 17 -
training activities and seminars. Annual work plans and relevant reports
would be submitted to the NEA. Links between research and extension would
be ensured through the workshops. These would be facilitated by the
establishment under the project of the applied research sub-station near
Gedaref and the research test sItes in Doka and El Hawatta where MEUs would
also be located (para 4.10).
4.17     A GOS objective which would be supported through the project is to
integrate all extension services in southern Kassala under the provincial
extension service. A prerequisite to integration would be for the latter
to be capable of undertaking this responsibility so that on-going extension
services to farmers would not deteriorate. A study would be conducted in
PY3 under the PMU to: (i) review the operation of the extension service;
(ii) evaluate the acceptability of messages by the farmers; (iii) recommend
on the possible integration of the services, and; (iv) if appropriate,
prepare a program for integration. However, coordination among the
extension services would start immediately. This would be ensured by
arranging for COR, MFC and NGO exter.sionists to participate regularly in
the workshops organized by the MEUs and ESUs so that there would be no
contradiction in the approach and messages extended to farmers. To
implement the extension component funds would be provided under the project
for construction, transport means, supplies, training, stuuies and
equipment (US$3.3 million). 7
4.18     Improve-i Seeds and Seedlings  The objective would be to increase
the availability of improved seed and seedlings to Sudanese and refugee
farmers in southern Kessala. A.though the NSA operates a 1500 feddan farm
in sovthern Kassala for improved crop seed production, such seed is rarely
used by traditional farmers and infrequently used by mechanized farmers.
This is mainly due to inadequate processing facilities and poor
distribution systems and, to an extent, to lack of knowledge among farmers,
an issue which would be addressed through the extension service (para
4.15). Under the project farm equipment at the seed farm would be
rehabilitated and seed cleaning, grading, packaging and storage facilities
would be upgraded.8 To ensure immediate access to farmers adopting
relevant extension messages an initial stock of improved seed and seed
dressing would be purchased with project funds and placed in each extension
sub-unit for sale to farmers at full cost. Sales proceeds would be used to
replenish the stock (para 4.19). At the same time, merchants would be
encouraged to buy seed directly from the NSA as it is expected that the
private sector would take over the distribution once demand increases.
Fertilizer would not be provided through the project given that its cost-
effectiveness for smallholders in the are& has not been proven, and its
post-project availability would be uncertain due to foreign exchange
shortages and poor distribution systems.
7/ A detailed description of the Extension Component is provided in the
Technical Volume - Annex 2.
8/ Most of the area would be supplied with seed from the Gedaref processing
plant to be constructed with donor financing. Sam Sam gould serve farmers
in the Southwestern part of the project area.



- 18 -
4.19     Although horticultural production is important in the area, it has
remained below its potential partly because of lack of improved seeds and
seedlings. A horticultural nursery would be established under the project
near El Hawatta and the Showak nursery would be rehabilitated. These two
nurseries would serve primarily horticultural fa-mers near the Rahad and
Atbara rivers, respectively, and farmers with home vegetable gardens
between the two rivers. Both nurseries would be operated by the
Horticulture Department. The emphasis would be oa growing mother trees of
good cultivars of popular fruit species to be used as sources for seedlings
through grafting, budding or layering. Until mother trees mature,
seedlings would be grown from seeds. Vegetable seeds would also be
produced. All seed and seedlings would be sold at full cost to farmers,
merchants, NGOs, COR and to the extension service. The project would
provide funds for construction, equipment, transport means, tools, and
training at the El Hawatta nursery, and for the construction of a bund wall
to prevent flooding and the provision of equipment at the Showak nursery
(US$0.2 million). 9
4.20     Plant Protection.  The objective of this co.amponent would be to
strengthen the Provincial PPD to reduce crop losses particularly of small
farmers and horticulturists due to pests and diseases. Major problems are
caused by the so-called 'national" Rests mainly locusts, rats, birds, and
sorghum bug. Local pests include grasshoppers. termites, sesame seed bug,
and storage pests. PPD is supported by the central PPD office in Khartoum
to combat national peqts but due to lack of funds, local pests are not
dealt with systematically. Under the project pesticides would be provided
to control local pests, stores would be built near areas of smallholder
farmer concentration, and knapsack sprayers would be provided for sale or
rental to farmers. PPD would be assisted by the PMU to establish a system
for accurate cost accounting and charges for services to individuals would
be gradually raised from the estimated 30Z of cost at present to full cost
by PY3. IDA would approve any pesticide to be purchased to guard against
adverse impact on the environment (para 8.01 (c)). Also, PPD staff would
be trained in IPM and safe use of pesticides. IPM research would be
undertaken by ARC (para 4.04) in close cooperation with the PPD. The PPD
would coordinate with the Extension Service, so that the latter would
educate farmers, including women tending to household gardens, on PPD
services, the availability of sprayers and on other self-help methods to
avoid crop losses due to pests. The Extension Service would also pa z on
information to the PPD on relevant problems faced by the farmers. The
credit would provide funds for pesticides, transport equipment,
rehabilitation of storage facilities, radios, camping equipment, sprayers
and training (US$1.8 million). 10
91 A more detailed description of this component is provided in the
Technical Volume, Annex 1.
101 A more detailed description of the Plant protection component is
provided in the Technical Volume, Annex 1.



- 19 -
4.21     Environmental Management. The project area has suffered
significant environmental damage during recent decades. Mainly this has
taken the form of: nearly total destruction of forests and significant
depletion of grass cover; reduced soil fertility and higher soil erosion;
water scarcity, and; diminishing genetic variability affecting many plant
and animal species. The main reasons have been: the indiscrirminate
expansion of mechanized farming coupled with environmentally unsound
cultivation practices; overgrazing due to diminishing water supply and
pasture land; rapid population growth and related increased demand for
natural resourcps, especially fuelwood; and weak institutions unable to
plan and implement programs conducive to ecological balance.
4.22     There is a growing awareness of the magnitude of the environmental
problem. Its impact on the local economy has led to a consensus among the
population and government staff at all levels that actions must be taken to
arrest ecological damage. Research and extension activities under this
project (para 4.15) promoting crop rotation, crop diversification and other
improved farming practices would greatly assist with environmental
improvement.  In addition, th.'s component would aim to: (i) strengthen the
FA through training of personnel, particularly wardens to imtrove forest
management; (ii) provide labor opportunities for refugees through
reforestation programs; (iii) establish links between the FA and the
Extension Service for dissemination of messages related to agroforestry,
shelter belts and basic forest management; (iv) establish a seed bank and
initiate forestry resear,.h; and (v) develop a regional land use plan (para
4.26). 11
4.23     The FA in the project area would be strengthened through staff
recruitment, training, transport means, equipment and construction of
facilities. The FA would work closely with the agricultural extension
service and would integrate messages into the extension package aiming to
educate and involve rural residents in forest preservation and management,
forest protection and development of agro-forestry. Forestry extension
messages would be developed through +he research program (para 4.03) sad
through the National Forestry ProjecL (NFP) which would be implemented
concurrently with this Project.
4.24     Reforestation under the project would entail planting and seeding
of trees at four sites tentatively identified near the refugee settlements
of Gedaref, UmBrush, San Sam and Saraf Saeed (IBRD Map 5). A program of
circumplanting about 65 hafirs would be initiated. This would help reduce
erosion and wash-out of hafir walls and would also reduce wind velocity
which at present contributes significantly to evaporation. Reforestation
would be implemented mainly through the use of refugee labor. It is
estimated that total labor requirements during the project period would be
130,000 mandays for reforestation and 30,000 for hafir circumplanting.
Laborers would be drawn primarily from refugee settlements during February
to May when demand for farm labor is low. The program would be administered
by the FA with cooperatior. from COR and UNHCR which would organize refugee
labor recruitment. A UNHCR staff member would be based in the project area
111 A more detailed description of the Forestry Component is provided in
the Technical Volume, Annex 3.



- 20 -
to assist with the recruitment of refugee laborers and with relevant
monitoring. Sudanese laborers would be eligible to work on these projects.
4.25     Reforestation under this project and shelterbelt establishment
under other projects would create substantial demand for tree seed and
seedlings. Gi-en that exotic species may not be adaptable to local
conditions it would be best to rely on seed from local trees. However,
the extensive destruction of forest stands has reduced genetic variability
and created a shortage of quality seed from desired species. There is,
therefore, a need to identify, demarcate and harvest seeds from local fast
growing and healthy stands. Under the Project a seed bank would be
established by the FA which would undertake to: ti) identify and demarcate
suitable seed stands in the project area (and adjacent 100 km, if
necessary); (ii) organize seed collection by rural residents and refugees
against payment; (iii) clean, process and store collected seed according to
origin and year of collection; (iv) distribute desired tree seed to FA and
private nurseries, villagc forests, and private tree plantings; (v) monitor
the origin and introduccion of specific seed into reforestation sites to
determine the success or failure of specific origins. The seed bank would
be housed near the regional Forestry Department in Kassala. Its supervisor
would report directly to the Conservator of Forests. During the project
period, the seed bank would be mainly concerned with seed supply in the
project area, but could later expand its activities into all of the Eastern
Region.
4.26     A land use survey and land use plan would be carried out by
consultants in cooperation with the FA and the regional SCLUPA. This plan,
which would be closely coordinated with the water resources inventory also
to be undertaken under the project, (para 4.29) would indicate current land
use practices, describe the ex-sting legal and institutional framework,
inventory forest reserves and existing stands, and develop a land use plan
taking into consideration environmental and economic criteria.   A system
for monitoring the state of natural resources would be elaborated under
this plan. In view of the serious damage to Sudan's wildlife, the plan
would also address issues relating to the Dinder wildlife preserve in the
area and would identify projects which could be funded by other donors.
The plan would recommend specific measures, including institutional
changes, to ensure full implementation of the proposals. The regional plan
would be developed in close coordination with the National Land Use Plan to
be elaborated under the NFP to develop national land use policies and
guidelines.
4.27     Funds would be provided through the credit for the construction of
office buildings and housing, transport equipment, laboratory equipment,
training, studies and technical assistance (US$9.5 million).
4.28     Rural Water SupPly  This component would have the following
objectives: (i) To assess water demand and supply, including ground water,
in the project area; (ii) to strengthen the RWC with respect to planning,
financial management, full cost recovery, and repair and maintenance
capability; (iii) to prepare a comprehensive program of wateryard, hafir
and shallow well rehabilitation and construction, part of which would be
implemented under the Project (IBRD Map 2); (iv) to initiate coordinated



- 21 -
community and NGO involvement in rural water supply, and; (v) to introduce,
on a pilot basis, wind and solar powered waterynrd equipment.
4.29     The water demand and supply study would include: an estimate of
demand by type of user, location and season; an inv*ntory of rural water
points detailing their operational status and reqnirements for their
rehabilitation; and an assessment of the ground vater supply. Based on
the findings of the study, the RWC and technical assistants would prepare a
medium-term work plan aiming to ensure adequate water supply to the area.
The first two parts of the study would be carried out by RWC in Gedaref
with technical assistance to be provided through the project. The demand
study would be done by consultants contracted by RWC. The objective would
be to increase average daily water supply from 9 to 15 lt/person. The plan
would also detail implementation responsibility under the RWC which would
also include donors, NGOs and local and refugee communities. On the basis
of information available at present and in coordination with programs
funded by other donors RWC would be assisted under this project to
rehabilitate about 30 wateryards, 65 hafirs and 50 shallow wells. A limited
program of hafir and shallow well construction, 5 and 15 respectively,
would be funded through the project. However, this program, particularly
the construction part, could be modified in accordance with the
recommendations of the demand and supply study. Particular emphasis would
be given to strengthening RWC with respect to planning. standardization of
equipment, procurement procedures, financial management, operational
efficiency and monitoring of the rural water system. Training and technical
assistance would be provided to RWC to, inter alia, improve its operational
planning, accounting systems and cost recovery. RWC operating costs would
be reviewed and updated and water charges would be raised accordingly.
Revenues collected would be used to support RWC operations in Southern
Kassala (para 6.14). To support the rehabilitation program and to promote
operational sustainability, RWC repair and maintenance facilities would be
upgraded through repair of heavy equipment, and supply of spare narts,
transport and communication equipment. Two pilot activities would be
launched under this component: (i) The introduction of wind and solar
powered equipment with a view to reducing costs and decreasing
dependability on imported fuel, and; (ii) the involvement of communities
and NGOs in the construction, operation, maintenance and cost recovery of
local water points. Funds would be provided through the Credit for
equipment, spares, vehicles, studies, training, and technical assistance.
(US$9.0 million).
4.30     Rural Road Rehabilitation and Maintenance.  The feeder road system
is vital to the area's development in view of its agricultural surplus
production and the need to supply inputs and services, and particularly
extension. Under the project the objectives would be to: (i) improve and
maintain dry weather roads serving areas with concentrations of villages
and refugee settlements; 12 (ii) provide employment to Sudanese and
refugee residents, and; (iii) promote private enterprise in road
rehabilitation. Three District Councils in Southern Kassala have statutory
responsibility for rural road maintenance and would implement this
component with support from PMU. However the classification system for all
12/ A detailed description of this component indicating location of irish
bridges and priority roads for maintenance is provided in the Technical
Volume - Anne% 5.



- 22 -
public roads is under review by MOPWH.
4.31     To achieve the objectives described above the following activities
would be funded under the project: (i) realignment of selected segments of
the tracks linking Gedaref to Doka and Gedaref to El Hawatta (IBRD Map 4)
through higher elevation terrain to take advantage of better soil
conditicns for road maintenance. Since these tracks have been designated
as public roads the proposed realignment would be submitted to the Roads
and Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC) for approval betore its
implementation is undertaken; tii) design and construction of pipe culverts
and 30 irish bridges totalling about 1,000 m in length. Building on the
experience of a small on-going project in northern Kassala all irish
tridges would be designed for labor-intensive construction methods
maximizing the use of gabions and rock riprap and limited use of concrete
as pavement slab; (iii) testing of alternative soil stabilization methods,
using lime, on a section of 1.6km of the main track near Gedaref. The
tests would be carried out by local consultants under the supervision of
the Southern District Council and the Engineering Section of the PMU, and;
(iv) strengthening of the enginoering departments of the three District
Councils in the project area through rehabilitation and purchase of
equipment, spare parts, staff recruitment, training and improved financial
management. Training would entail operation and maintenance of equipment
and correct track grading for better road maintenance. Financial
management would aim to improve cost accounting and inventory systems. A
study by consultants would investigate possible methods for increased
District Council revenues for road maintenance. Two of the Councils have
experimented with collection of fees and voluntary contributions but
neither has been systematic. Although full cost recovery may not be
feasible at this time the study would aim to recommend an effective revenue
generating system to supplement budgetary allocations.
4.32     The Engineering Departments of the three District Councils in the
project area would be responsible for the implementation of this component.
Their respective responsibilities are described in the Technical Volume,
Annex 5. The track realignment, the construction of the irish bridges and
culverts and the stabilization pilot program would be carried out by local
contractors. The credit would provide funds for road rehabilitation,
equipment repair, purchase of vehicles, equipment and tools, training and
studies (US$4.8 million). 13
4.33     Training.  Technical and management training provided to staff at
different levels would be a key element in the institutional strengthening
of the implementing agencies in the project area. Under the extension
component systematic training would be provided to extensionists at all
levels (para 4.12) including 22 extensionists and 48 village level workers.
The extensionists would receive formal training in Khartoum in extension
education, and special seminars would be organized involving senior NEA,
ARC and other scientists. Six PPD staff would be trained in Khartoum on
safe use of pesticides and on IPM. Under the water supply component, about
15 RWC workshop mechanics would receive training on repair of wateryard
13/ A detailed description of this component is provided in the Technical
Volume - Annex 5.



- 23 -
equipment, and about 60 RWC and community pump operators would likewise
receive instruction on the proper operation and maintenance of water pumps
and engines. The mechanics and pump operators would be trained in Gedaret
by senior RWC staff. Under the Forestry component about 100 staff,
including 80 wardens, would be trained by senior FA staff in basic forest
management. A special fund would be earmarked for training of clerical
staff of the lAs in typing, fill.ng, bGokkeeping, and computer operations.
4.34     Studies to support project implementation would include: a land
use survey and land use plan (para 4.26); an assessment of water demand and
supply (para 4.28); a study to indicate how rural communities could become
more involved in water supply; an evaluation of the extension program and
elaboration of a plan to integrate all extension services into the
Provincial Extension Service (para 4.17); a study to recommend revenue
generating methods to finance rural road maintenance (para 4.31); a study
to estimate appropriate water charges for full cost recovery (para 4.29);
and a project mid-term review (para 5.10).
4.35     Technical Assistance would be provided to assist the extension
service adopt the T&V system; to the RWC to improvt its management systems
particularly with respect to planning, financial management, monitoring of
the water supply, and maintenance; to the FA for the establishment of the
seed bank; and to the Project Management Unit (PMU) on financial
management, procurement, monitoring and evaluation systems.
C. Proiect Costs and Financing
4.36     Project costs including contingencies are estimated at LSdl55
million (US$34.4 mill.on), of which about LSd84.3 million (US$18.7 million)
or 54Z represent foreign exchange equivalent. Items procured under the
project are exempt from import duties and taxes therefore no tax was
included in the cost estimates. Project costs by component are summarized
below, and a summary acco,znt by cost category is presented in Table 2.
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(LSD '000)                 (USS *000)             X Total
.-.,_   . .__-=__________,_      _________________  X   Foreign   Base
Local   Pore Tn Tot        _OCT   Foreign  Total Exchange Costs
A. Extension Service    5,834.7  4,377.9  10,212.6  1,296.6   972.9  2,269.6   43    9
B. Agricultural Research 2,445.2  3,289.2  6,734.4   643.4   730.9  1,274.3   67   14
C. Horticulture *nd
Seed Improvement    350.6    604.4    865.0    77.9   112.1   190.0   59    1
0. Plant Protection   2,015.9  4,197.7  6,213.5   448.0   932.8  1,380.8   6s    6
E. Rural Roads        5,367.1  10,902.7  16,269.8  1,192.7  2,422.8  3,615.5   67   14
F. Rural Water Supply   7,279.5  25,977.4  33,256.9  1,617.7  6,77?.7  7,390.4   78   29
G. Project Management   6,035.7  9,648.8  14,684.6  1,119.0  2,122.0  3,241.0   6s   13
H. Environmental
Protection       16.781.6  12.14S.3  27.926.8  3.607.0  2.699.0  6.206.0   43   24
Total Baseline Costs   44,110.1  70,943.4 115,053.6  9,802.2 16,765.2 25,6e7.4   62  100
Physical Contingencies  7,227.7  6,464.2  13,691.9  1,606.2  1,436.5  3,042.6   47   12
Price Contingencies   19.281.6  8.908.0  26.189.6  4.284.8  1.635.1  6.819.9   26   23
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS    70,619.4  84,316.6 164,935.0 15,693.2 18,738.8 34,430.0   64  135
=    =           -    =        =       =      =      -



- 24 -
Cost estimates are bas A on data from the preparation report, and data
collected during the pre-appraisal mission, supplemented and updated in May
1988. A 10-20Z physical contingency has been applied to selected project
costs to cover unanticipated needs. Price contingencies have been based on
inflation rates for imported items and locally procured goods as shown
below:
Estimated Annual Inflation Rates
(in percent)
1989190  1990191   1991192  1992193   1993194   1994/95
International        3.0       3.5       4.0      4.0        4.0       4.0
Domestic            16.0      14.0      11.0     10.0       10.0      10.0
An advance from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of about US$0.5
million has been made available at the Government's request to finance the
activities shown in Table 9.
4.37     Project costs would be financed by:
LSd million   US$ million    X of Total
Financing Agency                            (equivalent)
GOS and Project Beneficiaries    19.96           4.43          12.9
IDA                               90.00         20.00          58.1
UNHCR                             45.00         10.00          29.0
Total                            154.96         34.43         100.0
Expenditures not funded by IDA and UNHCR would at first be financed through
GOS budget allocations. GOS funding would gradually diminish in inverse
proportion to revenues accruing from project beneficiaries through cost
recovery. Similarly, the GOS and the beneficiaries would progressively
cover an increasing portion of recurrent costs while IDA and UNHCR funding
of such expenditures diminishes in preparation for the post-project period
when external funding will have terminated (Table 5). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the GOS would provide adequate funds to
maintain project activities. Annual disbursements by financing agency are
shown in Table 5 and by disbursement category in Table 1.
4.38     The UNHCR contribution would be a grant to GOS.  UNHCR funds would
be adminis.ered by IDA. Given that all project activities would contribute
to the development of refugee and Sudanese residents in the area, UNHCR
would finance about 29Z of all project expenditures, or US$10.0 million in
total. The IDA credit and UNHCR grant would finance 10O of the foreign
exchange expenditures and varying percentages of local expenditures for
components not financed by GOS. The IDA credit would be on standard terms
and conditions. As a condition of effectiveness of the credit, Government
would have met the conditions for the UNHCR grant (para 8.02).



- 25 -
D. Procurement
4.39     GOS procurement procedures were recently reviewed by the Bank and
found acceptable, except on two important points: (i) proper bid opening
procedures, and; (ii) clear and timely indication of evaluation criteria. 14
The Government assured IDA at negotiations that these shortcomings would be
rectified. The review also noted that Sudan is eligible for the 7.5
percent civil work preference and 15 percent domestic preference for goods
under ICB. The PMU would have the overall responsibility for coordinating
procurement among the Implementing Agencies (IAs), finalizing documents
prepared by the lAs, evaluating bids and finalizing contracts. The RWC and
the MOANR have had experience with procurement related to the water
component, agricultural machinery, research equipment and seed processing
equipment respectively, so that the PMU would only need to assist through
review and coordination.  Other IAs with less experience would be assisted
by the PMU in preparing bidding documents, evaluating bids and awarding
contracts.
4.40     The Civil Works category (US$8.3 million) consists of construction
of irish bridges and road miintenance (US$1.0); wateryard, hafir and
shallow well rehabilitation and construction (US$3.7); and building
construction and other civil works (US$3.6). The construction of irish
bridges would be implemented under contracts procured through LCB (Local
Competitive Bidding) procedures. The Engineering Section of the PMU would
prepare the tender documents and would supervise the construction works.
The wateryard program would be implemented by the RWC, which has sufficient
capacity and expertise, except for part of the drilling, which, in the
interest of time, would be contracted out on LCB basis (US$.l million).
The RWC would also implement the rehabilitation of small hafirs, which
would be done mostly with labor intensive technology (US$1.0 million).
Other civil works involving mostly construction of buildings (US$3.6
million) would be awarded through LCB satisfactory to IDA.  The individual
contracts for civil works in these components would not be suitable for
international competitive bidding (ICB), because the scale of the contracts
would be relatively small, work would be mostly dispersed in remote areas
and construction would be protracted over the project implementation
period. Experience under similar projects in Sudan indicates that ICB is
not practical for the size of contracts proposed in such remote locations.
Foreign firms, however, would be eligible to bid. Construction for which
there is no standard design in Sudan, e.g. office buildings and
laboratories, would require the services of an architect and quantity
surveyor to prepare designs and Bills of Quantities. They would be
contracted locally by the PMU. Professional fees for these services are
included in the credit.
4.41     Vehicles (US$1.6 million), agricultural machinery, heavy equipment
and water yard equipment (US$1.7 million), spare parts and miscellaneous
equipment (US$2.0 million) would be procured through ICB and would be
subject to prior IDA review, except for certain items where the number of
units would render ICB inappropriate. Some equipment, such as small orders
for spare parts, workshop items or laboratory equipment, would be purchased
according to the procedures outlined below: (i) equipment valued at
US$50,000 or more would be procured through Limited International Tendering
14/ IBRD, "Sudan: Country Procurement Assessment Report," January, 1988.



- 26 -
(LIT) to au aggregated sum of US$400,000; and (ii) for contracts less than
$50,000 each, local purchasing procedures would be used, to an aggregated
sum of US$300,000. At least three quotations would be required for both
LIT and local purchasing procedures.
4.42     Contracts for technical assistance (US$2.8 million) and studies
(US$0.1 million) would be awarded in accordance with IDA guidelines and
would be subject to prior IDA review.  Overseas and local training (US$1.3
million) would be by direct placement. Bidding packages for works and
goods estimated to cost over US$200,000 for civil works and US$100,000 for
equipment procured under ICB would be subject to prior IDA review of
procurement documentation, contracts below these limits would be subject to
selective post-award review. Thus about 50Z of the total contract value of
IDA procurement would be subject to prior IDA review. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the procedures described above would be
followed. Procurement procedures are presented in Table 3.
E. Disbursements
4.43     The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over seven and a
half years.15    Disbursement against all items would be based on full
documentation, except for contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent,
labor and operating expenses which would require only Statements of
Expenditure (SOEs). Relevant supporting documentation would be kept by the
disbiursing entity, with copies supplied to the PMU and subsequently
reviewed by auditors. The documentation would be readily available for
review by IDA during project supervision. Disbursements would be
facilitated by the special accounts described in para. 4.44. Proceeds of
the IDA/UNHCR credits is shown in Table 4 Ind the schedule of IDA
disbursements in Table 6.
F. Accounts and Audits
4.44     Special and Proiect Accounts.  To provide foreign exchange
expeditiously and to facilitate disbursements, the PMU would open and
maintain a special account in US currency with a commercial bank authorized
by the Bank of Sudan on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. Upon
credit effectiveness and at the request of the Borrower, IDA would make an
initial deposit of US$1.0 million which corresponds to about 3 months of
estimated IDA disbursements. The Special Account would be used to the
maximum extent possible to meet all IDA eligible expenditures, and would be
replenished on the basis of monthly applications submitted promptly after
receipt and reconciliation of the bank statement from the commercial bank.
(Similar arrangements would apply to a separate Special Account to be
opened for the UNHCR Grant.) Assurances were obtained at negotiations for
the PMU to also maintain a project account for local funds with a
commercial bank in Sudan. The GOS would initially deposit LSd600,000 not
later than March 31, 1989 corresponding to the estimated equivalent of 6
months of its PY1 contribution. At least LSd300,000 would be maintained in
15/ Corresponds to the standard disbursement profile for Sudan, assuming
that a PPF would be app:oved about 9 months prior to effectiveness.



- 27 -
the account (para 8.01 (a)). Implementing agencies involved in cost
recovery would maintain special accounts in the Province, where relevant
revenues would be kept (para 6.17).
4.45     The supporting documents and SOEs would be retained by the PMU and
by project entities concerned and would be available to IDA supervision
missions. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that annual accounts,
SOEs and special accounts would be audited by auditors acceptable to IDA
(para 8.01 (b)). The audited annual accounts, together with the auditor's
report, would be submitted to IDA, in English, not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year. When the Auditor General is unable to
audit accounts in the required time agreeable to IDA, the PHU would be
empowered to select and covuission independent Auditors to undertake this
work.
G. Environmental Impact
4.46     Project activities would have significantly positive effects on
the environment. Major among these are:
i)   A land survey and land use study would be initiated under a PPF
to: provide accurate information; recommend environmentally sound
land use in the Province; recommend possible modifications to
tenure praLtices; design a monitoring system for the natural
resource base; identify major issues and propose measures for
preserving and further developing the Dinder Wildlife National
Park, and together with the Regional Planning Authorities,
recommend policy measures and a timetable for their
implementation;
(ii) Environmentally sound farming practices promoted through
extension, particularly crop rotation and diversification would
help restore soil fertility.
(iii) Higher yields and increased incomes would reduce the need for
cultivation of marginal areas, which are often most susceptible
to environmental degradation;
(iv) The rehabilitation of water sources serving a large portion of
the Province would ease the pressure from l;vestock now
concentrated on the few operational water points and would also
ullow abandoned farm areas to be cultivated instead of marginal
land.
(v)   Forest protection and reforestation together with forest research
and extension would help reverse the serious damage to the
ecology of the project area;
4.47     To ensure that no pesticides supplied under the Project would have
a negative impact on the environment, all pesticides to be used would be
approved by IDA. The operation of boreholes rehabilitated under the
Project would not affect the water table in the area since a study of water
resources, including a ground water survey, would precede all construction
and most of the rehabilitation program (para 4.34).



- 28 -
V. PROJECT IPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01     The project would be implemented by existing agencies in the
Proviv^e. Their respective responsibilities are shown below:
REGIONAL       PROVINCILW   PROVINCIAL              DISTRICT         NATIONAL
MOAkR            RWC          PPD        ARC       COUNCILS         SEED ADMIN.
Agr. Services  Water        Crop         Applied   Rural Roads       Seed
Horticulture   Supply       Protection   Research  Rehabilitation  Production
Forestry                                            & maintenance
A Project Management Unit (PMU) has been established to provide
coordination and assistance to the IAs. Key official reporting
relationships are shown in Chart 1, and a more detailed description and
evaluation of the IAs is given in the Technical Volume, Annex 6.
5.02     The PMU has been established for -he duration of the project to
provide overall project administration and iLaancial management.  Its main
functions would be:
-   to coordinate project activities;
-   to ensure refugees are fully involved in project activities;
-   to monitor, evaluate and provide feedback on implementation
progress;
-   to provide supervision, support and assistance to lAs,
particularly in financial management, cost recovery and
procurement;
-   to control and account for the disbursement of project funds;
-   to oversee the provision of training and technica ass'stance;
-   to manage selected studies;
-   to coordinate with entities responsible for the implementation
of other projects in the Province.
The PMU is led by a Director reporting to the First Under-Secretary, MOANR.
When fully operational, P4LJ would consist of an Agricultural Section, an
Engineering Section, an Ecology Sectior, and a Finance and Administration
Section. A UNHCR project officer would be assigned to the project area and
would also report to the Project Director. Initially the PMU would have 10
higher level staff (grade IX and above), of which three would be based in
Khartoum and the remainder, incilding the Director, in Gedaref.  In later
years staff could be reduced as As are strengthened and the PMU work load
lessens. All PMU staff would be recruited for fixed terms not to exceed the
project implementation period, Given that the PMU will be disbanded upon
project completion. An organization chart with proposed staffing is shown
ir. Chart 2.



- 29 -
5.03     The PMU would be assisted Ly: (i) an Advisory Committee chaired by
the Director of the PMU. It would consist of representatives of the
Regional and Provincial Government; the District Councils in the project
area; the southern Kassala Farmers' Unions, the MFC, the RWC, COR and UNHCR
in Showak. (Table 10). The main function of the Advisory Committee would
be to coordinate project activities with development policies and projects
in Southern Kassala; (ii) a Steering Committee headed by the Undersecretary
of MOANR. It would consist of representatives of MOFEr, NWC, ARC and the
SKR.P project director (Table 10). Its functions wc'ld be to ensure
consistency between project activities and national development objectives,
and to generate support for the project. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that the Advisory and Steering Committees have been
established.
5.04     Many of the implementing agencies are weak.  The project is
designed to address these difficulties by providing managerial, technical
and financial support. Project funds for institutional support (PMU,
training, technical assistance and studies) amount to about US$7.2 million
or 212 of the total project cost. To ensure sustainability in the post-
project period the project design calls for existing Provincial agencies to
implement the project with support by the PHU. Particular emphasis would
be given to cost recovery and to retention and use of related revenues
within the Province. (paras. 6.13-6.14).
B. Annual Work Plans
5.05     Implementation of all project activities would be effected on the
basis of annual plans and budgets. The manager of each institution
responsible for the implementation of part of the Project would prepare a
work plan and estimated budget, which would be submitted to the PhU. The
PHU would aggreeate the above into a unified and consistent Annual Work
Program. This would be submitted to the MOANR for approval and
consideration in the preparation of the GOS budget for the following year.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that PMU would submit to IDA the
Annual Work Program for review and comment.
5.06     Annual work plans would specify project objectives for the
following year, detail activities to be carried out to achieve these
objectives, indicate the relevant time frame and the required financial,
physical and human resources. In particular, the work program would
address the following: (a) a brief evaluation of the previous year's
performance relative to objectives and a discussion of its relevance to the
new plan; (b) detailed objectives and targets for the following year; (c)
description of activities for each objective, expected output and relevant
time frame; (d) significant dependencies and risks; (e) detailed investment
and operating budgets; (f) staffing and training plans; (g) financing plan;
and (h) procurement plan. Familiarization of PMU and other project staff
with preparation of work programs, budgets and IDA procurement and
disbursement procedures would be effected through a project start-up
workshop and subsequent seminars.



- 30 -
C. Staffing
5.07     Proper staffing of the IAs with adequately skilled and properly
motivated staff is a major focus of the project. This objective would be
addressed in three ways: the transfer or recruitment of nationals: the
provision of training and technical assistance from withir. and from outside
Sudan; and the active assistance of the PMU in raising management
competence through direct intervention, studies, workshops and precisely
directed training. The project provides for substantial resources in each
of these areas (paras. 4.33-4.35).
5.08     The Applied Research component would initially require four
research scientists all of whom would be transferred to the project by ARC.
For the Agricultural Extension component 4 senior extensionists, 18
extensionists and 48 local extensionists would be needed during the project
period. All senior extensionists and extensionists would be transferred to
Southern Kassala by the National Extension Administration. All local
extensionists would be recruited from the area. The Forestry component
would require 80 foresters who would be selected among the existing forest
overseers and trained under the project (para 4.33). The PMU would require
17 higher level staff and additional support staff, messengers, guards and
drivers. These would be transferred from government service or recruited
from the private sector for fixed terms. The respective directors of ARC,
NEA and the FA in Kassala have indicated the availability of the ne essary
staff to be transferred to the project area. This commitment together with
the accessibility of Southern Kassala to Khartoum, the provision of field
allowances, housing and training opportunities is expected to facilitate
recruitment of suitable nationals to these posts. However, posts must be
available for staff to be transferred into from the central ministries or
other agencies. The Ministry of Finance and the agencies concerned need to
agree whether new posts would be created or whether these posts would be
transferred together with the staff. Establishment of posts for the senior
research staff (4), and senior level extensionists (6) would be a condition
of credit effectiveness (para 8.02).
5.09     IAs would be reinforced through the establishment of management
systems, provision of training and technical assistance (para 4.33-4.35).
Two technical assistants would assist the PMU:   a Financial Controller
responsible over the project period for the overall financial management of
the Project would also assist the lAs with setting up cost recovery and
financial control systems; a Monitorir.g and Evaluation specialist would
work closely with the IAs, for a total of 2.5 years, to establish
coordinated work programs and monitoring systems. Appointment of the
Financial Controller would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para
8.02 (b)). Other managemer.t constraints of the IAs would be addressed,
with funds provided by the Credit, through training, special studies,
workshops, seminars and short-term consultancies organized by the PMU. The
PMUJ would have access to the Extension Service training facilities in
Gedaref which would be provided through the Project.



- 31 -
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.10     Each IA would be responsible for monitoring 5.ts respective project
activities. It would be consistent with the methodology developed by the
PMU, which would be responsible for overall coordination and monitoring.
On the basis of the approved annual work plans, progress reports would be
required at the end of each fiscal year. These would cover cost recovery
and other performance indices requested by the PMU. .valuation of project
impact at the beneficiary level would be made through specific surveys
carried out by the PM!U in collaboration with the Extension Service, UNHCR
and other agencies. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that (i) the
PMU would prepare a mid-term review, which would be available to the MOANR
and to IDA by December 31, 1992. This review would evaluate project
implementation and include recommendations for project design
modifications; and (ii) MOANR's Planning Department would prepare a
Project Completion Report evaluating project performance. This report
would be completed not later than six months after the credit closing date
(para 8.01 (d)).
VI. PRODUCTION. MARKETING. PRICING AND COST RECOVERY
A. Incremental Production
6.01     The project would increase agricultural production and incomes of
farmers in southern Kassala and would contribute to the country's foreign
exchange earnings, through higher crop yields, increased exports, expanded
horticultural production and renewed cultivation of land near water points
to be rehabilitated through the project. Most of the increased crop
production would consist of sorghum, sesame and sunflower. The latter was
recently introduced in Sudan and appears to have promising potential.
Several large farms in southern Kassala have started growing sunflower but
broader acceptance has been constrained by the absence of applied research
and extension and scarcity of seed. These constraints would be addressed
under this Project. Agricultural production would also increase in the
areas adjacent to the rehabilitated hafir and wateryards as these would
support a greater number of rural settlements and nomads. The impact of
project activities on agricultural production is described in the following
paragraphs.
6.02     The Provincial Extension Service to be established under the
Project would gradually cover selected parts of the Province where the
majority of smallholder local and refugee farmers reside. Benefits to the
farmers would result from the adoption of extension messages related to
quality seed and use of seed dressing and improved cultural practices. The
estimated number of farmers who would be reached by the extension service
and the adoption rate for above messages are presented below:



- 32 -
PY l     PY 2    PY 3      PY 4     PY 5      PY 6   PY 7
Farmers reached         20      240    1200       3120    6000       8640   9600
2 farmers ddopting
Quality Seed/
Seed Dressing          0        2      12         32      62        90      90
Cult. Practices        0        2      8          13      18        25      30
The estimated adoption rates above are based on Bank experience from other
projects - Sudan, Ethiopia and Kenya. For simple and inexpensive
technologies such as the use of quality seed, seed dressing and crop
geometry, the adoption rate is assumed to gradually reach 902. However
messages which would require cash outlays, additional labor, or changes in
long established traditional practices, a lower adoption rate has been
assumed. Thus, improved cultural practices would be adopted by about 302
of farmers reached in PY7. Incremental sorghum and sesame yields for
farmers adopting all extension messages are assumed to reach 452 and 52
respectively in Year 10 following project start-up. The significantly
lower increase for sesame is due to the labor constraint during the short
harvest period and the relatively limited technologie3 and improvements
known to date.
6.03     The establishment under the project of the nursery at Mafaza and
Showak together with applied research and crop protection aimed at
horticulture would help alleviate major constraints to increased
horticultural production in southern Kassala. The nurseries would
concentrate on the producti3n of fruit tree seedlings such as grapefruit,
lime, guava and mangoes and reduce part of the supply shortfall. It is
estimated that about 300 feddans of additional area would be brought under
fruit production during the project period. Most of the new area would be
under grapefruit and lime, 150 and 70 feddans respectively.  Guava and
mango would each cover 40 feddans. At full development estimated annual
fruit production would be about 1,000 tons grapefruit, 470 tons lime, 270
tons guava and 140 tons mango.
6.04     Water is a major limiting factor for agricultural production in
southern Kassala. It affects location and permanence of settlements,
livestock migratory patterns, and timeliness of agricultural operations.
Through the rehabilitation and maintenance of wateryards and hafirs, the
project would ensure a regular and steady supply of water for humans and
livestock. This would permit increased crop and livestock production by
allowing farmers to settle and cultivate, saving time in collecting water,
reducing the need to trek long distances in search of water during the dry
season, and relieving pressure on the traditional dry season grazing areas.
6.05     About 402 of the wateryards in the Project area are not presently
operational. The remainder yield only between 40-602 of their potential
(design) output. M4ost hafirs also hold water well below their capacity
(paras.4.2& - 4.29). The rehabilitation and new construction of wateryards
and hafirs under the project would increase annual water supply by 1.2
million cubic meters. This would support an equivalent of 21,000
households or 126,000 people. It would permit rural families which
abandoned earlier settlements because of lack of water to return to their
previous farms and would help accommodate the rapidly increasing indigenous



- 33 -
and migrant population. Part of the incremental water supply would be
consumed by existing households. It is therefore assumed that 652 of the
project generated water supply would result in 65,000 thousand feddans
being brought under cultivation. Under the existing cropping system
incremental production in PY 6 would be about 15,000 tons of sorghum and
1,300 tons of sesame or 1.5Z and Z.0Z, respectively of the area's 1987
total sorghum and sesame production. The increased water supply would also
result in higher liveqtock production through reduced cattle and sheep
weight losses equivalent to LSd 7.0 million annually from year 6 of the
project.
6.06     Details of incremental production from agricultural development as
a result of extension service, horticulture, and water supply components
are presented in Tables 12 to 39 and are summarized in the following table:
Annual Incremental Production
at Full Proiect Development
Year
Sorghum             132800 tons         1996
Sesamp                2200              1996
Fruit                 1880   "           2015
Cattle Offtake        2000 head          1995
Sheep Offtake       110000   "          1995
6.07     Sorghum and sesame production in the Project area are estimated at
about 1.0 million tons and 70,000 tons, respectively. Assuming annual per
capita sorghum consumption at 180 kg, about 30? of the area's sorghum
production is consumed locally and the remainder, mostly from mechanized
large farms, is exported to deficit areas of Sudan or abroad. Practically
all sesame is exported from the region. At a rate of growth of 3? per
year, the area's population would increase to 2.0 million 10 years after
project start-up and 2.8 million after 20 years. Consequently, of the
120,000 tons incremental sorghum production due to the project about half
would be consumed locally and the rest would be exported to other regions
of Sudan. In view of Sudan's population growth being higher than the rate
of food production, the project would be important for Sudan's food
security. Most of the incremental sesame and sunflower production would be
used as raw material for Sudan's edible oil mills, currently underutilized
due, in part, to inadequate raw material supply. Incremental horticultural
production could be absorbed in the project area. However, a substantial
portion would probably be exported to urban areas where demand and prices
would be relatively higher. Small amounts could also be exported abroad as
demonstrated by recent shipments of small quantities of lime to the Gulf
States.



- 34 -
B. Markets and Prices
6.08     There are two well organized crop auctions in Kassala province, in
Gedaref and El Hawatta, operated by the Regional Ministry of Finance. In
addition to getting buyers and sellers together, these markets serve as
efficient tax collection centers. Grain prices at these markets reflect
the supply and demand situation at the time of marketing subject to floor
prices established by the Government. In 1987188, a year of decreased
production, prices have remained above the floor prices. There is
significant seasonal variation in prices as farmers, particularly
smallholders, tend to sell most of their crop immediately after harvest to
pay off debts incurred to meet production costs.
6.09     Since 1985 the Government has established a floor price for
sorghum of LS35/sack of 90kg 1 applicable to production in demarcated
mechanized schemes. During 1985-87 market prices in the Gedaref market
were substantially below the floor price ranging from LS18/sack to
LS/28/sack. The ABS was at that time given the re.ponsibility to purchase
sorghum from demarcated schemes at the floor price.  However, following the
small crop of 1987/88 market prices have ranged from LS50/sack to
LS70/sack.
6.10      On average, sesame prices during 1986 were much lower than in
1985.  In order to encourage increased production of sesame which is an
important source of foreign exchange, the Government raised floor prices in
October 1986 to LS61/kt 2 At that price most of the supply was purchased
by the Government although with serious liquidity and logistical
difficulties. However, in 1988 low production kept auction prices at an
average of LS70/kt while .he floor price remained the same.
6.11     It is assumed that during the life of the project the grain and
oil seed markets would operate free of Government interference except for
sorghum floor price in bumper crop years. In view of the rising population
(para 6.07) and the demand for grain and edible oils, incremental supply
due to the project amounting to 12Z and 2Z of the regional sorghum and
sesame production respectively, would not lower their respective prices.
Sorghum and sesame prices used in the economic analysis are export parity
prices derived from World Bank commodity price projections. Adjustments
for quality, handling and transport were made to determine the farm gate
price in southern Kassala.
6.12     Other crops such as fruits and vegetables are traded in the area
and their prices vary enormously depending on the supply situation. Fruit
prices used in the analysis represent average prices over the previous 3
years. No changes are expected in the way fruit would be marketed during
the life of the project. As the demand for fruit has continued to increase
as a function of increasing population and rising incomes, it is assumed
that ll incremental production would be absorbed in the domestic market.
1/ Corresponds to LS 388/ton (US$86/ton), at the official exchange rate of
LSd 4.5 to one US dollar.
2/ Corresponds to LS1356/ton (US$301/ton)



- 35 -
C. Cost Recovers
6.13     Full cost recovery for water, crop protection, improved and hybrid
seed and fruit-tree seedlings would be introduced in the project area.
Individual implementing agencies would be supported by the project in
accurately estimating relevant costs and establishing more efficient
revenue collection systems.
6.14     Water.  At present, wateryards and hafirs equipped with pumps and
water distribution systems, charge LSdO.01/18 liters of water. This charge
is inadequate to cover the full cost of operation and maintenance of the
wateryards and hafirs. The estimated cost of water which includes fuel,
lubricants, maintenance materials and salaries and wages for operators
amounts to LSd 2.8/cubic meter, equivalent to LSdO.05/18 liters. During
PY1, RWC would estimate costs and prepare a plan to revise water charges,
in line with progress made to improve water supply. By PY 3 charges would
be raised to cover operating costs and by PY 6 to full cost recovery.
Based on the experience of other projects in rainfed areas and on the
mission's observations in southern Kassala, rural residents would readily
accept to pay full cost recovery charges, if RWC ensures an adequate water
supply. At present many rural residents walk long distances or pay
exorbitant prices to water merchants, so that full cost recovery reflecting
efficient RWC operations would be welcomed. Four villager in the project
area would be selected by RWC as case studies to introduce community
involvement programs. These would relate to water management, fee
collection, use of revenues, tariff assessment, and water treatment and
distribution methods.
6.15     Crop Protection.  Whenever PPD makes crop protection services or
supplies available to individual farmers, the latter are charged rates
covering about 402 of the actual cost. Under the project, charges would be
gradually raised to full cost by PY 3. This would apply to fumigation of
storage areas, spraying of fields and orchards, rental of spraying
equipment and sale of supplies.
6.16     Improved Seed and Fruit Tree Seedlings.  At present improved seed
sold by the NSA is priced at lOZ above the market price for grain. For
seed produced at the Sam Sam farm (para. 4.18) this is estimated to cover
about 70Z of the cost of production and processing. Accordingly, improved
seed and horticultural seedling prices would be raised to cover full costs
of production, processing and distribution. Seed distributed by the
extension service would reflect the relevant cost of distribution and
storage.
6.17     Revenues collected by RWC from wateryard operations; by the Plant
Protection Department (PPD) for pest control; by the NSA for improved
seeds; by the Department of Horticulture for frdit tree seedlings; and by
the Extension Service for farm inputs would be kept in separate special
accounts with banks in Gedaref or El Hawatta. The accounts would be
managed by the Provincial administrator of each service and would be used
to fund relevant activities within the Province (para. 4.44). These
accounts would be audited annually (para. 4.45).  Revenues recovered and
their intended use would be described in the work plans, which should be



- 36 -
prepared in time to be considered in preparing the GOS budget allocation.
Expenditures over LSD 10,000 or for activities not in the annual work plans
would be subject to prior approval by the PMU Director or, in his absence,
the PMU Financial Controller (para. 5.02). Assurances regarding cost
recovery arrangements and handling of revenues as described above were
obtained at negotiations.
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Quantifiable Benefits
7.01     Most project benefits would emanate through the establishment of
sustainable farming systems and restoration of environmental balance.
Specifically, Sudanese and refugee farmers in southern Kassala would
benefit from the project through: (i) higher yields resulting from the use
of improved seed, better farming practices and plant protection (para
4.18); (ii) expanded areas under fruit production (para 4.19); and (iii)
increased livestock offtake as a result of additional water supply from
wateryards, hafirs and shallow wells; (iv) employment opportunities created
under the project; and (v) more efficient marketing resulting from improved
road network. Incremental production estimates are presented in Tables 19
and 20.
B.  Farmers Income
7.02     The net incremental farm income due to the project would mainly
depend on the extent of adoption by individual farmers of the available
technology, the cost of production inputs and prices of farm output. On
the basis of available data it is estimated that the average Sudanese
smallholder farmer in Kassala cultivates about 40fd. Thus, representative
farm budgets have been prepared based on a 40 feddan holding under existing
farm practices, i.e. with a cropping pattern of 32 fd under sorghum and 8
fd under sesame. For refugees, an average holding size of 15 feddans was
used with 12 fd under sorghum and 3 fd under sesame. Assuming the size of
holding and the cropping pattern would remain unchanged over the life of
the project, farm budgets have been prepared bated on partial adoption of
improved technology extended. Thus, with the project a farmer's net income
would increase from LSD 4,050 to LSD 5,660 or an increase of 40Z. For
refugees, incomes would increase from LSD 1,520 to LSD 2,100 or 38?. Farm
budgets are presented in Tables 17-18. Fruit orchard budgets for
grapefruit, lime, guava and mango are presented in Tables 25-34.
Reflecting the high value of these crops it is estimated that horticultural
farmers would earn a net cash income per feddan ranging from LSd6,500 for
mango to LSdl9,500 for grapefruit, lime and guava.
7.03     The value of incremental production for farmers benefiting from
the increased water supply through rehabilitation and new construction of
wateryards and hafirs is estimated to be LSd640 per household. The project
would also reduce the cost of transportation through the improvement of
rural roads. Currently the cost of transporting sorghum on a dry weather



- 37 -
road is estimated at LSO.6 per ton kil_meter. After road improvement, the
transportation cost would be reduced to LSDO.45 per ton/kilometer or 25?
cost saving on operation and maintenance of vehicles. Total annual cost
saving is estimated to LSd7.5 million.
7.04     The country would benefit from environmental production activities
undertaken by the project. About 40,000 feddans of existing forests would
be rehabilitated and about 8000 feddans of new forests would be
established. The two species of acacia and balanite trees to be planted in
the project area would produce fruits, gum arabic, construction poles,
firewood and charcoal all valued at LSdlO million annually starting in
2015.
7.05     Employment opportunities would be created primarily from
reforestation activities, 100,000 man-days, and establishment of
shelterbelts and erosion control, 60,000 man-days. At an average wage of
LS10/day income of LS1.6 million would be ganerated, primarily for
refugees. Hafir rehabilitation would require 145,000 man-days generating
incomes of LSdl.5 million. Additional labor opportunities would be created
from increased yields and marketing of incremental production.
C. Non-Quantifiable Benefits
7.06     Important intangible benefits would be generated by the project:
(i) in view of the serious deterioration of natural resources in southern
Kassala, improved environmental management would be critical to the area's
development; (ii) increased water supply would promote use of additional
land in the adjacent areas and would support greater livestock production;
(iii) institutional strengthening of the implementing agencies,
particularly in the areas of planning, management and cost recovery, would
enable them to carry out their responsibilities on a sustainable basis;
(iv) the involvement of refugees in project implementation together with
coordination and integration of services provided to Sudanese and refugee
farmers would help reduce tensions between the two communities.
D. Impact on Women
7.07     Women in the project area are responsible for collecting wood,
fetching water and providing field workers with water and food as well as
doing all the household chores and bearing of children. The water and
forestry components of the project would result in substantial benefits for
women as they would reduce the time spent on water and wood collection
significantly and in many cases reduce the cash outlays for water.
Moreover some refugee women, particularly those who are heads of
households, should be eligible for appropriate wage employment under the
reforestation schemes. The horticultural and extension activities would
help women establish home gardens thus improving their families' diet.
Women would also derive income from domestic marketing of incremental
production.



- 38 -
E. Economic Analysis
7.08     The economic rate of return for the Project is estimated to be
32Z. It would be mainly a result of farmers adopting simple and
inexpensive technologies proven to be effective under similar conditions in
Sudan and neighbouring countries. Also the emphasis on rehabilitation would
reduce investment costs while generating important benefits.
7.09     The main assumptions underlying the economic analysis are as
follows:
(a)   Economic benefits have been estimated on the basis of
incremental production for sorghum, sesame, fruit and
livestock. Economic values for sorghum and sesame are based
on the projected export parity prices. Prices for sorghum
were derived from the World Bank Commodity Price Projections.
For sesame, prices were based on its close substitutes
(soybeans, groundnuts and coconut). Local handling and
transport costs between Gedaref and Port Sudan were deducted
when estimating the farm gate prices. Economic value of
fruits were based on their market prices in the centers of
production. Constant 1988 prices have been used for the
economic evaluation.
(b)   The economic costs have been derived from detailed cost tables
without taxes and price contingencies. Also included in the
analysis are replacement costs for vehicles every 5 years and
equipment after 10 -ears. Recurrent costs after the project
were maintained constant at the level of the 6th year of the
project. On-farm operating costs were based on crop budgets
with adoption of farming practices supported under project.
(c)   All local costs have been converted to a border price by using
a standard conversion factor of 0.6 derived from the ratio of
the official exchange rate to shadow exchange rate LSD 4.5:7.5
to one US dollar.
(d)   The economic life of the project is assumed to be 20 years.  A
salvage value of remaining assets from environmental
protection was included in the analysis.
Sensitivity AnalYsis
7.10     Cost overruns and delays in accrued incremental benefits could
occur notwithstanding built-in safeguards in the project. To estima.e
effects on the project with possible changes in costs and benefits, some
sensitivity tests were performed as summarized below:
7.11     The Project ERR is moderately sensitive to increases in costs and
reductions in benefits. As long as these do not exceed 201 of their
estimated values, the ERR would only drop marginally to about 252. Even
this is unlikely to happen because of the conservative estimates of
benefits and the high physical contingency allowance which has been
provided in the pro5ect. Also the ERR is sensitive to delays in realizing



- 39 -
benefits. If major benefits particularly those due to the extension
component and other supporting services are delayed for three years, the
ERR drops to about 15Z. This rate of return is still acceptable for
projects in Sudan because it is above the real interest rate which is
estimated to be 14X. To ensure that the ERR does not drop below 15Z,
particular attention would be given to avoid implementation delays.
Switching value tests show that project costs would have to increase by
more than 40Z or benefits drop by 30X for the net present value discounted
at the real interest rate to fall to zero.
Risks
7.12     The major risk to successful project implementation stems from
possible difficulties in the expeditious establishment of new entities in
the project area such as the PMU, the extension service, and the research
service. This risk would be minimized by instituting a PPF to allow early
recruitment of key staff and start-up of oreparatory project activities.
7.13     Many of the IAs are institutionally weak, particularly with
respect to management and financial systems. This could adversely affect
the preparat:'on and implementation of work plans and effective cost
recovery. IAs would be assisted under the Project through: close
supervision and assistance by the PMU; technical assistance; and training.
7.14     Government economic policies particularly with respect to the
exchange rate, monetary management and budget resources would need to
improve or project implementation would be negatively affected. The
Economic Recovery Credit expected to be effective by mid 1989 would assist
the Government in improving economic management. Also, the Government
would need to ensure adequate funding in the post-project period
particularly for services, such as research and extension, which cannot
recover costs.
7.15     Institutional responsibilities between the Central, regional and
local governments are not always clear. This may have a negative impact on
project implementation. The creation of the Advisory and Steering
committees attached to the PMU would help alleviate this risk by building
support for the Project.
7.16     There is also a risk of drought in bad years when rainfall is
below average - at least once in every four years -. However, with the
inclusion of early planting messages in the technological package for
extension service, the extent of the risk would be minimized.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
General Conditions
8.01     The following agreements were obtained from Government at
negotiations:



- 40-
a)   The Governrent would establish by March 31, 1989 a proje-t
account for local funds with a commercial bank and make an
initial deposit of LSd6OO,OOO and would maintain at least
LSd300,000 in the account. Implementing agencies (IA)
involved in cost recovery would maintain special accounts in
the Province (para 4.44);
b)   Audits of the project accounts, the Special Accounts and
Statement of Expenditures would be provided to IDA within six
months of the close of the fiscal year (para 4.45);
c)   Pesticides supplied under the project would be approved by
IDA to ensure that they would not have a negative impact on
the environment (para 4.20);
d)   PMU would prepare a mid-term review, by December 31, 1992,
and MOANR Planning Department would prepare a Project
Completion Report, not later than 6 months after credit
closing date (para 5.10);
e)   Cost recovery arrangements and handling of revenues by the
various corporations and departments would be established and
enforced as described in para 6.17;
f)   By March 31, 1989, ARC will undertake to obtain all necessary
land allotment documents for the project needs (para 4.03);
Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
8.02     The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
a)   Cross effectiveness with UNHCR grant agreement (para 4.38);
b)   That a financial controller would be appointed to the PMU
(para 5.09);
c)   That posts would be established for the senior extension and
research staff for the project (para 5.08);
Recommendation
8.03     With the above assurances and conditions the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of SDR 15.6 million (US$20 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.



SUDAN
Southern Kassala AMricultural Project
Project Componems by  era
Toteli Including Contingencies                                     Totals Includ,ng Coltingencles
(0 - -0009                                                         (USS I 0001
89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93    93/94    94/95    lotal           89/90   90/91   91/92   92/93   93/94   94/95   lotal
:               ...      Z                   .  .   :   .: .   .                 :   -               .:;              :         -    -      :        -    .  ,      :  .    . .;Lz -z::z                  .  . .   m   .    
A  EXTENSION SfRVICE                        3.596 2  3.346 8  3.236 7  1.357 8  1.483 4  1.619 9  14.640 7    799 2   743 7   799 3   301 7   329 6   360 0  3.253 5
B  AGRICULIURAi RESEARCH                    1.374 7  3.664 8  1.318 I    364 9    398 0    438 6   ?.559 1    305 5   814 4   292 9    8t 1    88 4    97 5  1.679 8
C  HORTICUtlURE AND SEED IHPROVEftENI         488 2    257 3       79 5     83 7      88 0      92 6   1.089 2    108 5    57 2    17 7    t8 6    19 6    20 6    242 1
o  PtANI PROIECIION                         1.627 1  1.451 9    732 4    915 6  1.67S 3  1.572 3   7.977 5    361 6   322 6   162 7   203 5   373 0   349 4  1 772 8
E. RURAlt ROADS                             1.411 3  7.190 1 3.399 1  3.395 6  3.582 8  2.711 4  21 690 2    313 6 1.597 8   755 4   754 6   796 2   602 5  4.820 0
f  RURaL  SITER SUPPLY                      7.269 4  6.406 7  7.661 8  8.749 5  6.418 7  4.391 4  40.897 4  1.615 4 1.423 7 1.702 6 1.944 3 1.426 4   975 9  9.088 3
6. PROJECI MANAGEMENHT                      5.239 2  2.404 9  2.503 1 2.981 1 2.630 1 2.760 9  18.519 3  1.164 3   534 4   556 2   662 5   584 5   613 5  4 II5 4
H. ENVIRO9NLNTAt PROIECIIOD                 5.802 2  6.585 5  6.355 2  6. 69 0  8.265 5 8684 1 42.561 5  t 289 4 9.463 4  . 412 3  . S26 5 1.836 8 1.929 8  9.458 i
lotal PROJECI COSIS                          26.808 3 31.308 0 25.285 9 74.717 1 24.544 6 22.271 1 1$4.935 0  5.957 4 6 957 3 S.619 I 5,492 7 5.454 44.949 1 34.430 0                                                     4_
July 26.  9988  .....1... 58.  ..  ..  .  . .. .. . . . ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
July 26. 1988  11 58
.p



SUDAN
Southern Kassala Agricultural Proiect
Si.mr-y Account by Project COenOt
lOiye Ica I
lORhICULItURE                                                                                        .............iS
EXTENSI0N  ACRICU&iUR*t    AND SEED           PLANT1                   RURAL MAUIE   PROJLCI    ENVIRONMENTAL
SERVICE      RESEARCN    IpPROVENENT   PROIECTIIN  RURAt ROADS    SUPPLY             NANAC6NEI    MRIECIION         lte,a        I    Amount
IIIVLSI"NII CIJsis
A  civil WORKiS                                                 3.320 0        2.682 0           310 0         345 0       3. 000. 0     10.755 0       1.276. 0        5.289 0   26.977 0  lb. 3  4. 133.4
II AGRICUL hURL HALNItII,LRI.
8110T IQlll4YAIW  tuPIIIaa80                                                                               330 0       3. 740. 0      1.483 0             -720 0                 7. 330 0   0 0       00
c  01141  NAI:IIINI9IT. tQtiI'Mik1g ANO tPAkt '*915'            205 0           411 0            40 0        302 0          100 0       5.580 0         385 0          1. 346 b    8.429 5   0 0        0 0
o  vt,tictts                                                    1.287 0           431 0               -      1.6%65          435 0        1.337 5         729 0         1.316 0    7.154 0   0 0          00
I  IILiIIIICAI ASShlAhlI                                     ~~~~~~                     ~     ~       ~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~2? 0  L    . 615 0  3. 768 0  1. 233 0   It. 643 0   0 0  00
I  IIIAINING AND SIUD115                                          WIN 0           135 0                        boo000         110 0       1.247 0        653 51.40                   .05 67             378
6  lABOuR                                                                                    ~~~~~~~                               ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~162 0  -  5.040 0    5,202 0  20 0  1. 040 4
*4  01111                                                           .8O40                           0                                        33?7       1,290 0         3.124 5    4.545 2  12 0    546 8
1o18l INevtSlNlhl LUSIS                                            5.726 0         4.612 0           542 0      3.093 5        7.547 0      27.obl 2       8.101 5         19.813 0   76.486 2   7 9  6.068 4
11  RIICUNRItti COStIS
A  8IIHINISIRAIIvE IXPIN~IIS                                     244 6           3091 0           25 0                      225) 0       3.954 5      6, 053 0         1. 723 0   12.534 1  20 0  2.60fi8
8  SAIAR1IS AND AilIUIANCLS                                    3.282 7           635 2            27 0        120 0          739 8              -        340 0             12 0    5,156 7  20 0  1.031 3
C  VIIIICIIS MID IQUIIPIILNl rlOIAAIII  890o NAINIIIIANLL        284 9           124 2           100 0                    7 758 0        2.251 2             -         3. 416 2   13,994. 5  20 0  2.7989S
0  fARM INPUTS                                                   400 0ibI 0                                3.0000 0                                                           -    3,bil 0  17 5    632.2
I  LABOUR                                                                                                                                                    -1.710 0    1.710 0  20 0                 342 0
I  BUJIDJNG NAJNIINANCL                                          224 4            54 0                                                                   90.0          1. 192 6     1.561 0  20. 0    312 2
lotal IIICURRINI COSIS                                             4.48b 6         I. 122 4                                   a110 . 100 8722 8  b .10b 7  6,483 0         8. 113 8   36.567 3  19 8  7.623 5
lot.1 BASE111911 C0SIS                                             it)2120 u        t i 44           asS' .      6. 2135t     IS  a01        J3. 2', I.    14.584 5        27.9268A    lb5.0b35   11 9 13.0b1 9
Physical Contingenh..ss                                          1. '5b 11         7,0 9I          122 b        6,13 0      2 377 0        2. IS2 3     1.551 a          4.477 5   13.891 9   0 0          0 0
Price Contligrncies                                              2871 2          1.0Ob  8          Il1gb      1. 01 0      304$ 5         5.4bg 2      2.383 0         10. 573   26.189 6  13 4  3. 497 4
boId  111100C  COSIS                                              14 640 7         / ,J            I1115.'      IJ$S         .I 1,0 O       40. 83/ 4    18. S19 3        42.bbi 5  154.935 0  11 I 17. 169 3
6.159  215 I     I'.'. /    15111,4        411~~~~~~i807  3. 143 1     3. 1068a         2.871 0    15.6b4 7  16 6  2.599 8
Ior.l.g                                                            0"iig&  5 1328   I88~           I Y, I.'    b541,6 4     . 4?it3,0 7                1410 I           14815S0   84.315 6   886  7, 221 8
Oily 26 9b 188'Id 5



- 43 -
Table 3
REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES a/
ITEM                ICU        LCB       OTHER            TOTAL
( USS Million)
A.  Civil Works            -        8.1         0.2 c/           8.3
IDA                   -        (5.0)        -               (5.0)
UNUCR                 -       ((2.5))    ((0.2))           ((2.7))
B. Machinery and
Equipment             3.7       -           -                3.7
IDA                  (2.5)      -           -               (2.5)
UNHCR               ((1.2))    -            -              ((1.2))
C. Vehicles               1.7       -           -                1.7
IDA                  (1.1)      -           -               (1.1)
UNHCR               ((0.6))    -            -              ((0.6))
D. Technical
Assistance            -         -           2.8              2.8
IDA                   -         -          (1.9)            (1.9)
UNHCR                 -         -         ((0-9))          ((0.9))
E. Training and
Studies               -         -           1.4              1.4
IDA                   -         -          (0.8)            (0.8)
UNHCR                 -         -         ((0.6))          ((0.6))
F. Labor                  -         -           2.2              2.2
IDA                   -         -          (1.5)            (1.5)
UNHCR                 -         -         ((0.7))          ((0.7))
G. Farm Inputs, and
Other Expenses b/    1.4        -           1.3              2.7
IDA                  (1.0)      -           -               (1.0)
UNHCR               ((0.4))    -            -              ((0.4))
H.  Operating Expenses   -          -          11.6             11.6
IDA        .          -         -          (6.2)            (6.2)
UNHCR                 -         -         ((2.9))          ((2.9))
I.  Total                 6.8       8.1        19.5             34.4
IDA                  (4.6)    (5.0)       (10.4)           (20.0)
UNHCR               ((2.2))  ((2.5))    ((5.3))           ((10.0))
a/  Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA
including estimated breakdown of unallocated amount. Figures in double
parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by UNHCR.
o/ Includes pesticides, seed dressing, and seedling.
c/ Works costing US$.2 million would be done on force account by NWC.



- 44 -
Table 4
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PROCEEDS OF TFE IDA/UNCHR CREDITS
(USS MILLIONS)
TOTAL        IDA       UNCHR1/    2 OF EXPENDITURE
CATEGORY          ALLOCATED      SHARE      SHARE        TO BE FINANCED
1.  Civil Works             7.5       4.0      3.5          90Z
2. Machinery and
Equipment               3.3      1.8       1.5          1002 of foreign
expenditures and
802 of local.
3.  Vehicles                1.5       1.2       .3          100Z of foreign
expenditures and
80? of local.
4. Technical
Assistance              2.5      1.0       1.5          100?
5. Training and
Studies                 1.3      1.0        .3         100Z of foreign
expenditures and
80? of local.
6.  Farm Inputs             1.0       1.0      0.0          '002
7.  Labor 2/                2.0      2.0       0.0          '.002
8. Operating
Expenses                8.0      6.2       1.8          90? declining to
502 3/
9.  Refund P.P.F.            .5        .5      0.0
10. Unallocated             2.4       1.3      1.1
30.0     20.0      10.o
1/   Proceeds of UNCHR credit to be allocated to Rural Water Supply
component entirely and to Civil Works only of the Environmental
Protection Component.
2/   Investment costs only, for establishment of plantations and irish
bridges.
3/   For IDA. 90Z of first US$2 million, 80Z of next US$2 million, 70Z of
next US$1.5 million, 60Z of next US$1.5 million and 502 of next US$1.7
million.



SUDAN
SOUTHERN %ASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
ESTIMATED ANNUAL DISBURSEMENTS BY FINANCING AGENCY
(US$ MILLION)
Year  1   Year  2   Year  3   Year  4   Year S   Year  6   Year  7         Total
IDA          4.5a/       4.4       3.1       2.4        2.7        2.3       .6b/       20.0
UNHCR        1.7         1.8       1.8       2.1        1.6        1.0                  10.0
GOS           .3          .6         .7       .8          .9       1.1                   4.4
TOTAL        6.5         6.8       5.6       5.3        5.2        4.4       .6         34.4
Z of Total  18.9        19.8      16.3     15.4        15.1       12.8      1.7        100.0
a/     Includes US$ .5 million which would be disbursed under a PPF prior to project start-up.
bl     Would be disbursed within six months after project completion.
In



- 46 -
Table 6
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF IDA DISBURSEMENTS
(USS '000)
IDA FY AND QUARTER                                 DISBURSEMENT
QUARTERLY      X OF TOTAL      COMMILATIVE       X OF TOTAL
FY 1989
DECEMBER  81 19S9            -9-               -0 -            --                -o-
MARCH 81, 1989l                s6W                 2.6           S00                 2.6
JUNE 8o, 1989                 S5e                  2.6          lo0                 5.0
FY 1990
SEPTEMBER 80, 1989            S5e                  2.6          1600                 7.5
DECEMBER 31, 1989              5ee                 2.6          2006                10.0
MARCH 81, 1990                 800                 4.0          2800                14.0
JUNE 80, 1990                 8se                  4.0         3800                 18.0
FY 1991
SEPTEMBER 30, 1990             900                 4.5          460                 22.6
DECEMBER 81, 1980              900                 4.5          6400                27.0
MARCH 81, 1981                 900                 4.5         6800                 31.6
JUNE 80, 1991                  900                 4.6          7200                86.6
FY1992
SEPTEMBER a0, 1991             l1OO                6.5          8300                41.5
DECEMBER 31, 1991            lO1                  5.6          9400                47.0
MARCH 81, 1992               116                  5.6         10600                52.5
J'NE 86, 1992                 1100                 6.5         11600                58.0
FY 1993
SEPTEMBER 30, 1982            S86                  4.0         12400                62.0
DECEMBER 31, 1992             8ON                  4.0         18200                68.0
MARCH 81, 1993                 ego                 4.0         14000                7o.6
JUNE 80, 1998                  800                 4.0         14800                74.0
FY 1994
SEPTEMBER 80, 1993             6e6                 3.0         15400                77.0
DECEMBER 81, 1993              6e6                 8.0         18O6                 80.0
MARCH 81, 1994                 6e6                 8.0         16669                88.0
JUNE 80, 1994                  6e6                 3.6         17200                96.0
FY 1995
SEPTEMBER 80, 1994             6e6                 8.0         17800                89.6
DECEMBER 31, 1994              6e6                 8.0         1849                 92.0
MARCH 31, 19Op                 S5O                 2.5         18969                94.5
JUNE 30, lsss/                S5e                 2.6         19400                97.0
FY 1996
SEPTEMBER 80, 1995             869                 1.6         19700                98.5
DECEMBER 31, l99Si/            300                 1.6         20000               100.0
.1 Approximately US$ .6 million disbursed under the PPF.
b Project completion date
/ Credit closing date



a                a Al  L
(US11me)
Total CIot
Unit      PYI        PY2      PY8        PY4       PYS        PYS   Total          Including
Contingnelos
A. Extoesnon Srvicae
Provincial LevOl Training   su              .         .         .          .              .                        10.0
All Extension Staff         sum                                                                                  240.0
B. Aaricultural Rsearch
VPM Study                   person     6                                                           S              ao.5
C. Plant Protctilon
Training                    su        .           .        .                                                      77.6
Smi nars                    seminar               1         1          1                           8              25.4
Survey                      mm         2                                                           2              2 8.
D. RurzALRada
Operators A Fitters         sum       *                                                                            4.6
Study on Cost Recovery      SuN                                                                                   28.8
E. Rural WateC SUDpIY
Water Demand A Supply       sum                                                                                   46.6
Training                    sum                   .        .          .                                          247.9
Community Involvement       sum                   .        .                                                      26.6
Inventory Existing Site     sum       .                                                                           18.1
F. Proisee Mannaaemnt
Management Course           sum                                                                                    6.8
Induction Course/
Mn.Dev.Workslop           sum                                   .       .                                       28.3
Accountant Seminar          No         1          1        1           1         1                5                7.1
Training Clerical Staff     No         a          a        4          4          4         4     22               38.6
Mid-term Evaluation         mm                                        6                           6              107.0
Project Start-up Seminar    sum                                                                                    3.0
0.  EnvIronmental Protction
Lceal Training              sum                                                                                   1380
Scholarship                 mm                                                                                     7.9
Satellite Imagery           sum                                                                                   18.5
Aerial Photography          sum                                                                                   12.4
on site Surveys             sum                                                                                   12.4
Land Use Plan               mm        25                                                                         A2 m
Total ProJect Costs for Training and Studies                                                        1411.6



SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Unit   PY1 _PY2  PYf  Pl4  PY5 P.I     TOTAL _
A.     Rural Water SuDD1_
Water Engineer and Planner    MM      6    12   12   6                   36
Management Advisor             MM     6    12   12   6                   36
Senior Maintenance Engineer   MM      6    12   12   6                   36
Field Coordinator              MM     6    12   12   6                   36
B.     Prolect Management
Management Consultant          MM     6      3    1                      10
Financial Controller           MM    12    12   12   12   12   12        72
C.     Environmental Protection
Seed Production Expert         MM           12   12                      24
Consultant (follow-up)         M    - -           I                       3
TOTAL                              --2 __.U   74 _.3    13 _ 1J        253



- 49 -
Table 9
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY
ARricultural DeveloDment                                 (US$ .000)
Extension
House rental                                       7.5
4WD vehicle                                       21.0
Vehicle running costs                              2.5
Office materiala   & supplies                      2.0
Agricultural Research
House rental                                       7.5
4WD vehicle                                       21.0
Vehicle running costs                              2.5
Office materials & supplies                        2.0
Support research at Sam Sam                        2.5
Office Buildings and Apartments
Design and bidding documents                       6.0
Roads and Bridaes
Design and bidding documents                      20.0
Survey and road realignment                       20.0
Water Supply
Engineering T.A.                                  30.0
House rental                                       7.5
4WD vehicle                                       21.0
Vehicle running costs                              1.5
Demand study                                      30.0
Inventory existing sites & equipment              15.0



- 50 -
Table 9
Page 2 of 2
Proiect Management Unit
Allowances                                         2.0
Rental office Khartoum                             9.0
Three 4WD vehicles                                63.0
Vehicle running costs                              9.0
Materials & supplies                               5.5
Rental office Gedaref                              6.0
Financial Controller                              60.0
House rental                                      12.0
Furniture/equipment/computer                      15.0
Utilities                                          1.5
Project start-up seminar                           3.0
Land Use Plan
Satellite imagery                                 15.0
Aerial photography                                10.0
On-site surveys                                   10.0
Office building design & bidding documents                4.0
Forestry
Office building design & bidding documents         4.0
4WD Vehicle                                       21.0
Vehicle running expenses                           2.5
Training                                          12.0
Training
Management training courses                        7.5
TOTAL                                            491.5
Contingencies (at 12Z)                            58.5
Total rounded to                                 550.0



- 51 -
Table 10
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
INITIAL MEMBERSHIP OF COMMITTEES
STEERING COMMITTEE
MOANR
Under Secretary                   (1)
ARC                               (1)
PMU                               (1)
MOFEP                                    (1)
RBPC                                     (1)
NWC                                      (1)
Total                                    (6)
S.K.A.P. ADVISORY COMMITTEE
PMU Director - Chairman                  (1)
Regional Government Representative       (1)
Provincial Government Representative    (1)
District Council Representatives         (3)
South Kassala Farmers' Unions            (3)
M.F.C.                                   (1)
R.W.C.                                   (1)
COR                                      (1)
'NHCR                                    (1)
Total                                    (13)
rnr



- 52 -
Table 11
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Proiect File
1.       Eastern Region Work Papers:
Crop/Livestock Production and Inputs
Water Supply
Storage & Marketing
Research & Extension
Credit
Land VAC
Service Centres
Roads
Studies/Training
Economic Analysis
Financial Analysis/Prices
Institution
Refugees
2.       Technical Volumes (Appraisal)
Economic Analysis of the Environmental, Forestry
and Water Component
Water Component
Agricultural Development
Conservatij..n and Forestry
Rural Roads
Extension Component
3.    Jansen. D.J. -
Economic and Financial Analysis of Sudan's major crops. 1984/85
- 1990191. November 1986
4.    Government of Sudan -
MOANR - Patterns and Economics of Crop Production in Selected
Rainfed Traditional Areas: Some Farm Survey Result,
5.    Government of Sudan -
MOANR - Production Cost and Profitability of the Major Crops in
Rainfed Agriculture in Sudan. 1985
6.    Government of Sudan -
MOANR - Trends and Changes in Sesame Production in the Sudan.
1961/62 - 1982/83. 1986



- 53 -
Table 11
Page 2 of 2
7.    Government of Sudan -
MOANR - Trends and Changes in Sorghum Production in the Sudan.
1961162 - 1982187. 1986
8.    Government of Sudan -
MOFEP - Strategy for Development of Rainfed Agriculture. March
1986
9.    Iten Oswald -
Economic Pressures on Traditional Society. 1979
10. Osman A. Farag -
The Surface Water in the Rural Areas. September 9, 1985
11. Pearce, David -
Natural Resource Management in W.Sudan. July 1987
12. Zahlan AB -
The Agricultural Sector of Sudan, Policy and System Studies.
1986
13. Appraisal Reports -
Western Savannah Project 1. 1981
Western Savannah Project 2. 1985
Southern Kordofan Agricultural Development Prliect 1987



- 54 -
Table 12
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Cost of Farm Machinery and Equipment for Sorghum and Sesame
per Feddan (Gadaref) 1988
Sorghum                         Sesame
Units          LSD          units             LSD
Land Preparation
Tractor (hrs)                0.12         3.49           0.20            3.49
Fuel (gals)                  0.30         1.09           0.30            1.09
Lubricants (Ls)                            0.25                           0.25
TOTAL                                4.83                           4.83
====
Planting
Tractor (hrs)                0.18         5.23           0.18            5.23
Fuel (gals)                  0.45         1.64           0.46            1.68
Lubricants (Ls)                            0.25                           0.25
TOTAL                                7.12                           7.16
Threshing
Thresher Chre)               0.05         2.30
Fuel (gals)                  0.17         0.61
TOTAL                                2.91
Transport to Market (LS)                  7.23                           3.27
Grand Total                              22.09                          15.26
Pe   eda   Gdre)18



- 55 -
Table 13
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Labor Use and Coats for Sorghum and Sesame Production
per Feddan (Gadaref) 1988
Sorehum                 Sesame
Mandays      LSD         Mandays      LSD
Casual Labor
Land clearing                      0.11       0.52           0.66      4.95
First weeding                      2.00      15.16           1.94     18.56
Second weeding                     1.33       8.62           1.17     12.35
Harvesting                         2.01      19.73           1.39     41.64
Threshing                          0.00       0.00           0.54      5.89
Transport to market                0.22       1.10           0.05      0.25
TOTAL                            5.67      45.13           5.75     83.64
_.z ,  .X=,=    ======
Permanent Labor & Maintenance
Hired Labor                                   8.49                    10.27
Family Labor                                  0.41                     0.34
TOTAL                                         8.90                    10.61
Grand Total                                54.03                    94.25



- 56 -
Table 14
SUDAN
Southern Kassala A&ricultural Prolect
ECONOMIC PRICES AND DRC ESTIMATES
1988 CONSTANT
1.   FOB Price (S/ton)                    120.0                 547.0
2.   Cost from Farm to Port Sudan
Si) FE ($/ton)                      6.20                   12.5
(ii) Domestic (LSD/ton)             207.1                  693.3
3.   Production Cost (onfarm)
With current practices
(i) FE ($/ton)                      25.6                   35.0
(ii) Domestic (LSD/ton)             238.2                  916.4
4.   Production Cost (onfarm)
with improved practices
(i) FE ($/ton)                      24.31                  45.7
(ii) Domestic (LSD/ton)             220.69                 887.3
5.   DRC ratio (LSD/$)
Si) With current practices             5.0                  3.2
(ii) With improved practices            4.8                  3.2
6.   Farm gate economic value*
LSD/ton                               748.0               3630.3
7.   Financial Export Parity
Price (LSD/ton)
(i) With OER (LSD 4.51$)            305.0                1711.9
(ii) With SER (LSD 7.5/$)            646.4                3315.4
(*)  FOB at SER - costs from farmgate adjusted by SCF (0.6)



- 57 -
SUDAN                                 Table 15
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
CROP BUDGETS (PER FEDDAN)
WITH CURRENT PRACTICES
Sorthum                        Sesame
Yield (kg)                                 280                             120
Crop Price (LSD)                          0.74                            1.63
Crop Revenue (LS)                        207.2                           195.6
Costs
Land rent                                 9.05                           10.63
Land tax                                  1.00                            1.00
Seed 1/                                   2.65                            4.09
Labor input                              54.03                           94.25
Hachinery input                          14.86                           11.99
Sacks and strings                        10.24                           3.60
Transport to market                       7.23                            3.27
Total Cost                               99.06                         128.83
Net Income                              108.14                           66.77
1/  Sorghum seed price LSD 67.5/sack of .91.5 kgs, seed rate 3.6 kg/feddan.
Sesame seed price LSD 72.76/kantar of 44.5 kgs and seed rate 2.5
kg/feddan.



- 58 -
SUDAN                                  Table 16
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICILTURAL PROJECT
CROP BUDGETS (PER FEDDAN)
WITH PROJECT AT PULL DEVELOPMENT
Sorghum                       Sesame
Yield (kg)                                 380                         126.0
Price (LSD)                               0.74                          1.63
Crop Revenue (LSD)                      281.20                        205.38
Costs
Land rent                                 9.05                         10.63
Land tax                                  1.00                          1.00
Seed 1/                                   4.81                          4.09
Pesticides                                3.00                          2.08
Labor input                               69.0                         96.13
Machinery irput                          14.86                         11.99
sacks & strings                          13.90                         3.78
Transport to the market                   9.81                          3.43
Total Cost                              125.43                       133.13
Net Revenue                             155.77                         72.25
11 Sorghum seed priced at LSD/110/sack of 91.5 kg, seed rate 4 kglfeddan;
sesame seed priced at LSD 72.76 per kantar of 44.5 kg, 2.5/feddan.
kg/feddan.



- 59 -
Table 17
SUN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Representative Farm Budtet 11
LSD               LSD
-Revenue                            Present       With Project
Value of Crop                        8210.60          10742.50
COSTS
Land rent                             372.50            372.50
Land tax                               40.00             40.00
Seed                                 115.60             187.60
PNeticides                              0.00            113.85
Labor input                         2429.40            2940.85
Hachinery input                       575.25            575.25
Sacks and strings                    365.30             488.50
Transport to market                  262.80             356.50
TOTAL COST                          4160.85            5075.05
NET INCOME                          4049.75            5667.45
Cash return to family
labor per capita                     674.96             944.57
1/ Holding size of 40 feddan with a cropping pattern of 80X sorghum and 202
sesame.



- 60 -
Table 18
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Representative Farm BudRet 11
LSD               LSD
Revenue                            Present         With Proiect
Value of Crop                        3079.00            4082.15
COSTS
Land rent                             139.70             141.55
Land tax                               15.00              15.00
Seed                                   43.35              71.30
Pesticides                              0.00              43.25
Labor input                           911.05            1117.50
Machinery input                       215.70             218.60
Sacks and strings                     137.00             185.60
Transport to market                    98.55             135.50
TOTAL COST                           1560.35            1928.30
NET INCOME                           1518.65            2153.85
Cash return to family
labor per capita                                303.75            430.77
1I Refugee holding size of 15 feddans with a cropping pattern of 802
sorghum and 20? sesame.



_ 61 -
-Tabla 19
3        2         3         4         5         4         I         I         9        to        it        U          3        14        is        A4         7        Is        tt        20
-opfo"d a"
g ,4M         ,                0         3      *           2         54       348       IfA       12        192 1n    m         M2        I2        192       In        192       192       192       192       192       192
hitti it  It                      0   tUs          la       I5n2      T4        452    1 IU   lul7   t47               3519     135 t    550 3s       5  3s55            35590    15590 tsst t s5  en590  l5s    3590    3ISS0
am vow0
fti0tao   (ti
t"'tib _tl
IfQw      ete                           12 U         oe      6       300       *32      4ue         ee1      ot0       t"       ue0        4e        4e        4te      UD         4oo      *0        oo0       4eo       t
at a ktWlu
ltOt dw tw"at
yield 1   kg/Idi           e             334      10        430       0M    32094  ue44            3S344     13440    34ISM      144      10440    3440    13440    I34           13440    I34        133       13440    I4O
ftiedi                         0         3        to        27        54       146       101       192       392       392       192       393       192       392       192       192      192       I19        192       I*:
ta      00722n 0 t4
(tU lz8 Pot
yildU  M  k gldffi}da             o       02        m5       VI        7ss      151       23n2      2tF       2uB       26        2^        2Me       2*ss      Zi6       20e       2sea      26s8      2688      It*       .tee
Am sOw
3oc    tat
ftodoCl (03t
k lated
ftGgktiOt It)
at is 491lfedd
3202 amowwait
vM4 2tt o  ftdat nl               O       SU      liSO      436e      SWo      uoss    ISMo    lSWt          IWO         lsao    lto44     1So       lt4o      OU        30         13440    IwoJ    ISW        t344.    114it
ytrli ff5t h     0q0i             0        3        24      300       502        120       120       720      020        120      020        120       120       720       720      720        120     020       t'2       e 
lOr*til  m ti
at 5S tlulftd
(M am grewttm
yieldt 2w3 kilfeddr               o      3u       13t       3s        5712    firA        67"^      6720      sno0    .720         720      6720     6720      etl20    firlo      6720      4120      472;4    6,20       C120
Pr~tt ,     304003                0     3218      5944    31934 2W422    39              4771    4949    53072    51n8781   5178    51078     51878    51878    51870    51878    53878    5337                 53818    53178
tr9  firms  oith 1500 Odds and iho    ttott art  4500)
Amtao fdtf            OOO          0      34       87        7        431       450       450       450       450       450       450       450       450       450       450       450        54      45U        450      450
l3cmtitl Po  tams
h00.tic  It) 21                   0     494      27502    553125    0394        050    0150    00130    4I10          il1O0150 04350                eOlSO 4110    00150    01  0435  0150    03540    050    00150    00350
tuM-      11 it)                  0      17      33U2    69111    VW8     105074 3r292t II           47    1122?   lOZt   11802t l 3lOW            110020   118020   338021      3 11 602       8 It80t     13tO26   118020   108e2m
It  up to 1 t5     4 .
All iKMSOt3 p_timt  fill    ttm  irttj  lt iWtVO 14r100 f46                     VW 6. No  t   niMq will Sti3tft o iO  l    Wtnid ad.
t)00     1 W   d1til  rate Rtb             adt _    St. t     ,ll  2tn   a(d 301 tbdtJr.
21  ea.  t tb  W tid t   of t. tnI   loca  pkap  hftU   giva  tho tlo tit a In   yield imtrom
416, M, 445, 561 ad 521 p   1.00  a              tl. hat yield of 280 4911f0    hgimIt is 2nd yw  is 24th tw  rvWutiuly.



I   i   ,  e                                                             r J  |              O    ~~~~~~~~~~abl 20
*     a      i                                                                                   oat               |         
j     aj- _   jc ca r                                                                            o                              *n. |    
:  :  :            *                                                                       s       :                      a.      
i~~~~~~~ ,                                                                                 ax               I            _a
|~~~~~~ i                                                     3        
i            i        ~ _, i-CaS                                                                                   o      i~        
i a                    a a                                                                                        ro j-    a                    ro  a 
o   ~        ~~~~~                                                                                        -o
a        :a                                       C- :    : :a 
a              a                     a  C    -C                                              Z.                                               j           a n 
*              a      a      O                .                                              j                                                      -  a
a              a      a      S               a,                              _..                                    a~-.    a            Ca       ar      a
a              a     a      1      -                                                                                                    -. o1 e*8r
a ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~                                                                                                   ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a  a  ... .  -  a.v
a     a      a                                          on                                                                      a.               a     
i  i  i          C'        os                                                           oD          i  'a  c_s_
*~~~~~ I~
ant            *       5         a..-&
-0       a.a                                                           aO        t           
  | rs  j         S         _                                                             r.a
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
j~ ~ ~~~ S i         oI ;n                                                                                   a         ta jS                a i
:~~~~~O iaa :                                                                           C                                 .-  a  ta         a
|~~~~~            a i=                                                                                       j        a                    a      *D
a~ ~~~~~ ~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ,10  5.  35                      ..        .n        ato
a  a-.-  a~~~                                                  a- .- 62a
C  a~~~.  a~~a                              a        a-...      a                   -0        a      -le  2



South lingal A0ricultural Proiect
Orchard Development
Brapefruit
YEARS
1        2         3        4         5        6         7        a         9       10        11       12       13        14        15       16       17   1I-50
Area Iteddan)                      14       14        14       14       14        14        14       14        14       14        14       14        14       14        14       14
Yield (ttifeddan)                                                      325       650     1625      2925     4550      65t0     6500      6500     6500      6500     6500      6500
Production                                                            4550      9100    22750    40950    63700    91000    91000    91000    91000    91000    91000    91000
Area (feddanl                               20        20       20       20        20        20       20        20       20        20       20        20       20       20        20
Yield 1kg/leddanl                                                                325      650      1625     2925      4550     6500      6SOO     6500      6500     6500      6500
Production                                                                      650     13000    3250      58500    91000   130000   130000   13*00   130000   130000   130000
Area Ifeddanl                                        20        20       20        20       20        20       20        20       20        20       20        20       20        20
Yield lkgifeddani                                                                         325       650     1625      2925     4550      6500     6500      6500     6500      65O
Production                                                                               6500    13000    32500    58500    91000   130000   130000   130000   130000   130000
Area ffeddan)                                                  40        40       40        40       40        40       40        40       40        40       40        40       40                                                   t
Yield (kg#tYddanl                                                                                   325      650      1625     2925      4550     6500      6500     6500      6500
Production                                                                                        13000    26000    65000   117000   182000   260000   260000   260000   260000
Area Ifeddan)                                                           60        60       60        60       60        60       60        bn        60       60       60        60
Yield (kItteddan)                                                                                            325       650     1625      2925     4550      6500      6500     6500
Production                                                                                                 !50O    39000    97500   17550    273000   390000   390000   390000
TOTAL AREA                         14       34       54        94      154       154       154      154       154      154       154      154       154      154       154      154
TOIAL PRODCTION                                                       4550    1560')    42250   S9450   200200   344500   526500   708500   88400(  1001000  1001000  1001000



SUDANl
South KIsiAl Agricultural Project
Orchard   vtelopemt
Lis
YEARS
1        2        3        4         5        6        7         8        9       10       Il        12       13       14        15       16       17    18-50
Ar,t afddanl                       e        9        a         9        9        9         9        o        a         a        E        9         9        9        8        8
Yield Ikg/ftddanl                                                     325      650      1625     2925     4550     650c      e500     6500     *500      6500     6500     6500
Production                                                           2600     5200    13000    23400    36400    52000    52000    52000    52000    52000    52000    52000
Area tfhddanl                              12       12        12       12       12        12       12       12        12       12       12        12       12       12       12
Yield (kgifWddnl                                                               325      650      1625     2925     4550      6500     6500     6500      6500     6500     6500
?roduction                                                                    3900      7800    19500    35100    54600    79000    78000    79000    78000    78000    79000
Ara (ftddanl                                         12       12       12       12        12       12       12        12       12       12        12       12       12        12
Vield fkg;ItddAml                                                                        325      650     1625     2925      4550     6500     6500      6500     6500     6500
Prduction                                                                              3900      7900    19500    35100    54600    79000    79000    78000    78000    78000
Area (feddanl                                                 16       16        16       16       16       16        16       16       16        16       16       16        16
Yield (kgI/1ddal                                                                                 325      650     1625      2925     4550     6500      6500    6t\       6500
Production                                                                                       5200    10400    26;00    468000   7;9W    104000   104000   104000   104000
Area Ifetanl                                                           24       24        24       24       24        24       24       24       24        24       24       24
YLeld 4kg;Itddan)                                                                                          125       650     1625     2425     4550      6500     6500     6500
Productimn                                                                                                700    15600    39000    70200   109200   156000   156000   156000
TOTALAREA                          8       20       32        49       72       72        72       72       72        72       72       72        72       72       72       72
TOTAL PROIDUCtIO                                                     2600     910t    24700    55900   109200   193300   270400   351000   421200   468000   469000   468W0
-- - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - - -- - --_- -



SUDAh
South Kassla Agricultural Project
Orchard Dmvelopnent
Suava
Y E A R S
---.-.---. ---- -------- --------------   - - - - - -  -  - -
1       2        3        4        5        6        7        8        9       10       11       12       13       14       15       16       17   IB-50
Area Ifeddanl                    5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5        5
Yield (kglteddanl                                                  325      650     1625     2925    4550    6500       6500     6500     6500    b500    6500    6500
Production                                                        1625     3250    8125    14625    22750    32500    32500    32500    32500    32500    32500    32500
Area Iteddanl                             8        8        8        8        a        0        B        8        B        8        B        8        8        8        a
Yield lkgtfeddan)                                                           325      650    1625    2925       4550     6500    6500    6500       6500     6500    6500
__________--_________________ ___-___-_._.____________________-_______________ ________..___________
Production                                                                 2600    5200    13000    23400    36400   52000   52000    52000    52000   52000   52000
Aru Iteddanl                                       I        8        a        8        6        B        B        8        8        8        8        8        8        9
Yield rkgiteddanl                                                                    325      650     1625    292'    4550    6500        6500    6500    t500    6500
Production                                                                          2600    5200    13000   23400    36400    52000    52000    52000    52000   52000
Area (teddanl                                               8        8        B        8        8        8 a               B        8        8        a        8        8
Yield  ko/feddan)                                                                             325      650    1W25      2925    4550      6500     6500    6500      6500
Production                                                                                   2600    5200    13000    23400    36400    52000    52000    52000    52"0
Area ieddanl                                                        12       12       12       12       12       12       12       12       12       12       12       12
Yield (kg/feddani                                                                                      325      650     1625    2925      4550t    6500     6500     6500
Production                                                                                            3900     7800   19500    35100    54600    78000    78000    79000
TOTAL AEA                        5       13       21       29       41       41       41       41       41       41       41       41       41       41       41       41
TOTAL PRMOUCTION                                                  1625     5850   15925    35425   68250   113100   163800   208000  243100   26b500   266500   266500
-- - - - 2* - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



BUDAU
South Kustol, Aqricultural Project
Orchard Developat
tEARS
~~~~~~~~~~~~. ...... ........ ....    ...__
1        2        3        4         5        6        7        8         9       10        11       12       13       14        15       16       17   1S-50
....................... .... ..-- .--------------------------------- ...........................------------ ---------------------------------------------I------------------------- ----------------------
Aru (feddal                                                   16       16       16        16       16       16        16       16       16        16       16       16        16
Vield  kgl/feddanl                                                                                175      350      875      1575     2450     3500      300      3500     3500
ProductiW                                                                                       2900     5600    14000    25200    39200    56000    56000    56000    5000
Are  (leddaie                                                          24       24       24        24       24       24        24       24       24        24       24       2:
fIeld Itlleddanl                                                                                           175      350       975     1575     2450      3500     3500     3500
ProDUCtion                                                                                                4200      8400    21000    37800    58800    84000    84000    34000
TOTAL AREA                                                    1&       40       40        40       40       40        40       40       40       40        40       40       40
TOTAL PRODUCTION                                                        0        0        0      2800     9900    22400    46200    77000   114900   140000   140000   140000
------ - - - - - -      - -  - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -



SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Frait Production
Grapefruit
... . _._................................. . .. . .       .......           ............. -                                                     . -  . _  ._  ....... ._. ....... . ....................        . .
t   E   A   R   S
........... . ...... .. .    __..._ . _. _.._._....._. ... __._ ........ -. - ---                 -._ -  -------...  - -- - --- - -- -.. __ -----_ .....__....   _. ..........
1        2        3        4         5        6        7        a         9        0o       11       12          13           14          is           16          17           to          19          20
-..   -  -  -------------------------------  -  ------------------------  -  -----------  -  --------  -   -  --   -     -   -  ----  -  -----------  -  --  -    -    --  -  -----  -  ------------------  -   -  -  -  -  -  --  ------------------
froduction (ton5,                0        0        0         0        0        0       4*5     15.6     42.2     99.4    200.2    344.5        526.5        708.5           4         1001        1001         1001        1001         1001
Value LSD (000) 11               0        0        0         0        0        0      15.0     52.1    140.9    332.0    68.7   1150.6        171:.5       2366.4      2952.6       33433       3343.3       3363.3      3!43.3      3343.3
re,stwt Cost LSD 10001           0        0     31.1     44.4      44.4     99.9    133.1         0        0        0         0        0           0            0           0            0           0            0           0           0
Rpcurre't Cest LSD (0003         0        0     45.9    111.1    176.5    307.3    503.4    503.4    503.4    503.4    503.4    503.4          503.4        503.4       503.4        503.4       503.4        503.4       53.4        503.4
3ta: c3st tLS  qoooi             O        0     76.9    155.5    220.9    300.1    63.5    503.4    503.4    5033    503.4    503.4            503.4        503.4       503.4        503.4       503.4        503.4       503.4        03.4 
Nett Reivae                      0        0    -76.9  -155.5  -220.9  -396.1  421.47 -451.296   -362.5 -171.404    165.3   647.23             1255.1       1863.0      2449.2       2839.9      M89.9        2939.9      2339.9      293Q.9
ER otae  fate of Rtturr      25.301
It  Fa.. gate _el_  giica fo  g er.L 3340 p._.. -------
it Firs gate sullitig price for grapefruit - LSD S330 per toa
Ib4



SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSAIA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Fruit Production
L.ta
1        2         3         4        5         6         7        a         9        10        11        12          1S           14           15           lb           37           la           IV           20
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -           .
FOcLtiei   ItR.sI                0         0         0         0        0         0       2.6      9.1      24.7      55.9    I0O.      183.3        270.4          351        421.2          468          468          468          469          460
.a1ee LED I000, II                0         0         0        0         0         0      8.7      30.4      82.5    186.7    364.7    612.2          903.1       1172.3       1406.8       1563.1       1563.1       1563.3       1563.1       1563.1
!,itsurnt Cost LSD 300013         0         0      17.0     2.6       25.6     34.1351.2              0         0         0        0         0            0            0            0            0            0            0            0            a
c'#cu.rret Cos" LED (10009        0         0      26.1     65.4    904.6    156.9    235.4    235.4    235.4    235.4    235.4    235.4              235.4        235.4        235.4        235.4        235.4        235.4        235.4        235.4
Thtal C3st LSD INAI)              0         0      43.1       91    330.2        191    286.6    235.4    235.4    235.4    235.4    235.4            235.4        235.4        235.4        235.4        235.4        235.4        235.4        235.4
Ott Ps0s.lu,                      0         0    -43.1       -91   -130.2       *191 -277.916 -201.006 -152.902  -48.694  129.328  376.822          647.736       936.94    1171.408    1IW.721    1327.72           1327.12      13'7.72      1!?7.72              a
S:,31.5ic Pats of Piturn      25.56?
Fa ry laet suliaim price for list - LSD 33.40 per ton



SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Fruit Preductiom
_...;;..._..
Wave
.......... . ........... _._._............ __.........._._._._............_. _.__.... _......_ . _                                                         .. _. ___. ...... ............. . ... . ... . . __
....... ........ ........ .......... .. ........................................... . ................................................................. _.. ................ .................... .... .............. .......__,_
I        2         3         4         5         6         7         9         9        10        11        12           13           14            is           16           17            IS           19           20
........ ................._ . _........ __._ __...........____.__.......... _....................................... _._ .. __ ............ .... . . .......     --- -____--- --
pra4u:tion (toeal                  0         0         0         0         0         0       1.6       5.8      15.9      35.4      68.2    113.1         163.8          209        243.1         246.5        266.5        2U.5          266.5        26.5
Value LID 1C010  I/                0         0         0         0         0         0       5.3      19.4      53.1    111.2    227.8    377.0           547.1        694.7        812.0        P90.1         890.1        30.1         39".1I         90A.
!ivestwt Cost LSD (00l             0         0      10.7      17.1      17.1      17.1      25.6         0         0         0        0         0             0            0            0             0            0            0             0            0
Rtcu'rrt Cost tSo  (MO             0         0      16.3      42.5      68.6      9.6    134.0    134.0    134.0    134.0    134.0    134.0               134.0        134.0        134.0         134.0        134.0        134.0         134.0        134.0
Total Cost LSD (ON)?               0         0        27       9.6      85.7    111.9    15.6    134.0    134.0    134.0    134.0    134.0                134.0        134.0        134.0         134.0        134.0        134.0         134.0        134.0
*et oevrue                         0         0       -27    -59.6    -B5.7   -111.9   -154.3   -114.6    -0.9    -15.8             93.8    243.5          413.1         40.7        678.0        756.1         756.1        7%.1         756.1         756.1
Ectosir   Rcte of Return       25.651
I/  term gate llliog price for guva - LSD 3340 per ton
t.4



}~~~ i-           -  -         -  i7 0   -
1i~                 ~i                                        Table 28
aj O- _   O   -  0;                                                  -
X~~~ ri -  C             I  
-  
8           g !g    ^  S   *  S     6 
8~~~~~2 , '              - I o=*' 
III    -e    - -i
iI         -,     --           I i
Ii :  .                 
C.i ~              . i  *    Ie 



SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
ORCHARD COST ESTIMATES
LW 7H rtWUAJ
4rapo Fruit               Limi                     Guava                   Gbngo
Inv stmnt Cost       FTinnclT  EconiTic   rinanclai    Ect`onooic   rinanciai   Economlc   Financia     cono0mc
Pump                   1200         2004        1209        2994        1200       2994         129W       2994
Se dling  1/            826          196         196          117        195        117          176        106
Infill                  33           20          20          12          20         12           18         11
Total                  1668         2219        1415        2188        1416       2138         1898       2120
Operating Cost
Fuel                   1900         1679 0                  1671       1i          1679         1ow        1670
Other                   see          886         600         836 8ee                 856         599         856
Spraying  /             442          629         442         820         442        620          288        884
Labor 8J                2U4          144         240         144         249        144          240        144
Total                  2182         8269        2162        8269        2162       8269         2182       2983
1/   Tres per feddan, 65 for guava, gropefruit and lim_; and 86 for mngo; price of seedling LSD 5 for mngo and
grapefruit and LSD 3 for guava and line.
2/   Cost per tre  LSO 3.4, twice a year (plant protoction *ervice chargo LSD 1.85 per tree).
!/   One worker per orchard of 6 feddans at LSO 100/month or LSD 20 per montr  per feddn.
I15
N)
ID



- 72 -
Table 30
bUttGUIr              U KAbSSA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Orchvrd Co,tg
Irigofrult. Lie, baw. hi
1        2                  4         5        6         I        B         9        10       11        If       13        14       11        16       1t        19      2t
Crrwit
Iarmtmt
kb e fid            0-       0        14       20        20        40       60         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         
CostLSDl U          0        0  316    44          443UI0    740  133140               0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0
O efi               0        0        14       34        54                154           1     5I       154      154       154      1S4      114       154       154      114       1S4       114
c u t- ota   I      0        0     4 57 46  LU 14&   1 76 26    3 7      W1        03 2     1  4     1 3 2     50M 2     0  26     0 24 2   1 03426  10 42 6    1        0 2   1           103426
UN
hN        lfd)      0        0         B       12        12       16        24        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
cut3 S                       0  17064  2119   21 9 341i2   1192                       0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0
hurMt
AM4fd)             0        0         3       20        32       4         7        72        72       72        72        72       72        72       72        72       72        n2       72
Cost-N   41         0        0    26112    6380   im40            1136912   213  2336    2 6    23m3          233                2356U8   236    2354            MU    23        2M3      23536
iubst
1,(fool             0        O         S        3         a        a        12        0         0         0        0                            0 0  0   0                            0        0
Ce-LS01 t           0        0    t0661    17064    17464    1106        21596         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
A'A"t
AM  alId            0        0         1       13        21       29        41       41        41       41        41        41       41        41.      41        41       41        41       41
Cot-         61     0        0    16345    42497    68649    "940    13029   134029   1M            1M029   1M029   134029   134029   13429   142    13029   1349   134029   134029
hqD
t-entat
rf"  (tdl           0        0         0        0         0       16        24        t         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Cut-L      I1       0        0         0        0         4    3392    0s0            0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
twevt
r        Itdl       0        0         0        0         0       16        40       40        40        0        0         0        40        40       40       40        40        40       40
CstaR   l           0        0         0        0         0 *n7a9   11920   1               1       11930   1          11932      t 1li    1U9     1i30   1193M   R192            1 0   l193t'
It LS  2219 w        fti.
2  LUD 3269 forut a hU     1Yr.
1 La 213 wt bo.
41 L3 B gt tw t          Po  w.
Si LU 2133 gt Wfde.
61  LUD 36  Wot f4d0       r W  r.
Iti U 2121 w  fdm.
1 L 25mwfotW.



- 73 -
Table 31
SUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Grapefruit (one feddan)
Y E A 2 S
----------------------------------------------------
1        2         3        4         5        6         7         8        9    10-20
Value of Production 11 LSD          0        0         0        0       601       780     4342      9686    15030    21710
Investent Cost LS0              1559         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0
Annual Costs LSD                    0     2182      2182     2182      2182     2182      2182      2192     2182      2182
m-t Revenue LS0                -1558    -2182    -2192    -2182    -1581    -1402         2160      7504    12849    19528
Financial Rate of Return       38.111
il  --- -S -- - ----ten---------                                                        ---------
11 Price LSO 3340 per ton



- 74 -
Table 32
SUDAN
SOUTHUW VAISSAIA AGRICULTURAL ]PROJECT
Financial Analysis
Lis eono feddan)
Y   E   A    R   S
__--__--  _-____  -___  -_ -__ -_ -__ -_-___  -____-____     -_ -_ -__ -  ___-_-_-_R S- __   _
1        2        3        4         5        6        7         B        9    10-20
Yalu  of Production 11 LSD         0        0        0        0       601      780     4342      969     15030    21710
lavustent Cost LSD             1415         0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0
Anrual Casts LB                    0     2182     2182     2182      2182     2182     2182      2182     2182     2182
.-t Rsvmnue LB                -1415    -2162    -2182    -2182    -1591    -1402       2160      7504    12848    19528
Financial Rate of Retur'.     30.53I
2/ Price LSD 3340 p.r ton.



_ 75 -
Table 33
SUDAN
SOUTI  LASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Financial Analysis
6uava (one feddani
Y E A R S
-         -EARS- -                          -
1        2        3         4        5         6        7         8        9    10-20
Value of Production I/ LSD         0         0        0         0      601      790      4342     9686    15030    21710
Investuot Cost LSD              1415        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
Annual Costs LSO                   0     2182      2182     2182      2182     2182      2192     2182      2192     2102
let Revenue LSD                -1415    -2182    -2182    -2182    -1581    -1402        2160     7504    12648    19528
Financial Rate ot Return       3Q.53Z
21 Price LSO 3340 per ton.



- 76 -
Table 34
SiUDAN
SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT                                     -
Financial Analysis
Mangoes (one feddan)
Y E A R S
Y - ----                _           _      __ _ _ _ -   -_ __ __--_----_---__-_-_-___--___-___ _ _ _ _
1         2         3         4         5         6         7         8          9    10-25
Value of Production It LSD            0         0         0         0       451       877      2191      3958      6137      8767
Investeent Cost LSD               1393         0          0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0
Annual Costs LSD                      0     2182       2182      2182      2182      2182      2182      2182      2182      2182
Net Revenue LSD                  -1393    -2182    -2182    -2182    -1731    -1305               9      1776      3955      6585
Financial Rate of Return         21.971
21 Price LSD 2505 per tan.



SOUTHERN KASSAIA   CULTURAL PROJECT
cost,                                   I       2        3       4       5        &       7        I       9       1t      1t       12     1        If      1S      1,       17       to     1i       le
iautuut cot                         309.     13.4     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     o.0      0.0     0.0      0.0   *.9 e.e            0.e      0.0     0.0
rcutrut cEt                          1u.2    14.I    14.1    14. 1      4.1      .5 6     .1 16.1 16.1    144            1        .1    11.1114.1I34.1    14.1    4.1   1b.1   1.1        1J.1    14.1
total gruset costs                  328.e    29.3    14.1    14.1    16.I    14.1   1.1    14.1    4.1    14.1  1.1    14.1     1. 1                     U4. . 14.1    14.1   1.1    14.1    14.1    .1
ts  tntb
grow  fruit                          0.0     o.0    74.3   155.5   220.9   3.1 I3.5    01.4 5 03.4 04           03.6   13.    103.4  11103.4   "S. 4   13.4    M.    103.4   103.4   33.4   33.4
tin                                  0.0     0.0    43.2    91.0   13C.2   41.0  2X4.4   235.4   25.4A   235.4   2.    235.4   2A.  M2.    235.4    3.4   2A.4    25.    235.4   23.4
"Goe                                 0.0     0.0    27.0    59.        5.7    1.9    M.    1334.0  1534.0   134.0   134.0   534.0   534.0   134.9   134.0   134.0   134.0   133.3   134.0   134.0
NMs                                  0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0    35.3   170.2   119.3   1U.    119.3   119.3   119.3   119.3   119.3   119.3   119.3   liU. 3         U  119.3        119.3
total on fors costs                   (..     0.0   141.0   304.1   434.6  7S.    1232.4   99.l   99.I   9              992.1   992.1   42..   9        2.1 *     492.1   992.1    9.    992.1   992. 2
--------------------------   - ----_    ------------------------------  .                          ......  __.. __.__  , ._
total cost                           2.0    29.5   163.1   M.2   452.9   794.4  1249.0   10.2  100.2  1046.2  104.2   011.2  1504.2  46.2  1046.2  1.2    16.2  1901.2  1101.2   56.
bowits
$rnp trait                           0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0 0     0.0   13.0    52.140.9   332.0   4.7  110.4  57M.1  234.4  292  . 3.3  333.3 M                     3X3.3   S3J3.   3J43.3
Iin                                  0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     I.7    30.4    14.4  16.7   364.4   412.2   903.1  Iln..3   t*.Z            3.l  1 43.1  3143.1  113.I  1513.1
waa                                  0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     5.3    14.4    S.L   113.2   227.0   377.7   541.1   494.7   HS            699.1    3.1   39.1   3.1   39.5
NW                                   0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      9.3    32.7    74.8   114.3   257.2   313.4   467.4   447.4   467.4   46.4   4A.4
total .fit.                           0.0     0.0     4.o      0.0     0.e      0.0    29.0   101.9   210.4   44.2  129.   2.    3".   4.4  55A .7   64.1  26.5   44.1   4.1  4264.1
awt cab lew                        -323.6   -29.5  -43.1  -322.2  -452.9  -7196.4 -12.0  -904.3  -747.3  -32.0   m.4  1207.1   21. 3l 2.4 4A 4.   525.9  52m.                       5.9  13.9  1m
ERR   21.4%
I1



6 U D A 11
South KIscla Agricultural Projet
bter Coepooent
Nuber and MIter Production
_  _ _ _  _  _   _ _   _   _   _  _   _   _>                      _         _        _     _   _          _     _     _ _ _   -_    --   ----___ -_ _-_-_-_-_-
YEAPS
1        2        3         4        5         6        7         a        9        10       it        12       13        14       15        16       17        to      1i         20
Rehab   teryards                               0        0         5       10        10
Incrmntal output *3(0001  1I                                     75      225       375      315       375      375       375      375       37       375       375      375       375      375        3       375       375      375
N / Nateryards                                                              2        3
Output d(00)   2/                                                          60      IS0      IS       150      150       150      150       150       IS0      IS0       150      150       150      150       IS0      ISO      1S
ahabat Irs                                                       15        20       20        10
Increr ntl Output 3(001)  3/                                    150      350       5bo      650       650      650       650      650       650      650       650      650       650      650       650      650       650 U0
NM  Nafir                                                                   2        3
Output .3(OO) 41                                                           36       90       90 S0              9         90       90        90       90        N        S0        90       90        90       90 
Total Output  000l33                           0        0       225      671      1165     1265      1265     1265      1265     1265      1265     1265      1265     1265      1265     1265      1265     126       126      16
11  Incrental output 15,000 d  pr W ateryard.
2/  output 39,000 3 pWr  atryard.
31 Ilncreental output 10,000 e3 per hatir.
41 BOtput 27,000 d3 wr hatfr.



S 0 D A N1
Estimat. of Nat.r Swfits
Y E A 11 S
1        2        3        4        5        6        7        e        9       to       11       12        13       14       15       16       17       I        1        2e
truumtal otItr (0001.3                    0        0      225      671     1165     1265      1265     1265     1265     1265     1265     1261      265     1265     1265     126       1265     1265     1265     1265
Nuwholds Supported I/                     0        0     3750    111O3    19'      21060   21060    21060    216        21060    21506    21080    21000   21060    21060    2100    21060    21060    21060    2
Cropped Arm 2/
Sorghu  (0001 Id                       0        0     87.5   559.0   970.0  1054.0   1054.0  10 04.0   1054.0  1054.0  1054.0  1054.0  1054.0  1054.0  1054.0  10.0  105.0  104.0   1054.0  1054.0
hum  (000) Id                          0        0     37.3   111.6    14.0    210.8   210.6    210.0    210.6    210.6   210.9   210.6   210.6   210.9   210.9   210.6   210.6   210 I    210.3   210.3
incremental Prnductim 3/
Sorghu  tons                           0        0     2625     7926    1356O    1756    14756    14756    14756    14756    14756    1475    14756    14756    14716    14756    14756    1476    14756    14716
Sena     tons                          0        0      221      671     1165      1265     1265     1265     1265     1265     1265     1265     1265     1265      1265     1265     1265     1265     1265      2
Nt Valu  of Sorghu LSD(OOO 41             0        0    905.6  2700.0  465.1  5090.6  50so.9  5090.8  SO0.9  s50o0s   5090.6   50.3   sM.s 5090.9 5090.9o0. 9   5090.5e                 09.   1090.   109.1  50.1
bt Value of S_m  LSD (000) 5/             0        0    551.6  1644.9  285.9  3101.0  3101.0  3101.0  3101.0   3101.0   3101.0   3101.0   3101.0   3101.0   3101.0   3101.0   3101.0   3101.0   3101.0   31101.
Total Valtut LID (0003                    0        0   1457.2  4344.9   7541.0  8191.9   6191.    911.66191S.9  191.9   6191.9   6191.6                   9191.9   6191.3   3191.8   6191.    11191.1   11M.   3191."
1/   muption - 10 d  tter pWr individul per mer, avrap husloltd size 6 people
21 Nouthold groS 50 faddas Sorgh    and 10  eddan Snem
31  luerfntal yield 55 for Sorgbus  14 bg/1fddnl and S.1 for Sem  16 Ig/teddml becaume more labor will be available
for agricultural activity rather than for collectin nuaer from distant place  particularly during the dry use n.
41 let eonmic valu  of Sorghu LtS  345/ton                                                                                                                                                                                I
5/ Ot  tacmic valw  of kSn  LSD 2431.41ten 



SUDN
SOUTHRN KASSALA AMCULTURML PROJECT
wurat qptaa cmaue t
falow5. asaoluis
l       2        J        4         3        5        7        e        9       te       IL       17       n3       34       11       16       17        13       1       2
tests
,avase..,t                          l0614.4  1378.51   401.6  7632.4   3?27.1   921.B          e.0      0.0      9.0      e.o      e.0      e.0      0.0      0.0      0A.       e.o      M.0      4.9      e.9      9.4
rq*wjrruut                              11,'   457.2   45?.1   I,0    ?            743.3  2143.3   ?147.3  2343.3  2143.3  2143.3  2143.3  2143.3  2t43.3   2143.1  2U1.3   2143.1   2143.3  2t43.3  2143.
--------------------------...--------------------..-------  -.-----.........----------.................. _..._  .   __.....___......._..............
total preQtt Ctt                       t25A.  '6S5.3 e4.1  4T1.94  59.9  3%.1  2143.3   214.3   54.3  2143.3   t43.3   2143.3                        3.3 214         2143.3   2t43.3  253.   214s.3  2n .3  254.3
dUatit4la 5Ot9II
in sws                                   OA.      0.A  1437.2   4344.4   7543.   01Qt.6   MIA.6    91.    69.6  3591.6  4191.4s  6391.6  6091.4   6195.3   51.41   0195.5  5395.5  45l.*   alt.4  31l5.4
rytd liwntect loss
-cattht                                %(       0.q      *..0   14.9  295.a  3230.0  3230.0  M20.0  32o .6    M.e   320.0  32.0   30.0   3M.e   32.0   35M.0   323.    3.0                               2.0  S3.0
.SW"                                   4j       o0.0    (1.0  2033.   S6.2   4W.O   400.9  4140.0   460.0  "440.0               4.40.0  4490.                       00. 4 46 0.9 44.            0.0         .   40.e
...                                          .......  .. ......  - - - -.---. ......... -. _.....                              .....-------.. _-. ..- --
btal W     iht                           0.0 e     .O   1517.2  7999.7  14738.&  15001.3  3003.0  ISS30.3  13501.1  15103.3  11301.6 sl et.6 IS   M54. Q    s"t.5   15543.6  1I5.6  15541.4 t114.6  551.3 1t15".4
at coa  #lI                         -10025.9  -7633.3  -7*1.6  -1073.2      .7?  12436.7  1333.5  135.   133%5.1  5336.5  1,3311.5  IS31. 133 13.5               3.5  3313.5  133.  1333.   13331.5  I133.  1339.1
BRR 27.2%
Ii



.0   I ec gw       eu1   oNe'  0,0000   OW0001 0gOg    C go o 0-             ,-       01e 0* 0 egeg        ogg   ogo eeo 0loo eo                   gg        oe .-0     0   --  '    o-I eo   g     cg seoc   fog       beer    o,l    4010    541         410      940      I.,               e        509400
#1      go2      go      We       0 0      Ol 00    ci       1 so    go        ' go     ol"90,0 ege O   b       @'Od 0000    405           0       01-(     g ~   0..         ..      W0      Ole      010      010      *4      @0       04       re      rO       gO'      I.,     Ce       **       *g0                002*003 
c   00      C.0      W 0       le @0   @    0    0      010      01   0  0    0   1        1,10    S            0m glee   11goSS w 0OOCC   ,-' O Or (5 0-091   "Op    ('11    0API   'oe.   ees.  Qcoi   rom                 0-099    90590   t-sti  elieS    0'eW      g0       go       eg      ge                       ""A l
(03     010       .       -       go       all     Is-      g-       g       g        g1g      ge       g0I    eU        cz    19         g-go     gg:    g-g09      us      11-u     ro'      goI:    gV      f-gu     1a       gR        Ils    c-u      geei    Co,       Iit    i*t       e1       ge 
gg  go  ce  ge   40      SI       erg      co      e~~~~~~~~~~rg  e'g  e-e    9ee     gg       O."      g ,      0        .               o-,      .-o     e e      *0       0-0     0-e      co0    0Ve        e-e      eg9     e-g      SO       405     90       00.      0        .-gp              ft,t*i 5*6*w5a
~~*  4.51    cccl    c-ego    c-os    coil16    gob  4'oi    oSlo    Co.a   O's"    gggg        o 0000  WI ( 01  Vgle    0. 091   vero051  i g    Un   OCol. *0500   00010     t 00000   0  O-ni0   O-all  Wm    vall g-tce        ele     c-o    c-cog   60010   liSo     g-eoc    O-em   OgKog0000O*05
Co  00       .10     010      Ce      0-0      a0       gg       010     VO       I        0,0     01       O'.     (0-      (0t    0S         I.,     oi0      0i       c0      g0       010      (I0     II       Il  00       0                     90 010 00 r   ultltIm     91 04t4    I9                             *00010
... .. .     ..   ...    ... ... .. .... ..     ..    .. ..... ......... .. .. .. ..... .. ....... .. .. ....   .... ... .. .. .... ... .. .       . ... .. .. .. ......... ... .. .. .. ... .. .. .. ..
g0 011001M0.5100SV60020HIno
1DiO~  'VHlL'flfltWVQnSSV   lHIO



SUDAN
SOUTHEN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
ECfMf SL3)S
1       2       3       4      5       6       7        3       9       1o      11       12      13      14       is      36       17   13-1       20
mT                                  -  4896.3 23.1 524.0 6O575.0 3N0492  97549.2 3M73.5 91080.0 9162.9    92. 9 9162.               92.s9 92.s9 92.9 92.9 92.  912.9   n2.9
ISTICUL-I-   -                                           -      -           -    29.0   101.9   210.4   646.2  1293,6  2215.3  3390.0  4490.6  5554.7  6264.9          6 1  62.1  626l4.3
AM                                  -        -  1437.2 799.7 1423.e 152013  1501.9  15501.8  15503. 15sol0   1201.3  15501.3toot's I ,  1503.3  15501.  15501.3  150.1  i520l.3  35201.3
ENW     n                           -        -     0.9    3,1  247.7  955.4  2.*4  374.4  5799.0   012.2  9327.6  1804#4   9360.6  9M7.8 101L5   101-.3  1310.  1I01.3  30768.1
TOTL SWltS                          -  4.3 27241.2 6051s.  3063.3 9M70.4 1057.4 1095.6 1120.2 LS143.1 11605.9 1124.4 119935.3 121406.1 122341.2 123557.6 123557,6 123576 124216.9
PUOT COSM
ISESIIT COSTS                 306.0 29018.5 17652.5 1U16.1 9411.2 12561.7  1916.4                   9- 97.4  7681.9  1919.4            -       -   497.4  761.9  191.4           -   497.4                 0
REIi  COms                     2390.4  5229.1  624.6 7410.7 9705.  9052.2  9052.2  9052.2  9052.2  9052.2  9052.2  9052.2  9052.2  9052.2  9052.2  9052.2  9052.2  9052.2  952.2 
TOTAL PRecT cOST              33059.4 34037.6 23902.1 2004.8 19116.3 21613.9  1068.6  90M2.2  9052.2  9549.6  16734.1  10971.6  902.2  9M*2.2  9549.6  16734,1  10968.6  902.2   4.
COSTS
ON Fi  CSTS                         -  2583.1  397.1 2941.0 3785.0 43922.9 47905.1  49733.8 49393.9 493W7.9 4933.9  49393.9  33.9  49393.9  493349 4333.9  49333.9  4931.9  493M3.9
EII1RI         COSTS             36.6    68.3   194.1  299.0  404.0  383.8   363.6   343.4   323.2   32.2   302.5   328.0   262.6   242.4   222.2   222.2   222.2   222.2   191.9
TOTAL COSTS                   33096.0 3689.0 37993.3 49583.9 55605,3 65320.6 593373 58129.4  597s5.3 s591.7  66420.5  0693.5 5S698.7 5378.5  5915.7  6340.2 64747  3.3  59125.4
NET EFTSt
TOTL lCETM.AL I LMET I11ITS  -33096.0 -317M2.7 -10M72.1 1100.0 27456.0 31395.8 46631.1 51096.2 590.9 5636.4 50335.4  5720.9 61236.6 62727.6 632.5  S71.4  62 .9 6439.3 65093.5
Jaw 22 13998 09:30
Prnmt velu ot Stn   at          13.50
3n01              491.410.91
nternal Rat" of Rewft at at Stre"m



*Si )AI
SWITIU!TT TEST         -                 SOUThER  KASSAA AGRCULTURAL PROW=C
vWE At CC          COSISAT OM          RATE O
TES CASES   TEST CMS WVMlATINh                 or 13.513           if 13*561          SETME
Nu5 CMS                                            135292.5               39.02          31.21
TES CAS  I 31                  m lot                96431.9               27.5           26,UZ
TEICAS   2 31                 mm  152
U2              flU                    74341.3              22.01           24.U
C2              up152
C3              UP1in
C4          UP 131 S9365.0                             25.62          26.0Z
TMS CAS  4 31                 LAS   2 MME           46347.9               14.01           17.41
TES UAS  5 11                 LAB    3 TEAl         12461.                 3.6           14.42
TESTEACM   6 31               OmIn 0
32              LAS   2 EIFS
el              up  10Z
C2              UP  to1               M7D311                21.83           23.3 Z
AMSuA  Smiurs  ENERMA
SURE                   LUlE        VUE         O DE
31               33359.29   253.303.82        -34.8Z
32                 6W69.0  -12,682.45    -2,447.021
33                65,217.04   -70,074.44      -207.452
34                21.369.57  -1139901.90     -6*32.1
cl                34.960*69   220o,2.16        1559.3
C2                479845.73   185,13726       271.421
C3               210,667.33   345,353.60       64.461
C4                 1,645.70   134P,9717    6,220.96
TOTAL EMEITS    481,610.91   346,519.44       -26.U1
TOTM  COMT       346,519.44   61,30.#91        39.04
Net P-eiefll Value St 0CC 13.52 a 135,291.5s
Inttoml Rat a Retur  31.72
Cmwa Eguivalmnt Rate ot Reti, a 20.3



SOUTHERN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
AND NATURAL RESOURCE
FIRST UNDER SECRETARY
PROJECT K4AAGEMENT                ADVISORY C0*4ITTEE
UNIT
DISTRICT COUNCILS           mINIREGIONAL    STRY                                 RUMAL
ARCs Research                OF AGRICULTURE              CORPORATION
Road Construction      USA: Seed Production       Extension Service
and Maintenance        PPDs Plant Protection      Horticulture Dept.
Forestry Dept.
n



SUDAN
SEIS1TIVITY TESTS                        SOUTEN KASSALA AGRICULTURAL flOEECT
WY AS A I
uuui               OF FIvsenm
WAE At OCC         CTIAT OM           RATE OF
TEST CASE    TEST CME WIATION                   OF 13.50?          OF 135             RETUI
PA   CAK                                            135291.5              39.02           31.7
TmTCAi   I 01                 m110n                 96431.                27.0?          26.9?
T1ETA 201                      11125I
#2              nin102                76341.3              22.02           24.X
TEST WCA    3 U               w    10?
C2              UPIn2
C3              u    10
CU              UP  in                9ntu.o                25.4?           26.0?
MEST CANI 4 *                 LAS    2  IS          40347.9               1401           17.4e
TEST CASE 5 S                 to     3 VIES         12463.6                h.2           14.
TEST CASE 6 Sl                911Ot
32              LAS   2 YAL6
CI              UP   10?
C2              up  152                78910.3              21.3            23.1?                                                                 3
SIIeTIU 1111  T 13.52
IRWMII  NTOIIU  UIT
'STRtEAK              'JI.E        VMII        0115
: ::  *==w=::    . :::u;'::A.:U m,3gu.:"s5"w.gg
A1               3811559.29  253303.62        -34.612
32                 6,6.02  -123,632.45    -2047.*07
U                 65.217.04  -70074.44        -207.45?
34                21.359#57  -113W91.90      -632.51?
Cl                644960.69  220M252.1*       159I2s ?
C2                49.545.73   1851720         271.4n
t3               210067.33   345,3M 3.30       64.40
C4                 1,645.70   136w937.17   8322090
TOTAL KFITS    461,610.91  346,19.44          -21.9?
TOTAL CT         346,519.44   41,10."          39.04
Ikt PwAnt Valu  at OCC 13.5? a 1351291.5
Interml Rate of Rtu rn- 31.n
Coupam  Emitvelo-t Rat .Rentur a 20*3?



SOUTHERN KASSAIA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
HINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
AND NATURAL RESOURCE
iFIRST UNDER SEC-RETARY           SERNCWTE
PROJECT MANAGEMENT               ADVSORY COIIITTEE
UNIT
DISTRICT COIUNCILS        HARREGIONAL MINSTRYRU   WAE
ARC. Research               OF AG-RICULTURE           CORPOGATION
Road Construction     NSA: Seed Production      Extension Service
and Maintenance       PPD: Plant Protection     Horticulture Dept.
Forestry Dept.



SOUWIR  KASSALA AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PROJECT UANAEN  UNIT  OAIZATION CHART
FIRST ~      ~        IANIL           ANIKIATO   ~
UNDER SECRETARY                     4 - - |s7EERING  C     lTE
Of AGRIMM;UE 
PMIQL| DIItECO                 ECW               ;IN IAL
I~~~EM   SE1TO LATOLE  AM "OHA
uwn~~~~~~un
UHtRII



f 22-           24-              26'             28'              36'                              32' 34-
22-                            |_                      ARAB    REPUBLIC    OF    EGYPT
Wod,H If&                                                     p0 
L  I B  Y  A             
NORTHERN
N O  R T H E R|N                                                    PORT SUDAN
DONGOLA@                                      RED SEA             OSaokof
-Id 8 '                                                                                       )  NILE      RERRER/ HolfE
Ed Wb       ,      ARN  ,b
C H AD D                  NORTHERN                                         R E G / O
DARFUR
16-                  II                                                                                             REGI   N          
e _-J           |                                      Cmd4dn4>K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mHARTO u  Deixm EASSALA
J                     1              ~~~~~~~NORTHERN              \        _\ <
.1    DARFUR                                           KORDOFAN                                         KASSALA
Ti'~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
.GENEINA                                            KORDOFAN                                                      UT
t ! 2lingei                                      EN NAHUD     R
12-'           Um Horoz      NYALi                                     DiilAn               ILE                ION
("SOUTHERN DARFU                                           EGION                             DAMAZN
<                 b    o n        U   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S,OUTHERN KORDOFAN        BLU E NL
'4   R E G IO                                  \ NssO~ r
w1                                                                                                    UPR NILE  
JBAHR EL  EASTEN                                 -          .,@AAL
QHAZAL   BAHR EL  AWEIL                                                N N_I R    i    E T  H  I 0  P I A
C E N T R A L  (.             RAGA) GHAZAL                                  RE   ION
BUHEYRAT
A F R I C A N  4             WAUs                                          ib*
AFRICAN                                             n
Sin \~~~<s h I ~JONGLEI 
\BAHR  EL GHAu2AL                              J.n9I            b Pu,o p,
REPUBLIC                              E
I   WESTERN        n,d       
S U D A N                   .          EQUATORIA  8QUATORIA !-EGION
SOUTHERN KASSALA                                   Y                     JUBAOiJ
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT                                                                          ,,EASTERN       KENYA
PROJECT                                                      0EQAIORNORO                         KEN YA' 
PROJECT AREA                                      A                                               I  R  Y     ARAB
PRaJECT AdA    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~"'IJ~~~~~~ ~~~                      LIBYA   I ~~~~~~~~REP Of   SAUDI
Vfflf PROJECT fAAA                                                             U, IG   A\N    D   A                   EGYPT           ARABIA
OTHE PROJECT AREAS (RAINfRED]                                                                     * r_ _                 - --
R' RAILROADS                                                                                          a
O   SELECTED TOWN, AND VILLAGES                                                                       z4   
2'    0   PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                                              2-     CHAD
R EEGION IIQLIM) CAPITALS
6   NATIONAL CAPITAL
---~.RIVERS                               0      IT0     200    30?0    AOO K.                                                 ETt-HIOPIA
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                    '       '                                                       CENTRAL
_     REGION (IGLIMI BOUNDARIES              0           100          20r1                              [ A                            ;,   '
V      _._ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                             f,    Z                 KENYA SOMALI
SOURCI OFl N-STRATIA DATA Sudn Sul,y D XpoA,snfl 0A0n193 330                   3'                                           KENYA I



IBRD 21042
S U D A N
SOUTH KASSALA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
HAFIRS AND WATERYARDS
|    ~ |Basalt
~(Nubian Sandstone                        Council Headquarters
Basement Complex                   0 0   Towns and Villages
Haf irs                                   Rivers
@     Wateryards
Wadi Madani-Port Sudan Highway            Province Boundaries
Railroad                         -I -      nternational Boundary
B3L LIE NYIE 
PROVINCE, 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
q 4-r o IVadi a4dani
414'Q0IJft                                                                                       14'
, /      Kassabo ^   0  
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
9 - oA--@OD~0 0* DKA   -sv
\  _y,,_  Swata X               ~~~Urn Rakoba     0     
\ --    Wax> .a   0s                    w oo0 oC:iiWa
6trP!              \;SE0NK               noa D          ab;OKA
~~~~0                     23     50                -    >=>$     H~  dlaw S  4t<
34                      Kilometers                /           360                  e,.d
August h88



%J_W** V\ Is I I I%    %%A~L     
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REFUGEE SETTLEMENTS
>    i '                                      >       //               \,~~~~~.  okor
\_ )-.  Hl8Q                                                                                                                      /\
t   \   \  Atbrlrl, ' ) | / S~A
,N 0 R T H 5E R N    \>                                                        t--  
K H  PT  UM\t/0                                                                                       4tl-
/
N  OAdtrn f   ; \\\./
lm   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~lgrirKssl                                /
Pro1iet A-o
MFC Eotorsios Sites
' .GUNHCR Field Prer,nor
I    j     \/>f\7  UN-UHCR Br,-nh Offi.es re Sub-offico
R-pt,.eCetto   ,
(l Hosohesa \       /cs-l \   Ur GrrgEp 5toOhyet (400 mmre
Wad  Sadam                                                                        P-d Rnd oi Rtodb
e (          ( e > ~ a@RCouncble dr,,g ror-y
Ed Due.                                _Ct Sd       .db.                     Hko Hk- 216. Rroods
CoSh E  A    4 Tii XAb. Rokir t                               =   Reino
-I      r    Koo    sx               St                                                  /            Roro Cap ito
~~ \                       ECI Dam~~~~ ~       ~ ~~~~azin  A-  A-                        D- sD
AWod LOW .4    npri
t           ~~~Ai,,trrps
C...cil He'd50mr-ins
NotiKIaR Copitl
TndigI                                                             Oc                               Proane Bo..odorro
C E     N ' T/1R             A     L-ooOnlpo-6i -
12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-
SASDI
UBYA    ARAB REP.    ARABIA
A- R f |S i
UFqPER                                               O ____            ___ 
KILOAMERS               CjA   xf
jNILE                                                             I  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UDAN
/1                                   ~~~~~~~~~AFRICNRE



IBRD 21044
S U D A N
SOUTH KASSALA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ROAD NETWORK
Wadi Meda,nI-Port Sudan Highway          (     Council Headquarters
All-Weather Roads                       0  0   Towns and Villages
- -  -   Dry Season Tracks                                Rivers
.....  Raised Track                                      Province Boundaries
Railroad                                -      International Boundary
34                                                                       3
\,,. F                                                           K/ashon El Girba
Y/ I I                                             {
PROJA 
1 4     E,DAR;X                           GDE F                                    /-(1
\ _/2 ~~~~~~~Kasst  j
A,~~~~~~~
(~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-~~~ 14;                                               '-udamba7lya 
Mafaza
Qala En    .
,.Nahal
7 >,,  \  >//    \  _I2t - DOKA
\< Hawata j'    -*        Um Rakoba '
--a
N          { Um          .\ Wad.J
..  Sagata  \                             0 Kowli
~Sam-Sam                           /
I l   \   ,- - -- ,                             iETHIOPIA
(rGallabatj      H O
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d,. t.OD L ,ffa;*,,I  ,hC
>   tbr tRw rov    j f th
0   5       so   "''jos_                       * 
.,,Ad 1k.   Jo..
Kilometers         -             - *                      ntrho. A   7
34                                                        ;                                    ..36  *,n0oCU e  d
August t958



HMO 21045
S U D A N
SOUTH KASSALA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FORESTRY - RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
-     Reforestation Areas (4)                  Wadi Mai!ani-Port Sud&n Highway                 Council Headquarters
0      Main Extension Units (3)                All-Weather Roads                        0  0   Towns and Villages
*     Extension Sub-Units (12)      ---   Dry Season Tracks                                    Rivers
. .    *  *e Raised Track                                 Province Boundaries
-+--t-  Railroad                                -         International Boundary
3.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6
Kashon El Girba
}                                      {  Il s~~~~~~~~~~~~~eserMSir
I                                                           I -               n 
f                                           |   )9lh~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~owak  : 
'         /4 
,.KassA4',
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ \\/ 
/   /    0   ~~~Mafaza ID    Qala En    -           f \            ri (A I,[ 4! i t\ 
ALtF^ZN         //4<  Nahal       -
At~~~~~~~~~~~~\ I L' -~g\S                                                ,M A\,,  ,*_DK   i;pt -
\<                 _        ~~~~~~~Hlawata /         mRakoba 0         \       
\-   ~ \  '  um   ' I                - KWad    J
% ,\;;  ~Sagata                          ; rG        Kol;
>   \i.  \  E;tSam-Swm        >r;       
.,Gallabat        H     )
r~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-W 'd '1 -fWW '- -                                 f '<
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h  , flth_ cW t the n
0       25       50             -       *         _          toe dI 7 ,oi $0Jh
, .,; .                               *t                     dt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7~oeot oo the tAu
Kilometers                                 3
34A                                                                                                    1988
August 1988



