Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                      UNHCR GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1961 SU
               for the Administration of Grant Funds
                    to be made available by the
                 OFFICE OF THE UNITED NATIONS HIGH
                     COMMISSIONER FOR REFUGEES
                      in Conjunction with the
               Southern Kassala Agricultural Project
                                in
                       THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
                       Dated April 26, 1989
                      UNHCR GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1961 SU
                             AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated April 26,  1989,  between  the OFFICE OF THE
UNITED NATIONS  HIGH  COMMISSIONER  FOR  REFUGEES  (UNHCR) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) to provide
for the administration by  the  Association  of  grant funds to be
made available by UNHCR to THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN (Sudan).
     WHEREAS the Association and UNHCR wish to cooperate to assist
Sudan to  improve  the  agricultural  development  of the Southern
Kassala Province and to  promote  self-reliance of refugees in the
area;
     WHEREAS UNHCR wishes to  make  available  to Sudan a grant in
the amount of ten million  dollars ($10,000,000) (the UNHCR Grant)
to  assist  Sudan  in  the   financing  of  the  Southern  Kassala
Agricultural Project (the Project) described  in Schedule 2 to the
Development  Credit  Agreement  No.   1961  SU  (Southern  Kassala
Agricultural Project), dated                 , 1988, between Sudan
and the Association; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS, the Association, at the request of UNHCR, has agreed
to administer  the  UNHCR  Grant  upon  the  terms  and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
     Section 1.01. The Association,  as Administrator on behalf of
UNHCR, shall enter  into  a  development  grant agreement and such
other  agreements  with  Sudan  as  it  may  deem  appropriate but
consistent with the terms and conditions of the Development Credit
Agreement (excluding the debt  service provisions thereof) for the
purpose of assisting  in  financing  the  Project. Such agreements
with Sudan shall, inter  alia,  provide  that  the proceeds of the
UNHCR Grant may be  withdrawn  by  Sudan to finance the reasonable
cost  of  goods  and  services  required  under  the  Project  and
otherwise eligible  for  financing  under  the  Development Credit
Agreement, and that the amounts to be withdrawn need not be repaid
and shall bear no interest or  other  charges. A copy of each such
agreement shall be furnished to UNHCR.
     Section 1.02. The Association,  as Administrator on behalf of
UNHCR,  shall  have  the  responsibility  for  supervision  of the
Project.
     Section 1.03. The administration  and enforcement of any pro-
visions of  any  agreement  entered  into  between  Sudan  and the
Association for the purposes  of  this  Agreement shall be handled
solely  by  the  Association,  and  the  Association  specifically
reserves the right, at  its  discretion, to exercise, refrain from
exercising or waive any rights  under  such agreement or to modify
any provision thereof,  provided,  however, that before suspending
the right  of  Sudan  to  make  withdrawals  of  funds  under such
agreement, the Association shall  inform  UNHCR and afford UNHCR a
reasonable opportunity for consultation with the Association.
     Section 1.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in
the  discharge  of  its  functions  under  this  Agreement  as  it
exercises with respect to the administration and management of its
own affairs.
                            ARTICLE II
     Section 2.01. (a) For  the  purpose  of this Agreement, UNHCR
shall deposit,  subject  to  availability  of  funds, an aggregate
amount of ten million  two  hundred thousand United States dollars
($10,200,000), which includes the  grant  contribution and the two
percent administration fee referred to  in Section 2.03 hereof, in
the United States  Dollars  T-Account  maintained with the Federal
Reserve Bank in New York  in  the  name of the Association (the T-
Account).
     (b)  Said amount shall be  deposited, subject to availability
of funds, in five tranches as follows:
          (i)  an  amount   of   $2,200,000   promptly  after  the
               effectiveness of  the  development  grant agreement
               referred to in Section 1.01 of this Agreement; and
         (ii)  an amount of $2,000,000 each  not later than July 1
               of each year during the years 1990 through 1993.
     (c)  It is understood that  the  amount  of each such tranche
is based on the  planned  implementation  schedule for the Project
and may, after  consultations  between  UNHCR and the Association,
be  adjusted  to   reflect   actual   progress   made  in  Project
implementation.
     (d)  The funds  in  the  T-Account  received  from  UNHCR may
be commingled  with  other  trust  fund  assets  maintained in the
Page  3
T-Account and shall be freely exchangeable by the Association with
other currencies as may facilitate their administration.
     Section  2.02.  The  Association   shall  disburse  from  the
T-Account such amounts as  shall  be  needed  to meet the costs of
goods and services financed or  to be financed pursuant to Section
1.01 of this Agreement.  Such  disbursements  shall be effected on
the basis  of  applications  for  withdrawals  for eligible expen-
ditures submitted by Sudan  to  the Association in accordance with
the  Association's  disbursement  procedures  for  withdrawal  and
disbursement of proceeds of credits made by the Association.
     Section 2.03. In order  to  assist  in  defraying the cost of
administration and  other  expenses  incurred  by  the Association
under  this  Agreement,  UNHCR   shall   pay  the  Association  an
administration fee of two percent (2%) of the amount of the Grant.
The Association may deduct such  fee  from the T-Account in one or
more installments at any time.
                            ARTICLE III
     Section 3.01. (a) The Association shall:
     (a)  be allowed to  commingle  the  funds received from UNHCR
with other trust fund  assets  but shall maintain separate records
and ledger accounts  in  respect  of  the  funds  disbursed by the
Association pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement;
     (b)  be  permitted  to   invest   the   funds  pending  their
disbursement, and any income  earned  thereon shall be credited to
the T-Account. The income  may  be  used  to  pay for the external
auditor's fee  relating  to  the  audit  and  any other incidental
expenses. Any  balance  in  the  T-Account  relating  to the grant
contribution  from  UNHCR  and  remaining  therein  after  project
completion shall be utilized to finance project-related activities
as agreed upon by the Association, UNHCR and Sudan;
     (c)  cause  such  accounts  and  records  to  be  audited and
certified by the Association's  external  auditors for each fiscal
year (June 30) that funds shall remain in the T-Account; and
     (d)  furnish the report of  each  such audit by said auditors
to UNHCR promptly following receipt thereof by the Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
     Section 4.01. UNHCR and  the  Association  shall consult on a
regular basis on all matters related to the implementation of this
Agreement.
     Section 4.02. The  Association  shall  keep UNHCR informed of
the progress of the  Project.  To  that end, the Association shall
furnish to UNHCR  all  relevant  progress, performance, assessment
and disbursement reports relating to the Project.
     Section 4.03.  The  Association  shall  inform  UNHCR  of any
forthcoming major missions  and  meetings  in  connection with the
Project and shall afford  representatives of UNHCR the opportunity
to participate in such missions and meetings.
     Section 4.04.  The  Association  shall  inform  UNHCR  of any
proposed  significant  modification   to  the  Development  Credit
Agreement and  shall  afford  UNHCR  a  reasonable  opportunity to
exchange views  with  the  Association  before  effecting any such
modification.
     Section 4.05.  UNHCR  intends  to  appoint  a Project Officer
under  terms  of  reference  which  shall  be  acceptable  to  the
Association and UNHCR shall  cause  the Project Officer to furnish
to the Association all reports relating to the Project.
Page  4
                             ARTICLE V
     Section 5.01. Any dispute  between  the  World Bank and UNHCR
arising out of  or  relating  to  this  Agreement  which cannot be
settled by negotiation or other  agreed mode of settlement will be
submitted to arbitration  at  the  request  of  either party. Each
party will appoint  one  arbitrator,  and  the  two arbitrators so
appointed will appoint the  third,  who  will  be the chairman. If
within 30 days of the request for arbitration either party has not
appointed an arbitrator or if within 15 days of the appointment of
the two arbitrators the  third  arbitrator has not been appointed,
either party may request the  President of the International Court
of  Justice  to  appoint  an  arbitrator.  The  procedures  of the
arbitration will be fixed by  the arbitrators, and the expenses of
the arbitration will be borne  by  the  parties as assessed by the
arbitrators. The arbitral award  will  contain  a statement of the
reasons on which it is based  and  will be accepted by the parties
as the final adjudication of the dispute.
                            ARTICLE VI
     Section 6.01. This Agreement shall enter into force as of the
date first above written  and,  subject  to the provisions of this
Article, shall  continue  in  effect  until  all  disbursements in
respect of the UNHCR Grant  have  been  made from the T-Account to
Sudan.
     Section 6.02. If, at any time it appears to either party that
the purposes of this Agreement can no longer effectively or appro-
priately be carried out, this  Agreement  may be terminated at the
initiative of such party after ninety (90) days' written notice to
that effect.
     Section 6.03. Upon termination  of this Agreement, unless the
parties agree  on  another  course  of  action,  any  agreement or
portion thereof entered into  by the Association, as Administrator
on behalf of UNHCR, shall be transferred to UNHCR and any funds or
other property of UNHCR held hereunder by the Association shall be
returned to UNHCR  and  the  Association's administration shall be
considered terminated.
                            ARTICLE VII
     Section 7.01. This Agreement  may  be amended only by written
agreement of the parties hereto.
     Section 7.02. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made under  this  Agreement, and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement, shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered  by hand, mail, telegram, cable or
telex to the party  to  which  it  is  required or permitted to be
given, or made at  such  party's address hereinafter specified, or
at such other  address  as  such  party  shall  have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
     For UNHCR:
          Head
          United Nations High
          Commissioner for Refugees
          Washington Liaison Office
          1718 Connecticut Avenue, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. _____
          United States Of America
     For the Association:
Page  5
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                   Telex:
               INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  undersigned duly authorized thereto,
have signed this Agreement.
                   OFFICE OF THE UNITED NATIONS HIGH COMMISSIONER
                        FOR REFUGEES
                   By /s/ John McCallin
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
