Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1961 SU
              (Southern Kassala Agricultural Project)
                              between
                       THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated April 26, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1961 SU
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  April  26,  1989,  between  THE REPUBLIC OF
SUDAN (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to contract from the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees  (UNHCR)  a grant (the UNHCR Grant)
in an amount equivalent  to  ten  million dollars ($10,000,000) to
assist in financing part of  the  Project  on the terms and condi-
tions set forth in an agreement  (the UNHCR Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and UNHCR;
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
Page  2
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "Sudanese Pounds"  and  "LS"  mean  the  currency of the
Borrower;
     (c)  "Project  Area"  means  the  southern  part  of  Kassala
Province;
     (d)  "PMU" means the Project  Management  Unit referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
     (e)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted  by  the  Association  to the Borrower
pursuant to an  exchange  of  letters,  dated  July  15, 1988, and
August 30, 1988, between the Borrower and the Association;
     (f)  "MFC" means the Mechanized Farming Corporation;
     (g)  "RWC" means the Rural Water Corporation;
     (h)  "RBPC" means the Roads and Bridges Public Corporation;
     (i)  "ARC" means the Agricultural Research Corporation; and
     (j)  "COR" means the (Sudanese) Commissioner for Refugees.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to fifteen
million   six    hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 15,600,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in  dollars  a  special  account in a commercial
bank authorized by  the  Bank  of  Sudan  on  terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits  into, and payments out
of, the Special  Account  shall  be  made  in  accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
Page  3
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall be September 30, 1995,
or  such  later  date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal  amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a  rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue:
          (i)  from a  date  sixty  days  after  the  date of this
               Agreement  (the  accrual  date)  to  the respective
               dates on which  amounts  shall  be withdrawn by the
               Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled;
         (ii)  at the  rate  set  as  of  the  June 30 immediately
               preceding the accrual date  or  at such other rates
               as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
               to paragraph (a) above. The  rate set as of June 30
               in each year shall be  applied  as of the next pay-
               ment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
               this Agreement,  except  that  the  rate  set as of
               June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid:
          (i)  at such places as  the Association shall reasonably
               request;
         (ii)  without restrictions of any  kind imposed by, or in
               the territory of, the Borrower; and
        (iii)  in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
               purposes of Section 4.02  of the General Conditions
               or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
               may from time  to  time  be  designated or selected
               pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on  each  March 1 and September 1
commencing March  1,  1999,  and  ending  September  1, 2028. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
September 1, 2008, shall  be  one  percent  (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter  shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever:
          (i)  the Borrower's gross  national  product per capita,
               as  determined  by   the  Association,  shall  have
               exceeded $790  in  constant  1985-dollars  for five
               consecutive years; and
         (ii)  the Bank shall  consider  the Borrower creditworthy
Page  4
               for Bank lending,  the  Association may, subsequent
               to the review and approval thereof by the Executive
               Directors of the  Association  and after due consi-
               deration  by  them   of   the  development  of  the
               Borrower's economy, modify  the  terms of repayment
               of  installments  under   paragraph  (a)  above  by
               requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
               each  such  installment  not   yet  due  until  the
               principal amount  of  the  Credit  shall  have been
               repaid. If so requested  by the Borrower, the Asso-
               ciation may revise such modification to include, in
               lieu of some or all  of the increase in the amounts
               of such installments, the payment of interest at an
               annual rate  agreed  with  the  Association  on the
               principal amount of  the  Credit withdrawn and out-
               standing from time to  time,  provided that, in the
               judgment of  the  Association,  such revision shall
               not change  the  grant  element  obtained under the
               above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and  in conformity with appropriate agri-
cultural, engineering, administrative and financial practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. Without any limitation  upon any of its obliga-
tions under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later  than  March  31,  1989,  open  and thereafter
maintain an account in a  commercial  bank  in  the name of PMU on
terms and conditions satisfactory  to  the  Association to be used
exclusively for  the  purpose  of  meeting  expenditures under the
Project not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
     (b)  in addition to  an  initial  deposit of 600,000 Sudanese
Pounds at the time of  the  opening of said account, make deposits
into said account so as to  maintain  the account at a level of at
least 300,000 Sudanese Pounds.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
Page  5
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section  including those for the
               Special Account, the account referred to in Section
               3.03 of this  Agreement,  and the separate accounts
               to  be  established  by  the  various  implementing
               entities pursuant to the Implementation Program set
               forth in Schedule  4  to  this  Agreement, for each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that:
          (a)   subject to Paragraph (b) of this Section the right
                of the Borrower  to  withdraw  the proceeds of the
                UNHCR Grant shall  have  been suspended, cancelled
Page  6
                or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
                terms of the UNHCR Grant Agreement; and
          (b)   Paragraph (a) of this  Section  shall not apply if
                the Borrower  establishes  to  the satisfaction of
                the Association that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
                lation,  or  termination  is  not  caused  by  the
                failure of  the  Borrower  to  perform  any of its
                obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate
                funds  for  the  Project   are  available  to  the
                Borrower  from   other   sources   on   terms  and
                conditions consistent with  the obligations of the
                Borrower under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to  the  effectiveness  of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  all conditions  precedent  to  the  effectiveness of the
UNHCR  Grant  Agreement  have   been  fulfilled,  except  for  the
effectiveness of this Agreement; and
     (b)  the Borrower: (i)  has  appointed a financial controller
to  PMU  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of  Section  II of
Schedule 3 to  this  Agreement;  and  (ii)  has established on the
regional level posts for  six  senior  extension officers and four
senior  research  officers  in   a   manner  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister  of  Finance and Economic Planning
of the Borrower is  designated  as  representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
          P.O. Box 2092
          Khartoum
          The Republic of Sudan
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                EIMAR                           22324
                Khartoum
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
Page  7
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          THE REPUBLIC OF SUDAN
                          By /s/ Hassan Elamin Elbashir
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 3,810,000       60%
(2)  Machinery                   1,630,000       65% of foreign
     and equip-                                  expenditures and
     ment                                        52% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Vehicles                      790,000       65% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 52% of local
                                                 expenditures
(4)  Technical                   1,250,000       65%
     Assistance
(5)  Training                      620,000       65% of foreign
     and studies                                 expenditures and
                                                 52% of local
                                                 expenditures
(6)  Farm Inputs                   550,000       65%
(7)  Establishment               1,020,000       65%
     of plantations
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
Page  8
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(8)  Operating                   4,040,000       60% up to an
     expenses                                    aggregate
                                                 amount of
                                                 SDR 2,020,000,
                                                 45% up to an
                                                 aggregate
                                                 amount of
                                                 SDR 3,260,000
                                                 and thereafter
                                                 30%
(9)  Refunding of                  390,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(10) Unallocated                 1,500,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                  15,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "operating expenses"  means operation and main-
tenance  of  buildings,  vehicles  and  equipment,  allowances for
housing and travel, and expenditures for office operation.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives  of  the  Project  are  to:  (i) increase crop
production  on  a  sustainable  basis  in  Southern  Kassala;  and
(ii) improve environmental  management  and economic self-reliance
of small-holder farmers and refugees in this region.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time.
Part A:   Agricultural Research
     Establishment of a research  station  at El Gedaref, two sub-
stations at Sam Sam  and  El  Hawata  and  an experimental site at
Doka, through the  construction  of  housing and office buildings,
the acquisition of vehicles, and office and laboratory equipment.
Part B:   Agricultural Services
1.   Development of a comprehensive extension package and integra-
tion of  all  extension  services  under  the Provincial Extension
Service  through  the   construction   of  office  buildings,  the
acquisition of vehicles, equipment  and supplies, training and the
carrying out of studies.
2.   Strengthening of the  Provincial Plant Protection Directorate
Page  9
through  the  acquisition   of  pesticides,  transport  equipment,
radios, camping  equipment  and  sprayers,  the  rehabilitation of
storage facilities and training.
Part C:   Farm Inputs
1.   Improvement of seed production  through the rehabilitation of
equipment, upgrading  of  seed  cleaning,  grading,  packaging and
storage facilities and  the  acquisition  of  an  initial stock of
improved seeds and seed dressing.
2.   Increased production of horticultural seedlings through:
     (a)  the construction of  office  and housing facilities, the
acquisition of equipment,  tools  and  means  of transport for the
establishment of a horticultural nursery near El Hawata; and
     (b)  the construction of a  bundwall  to prevent flooding and
the acquisition of equipment for the rehabilitation of the nursery
at Showak.
Part D:   Environmental Management
     (a)  Strengthening the Provincial Forestry Administration;
     (b)  carrying out of reforestation programs;
     (c)  establishment of a seed bank;
     (d)  initiation of forestry research; and
     (e)  development of a regional land use plan;
through the  construction  of  office  buildings  and housing, the
acquisition  of  transport  and  laboratory  equipment,  training,
technical assistance, and consultants' services.
Part E:   Water Supply
     Improvement  of  rural  water  supply  in  the  Project Area,
including:
     (a)  carrying  out  of  an  assessment  of  water  demand and
supply, including ground water in the Project Area;
     (b)  strengthening the  Rural  Water Corporations's planning,
financial  management,  full   cost   recovery,   and  repair  and
maintenance capability;
     (c)  preparation and implementation  of  a rehabilitation and
construction program of wateryards, hafirs, and shallow wells;
     (d)  initiation of coordinated  community and NGO involvement
in rural water supply; and
     (e)  introduction,  on  a  pilot  basis,  of  wind  and solar
powered wateryard equipment;
through training, technical  assistance, consultants' services and
acquisition of equipment, vehicles and spare parts.
Part F:   Road Network
     Rehabilitation, upgrading and maintenance  of the feeder road
network and  strengthening  the  engineering  departments of three
District  Councils   in   the   Project   Area  through  training,
consultants' services, and acquisition  of vehicles, equipment and
tools.
Part G:   Project Administration
     Strengthening  of  Project  implementation  agencies  through
Page  10
training, technical assistance and consultants' services.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in Sudan may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Items or groups of items  estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or more per  contract,  up  to  an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $400,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded through limited  international  bidding  procedures on the
basis of evaluation and comparison of  bids invited from a list of
at least three qualified  suppliers  eligible under the Guidelines
and in accordance with the procedures  set forth in Sections I and
II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56
thereof).
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract,  up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed  the  equivalent  of  $300,000,  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.   Civil works may be  procured  under  contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to  cost  the  equivalent  of  $200,000  or  more,  and  for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent  of  $100,000 or more, the proce-
dures set forth in paragraphs 2 and  4 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account,  such  procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed  copies  of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association  pursuant  to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the  Association  prior to the making of the
first payment  out  of  the  Special  Account  in  respect of such
contract.
Page  11
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3 shall  be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01  (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of fifteen  percent  (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ experts and consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and  conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to  the  Association.  Such  experts  and consultants
shall be selected  in  accordance  with  principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association  on  the  basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of  Consultants  by  World  Bank  Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing  Agency"  published  by the Bank in August
1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.   The Borrower shall  discharge  its responsibility for overall
Project coordination through PMU.
     (a)  PMU is  headed  by  a  Director  reporting  to the First
Under-Secretary  of  the  Ministry   of  Agriculture  and  Natural
Resources will consist of  an Agricultural Section, an Engineering
Section, an Ecology Section, a Finance Section and a Personnel and
Administration Section and shall  be  based  at  El Gedaref in the
Project Area.
     (b)  In  discharging   its   responsibility,   PMU  shall  in
particular  monitor,  evaluate  and  provide  feedback  on Project
implementation   progress,   provide   supervision,   support  and
assistance to the  various  corporations  and agencies involved in
carrying out the  Project,  particularly  in financial management,
cost  recovery  and  procurement,  control  and  account  for  the
disbursement of Project-related  funds,  oversee  the training and
technical assistance aspects of  the  Project, manage the carrying
out of the studies  under  the  Project, and coordinate with other
entities responsible for the  implementation  of other projects in
the Project Area.
2.   In order to carry out  these functions, PMU shall be assisted
by:
     (a)  an Advisory Committee  headed  by  the  PMU Director and
including  representatives   of   the   regional   and  provincial
government, the District Councils  in  the Project Area, the South
Kassala Farmers'  Unions,  the  MFC,  the  RWC,  COR  and UNHCR in
Showak;  its  main  function   shall   be  to  coordinate  Project
activities with other on-going  development efforts in the Project
Area; and
Page  12
     (b)  a Steering Committee headed by the First Under-Secretary
of MOANR and including representatives  of the Ministry of Finance
and Economic Planning, the  National  Water Corporation, RBPC, ARC
and the PMU Director; its functions shall be to ensure consistency
between  the  Project  activities  and  the  national  development
objectives and to generate support for the Project.
Annual Work Programs
3.   For each year of Project  implementation, PMU shall prepare a
consolidated annual  work  program  containing  information on the
following aspects:
     (a)  an  evaluation  of   the   previous  year's  performance
relative to the objectives set for that year;
     (b)  detailed objectives and targets for the following year;
     (c)  a  description  of   the   activities  to  achieve  such
objectives, their expected output and relevant time frame;
     (d)  significant constraints and risks;
     (e)  detailed investment and operating budgets;
     (f)  staffing and training plans; and
     (g)  a financing and procurement plan.
4.   PMU shall submit  this  consolidated  annual work program for
each fiscal year not later  than  January  31  of each year to the
Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture  and  Natural Resources for its
approval and consideration in  the  preparation  of the budget for
the following year.  At  the  same  time,  the annual work program
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and comments.
5.   In order to enable PMU  to prepare said annual work programs,
each entity involved in  carrying  out  Parts of the Project shall
prepare and submit  to  PMU  not  later  than  December 31 of each
year an annual  work  program  covering  the  items referred to in
paragraph 3 above as they  apply  to the respective entity and the
Part of the Project for which such entity is responsible.
Part A of the Project
6.   Part A of the Project shall  be  carried out by ARC, which by
March 31, 1989,  shall  obtain  all  documents  required to ensure
that sites  for:  (a)  sub-station  buildings  in  El Gedaref; and
(b) research farms near  El  Gedaref,  Wad  El Huri, El Hawata and
Doka, have been allotted for the Project.
7.   In order to carry  out  urgent  research needs in the Project
Area, ARC  shall,  not  later  than  April  30,  1989,  assign and
transfer  to  the  Project  Area  an  agronomist,  an agricultural
engineer and a soil scientist,  and  in the second year of Project
implementation,  a  research  forester   to  conduct  research  on
agroforestry. The research team,  to  be backed by scientists from
ARC headquarters, shall be headed by  a director to be based in El
Gedaref.
Part B of the Project
8.   The Regional Ministry of Agriculture shall be responsible for
carrying out Part B.1 of the Project.
9.   The National Extension Administration will make available the
senior extension staff for the Project. A deputy regional director
to be based in El Gedaref,  and reporting to the Regional Director
in Kassala shall  be  appointed  to  head the provincial extension
service, which will be  organized  into three main extension units
Page  13
in El Gedaref, El  Hawata  and  Doka,  and twelve sub-units. While
each main unit will be staffed  by two senior extensionists and by
administrative support staff  including  an  accountant, each sub-
unit  will  be  staffed   by   one  extensionist  and  four  local
extensionists.
10.  The provincial extension  service  shall  charge farmers full
costs for inputs to be  sold  to  farmers as part of the extension
service. The proceeds of these sales  shall be: (a) deposited in a
separate account to  be  maintained  in  a  commercial  bank in El
Gedaref; and  (b)  used  to  finance  extension  activities in the
Project Area in accordance with the annual work program.
11.  The Borrower's Ministry of  Agriculture and Natural Resources
shall be responsible for carrying out Part B.2 of the Project. The
Provincial Plant Protection Department shall: (a) assist to reduce
crop losses, particularly  of  small farmers and horticulturalists
due to pests  and  diseases  by  providing pesticides, approved by
the  Association,  knapsack,   sprayers  and  storage  facilities;
(b) gradually raise its  charges  for services rendered to farmers
under Part B.2 of the Project so that in the third year of Project
implementation it achieves full cost recovery; and (c) deposit the
proceeds in  a  separate  account  which  it  shall  maintain in a
commercial bank in El Gedaref, and use such funds to finance plant
protection activities in the  Project  Area in accordance with the
annual work  program  to  be  prepared  and  submitted pursuant to
paragraph 5 above.
Part C of the Project
12.  The Borrower's Ministry of  Agriculture and Natural Resources
shall be responsible for carrying out  Part C.1 of the Project and
the Regional  Ministry  of  Agriculture  shall  be responsible for
carrying out Part C.2 of the Project.
13.  The  National   Seed   Administration   and   the  Provincial
Department of Horticulture shall prepare  and submit to PMU annual
work programs pursuant to paragraph 5 above.
14.  The  National   Seed   Administration   and   the  Provincial
Department of  Horticulture  shall  sell  improved  seeds and tree
seedlings, respectively, in  the  Project  Area  at full cost. The
proceeds of these sales shall be deposited in separate accounts to
be maintained by  the  two  agencies  at  commercial  banks in the
Project Area,  and  shall  be  used  to  finance  relevant Project
activities in accordance with the appropriate annual work program.
Part D of the Project
15.  The Borrower's Ministry of  Agriculture and Natural Resources
shall be responsible for carrying out Part D of the Project.
16.  The Forestry Administration shall  prepare  and submit to PMU
annual work programs pursuant to paragraph 5 above.
17.  Reforestation, entailing  planting  and  seeding  of trees at
sites near the refugee  settlements  of  El Gedaref, Um Brush, Sam
Sam and Saraf Saeed, and to  be implemented mainly through the use
of refugee labor, shall  be  carried  out under the supervision of
the Forestry Administration. The Forestry Administration will also
establish a seed bank,  to  be  located near the Regional Forestry
Department in Kassala.
18.  The PMU shall be responsible  for the preparation of the land
use survey and land use plan with the assistance of consultants in
cooperation with  the  Forestry  Administration,  the Soil Conser-
vation and Land Use  Planning  Administration,  and in close coor-
dination with the  water  resources  survey  to  be prepared under
Part E of the Project.
Part E of the Project
Page  14
19.  The Rural Water Corporation  at  El  Gedaref shall be respon-
sible for carrying out of Part  E of the Project and shall prepare
and submit to PMU  annual  work  programs  pursuant to paragraph 5
above.
Part F of the Project
20.  The  District  Councils  of  Southern,  Western  and Northern
Gedaref, through their  respective  engineering departments, shall
be responsible for carrying out Part  F of the Project. They shall
also prepare and submit  to  PMU  annual work programs pursuant to
paragraph 5 above.
Part G of the Project
21.  In addition to the Project coordination functions referred to
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule,  PMU shall be responsible for the
preparation by December 31, 1992,  of a mid-term review evaluating
progress in Project  implementation, including recommendations for
modifications in  Project  design.  The  mid-term  review shall be
submitted to the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Agriculture and Natural
Resources and the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "Eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (8) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "Eligible  Expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  Eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $1,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on  behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account  and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall furnish  to the Association requests
               for  deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
               intervals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the docu-
               ments and other evidence required pursuant to para-
               graph 4 of this  Schedule  for  the payment or pay-
Page  15
               ments  in   respect   of   which  replenishment  is
               requested. On the basis  of  each such request, the
               Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the  Borrower,
               withdraw from the  Credit  Account and deposit into
               the Special  Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
               shall have requested and  as  shall have been shown
               by said documents and  other  evidence to have been
               made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for  Eligible
               Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be  withdrawn  by the Association from the
Credit Account under  the  respective  Eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once  the  total   unwithdrawn   amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to  the  Eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any
outstanding special  commitment  entered  into  by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to  the  Eligible
Categories shall follow such  procedures  as the Association shall
specify by notice to the  Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and  to  the  extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all  such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Asso-
ciation may request; or (B)  deposit into the Special Account (or,
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall other-
wise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account  shall  be  made  until  the  Borrower  has  provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Page  16
Account for subsequent  withdrawal  or  for cancellation in accor-
dance with the  relevant  provisions  of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.
