Report No. 431a-IN                                                             FILE  COPY
Appraisal of Karnataka
Dairy Development Project
India
May 21, 1974
Regional Projects Department
Asia Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared tor official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published.
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorzation. The Bank Group does not ac(ept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1           -  Rs 8.00
Rs 1           =  US$0.125
Rs 1,000,000   -  US$125,000
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
AI        -  Artificial Insemination
AMUL      -  Anand Milk Union Ltd. (Kaira)
ARC       -  Agricultural Refinance Corporation
DCS       -  Dairy Cooperative Society
0OI       -  Government of India
GOK       -  Government of Karnataka
IDC       -  Indian Dairy Corporation
ICDDC     -  Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation
NDDB      -  National Dairy Development Board
NDRI      -  National Dairy Research Institute
PLDBs     -  Primary Land Development Banks
RBI       -  Reserve Bank of India
BVWI      -  Bangalore Veterinary Vaccine Institute
FVS       -  Faculty of Veterinary Science
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSICNS .......................i..       -v
I.  INTRODUCTION ........   .............................     1
II.  BACKGROUND   ....................  ...... ,  ,... , .........  1
A.   General  ...................................     1
B.   The Dairy Sub-Sector ., .....    ......    2
C.   Agricultural Credit . .............. ......... .    4
D.   Government Policies ........ . . . . . . ..... ..0. ..   5
III.  THE PROJECT AREAS ................. .... ..............   6
IV.  THE PROJECT .............. .. ...                         8
A.   General Description........                     8
B.   Detailed Features....                           9
C.   Cost Estimates ......    ........................  13
D.   Proposed Financing ...... ....................  14
E.   Procurement .... ..............         .  15
F.   Disbursenents .. ................ . ...........  16
G.   Accounts and Audit .. ...........  ....   16
V.  ORGANIZATICN AND MANAGEMT.ENT.               .    .      17
A.   Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC)  17
B.   Unions and Cooperatives   .....................  18
C.   Supporting Activities      . ......................  19
D.   Lending Operations ..........................  20
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, SUBSIDIES
AND FINANCIAL RESULTS .......    ........................  20
VII.   ECONOMIC COSTS, BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS .... .......  23
VIII.   RECOMMENDATIONS ................. ............... ..... .  24
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
India from September 29, 1973 through November 3, 1973. The mission was
composed of Messrs. R. Milford, P. Dax, C.W. Wolffelt (IDA), F.H. Knobel
and W.A. Hardison (Consultants). Mr. A. Seth and Mr. Krafft (IDA) also
contributed to the report.



-2-
ANNEXES
1.   The Dairy Subsector
2.   Cooperative Societies and the AMUL Model
3.   Agricultural Credit
4.   A.  Marketing and Procurement
B.  Terms of Reference for Marketing Study
5.   The Village Dairy Cooperative Society and DCS Models
Table la, lb, lc
Id,            - Village Herd Projections
Table 2           - Economic Costs & Value Added per Liter of Milk
Table 3           - Operating Costs and Cash Flow
Table 4           - Village Statistics
Table 5           - Distribution of Land
6.   Milk Producers' Unions
Tables 1-3   - Milk Processing Facilities: Investments
Table 4           - Feedmills: Investments
Table 5           - Administration and Services: Investments
Tables 6-9   - Consolidated Investment Projections
Table 10          - Services: Operating Costs
Table 11          - Staffing
Tables 12-14      - Income & Operating Costs: Plants
Tables 15-16      - Income & Operating Costs: Feedmills
Table 17.         - Volume & Capacity Projections
Tables 18-20      - Sources & Uses of Funds: Unions
Chart I           - Organization Chart of a Union
7.   Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC)
Appendix II       - Qualifications and Terms of Reference for Consultants
Table 1           - KDDC:  Investments
Table 2           - KDDC:  Projected Income Statement
Table 3           - KDDC: Projected Cash Flow
Table 4           - KDDC: Projected Balance Sheet
Tables 5-19       - KDDC: Production Farms:  On-Farm Investments,
Sales and Operating Expenses, Herd Projections
Chart I           - Project Organization Chart
8.   Supporting Activities
Tables 1-2   - Veterinary Biological Production Institute:
Investments, Production, Sales and
Operating Expenses
Table 3           - Animal Health Program:  Faculty of Veterinary
Science Investments



- 3-
9.  Project Cost and Flow of Funds
Table 1         -    Project Costs by Major Investments
Table 2         -    Project Costs by Disbursement Categoriles
Table 3         -    Project Financing
Table 4         -    Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Table 5         -    Consolidated Government Cash Flow
Chart I         -    Flow of Project Funds
10. Rate of Return
Table 1         -    Economic Rate of Return
Table 2         -    Sensitivity Analysis
MAP






INDIA
KARNATAKA- DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Dairying in India
i.        India's agricultural sector accounts for about 40% of Indian
GNP and employs 70% of the total work force. Although past agricultural
sector emphasis has been on increasing foodgrains output, the Government is
making fresh efforts to diversify agricultural investment, to exploit
regional development potentials And increase rural employment, with special
attention being paid to the dairy sub-sector. Over the past two decades
there has been a marked decline in the per capita consumption of milk, a
primary source of animal protein for the bulk of the population. Under
the Fifth Five-Year Plan an effort will be made to improve the situation
by allocating Rs 7 billion to increase milk production from a level of
21 million tons in 1972 to 30 million tons by 1979. This project is the
first of a series of proposed projects designed to contribute towards
achieving this output target. It is also the first Bank Group project
supporting the dairy/livestock sec-.or in India.
ii.       Some 50% of the world's buffaloes and 17% of its cattle exist
in India. However, the indigenous varieties of cattle (which make up the
bulk of cattle) and buffaloes produce very low milk yields. Their main
contribution has been to provide draft power. The direct contribution of
the livestock sector accounts for only 14% of the total agricultural sector's
share of GNP and about 5% of total exports. India remains dependent on
imports of dairy products. To significantly increase dairy production, a
large scale effort to develop higher yielding animals, together with expansion
of facilities for collection, processing and marketing of milk, and better
programs of animal health care and breeding are required.
iii.      Dairying in India is a subsidiary farm activity for which women
have the primary responsibility. Few farmers use their land principally
for dairy production. Most of the milk marketed is produced by: (i) the
landless (rural and urban) who maintain from one to several cows per household
and who purchase all feeds; (ii) small farmers who grow a portion of the feed
(mainly straw) for a herd which ranges from one to five cows; and (iii) milk
colonies and cattle settlements where large groups of animals are kept.
India has an acute shortage of animal feed, most of which is low quality. If
milk production is to be significantly increased, more of the available feed
supply must be channelled to high producing animals. The demand for cereal
grains as human food and the favorable export position of oilseeds and
oilcake preclude any large increase in the future supply of concentrate feeds
for livestock. It is, therefore, important to develop animal production
systems which will result in more efficient uue of available supplies and to
encourage development of more high quality forages, particularly by integrating
these crops into existing farming systems.
1/   Formerly known as Mysore.



- ii -
iv.       A notable bright spot in the Indian clairy picture is the success-
ful experience of the Kaira District Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd.
(AMUL) in Gujarat. AMUL is centered on the formation and operation of
hundreds of village milk producers cooperatives (a typical member owns two
buffaloes and tills less than 1 ha). These village level cooperatives are
welde.i together into a cooperative Union (AMUL) which owns and operates its
own facilities for milk and feed processing, collection and distribution
and provides its members a full range of technical services. The Union is
responsible for setting milk prices and never refuses to buy milk in any
quantity from members. Thus, the farmer is assured of a year-round outlet
for his milk at fair prices. New members are provided with a package of
services which includes routine veterinary health coverage, concentrate
feed, fodder seed, and training. The outstanding success of the AMUL
experience has encouraged GOI and a number of other States to foster the
establishment of similar programs elsewhere in the country. In fact, most
of the Fifth Plan dairy programs are based on the AMUL model.
Status of Dairy Development in Mysore
v.        Although its environment and experience differ considerably from
Gujarat, Karnataka is a progressive dairy State. Foremost in crossbreeding,
with a total of about 100,000 crossbred cattle, it has some of the best
extension and animal health services in the country. It has eight milk
processing plants and about 45 chilling centers, of which two plants and
10 chilling centers are in the Project area. The present Project is designed
to build on the foundations already laid, and to further develop the state
dairy industry to serve small scale producers using AMUL as a model.
The Project Description
vi.       The proposed IDA credit of US$30.0 million is to develop an
integrated program for increasing milk production in rural areas (about
450,000 farmers, most of whom farm less than 2 ha or are landless, would
be involved) through a five-year program focusing on quality crossbreeding,
animal health and the development of facilities for milk collection,
processing and marketing. Under the Project, village cattle owners would
form Dairy Cooperative Societies (DCS) which would in turn be grouped into
four Unions. The Unions would manage milk collection, processing and
marketing, and would be controlled by the farmers. Each Union would own
and operate dairy and feed plants and would be capable of providing
technical, extension, milk collection and marketing services to (he DCS
members. In addition to the establishment of about 1,800 DCSs and the
four cooperative milk producers Unions, a Karnataka Dairy Development
Corporation (KDDC) would also be formed to coordinate project implementation
and to operate farms for dairy research and the production of purebred exotic
breeding stock. The health program, needed to protect the investments in
crossbred cattle, would involve strengthening the capabilities of the
Bangalore Veterinary Vaccine Institute which produces biologicals and
vaccines, and of the Bangalore University of Agricultural Science (Veterinary
Faculty) which carries out animal health research and veterinary activities.



- iii -
vii.      DCS membership would be composed of cattle owners, 10% of which
are expected to be landless and another 50% marginal or small farmers with
holdings of less than 2 ha. Milk production would be increased by focusing
inputs at the DCS and farmer level. Farmers would receive credit for
purchase of locally crossbred heifers. The DCS would be the village level
center for milk collection, daily payment to producers, and for supplying
concentrate feed, seeds and AI services. The DCS would also administer
government calf-rearing grants to individual members. By year five it is
expected that, in a typical DCS, one-third of the native cows will have been
replaced by crossbreds, increasing annual milk production from a pre-project
level of 60,000 1 to about 290,000 1.
viii.     Under the Project each Union would be provided with staff and
facilities required to carry out its principal functions of: (i) assisting
the village societies with organization and management; (ii) establishing
and supervising milk transportation; (iii) processing and marketing the
members' milk; (iv) operating feed milling facilities and organizing
transportation of feed to DCSs; (V') providing animal health and breeding
services; (vi) channeling calf-rearing grants to the DCSs; (vii) paying
for milk received from DCSs; and (viii) inspecting and auditing the
accounts of the DCSs.
Project Implementation
ix.       The KDDC would be the main body for implementation and coordination
of project activities and would play an essential role in the initial
establishment of village cooperative societies and milk producers' unions.
It would be responsible for recruiting four spearhead teams, one for each
union, which would become the nucleus staff of each union as it is formed.
These spearhead teams would concentrate on promotion, organization and
operation of the DCS's. KDDC would own and operate dairy plants and other
facilities, either transferred from GOK (such as the Bangalore and Mysore
Dairies) or built under the project, until the unions had been adequately
capitalized and staffed, minimum facilities had been constructed, and a
sufficient number of DCS's had been organized.
x.        To ensure formation of DCS's and unions along AMUL lines, KDDC
would engage the services of staff of the National Dairy Development Board
(NDDB) to help in recruitment, training and field supervision of each
spearhead team. The construction of milk and feed plants would be carried
out by KDDC with assistance from NDDB. NDDB would perform feasibility
studies on plant location, design and capacities, prepare specifications
for requesting construction bids, and supervise the construction of new
facilities. Additionally, consultants in tropical pasture agronomy and
pasture management would be hired to assist the KDDC in the development
of pasture programs and in the testing of small-farm management systems.
xi.       The total project cost is about US$64 million equivalent including
duties and taxes of which the foreign exchange component is about 21% or
US$13.6 million.



- iv -
xii.      The proposed IDA credit of US$30 million would cover 47% of total
project costs. The remaining 53% would be financed by GOI (13%), GOK (19%),
ARC and participating banks (13%), and farmers (8%).
xiii.     IDA funds would be channelled in two ways.  Credit funds for cross-
bred cattle purchases, and for union, DCS and KDDC investments in facilities,
totalling US$26.2 million would be nade available to the Agricultural
Refinance Corporation (ARC) repayable over 9 and 15 years atWZ1I/4% and 6-3/4%
aunual interest respectively. GOI would bear the exchange risk., ARC
would in turn on-lend the funds to participating banks (two or three
commercial banks and the land development bank) at an annual interest rate
of 7%. The banks would lend to farmers, KDDC, and the unions at 9.5% per
annum. The grace and repayment periods would vary. Loans to farmers would
have up to one year grace and repayment over 3 to 6 years; the unions 5
years grace and repayment over 10 years; and the KDDC up to 6 years grace
on capital, 3 years grace on interest and repayment over 9 years. Repayments
to ARC would be scheduled to coincide with those to the banks. The 9.5%
interest rate is in line with prevailing interest rates, and reasonable
in relation to the risk element involved, and the need for appraisal and
supervision of individual loans. Funds of US$3.8 million for consultants,
importation of exotic cattle, the Bangalore Veterinary Vaccine Institute,
and the Bangalore University of Agricultural Science (Veterinary), would be
channelled throulgh GOI to GOK on established GOI terms prevailing at the
time. (At the present time, these are 4.75% interest per year over 15 years.)
xiv.      Materials and equipment valued at US$13.1 million or 21% of total
project costs, would be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Association's Guidelines. Domestic suppliers
would be accorded the usual preference of 15% or the rate of customs duty,
whichever is lower. Importation of exotic dairy heifers, bulls, and frozen
semen (US$1.0 million) would be procured on the basis of price quotations
from at least 3 countries free from foot and mouth disease where suitable
animals are available.
xv.       Other equipment items valued at US$6.2 million would be procured
following local bidding due to the small sizes of individual items and
the need for piecemeal procurement over time.
xvi.      The equipment, chemicals and glassware for the crossbred health
program in the Faculty of Veterinary Science and for the Bangalore Veterinary
Vaccine Institute (US$2.9 million) would be purchased locally because;
bulking of orders would be impractical due to small and spaced orders; most
of the world's leading manufacturer's of scientific equipment are represented
in India and are competitive; and local maintenance service offered by these
established retailers would be needed to maintain much of the equipment to
be purchased under the project.
xvii.     Buildings and civil works (valued at about US$8.2 million) for
the KDDC farms, union dairies and health support program would be dispersed
in time and place, and would be unsuitable for international bidding. These
facilities would be constructed by local contractors.



- v -
xviii.    The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against the full
c.i.f. costs of imported equipment and materials and the ex-factory cost
of local equipment bid internationally; against the full c.i.f. costs of
imported cattle and semen; against She full net-of-tax expenditures by KDDC
for technical and management services; against 90% of ARC refinance for DCS
members crossbred cattle purchases; and against 60% of locally procured
expenditures on equipment and civil works.
Economic Benefits
xix.      The project would provide a number of important economic and
social benefits. The direct economic benefit of the project will be the
increased production of milk and heifers. The incremental milk production
is estimated at one million tons/yealr by year ten and the project is
expected to produce over 100,000 surplus heifers by year seven. Some 450,000
farming households, or approximately 2.5 million people, would benefit
by raising their standards of living and providing increased cash family
income. Besides contributing to fuller employment in rural areas, the
project's establishment of four unions would provide employment for a staff
of about 1,000 as well as support a milk transport service, consisting
largely of owner operators. Consumers would also benefit significantly
from the project. The availability of pasteurised milk would increase, so
that milk borne diseases such as TB would decrease significantly. Based on
the quantified incremental costs and benefits, the economic rate of return
to the project is about 33%.






INDIA
KARNATAKA"1 DAIR' DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested IDA assistance in
financing a dairy development project in the State of Karnataka. 1/ The
Project was prepared by the staff ,f the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Services Department in Karnataka aLong guidelines from the GOI Animal
Husbandry Division of the Ministry of Agriculture. Two Bank Group pre-
appraisal/preparation missions in February/March and April/May 1973, helped
prepare the project.
1.02      Bank Group finance for agricultural projects in India totals about
US$520 million up to November 30, 1973. This would be the first IDA-
financed livestock project. In supporting dairy development the Bank Group
would help GOI implement its plans to diversify agriculture and focus
attention on an important rural development program, which has so far been
neglected. This report is based on the findings of the IDA appraisal mission
that visited India in October/November 1973. The mission was composed of
Messrs. R. Milford, P. Dax and C. Wolfelt (IDA) and W. Hardison and F. Knobel
(Consultants). Messrs. A. Seth and N. Krafft (IDA) also contributed to the
report.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Until recently livestock development has received relatively little
support. During 1951-69, the livestock subsector received only 8% out of the
total of Rs 22,100 million allocated to the agricultural sector. Within
the subsector dairy development has the highest priority, given t4e import-
ance of milk and milk products as a major source of animal protein for the
bulk of the population, particularly the large vegetarian segment. During
1951-69, milk production increases of only 1.2% yearly did not even meet
population growth of 2.3%. The quantity of milk available daily consequently
decreased from about 130 grams to about 115 grams per capita, 15% of U.S.
levels.
1/ Karnataka was formerly known as Mysore.



B.  The Dairy Subsector -
2.02      About 17% of the world's cattle and 50% of its buffaloes are
located in India. Their main contribution to the country's economy has
been draft power. Livestock produc ts account for only 14% of the agricultural
sector's output and about 5% of total exports. About 90% of total milk is
produced on holdings of less than 10 ha. Substantial increases in product-
ivity can be achieved through widespread adoption of better feeding and
management practices and through use of animals with a high milk production
potential.
Livestock Breeds and Production
2.03      India's present bovine population is about 177 million cattle and
56 million buffaloes. The bulk are indigenous zebu types (some 26 different
breeds) with a few exotic dairy animals and an undetermined number of
crossbreds. Six buffalo breeds are common throughout the country. Although
cattle outnumber buffaloes 3:1, the latter, because of their higher milk
production per animal (200 kg vs 500 kg/lactation), produce 50% of the total
milk. Exotic dairy bulls and/or semen have been imported and used for
crossbreeding for the past 70 years. While all the exotic dairy breeds
perform well in the local environment (given good feeding and management),
the Friesian and Jersey are most widely used, primarily because of ready
availability. The Friesian's high milk yield and the Jersey's high fat
milk also favor their use. Under experimental conditions first lactation
yields of Fl (first generation) crossbreds average about 2,500 kg compared
with 600 kg for their indigenous dams under normal conditions. Milk pro-
duction of crossbred cows in village herds ranges from about 1,000 to 4,000
kg per lactation. Not only are the crosabreds superior to native cattle
in milk production, they also mature faster, produce their first calf at an
earlier age, utilize feed mor^t efficiently and the bulls frequently make
better draft animals.
2.04      Dairying is essentially a subsidiary farm activity for which women
are primarily responsible. Few farmers use their land principally for dairy
production. Most of the milk marketed is produced by: (i) the landless
(rural and urban) who maintain from one to several cows per household and
purchase all feeds; (ii) the small farmer who grows a portion of the feed
(mainly straw) for his herd of, generally, one to five cows; and (iii) milk
colonies and cattle settlements where large groups of animals are kept.
Feeds and Feeding
2.05      Not only has India an acute shortage of animal feed, but most of
it is of low quality. In fact, many animals subsist largely on cereal
straw. To feed all the cattle and buffaloes adequately would require an
estimated 200 million tons of TDN (total digestible nutrients) annually but
1/    For further details see Annex 1.



the feed available (estimated at 170 million tons of green fodder, 245
million tons of dry fodder, and 10 million tons of cereal grains, oilseed
cake and milling by-products) represents only about 115 million tons of TDN.
The annual shortfall is thus about 85 million tons. For a significant milk
production increase to be achieved, either more animal feed must be made
available or more of the available feed supply must be reserved for high
producing animals. For the near term, the demand for cereal grains as human
food and the favorable export position of oilseeds and oilcake preclude any
significant increase in the supply of concentrate feeds for livestock.
However, there is considerable scope for raising the milk output by growing
more high quality forages, particularly by integrating these crops into
existing farming systems. There is also considerable scope for more efficient
use of available feed and for significant improvements in dairy marketing and
processing.
The AMUL Model
2.06      The Kaira District Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd, (AMUL),
headquartered at Anand in Gujarat State (Annex 2) provides a development
model for dairy activities well adapted to India's circumstances. Briefly,
AMUL is centered on the formation and operation of hundreds of village milk
producers' cooperatives (a typical member owns two buffaloes and tills less
than 1 ha, and over 11% of members are landless). These are welded together
into- a cooperative Union which owns and operates its own milk and feed
processing, collection and distribution facilities and provides its members
a full range of technical services. The Union now numbers about 225,000
families in 785 village cooperatives and processes about 150 million 1. annually
Of these farm families, 80% are small landowners or landless and fall into
the lowest 40% income group. The Union is governed by a farmer-elected
Board and operated by a market-oriented management of hired professionals.
Responsible for setting milk prices, it never refuses to buy milk in any
quantity from members thus assuring the farmer of a year-round outlet for
his milk at fair prices. AMUL has constantly upgraded its services and
new members are provided with a package of services, including routine
veterinary health coverage and training facilities, which is financed by
the Union from milk levies, and concentrate feed and fodder seed which is
paid for by producers from deductions of their milk sales. Following the
success of the Kaira Union, five other Unions have been formed in Gujarat
and were recently amalgamated into a Federation of Unions. The success of
the Gujarat experience has encouraged GOI and several other States to
foster the establishment of similar programs in other parts of the country.
Technical Services. Research and Education
2.07      The GOI Livestock Health Section in the Animal Husbandry Division
of the Department of Agriculture is responsible for all policies relating
to animal health at the national level. At the field level, the State's
Veterinarians, Veterinary Assistants and Veterinary Extension Officers are
responsible for executing State and Central programs. In most States
veterinary aid is available through a network of veterinary hospitals,
dispensaries and mobile veterinary units. The States provide Artificial



- 4 -
Insemination (AI) services, generally executed by the same veterinary field
staff, and are also responsible for general extension at the village level
with GOI providing technical guidance and financial assistance through
the Community Development Programs. Horever, these programs have been far
too small in relation to the country's need for increasing milk production
and have been hampered by a lack of trained staff. A notable exception
has been in Gujarat State, the home of AMUL.
2.08      The National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), with principal
responsibility for national dairy research, is supported financially by GOI.
Some good work has been done on crossbreeding and considerable experience
obtained at both Central and State levels. However there is a need to
increase production oriented research programs aimed at the small villager
where particular emphasis on integrating permanent pasture and fodder
production into the traditional dry farming systems is needed.
2.09      Most secondary and tertiary education and training in livestock
has been directed to veterinary medicine and animal health and there is a
need, which GOI is increasingly aware of, for much more specialized training
in animal husbandry and dairy technology to meet the requirements for the
proposed expansion in dairy production. About 95 agricultural and veterinary
colleges in India offer degrees but a shortage of funds and facilities
restricts many of them. Employment in the dairy industry is presently
limited and most graduates are employed by Government. Opportunities are
likely to expand with the increased emphasis on dairy development under
the Fifth Five-Year Plan. Most State Governments also recognize the need of
farmer training and Government livestock farms are increasingly being used
for this purpose. NDRI facilities throughout the country are also being
used for farmer training and post graduate research; NDRI in Bangalore is
giving diploma training in dairy production.
C. Agricultural Credit
2.10      Institutional agricultural credit is provided by cooperative
banks, commercial banks and GOI through the Reserve Bank of India (RBI)
and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) (Annex 3).
Cooperative Banks
2.11      The cooperative banking system is the villager's most important
institutional credit source, with the Cooperative Banks supplying short and
medium-term requirements, and the Cooperative Land Development Banks
supplying long-term investment credit. The former has a three-tier structure:
State Apex Cooperative Bank, District Cooperative Banks and primary agri-
cultural credit societies at village levels. The Land Development Bank
system usually has two tiers -- State Cooperative Land Development Banks
and Primary Land Development Banks (PLDBa) with jurisdiction over a district
or a smaller area according to needs. Interest rates to the ultimate
borrower range from 9.52 to 10X per annum. The on-lending institutions
generally receive a spread of 1.5 - 2.5%.



-5-
Commercial Banks
2.12      Since 1969 the commercial banks have significantly increased their
role in institutional rural credit. Under the Lead Bank Scheme certain banks
are designated as Lead Banks and charged by RBI with assessing local resources
and credit needs, mobilizing capital, and improving rural credit supply in
specific districts. Prevailing interest rates for agricultural advances to
small farmers holding up to 2 ha are 8-1/2% - 9-1/2% per annum which are in
line with IDA-financed Agricultural Credit Projects for which funds are now
received from the Agricultural Refinance Corporation at 7% and on-lent at
9.5%.
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
2.13      ARC is an intermediary channel for 13 current IBRD/IDA credit
projects. 1/ It was established in 1963 as an RBI subsidiary to provide the
on-lending agricultural credit institutions with supplemental medium- and
long-term finance and guide them towards a development-oriented approach in
their operations. It sponsors orientation and training programs for
management and technical staff of financial institutions, helps strengthen
the management and financial operations of banks and, with the expansion of
its own technical staff, increasingly assists financial institutions in
appraising the economic and technical feasibility of development schemes as
well as in their supervision.
D. Government Policies
2.14      Within the livestock sector, dairy development has been stressed
in GOI's Fifth Plan, since milk and milk products provide the primary
source of animal protein for the large vegetarian segment of the population
and the daily per capita availability has fallen (para 2.01). In the Fifth
Five-Year Plan GOI is encouraging the establishment of milk producer
cooperatives modeled on the AMUL approach. Animal production, health and AI
facilities are to be improved at State and Central levels and more emphasis
is to be placed on increasing crossbred cattle. In this context, GOI provides
a crossbred calf subsidy of Rs 600 per head, in the form of low priced cattle
feed, to encourage villagers to adopt better feeding practices to eliminate
the currently high losses of valuable crossbred heifers due to malnutrition.
The National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) and the India Dairy Corporation
(IDC) are two most important national dairy development agencies. They are
particularly involved in Operation Flood, assisted by the World Food Program
(WFP) and aimed initially at increasing,the supply of milk to the main cities
1/   Full details of ARC's organization and financial operations are given
in Annex 4 of the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Appraisal Report
No. 107a-IN, April 12, 1973. IDA is presently making a full appraisal
of ARC.



- 6 -
of Calcutta, Delhi, Bombay and Madras. The NDDB is responsible for technical
matters and the IDC for financial matters. GOI is now encouraging NDDB to
widen the scope of its activities and many States have engaged NDDB to help
plan local state dairy development programs, to train key personnel in all
aspects of this work, to carry out feasibility studies and reconstruct dairy
processing plants on a turnkey basis. Details are in Annex 1.
III. THE PROJECT AREAS
General Description
3.01      The proposed Project would be located in Karnataka State con-
centrated in four milkshed areas, in four southern districts of Bangalore,
Mysore, Hassan and Tumkur. Parts of four other districts -- Kolar, Mandya,
Coorg and Chickmagalur -- with milk production areas contiguous to these
zones would also be included.
3.02      Karnataka has one of India's largest populations of high yielding
crossbred cattle, 60% of which (about 60,000) are in the Project area. Average
annual rainfall in the proposed major milkshed districts varies from about
700 mm in Tumkur to about 1,000 mm in Hassan. With altitudes of 3,000-5,000
ft and resulting cool temperatures, the climate is ideally suited for exotic
and crossbred cattle. Total rural population in the Project area is about 5.5
million, distributed between 8,800 villages, each with an average of about 110
households.  Farms are mainly small, about 70% are less than 3 ha and about
half of these are less than 1 ha. The main Project area has about 3 million
bovines including about 0.5 million buffalo. An average household usually
owns one native cow and about half the households own a buffalo cow. Hallikar
and Amritmahal (in Hassan) cattle and Surti buffalo are the main indigenous
breeds.
Present Status of Dairy Development in Karnataka
3.03      Although of minor importance in terms of cattle numbers, Karnataka
State is among the most progressive dairy states in India. It is foremost
in crossbreeding with a total of about 100,000 crossbred cattle, many
located in village herds. Some of the best extension and animal health
services in the country are available through the State Department of Animal
Husbandry and Veterinary Services, and these are supplemented by the Indo-
Danish Cattle Development Project, the Southern Regional Station of the NDRI,
the University of Agricultural Science, the Veterinary College and the
Mysore Serum Institute, all located in Bangalore.
Milk Marketing
3.04      In Karnataka, as in most of the country, there are three main
types of suppliers of milk and milk products to the urban markets: (i)
traditional village agents (middleman-collectors); (ii) city producers;
(iii) the cooperative sector. The traditional village agent, acting as a
middleman/collector for private vendors in the cities, is still the main
supplier. However the supply from city producers has increased significantly



in recent years, particularly in Bangalore city where this sector supplies 30%
of the market (Annex 4). The eight Government dairies in Karnataka State
operate at about 60% installed capacity on a year round basis. Their share
of the market is small. Throughputs in the Bangalore and Mysore Dairies
now average 70,000 and 3,000 of milk per day respectively and satisfy about
16% and 3% of their respective urban markets.  The major milk-shed areas
of the State have between 40 and 45 chilling centers, of which 10 are in the
Project area.  All are Government owned.  Milk reaches the processing plants
by their own milk tankers or by contract truckers while, at the village level,
middlemen often procure and transport it to collection centers, generally by
bicycle or oxcart. In Karnataka the cooperative sector is active at the
village level, which includes many dairy cooperatives; there are now about
250 supplying Government dairies.
3.05      Milk prices in Karnataka are uncontrolled and the urban free
market price for raw milk varies from about Rs 1.60 - 1.90 per 1. However,
the Government dairies sell 4.5% fat milk at significantly lower prices
e.g. Rs 1.35 in Mysore city and Rs 1.50 in Bangalore city.
3.06      Under the present marketing system, the city producer selling
direct to a regular consumer clientele is very competitive with the tradi-
tional village producer even though the former must buy all his feed
supply. This is unlikely to change unless the village producer can be
assured of a higher price than he presently receives. Most agent/collectors
pay the village producer between 50 to 70 paisas per 1 for milk. However,
village dairy cooperative members fare much better and the Bangalore dairy
now pays Rs 1.10 per 1. Still higher prices could be paid if the village
cooperatives controlled their own milk processing and marketing through a
cooperative Union as they do in the AMUL Union.
3.07      Almost all the milk now produced commercially in Karnataka is
sold in local urban markets which have expanded at about 8% per annum since
1967. If expansion continues at the same rate under the Project, there
would be a surplus in the Project area by about year five. This surplus
would be marketed as fresh milk in Madras which is readily accessible by
rail or would be dried and marketed as powder in milk deficient areas of
the country.
Agricultural Credit in Karnataka
3.08      Institutional agricultural credit in Karnataka is provided from the
same sources as elsewhere in India. The cooperative banking system meets
30-40% of credit demand and in 1972-73 its short and medium term lending
portfolio was about Rs 45 crores (US$56 m) while Rs 16 crores (US$20 m) long
term loans were made. The LDBs are still the farmers' main source of medium
and long term credit; however, the commercial banks have significantly
increased their role in providing institutional rural credit. Commercial
bank loans to the agricultural sector in Karnataka almost quadrupled between
June 1969 and December 1972, while the number of branch banks (many in rural
areas) roughly doubled. The banks now have about 20% of their loan portfolios
in agricultural lending, either to farmers as direct loans, or as loans through



- 8 -
village cooperatives. Karnataka was among the first States to adopt the Lead
Bank Scheme (para 2.12). ARC has also played an active role in Karnataka 1/.
Agricultural Cooperatives in Karnataka
3.09      The rural cooperative movement in Karnataka State dates from the
beginning of this century. Coverage extends to most villages but to under
50% of the rural population. Some 19,000 cooperative societies, mostly
agricultural credit societies, are registered and though the cooperative
movement and experience in Karnataka has been better than in many other parts
of India, only about 40% of the registered cooperatives function effectively.
Government, commercial banks, and other institutions are making strong efforts
to help rehabilitate and strengthen them.
3.10      Karnataka State has considerable experience with dairy production
through cooperatives and more are being organized. There are about 400
village societies within the Project area; approximately 40Z are milk
producers' cooperatives that would come into the Project after being reformed
under the AMUL pattern. The rest, generally credit soscieties, would be the
nuclei for the rapid establishment of village dairy cooperative societies
(DCS). For further details on Agricultural Cooperatives see Annex 2.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The proposed project is to develop an integrated program for
increasing milk production in rural areas of Karnataka State by providing
milk collection, processing and marketing facilities and technical services
for AI and animal health. It would organize village cattle owners to form
DCS which would be grouped into Unions similar to the AMUL scheme in Gujarat.
The Unions would employ the necessary technicians and managers, and would be
controlled by the farmers. Each Union would own and manage its own dairy
and feed plants and would be capable of providing technical, extension, milk
collection and marketing services to the member DCS. About 450,000 farm
families, most of whom farm less than 2 ha or are landless, would be involved.
4.02      Under the proposed project the following activities would be
undertaken:
1/   Mysore Agricultural Credit Project, Report No. PA-105a, November 30,
1971.



- 9 -
(a) The establishment of about 1,800 dairy cooperative
societies, four milk producers Unions and the Karnataka
Dairy Development Corporation;
(b) An AI program of crossbreeding native village cattle
with high producing exotic breeds, and associated
programs for production of fodder and purebred exotic
breeding stock;
(c)  Expansion of two existing dairy plants and construction of
two new dairy plants and four new cattle feed mills; and the
establishment of milk collection routes and centers;
(d) Establishment of two regional diagnostic laboratories,
support for an animal health research program, and
production of veterinary biologicals and vaccines;
(e) Provision of consultant services to assist KDDC in demon-
stration farms, applied research trials on pastures, and
milk marketing studies; and
(f) Provision of medium-term credit for purchase of crossbreds.
B. Detailed Features
New Institutions
4.03      The Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC), to be
established under the Project, would be the main body for the coordination
of Project activities. It would have an essential role in the initial
establishment of DCS's and the milk producers' Unions. To ensure that the
essential features of the AMUL model are adopted when establishing the
DCS's and the Unions, KDDC will engage NDDB. The NDDB would assist in
recruiting, training and first year supervision of spearhead teams, which
would become the nucleus staff of each union as it is formed. GOI has agreed
as a condition of credit effectiveness that KDDC be established under articles
agreed to by IDA, that KDDC would engage NDDB to assist in training of
spearhead teams and that recruitment of these teams has been initiated. KDDC's
capitalization, management structure, and support activities are discussed
in paras 4.13 and 5.01 to 5.03.
4.04      Four unions would be established, and each would be constituted
by about 4-500 DCSs. Union bylaws would be similar to AMUL's (outlined in
Annex 6). The principal functions and responsibilities of a Union would be
to: (a) assist the DCS with organization and management, including inspection
and audit of accounts; (b) establish and supervise milk and cattle feed trans-
portation; (c) process and market the members' milk and operate the feed mills;
(d) provide animal health and breeding services; (e) channel calf rearing
and seed subsidies to the DCS. Capitalization and management structure of
the Unions is detailed in para 5.05.



- 10 -
4.05      About 1800 DCS based on the AMUL cooperatives would be formed over
a five-year period. The majority of these would be formed in villages where
there are no existing cooperatives. An assurance was given by GOK that
these would be established under standard by-laws based on AMUL as outlined
in Annex 5. In some villages where viable multipurpose cooperative societies
exist it would be more expedient to the rapid formation of village milk
production units to form a milk wing under the umbrella of the multipurpose
society provided adequate guarantees to protect the rights of the milk
producing members could be obtained. Similarly it would be useful to the
Project to include a limited number of newly formed multipurpose societies
particularly the farmer service societies. However, while recognizing this
approach would help in more rapid Project implementation it is desirable that
all milk production units within the multipurpose societies should eventually
become autonomous DCS as soon as daily milk production was sufficient
to assure viable operation of the DCS (about 500 1/day) or after a period
of about two years when management capacity has built up. Agreement was
reached at negotiations to include such multipurpose society milk units
within the project under modified by-laws acceptable to the Association.
It was also agreed that these would become autonomous DCSs when daily pro-
duction reached 800 1 or after two years whichever is earlier. Both DCS
and multipurpose cooperative milk wing membership would be limited to
cattle owners of which 10% are expected to be landless and another 50%
marginal or small farmers with less than 2 ha. The DCS and milk wings would
be centers for milk collection, payment to producers and for supplying
concentrate feed, seeds and AI services. The capitalization and management
of the DCS's are detailed in paras 5.07 and 5.08. Assurances have been
obtained from GOK, that through the KDDC and the Unions, it would promote
the formation of about 1800 DCS over 5 years, and 4 Unions, by December
31, 1975, untder by-laws approved by IDA.
Crossbreeding and Milk Production
4.06      Initially, milk production would be from native cattle and buffaloes.
Increased milk production would be achieved primarily by upgrading low
producing native cows through an Al program of crossbreeding with high
producing exotic breeds (mainly Jersey and Fresian) and the provision of
better nutrition. Frozen semen from proven bulls would be imported and AI
carried out through the DCS and AI centers to be established.
4.07      Three of KDDC's five farms would be used to produce purebred exotic
breeding stock. KDDC would assume responsibility for the present State farm
herd of 69 head, which it would increase to about 500 head by importing
in-calf heifers. One farm will concentrate on producing crossbreds for
sale to villagers participating in the Project. The foundation breeding
herd of 400 cows for this farm would be allocated from the GOI's Amritmahal
herd presently located on State farms. The two remaining farms will be used
to rear about 1,200 bull calves yearly. These calves would be obtained from
selected high producing exotic cows located in Bangalore city where no
efforts have yet been made to salvage this valuable genetic material. The
KDDC farms would also be centers for frozen semen storage and distribution.



- 11 -
4.08      The low quality crop residues which traditionally comprise the
main roughage component of the native animals' diet are inadequate to main-
tain the crossbreds and it is proposed to supplement it with balanced
concentrate feedstuffs and high quality green forage. Farmers, who would
be supplied with seed and planting material under the Project for small
areas of about 0.1 to 0.25 ac, would grow this forage. Each Union would
also operate a feed mill of about 100 tons per day capacity to produce the
high quality concentrate feed requirements for the improved DCS herds.
Construction of these mills is to be phased to match the growth in the demand
for balanced feedstuffs for milk production and calf rearing as the number of
village crossbreds increases through to year 6. It is envisaged under this
program that by year four of a typical DCS, about one third of the native
cows (producing about 500 1 per lactation) would be replaced by crossbred
cows (producing about 2,000 1/lactation). Thus annual milk production in
a typical DCS would increase from about 60,000 1 preproject to about 290,000
1 by year five. Production and financial projections of a typical DCS are
given in Annex 5.
Milk Collection, Processing and Marketing
4.09      The four Union plants would operate a fleet of both owned and
hired trucks, along well-defined milk routes to collect milk daily in
40 1 cans from DCS. On long routes, exist:ing or upcoming chilling centers
would be serviced by five 15,000 1 capacity road tankers which would also
freight milk surplus to deficit plants.
4.10      The Project provides for (a) the expansion of the two existing
dairy plants: Bangalore to 300,000 1/day from present 70,000 and Mysore
also to 300,000 1/day, from present 10,000; (b) construction of two new
dairy plants of 200,000 1/day capacity; (c) a milk drying unit of 100,000
1/day capacity in year five at Mysore to balance milk production with
demand; and td) a triblender at Banglore to reconstitute milk powder into
liquid milk during the lean season. Expansion of capacity would be phased
over five years to match the increase in milk supplies under the Project.
The two new plants would initially have a capacity of 75,000 1/day with
subsequent expansion to 200,090 1/day. General layouts and building designs
would be such as to allow subsequent expansion. With these developments the
Union would not have to cut back milk collection even in the flush season,
for a lack of processing capacity.
4.11      Bulk vending and sales in bottled form are low cost retail
marketing methods and both would be used as needed. Vending booths would
also be established in major urban centers. The Project includes a marketing
study to set up a suitable milk distribution system. Milk would be marketed
outside the Project area only after year five and this would go by rail.
Establishment of the National Milk Grid coordinated by NDDB is expected to
assure the movement of milk from 3urplus to deficit areas.
Research and Veterinary Biological Production
4.12      The Project would include equipment and chemicals to assist the
Bangalore Veterinary Vaccine Institute (BVWI) expand production of veterinary



- 12 -
biologicals and vaccines and to enable the Bangalore University of Agricul-
tural Science Faculty of Veterinary Science (FVS) improve its crossbreeding,
animal health research and veterinary support programs including the estab-
lishment of two regional diagnostic laboratories.
KDDC Supporting Activities
4.13      A provision has been made for internationally recruited consultants
to assist KDDC in its forage production program and in the design and
execution of the small farm management s:ystem studies. KDDC would undertake
the following Project-related activitiei,': (a) establishment on its farms
of about 50 demonstration farms of about 2 ha to be managed by villagers,
to test the economic viability of various farm management systems through
incorporating permanent pasture/fodder crops grown exclusively for milk
production; (b) execution of applied research trials on pastures and forage
mixtures; (c) in collaboration with NDDB, execution of studies on milk
production, marketing and feed supplies. Assurances were given by GOI and
GOK that KDDC would employ consultants acceptable to IDA to conduct such
research. More details on the Corporation, including terms of reference
for consultants, production and financial projections are in Annex 7.
On Farm Investment
4.14      Credit through the cooperative and commercial banking system would
be provided for the purchase of locally bred crossbred cattle. In-calf
heifers are now sold to urban milk producers at about Rs 3,000. Cost
estimates are based on the assumption that in each DCS six heifers would be
purchased in Year 1 and two annually in Years 2-6. Eligibility criteria for
the selection of participating banks has been approved by IDA.



- 13 -
C. Cost Estimates
4.15      Detailed cost estimates are given in Annex 9 and are summarized
below:
Rs ('000)                  US$ (tC00)
Category             Local    Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign  Total
1. On-Farm Investment      61,560      -      61,560   7,690      -      7,690
2. DCSs Establishment
Cost                  14,210    6,680   20,890   1,770       840   2,610
3. Union Investments
Plants and Facilities  94,230   44,600  138,830  11,780   5,570  17,350
Establishment Cost      27,420      -      27,420   3,430      -      3,430
Sub-total      .121650   44,600  166,250  15,210   5,570  20,780
4. KDDC Investments
Corporation Farms        8,980    5,740   14,730   1,120       720   1,840
Technical Services         890    4,330    5,220       110     540      650
Establishment Cost       3,000       -      3 000      370      -       370
Sub-total        12,870   10,070   22940_  1600         260   2,860
5. Research and Support-
ing Activities
BVVI and FVS incl. est. 9,710    8,820   18,530   1,220   1,100   2,320
Calf Rearing Grant      40,000       -     40,000   5,000       -    5,000
Seed Subsidy             1,680       -      1,680      210      -       210
Sub-total       51  390                      6430   1100   7,530
6. Contingencies
Physical                 8,870    2,400   11,270   1,100       300   1,410
Price                  130,780   36050  166,830  16,350   4,510  20,860
Sub-total       139,650   38,450  178,100  17,460   4,810  22,270
7. TOTAL PROJECT COST    401,330  108,620  509,950  50,160  13,580  63,740
Estimates are based on September 1973 prices.  Establishment costs during
the development period are initial operating losses and working capital. A
physical contingency of 5% has been applied on all items except credit for
crossbred cows (on-farm investment), and grants to farmers which are a
financial commitment. A price contingencyof 3% has been added to take into
account price increases in the last quarter of 1973. Further price contin-
gencies have been calculated on the following price increase assumptions:
for civil works, 18% in 1974, 15% in 1975 and 12% thereafter; for equipment
and local cost expenditures, 14% in 1974, 11% in 1975, and 7.5% thereafter.



- 14 -
D. Proposed Financing
4.16      Finance to cover the total project cost of Rs 509.9 million
(US$63.7 million) would come from the following sources:
Farmers  GOI   GOK   Banks   IDA   Total
Processing Facilities and
Technical Services                           25.8  19.7   43.7   138.1  227.3
Other Equipment & Civil Works
KDDC                                     1.6   1.6    3.3       9.7   16.2
BYVI and FVS                             3.5   7.3             16.1   26.9
Cattle
On-Farm Investments              20.1                 18.9    61.5  100.5
Imported Cattle and Semen                0.8                    7.6    8.4
Management & Technical Services                      0.8             7.0    7.8
Establishment Costs
DCS's                           23.1          12.0                    35.1
Unions                                        40.2                    40.2
BVVI                                            1.8                    1.8
KDDC                                     2.5   0.8    0.7              4.0
Grants & Subsidies to Farmers
TOTAL (Rs million)                    43.2   64.2  95.9   66.6   240.0  509.9
TOTAL (US$ million)                    5.4    8.0  12.0    8.3    30.0   63.7
Percent of Total                       8.5   12.6  18.8   13.0    47.1  100.0
4.17      The proposed IDA credit of US$30.0 million would be to GOI and
would finance about 47% of the Project Costs. IDA financing would cover
all direct foreign exchange expenditures (US$12.0 million) and about 35% of
local costs. IDA funds for BVVI's and FVS's support programs, the purchase
of imported cattle, and for technical services would be channelled to KDDC
through GOI (US$3.8 million). All other IDA funds (US$26.2 million) would be
channelled through ARC to participating banks under subsidiary loan agreements.
Project lending terms are detailed in para 5.13 and Annex 3, Schedule A.
Details of the financing plan are shown in Annex 9, Tables 2 and 3.
4.18      Government contributions (US$20.0 million) would finance about
31% of project costs. They would cover the equity financing for investments
(US$6.1 million) of the institutions set up under the project and provide
the necessary start-up costs (US$6.9 million) to cover the expected deficits
over the first 3 years of operations. In addition, the Government would
provide funds to BVVI and FVS (US$1.6 million) and subsidize the sale of



- 15 -
seeds and concentrate feeds to selected farmer groups (US$5.2 million) and
provide for local cost financing of technical services and imported cattle
(US$0.2 million). The financial commitments of the Government, and the assur-
ances given by GOI and GOR regarding their implementation are detailed in paras
5.01 and 5.07. ARC and participating banks would contribure US$6.0 million
for financing investments and working capital of KDDC and the Unions and
about US$2.3 million for on-farm investments. Farmers' contribution to the
project is estimated at US$5.4 million, part of which represents farmers
payments for crossbred cattle (US$2.5 million) the other part being their
capital subscription to DCS (US$2.9 million).
E. Procurement
4.19      KDDC  would be the sole procurement agent for all items financed
by IDA except for on-farm investment. All major equipment (Annex 4, Attach-
ment 1) for the four milk-processing plants and feedmills (US$14.4 million)
would be subject to international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA
Guidelines with the exception of steam generating equipment (US$1.3 million)
which was reserved for local procurement by GOI. As most leading manufacturers
of this equipment are well represented in India and are competitive, tenders
would be advertised locally, and the representatives of supplier countries
informed. Locally manufactured equipment would be allowed a 15% preference
or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower. Appropriate assurances
for this effect were given by GOI. Minor equipment items for the processing
facilities such as electrical installations, factory fittings, and furniture
(US$4.5 million) would be purchased over five years as the phasing of operations
requires, and would not be suitable for ICB, as ready availability of service
and spare parts is essential.
4.20      As civil works for the construction of milk processing plants,
feedmills, and farm buildings for KDDC, the Unions, FCS and BVVI (US$8.2
million) would be dispersed in time and place, they would each be too small
to attract international bidding and would be subject to local contracting
or built on force account.
4.21      Procurement of equipment for KDDC and Union farms, such as farm
machinery, irrigation equipment, breeding equipment, trucks, and four wheel
drive vehicles (about US$1.7 million) would be purchased following local
competitive bidding, since these items would be purchased piecemeal over
the project period. Procurement for imported bulls, dairy heifers, and
frozen semen for the Corporation's breeding farms and the Union's AI centers
(US$1.0 million) would be from at least three countries free from foot and
mouth disease where animals of the required breed, type, and adaptability
are available. Appropriate assurances to this effect were given by GOI.
4.22      The equipment, chemicals and glassware for the crossbred health
program in the FVS and for the BVVI (about US$2.9 million) would be pro-
cured following local competitive bidding because: (a) it would be diffi-
cult to bulk orders which will mostly be of a piecemeal nature; (b) most



- 16 -
of the world's leading manufacturers of scientific equipment are represented
in India and they are competitive; and (c) the local maintenance service
offered by these established retailers would be needed to maintain much of
the equipment to be purchased under the project. Orders would be bunched
to the extent possible without adversely affecting physical progress.
F. Disbursements
4.23      IDA disbursements are expected to extend for seven years (Annex 9,
Table 2). IDA would disburse against appropriate documentation of expendi-
tures under the project:
(a)  100% of c.i.f. expenditures, or of ex-factory costs,
of milk and feed-processing equipment to be procured
under ICB;
(b)  100% of c.i.f. expenditures for imported cattle and semen;
and the net of tax expenditure for technical and
management services;
(c)  60% of expenditures for locally procured equipment
and civil works; and
(d)  90% of ARC loan disbursements to DCS members to refi-
nance project loans for crossbred cattle.
The Association's normal documentation would be required for items (a),
(b) and (c), to be prepared by KDDC. Withdrawal requests for item (d) would
be made against statements of expenditure, the documentation for which would
be retained by the borrower for review by project supervision missions.
Any savings from the credit would be reallocated by increasing the percentage
of local cost financing.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.24      Commercial accounting firms audit the accounts of the commercial
banks and RBI examines the audited accounts; accounts of LDB's, Cooperative
Banks and Cooperative Societies are audited by the Department of Audit and
Inspection under the Registrar of Cooperatives. About 90% of the cooperatives
in Karnataka State are audited annually by GOK Department of Audit; these
audits are satisfactory to IDA. However, the AMUL experience has shown that
a single annual audit is insufficient. Efficient management of AMUL village
dairy cooperatives called for intensive and continuous audit service in-
volving about 50 field inspectors from the State Cooperatives Department.
This service has been highly satisfactory and has proven to be a major
factor contributing to AMUL's success. Assurances were given that the



- 17 -
Karnataka State Department of Audit would: (a) audit the accounts
of the Unions and submit them to IDA within 120 days after the close of the
fiscal year; (b) provide audit to DCS's, with at least one full audit and
two book supervisions per year; (c) strengthen its staff to carry out the
above functions; and also that KDDC would maintain accounts, audited by
auditors acceptable to the Bank and submitted to IDA within four months
after the end of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation
5.01      GOI and GOK would subscribe al1 of KDDC's capital.  Estimated
startup costs (Rs 3.3 million, Rs 2.5 million by GOI and Rs .8 million by
GOK would be paid in cash, and GOK would also transfer to KDDC the owner-
ship of buildings, cattle and equipment (estimated book value Rs 3 million)
and government livestock farm (see Annex 7). Provision of the above initial
capitalization has been agreed to as a condition of effectiveness. In
addition, GOI and GOK would each contribute ongoing equity financing in
equal shares over 5 years to ensure KDDC's continued creditworthiness. During
negotiations GOI and GOK agreed to undertake this financial commitment,
estimated at Rs 3.2 million. After Year 6, Government equity would be
offered for sale, at par value, to the Unions, who are expected to become
majority shareholders by Year 10.  An assurance was given that, after Year 6
of the project, both GOI and GOK would annually offer for sale 20% of their
shareholdings to the Unions at par value.
5.02      KDDC would administer the project and would be responsible to a
19 member Board of Directors. These would be one representative each from:
GOI Department of Animal Husbandry, NDDB, 3 Lead Banks in Mysore, Indian
Institute of Management, the University of Agricultural Sciences, the GOK
Department of Animal Husbandry, Karnataka State Land Development Bank,
Karnataka State Cooperative Apex Bank, the Registrar of Cooperatives, and
eight elected representatives from the Unions. As the Unions buy out
Government's equity, elected Union representatives would replace Union
representatives appointed by GOI and GOK. A General Manager, assisted by
about six division chiefs (Annex 7, Chart 1), would carry out executive
duties. The Registrar of Cooperatives and NDDB would assist management in
Project implementation (Annex 7). The KDDC's Articles of Association have
been agreed to by IDA and a General Manager whose experience and qualifications
are mutually acceptable to IDA and KDDC has been appointed.
5.03      GOK has agreed as to transfer to KDDC's operation the Bangalore
and Mysore dairies, as well as Government-owned chilling and AI equipment
in the project area by effectiveness. KDDC would operate such assets for
the benefit of individual Unions, until such time as they comprise at least
80 DCS's, their board is elected and functional and their key managerial



- 18 -
and technical staff is recruited. KDDC would keep separate operating and
capital accounts for each of the Unions until this transfer is effected, which
is expected within one year of effectiveness. Assurances were given by GOI
and GOK that (a) KDDC would operate, for the benefit of the Unions, the
dairy plants and properties in the project area and (b) that the assets and
liabilities which had been accrued on their behalf would be transferred to
the Unions, after consultation with IDA when they comprise at least 80 DCSs,
their board is elected, and their key management posts staffed.
B. Unions and Cooperatives
Milk Producers' Unions
5.04      Each cooperative milk producers' Union would have a 15 member
Board of Directors comprising representatives of dairy farmers, government
entities, KDDC, and participating banks. Initial farmer representation on
the Board, in proportion to the cooperatives' equity in the Union (para
5.07), would be eight, elected from among and by the chairmen of the affili-
ated DCS (para 5.08). GOK's equity would be represented by one representa-
tive each of: the district Lead Bank, the district Cooperative Bank, the
district Land Development Bank, the Registrar of Cooperatives, KDDC and the
GOM Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services. A General
Manager, appointed by its Board and approved by KDDC for the first year
following establishment of the Union, would be responsible for day to day
management of a Union and also an ex-officio Board member. A Union would
be organized into five departments (Annex 6, Chart 1), with each department
administered by a suitably qualified and experienced head. Recruitment of
qualified supporting staff will be phased to match the growth of the Union
(Annex 6, Table 11) and at full development total staff would be about 100.
5.05      GOK would provide interest free loans to cover the Union's start-up
costs (Rs 40.2 million). GOI and GOK would finance as equity 20% of on-
going project investments for five years (Rs 45.5 million), so as to maintain
a suitable (4:1) debt to equity ratio to ensure the Unions' creditworthiness.
Assurances for these financial commitments were obtained from GOK. The Unions'
paid-up capital would be equally divided between GOK and the DCS's. The
Unions are expected to earn surpluses from Year 4 and these would be declared
as bonuses to cooperatives in proportion to milk sold to the Union and as
dividends or reinvested. The dividend and a part of the cooperative societies
surplus would be used to buy out, from the sixth year onward, GOK equity
in the Unions, and the DCS's are expected to become majority shareholders by
about the tenth year of the project. Assurances were obtained that after
1981 GOK would offer its shareholding in the Unions for sale at par value,
to individual DCS's, until it has divested itself from all its equity. The
financial structure of the Unions would be monitored by the Karnataka State
Department of Audit and participating Banks. GOK's equity financing and
its repayment by the DCS's are estimated in Annex 6, Tables 18, 19, and 20.
Retained Union surpluses would be used for dividends and bonuses to DCSs and
for a second stage of plant expansion which will be required to process the
increasing milk procurements from DCS's after year 7.



- 19 -
The Village Dairy Cooperative Societies
5.06      The village dairy cooperative society (DCS) would be the basic
organization unit of the project and each would be managed by a committee
of nine members, elected for a three year term. The committee would
elect a chairman who would represent the cooperative and would be eligible
to stand for election to the Union Eoard of Directors. The committee
would appoint a paid secretary who would be responsible for day to day
running of the Cooperative. Each society would also have one to fcur helpers
according to its size to assist the secretary. The helpers would be trained
in AI, emergency first aid and milk testing by Union technicians. The sec-
retary and his helpers would be paid from the revenues of the society.
5.07      Each DCS would be capitalized by share purchases by members and
entrance fees. For each newly formed DCS, GOK would grant (see para 5.03)
capital equipment (Rs 2500/society), and operating deficit in the first year
(Rs 1600/societies). Total cost to GOI is estimated at Rs 12.0 million for
capital equipment and operations deficit. GOK has agreed to meet this
financial commitment. Similar grants are available elsewhere in India where
GOI promotes producer cooperatives, including under AMUL, and are essential
to bring about a rapid transformation in the rural institutional framework
that the AMUL model implies. Newly formed DCSs would not be able to meet
the full charge of milk transportation until the volume of milk sold was
sufficient to ensure economic viability at about year 2. Neither GOI or
GOK are able to provide finance for transport grant (about Rs 24.8 million).
However, to ensure that new DCSs would not be charged excessively for milk
transport over the first two years an assurance was given by GOK that KDDC
would levy standard charge for milk transportation from all DCSs (about
5 paises/liter) and that any additional cost would be met by KDDC through
adjusting selling prices.
C. Supporting Activities
Crossbred Health Program
5.08      The FVS would be responsible for this program.  It will staff
and operate the two diagnostic field laboratories financed under the Proj-
ect and collaborate with the Veterinary Biological Production Institute
in the use of these facilities.
Biological Veterinary Vaccine Institute
5.09      The Project would finance the expansion of the facilities of the
Mysore Serum Institute which would be renamed as the BVVI to reflect the
change in emphasis of its activities. The Institute would continue to
function under the Ministry of Agriculture. However, in order to ensure a
full representation of the organizations involved in animal disease control
in Karnataka, a Board of Management would be established. This Board would
be responsible for major policy matters involving the integration of the



- 20 -
various disease control programs with production of the appropriate vaccines.
The Board would consist of the Secretary of Agriculture (chairman) with two
representatives each from the KDDC and the GOKN Department of Veterinary
Services and one from the University of Agricultural Science, Faculty of
Veterinary Science. It would appoint a director who would be responsible
for the day to day management of the institute and who would also be a
Board member, ex-officio.
5.10      Project funds for equipment to the FVS (Rs 13.1 million) and
BVVI (Rs 10.2 million) would be channeled to KDDC. Requests for such
financing under the project would be prepared each year by the Faculty's
staff and BVVI's director, respectively, and approved by GOK and IDA.
Assurances were given to this effect.
D. Lending Operations
5.11      ARC would invite Banks operating in the Project area to partici-
pate in the Project, and establish the eligibility criteria for their
participation, to be submitted for IDA's approval during negotiations. ARC
would refinance loans made under the project by participating banks to dairy
farmers, Unions and KDDC. Sub-loan proposals, on behalf of the Unions, would
be prepared by KDDC in consultation with NDDB and submitted to the partici-
pating banks. Assurances were given that a subsidiary loan agreement between
GOI and ARC had been approved by IDA and executed, and banks operating in
the area had been invited to participate in the project by effectiveness.
Assurances were given that ARC would maintain audited project accounts, which
would be audited by independent and qualified auditors acceptable submitted
to IDA within four months after the close of the fiscal year.
5.12      Project lending terms and criteria are detailed in Annex 3, Sched-
ule A. Farmers would pay at least 9-1/2% p.a., Unions and KDDC at least 9-1/22
p.a., the participating banks, 7% and ARC 6 to 6-1/2%. These rates are in
line with the current rates in the agriculture sector in India. For farmers
who cannot offer land as mortgage, milk cattle are not accepted as satisfactory
security, and guarantee of the state government or the DCS may be required by
the banks. However, about 90% of farmers in the project are owner operators
and slhould meet the security requirements of participating Banks.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES, SUBSIDIES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
Production
6.01      Some 1,800 DCSs would provide a market outlet for about 450,000
individual smallholder families to sell their milk at a guaranteed price
throughout the year. Initially production would be increased from existing
native cattle and buffalo by adoption of better management and feeding
practices, but the greatest increase will come from an intensive program



- 21 -
of cross-breeding native cattle with high producing exotic breeds. The
cross-bred cows which will come into production in significant numbers in
about year 5 will yield about 2,000 litres/lactation compared with a maximum
of about 600 liters/lactation for the native dams. At full development
(about year 10) the annual incremental milk production from the project
would be about one million tons.
Marketing
6.02      The Project would be vertically integrated.  The Unions would
provide services and inputs to their member producers, process, distribute
and market their milk. Payment for raw milk services would follow the AMUL
model (para 2.06). In addition to satisfying an anticipated increased
demand in the Project area (Annex 4) it is estimated that, with the
exception of Bangalore, the other three Unions will market from 30 to 40%
of their yearly production outside the area beginning about year 5 (see
para 3.07).
Prices
6.03      Each Union would be free to set the sale price of its products,
the procurement price of milk, and charges for services to members independ-
ently of the price policies of the State in accordance with sound economic
and financial practices. At negotiations GOK gave an assurance to this effect
but it was agreed that GOK may consult with the unions on their selling price
policies as it shall determine. In other states where milk producers' unions
are operating successfully, the Union's price for processed milk is more in
line with the free urban market price than the subsidized prices of government
dairies (see paras 3.05, 3.06). In the long run, however, average consumer
prices are likely to decrease, for as the Unions reduce costs, increase
the availability of milk, and differentiate their products (see Annex 4,
para 17), prices in those urban markets where milk now is a scarce commodity
would have to be reduced to remain competitive. Village producers would earn
about Rs 1.20/liter of milk, a price nearer to the urban producers', and
much higher than under the traditional intermediary system (see Annex 4,
para 3). Villagers would become more competitive for feed supplies and
would retain, for their own use, the fodder now sold to urban producers
(see Annex 4, paras 10 to 14).
Grants, Subsidies and Cost Recovery
6.04      The present policy of Government dairies implies a subsidization
of milk consumption that is not justified and would come to an end when the
Unions determine prices in their members' interest. The only non-recoverable
expenditures under the project are Government startup grants to the DCS's
(para 5.07), and to farmers (para 6.05), which are justified to facilitate
the set-up of new cooperative organizations and the spread of proven cross-
breeding technology to rural areas. Loan components under the project are
alI recovered at commercial interest rates. While the intended sale, at
par value, of Government equity in KDDC and the Unions (see paras 5.03 and
5.05) would be a concessionary capital transfer, it would be contrary to



- 22 -
Government policy to earn capital gains from the cooperative sector. Farm
income and the sale of milk are not taxed, but the Government would earn
sales tax on processed milk products. The overall impact of the project on
public finance is shown in Annex 9, Table 5.
6.05      In order to promote the spread of new farming technologies, of
which crossbreeding is one, the Government is sponsoring subsidy programs
to selected farmers taking up non-traditional activities. Fodder crops are
not part of the traditional cropping pattern. GOK offers a 30% price subsidy
on the purchase of high-grade fodder seeds. Seeds would either be purchased
in the market or produced on KDDC and Union farms. Also, GOI would finance
the free distribution of concentrate feeds, produced by the Union feedmills,
among selected landless and marginal farmer members of the DCS's for their
first crossbred calf up to a maximum of Rs 600 per head. These farmers
otherwise could not afford the investment of rearing the animal with high-
quality feeds. Both programs are expected to end after Year 5 when the
crossbreeding technologies have taken root. The Unions would administer
both programs. GOI has agreed to reimburse the Unions for the cost of feeds,
which would be distributed in kind among selected project farmers for raising
crossbred calves.
Financial Results
6.06      All institutions set up under the project are financially viable
and will generate a satisfactory rate of return. DCS will earn surpluses
from Year 3 onwards. Financial rates of return at the Unions' processing
activities would range between 13% and 28% (see Annex 6, Tables 12 to 16).
An economic price of about 3 paise and 1/2 paise per liter of milk would
be charged to recover investment and operating expenses of Unions' (see
Annex 6, Tables 18, 19 and 20) and KDDC's respective service operations.
KDDC's bull and dairy farms would each be an independent profit centre
(see Annex 7, Tables 6, 9, 12, 15, 18). BVVI's vaccine production would
also generate profits.
6.07      The typical smallholder in the project area now owns one non-
descript native cow, yielding about 300 liters of milk per lactation
surplus to her calf's needs. Part of this milk is consumed in his house-
hold, so that cash income from the sale of surplus milk would seldom exceed
Rs 100 per lactation. Under the project, farmers would gradually replace
native cows by higher-producing homebred crossbreds, and a few (see Annex 9,
Table 1, footnote 1) would purchase high-yielding crossbred cows. In addi-
tion to providing for increased domestic consumption of milk, net cash income
from a crossbred cow would vary between Rs 400, and Rs 1,400 per year. If
the typical smallholder, under the project, increases his stock to two
crossbed cows, his net annual income from dairying would be about Rs 2,000
received in daily payments. As the smallholders in the project area are
predominantly subsistence farmers, dairying will be their main source of
cash income and link to the money economy.
6.08      In addition to increased cash income through milk sales, the
project would afford small village farmers the opportunity to adopt a
mixed farming system through the integration of a profitable livestock



- 23 -
enterprise into their traditional system. Since such a change would involve
the introduction of pasture/fodder crop ley, it would clearly result in
long-term benefits through a build-up in soil structure and fertility
thereby reversing the present downward trend in most parts of the Project
area. It is anticipated that the studies proposed under the project (para
4.13) would provide a sound economic and agronomic base for the adoption of
a mixed farming system through combining commercial dairying and traditional
cropping.
VII. ECONOMIC COSTS, BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS
7.01      The direct economic benefit of the project will be the increased
production of milk and heifers. The incremental milk production is esti-
mated at one million tons/year by year 10. The economic rate of return
has been calculated on the basis of milk processed in project plants
(335,000 tons/year in year 7). Incremental milk production of DCS's after
year 7 has not been taken into account. Milk is valued at Rs 1.50/liter,
ex-plant (see Annex 5, Table 2), which is at the lower end of the price
range in urban milk markets in the project area. The project is expected to
produce over 100,000 surplus heifer calves per annum from year 7 valued at
Rs 300/head, the projected market price.
7.02      The project would directly benefit about 450,000 farming house-
holds, or approximately 2.5 million people, which is about half of the
rural population in the project area and would contribute to the fuller
utilization of labor in the rural areas. The establishment of four milk
unions with their own large milk plants and feed mills would provide direct
employment for about 1,000 technical supporting staff. In addition, it
would support a milk transport service, involving about 50 vehicles, most
of which would be run by owner operators.
7.03      Significant social benefits at the village level would also be
derived under the project particularly after the village cooperative dairy
societies become firmly established with a regular net annual surplus of
funds. Such funds would most likely be used to augment or initiate village
development schemes involving education, health, family planning, minor
public works and infrastructure. A further benefit to the village would
accrue from improved nutrition which would result from increased intake of
milk particularly by children and infants. The benefits which would accrue
to consumers would come from an improvement in nutrition as a result of
increased availability of whole pasteurized milk in the urban areas. Also
as the share of hygienic pasteurized milk to raw milk increases, the risk
of milk born diseases such as TB, Brucellosis and gastrointestinal infections
(particularly with infants) will decrease greatly.
7.04      Labor costs for green fodder production are included in the 3 p/kg
price charged for green fodder in the rural markets. Skilled and semi
skilled labor for milk plants and feed mill operations, is costed at the
market price. Incremental family labor requirements for milking crossbreds



- 24 -
as opposed to native cows are minimal and are not likely to affect alter-
native employment and are thus costed at zero. Based on these cost and
benefits assumptions, the economic rate of return has been estimated at
33%, including incremental investment under the project. If the costs of
the existing plants at Bangalore and Mysore are included, the rate of
return would be 30%.
7.05      The most significant element of risk facing the Project is the
task of creating DCS and Unions to establish a new cooperative controlled
marketing channel for the increased amount of rurally produced milk. NDDB's
experience in replicating the AMUL pattern in Gujarat and other parts of
the country indicates that human responses to such a program are varied but
that the obstacles, though many, are surmountable. A sensitivity analysis
to test the effect of higher costs and lower benefits on the estimated rate
of return was carried out. If investment and operating costs are 15% higher
while the benefits due to delays in farmer response or decreased production
are 15% lower, the rate of return is estimated to remain over 10%.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations the following major points were agreed to:
(a) from GOK, that through KDDC and the Unions, it would
promote the formation of about 1800 DCSs, over five years,
and four Unions, by December 31, 1975, under bylaws that
would be approved by IDA (paras 4.04, 4.05);
(b) from GOI that:
(i) all major equipment of the milk-processing and feed
mill facilities would be procured through international
competitive bidding, in accordance with IDA Guidelines
(para 4.19);
(ii) exotic dairy heifers, bulls and frozen semen would be
procured on the basis of quotations from at least
three countries free from foot and mouth disease where
animals suitable to the project are available (para
4.21);
(c) from GOK that the Department of Audit would provide audit
to DCS's, with at least one full audit and two book super-
visions per year;
(d) from GOI and GOK that, as equal shareholders in KDDC
they would, after 1981, offer for sale at least 20% of
their shareholdings annually to the Unions, at par
value (para 5.01); until the Unions have became majority
shareholders;



- 25 -
(e) from GOK, that it would, after 1980, offer its
shareholding in the Unions for sale, at par value,
to the individual DCSs, until it had divested itself
from all its equity (para 5.05); and
(f) from GOK that each Union would be free to set the price of
its products, charges for services to members, and procure-
ment price paid to members; however in such cases as GOK
shall determine it may consult with the unions on their
selling price policies (para 6.03).
8.02      The following conditions of credit effectiveness were agreed to:
(a) KDDC had engaged NDDB to assist in training
of dairy union spearhead teams, and recruitment
had been initiated (para 4.03);
(b) GOI and GOK had contributed Rs 2.5 and Rs 3.8 million,
respectively, to the equity of KDDC (para 5.01);
(c) GOK had transferred to KDDC the operational responsibility
of the buildings, cattle and equipment of the five government
dairy livestock production farms (Hessarghatta, Lingadahalli,
Ajumpur, Habbanaghatta) (para 5.01);
(d) KDDC had been established under articles mutually accepted
by GOK and IDA and GOK had transferred to KDDC operational
responsibility of the facilities of the existing Bangalore
Dairy, Mysore Dairy, and related chilling and artificial
insemination equipment in the project area (paras 5.02 and
5.03); and
(e) A subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and ARC had been
approved by IDA and executed, and banks operating in the
project area had been invited to participate in the project
(paras 5.11 and 5.12).
8.03      Given the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for an IDA Credit of US$30 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
THE DAIRY SUB-SECTOR
A. Introduction and General Background
1.        Some 80% of the Indian people live in rural areas and 69% of the
total labor force of about 185 million are employed in agriculture. Owner-
cultivators comprise 43%, sharecroppers 31%, and landless laborers 26% of
the agricultural labor force. Rural unemployment and underemployment is
high in rural areas and the labor force is expanding more rapidly than it
can be absorbed into non-farm work. Small-scale farming predominates; the
average size of farm holdings is less than 3 ha. Only 1% of the farmers
have holdings larger than 20 ha, 6% farm from 10 to 20 ha, 30% farm from 2
to 10 ha, and over 60% farm less than 2 ha of land. Yet the cows and buffa-
loes owned by small farmers owning less than 2 ha of land produce most of
India's milk.
2.        India possesses about 17% of the world's cattle and 50% of the
world's buffaloes. Yet these animals make a very low direct contribution
to the nation's economy. They are of course the main source of draft power
for the nation's agriculture. In 1970-71 the direct share of the whole
livestock subsector was about 14% of the total output of the agricultural
sector. In the same year the agficultural sector contributed about 45% of
net national production. Agricultural exports made up about 35% of the
annual total and of this only 5% were livestock products.
3.        The contribution of India's large bovine population to the protein
diet of the bulk of the Indian population is small. Because of low average
incomes, of the religious sentiment towards cattle from the predominantly
Hindu population, and of bans (or severe restrictions) on their slaughter
in most States, very little beef is consumed. Most of the meat eaten comes
from buffaloes; there are fewer restrictions on their slaughter. About 600,000
are slaughtered annually (equivalent to about 120,000 tons of meat or 0.2
kg per capita). Most of this is consumed locally although some is now being
exported to Europe for the catering trade and some to the US for pet food.
Many senior government officials at central and state levels are becoming
increasingly aware of the need for changes in the slaughter policy to reduce
the large number of useless or nonproductive cattle and buffaloes which
currently consume about one-half of the total livestock feed resources. In
this context, plans are already underway to establish several modern slaughter-
houses in the country to develop export markets. One of these will be in
Bangalore, Karnataka State.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        Milk and milk products are by far the most important sources of
animal protein in India and are acceptable to practically all segments of
the population. However, by world standards, productivity is low and daily
per capita availability is only about 114 grams compared with 730 grams for
the US. Total milk production in 1969-70 from about 46 million lactating
cows and buffaloes was 20.8 million tons for an average of 450 kg per head,
compared to New Zealand where production was 6.0 million tons from 2.3 mil-
lion lactating animals for an average production of 2,560 kg per head. Thus,
there is a tremendous potential for increasing milk production in India.
This can be achieved by adoption of better feeding and management practices
and the utilization of animals capable of producing high quantities of milk.
The genetic potential of Indian cattle, even the dairy breeds, is low because
the main selection objective had to be the production of bullocks for
work. Relatively little attention has been given to selecting animals on
the basis of milk yield. Because of the large number of cattle available their
genetic base is broad. Selection for milk production in buffaloes has been
more widely practiced and as a result their genetic base is much narrower.
Also, there is little scope for increasing production in buffaloes by crossing
with exotic strains. Therefore,-any further improvement in these animals
will be slow since it must result from selection within the Indian population.
On the other hand, there is ample evidence to show that the indigenous cow
when mated to an exotic dairy bull produces an offspring with a yield potential
vastly superior to its dam. The full exploitation of this practice is a
practical and effective way of obtaining a rapid increase in milk output.
B. Milk Production
Cattle and Buffalo Population and Distribution
5.        The present bovine population of India is estimated at approx-
imately 177 million cattle and 56 million buffaloes. More than 50% of the
total cattle are located in the five States of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh,
Bihar, Maharashtra and Rajasthan and nine states have more than 10 million
each. Cattle in the State of Karnataka number just under 10 million. However,
inspite of having a relatively lower population than many States, Karnataka is
the most advanced in the adoption of high producing exotic cattle and their
crosses with native breeds (para 7). The States of Uttar Pradesh, Andhra
Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab account for more than half of the
buffaloes. Uttar Pradesh alone has 20% of the total while less than 6% are
located in Karnataka.
Breeds and Performance
6.        There are about 26 indigenous breeds of cattle in India which may
be generally classified as (a) draft breeds, (b) dairy breeds or (c) dual
purpose breeds. The important draft breeds include the Amritmahal, Bachaur,
Bargur, Dangji, Hallikar, Kangayam, Kenkatha, Kherigarh, Khillari, Malvi,
Nagore, Namari, Ponwar and Siri. The major dairy breeds are Sahiwal, Red



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Sindhi, Gir and Deoni while the important dual purpose breeds are the
Hariana, Kankrej, Mewati, Ongole, Rathi and Tharparkar. There are six well-
defined breeds of buffaloes in India. These are the Jaffarabadi, Mehsana,
Murrah, Nagpuri, Nili and Surti. In addition, there are breeds of local
importance such as the Bhadawari in Uttar Pradesh, the Parlak Medi in
Orissa and the Toda in Nilgiri Hills.
7.        Exotic breeds of dairy cattle have been used for crossbreeding in
India for the past 70 years. While the Friesian and Jersey have been the
most widely used breeds, the Brown Swiss, Red Dane, Ayrshire, Shorthorn and
Guernsey have also been used. All of the exotic breeds adapt well to the
Indian environment if they are provided with good feeding and management
conditions. The popularity of the Friesian and Jersey is probably due to
greater opportunity for selection in these breeds because of their large
numbers; the high fat content of Jersey milk and its smaller body size
(thus lower maintenance requiremerts), and the high milk volume of the
Friesian. The indigenous breeds most favored for crossing are the Sindhi,
Sahiwal, Tharparkar, Gir and Hariana but the Ongole and Hallikar as well
as many nondescript cattle have also been used. During the period 1961-72
approximately 2,600 head of exotic cattle were imported. The total number
of crossbred cattle presently in the country is not known. Karnataka State,
an early leader in crossbreeding, still retains this position. The State is
estimated to have about 100,000 crossbred animals of which 30,000 are located
within the city of Bangalore. Howe'rer, a relatively large number are maintained
by village farmers who have demonstrated their ability to provid6 the animals
with the care which they require.
8.        The estimated annual milk production per cow in India is about
200 kg and per buffalo about 500 kg. The following selected data show the
milk yields of crossbred cows compared with their indigenous dams.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(a) National Dairy Research Institute (N.D.R.I.) Karnal
(Source: C.A.B. News Letter, No. 78, Sept. 1973 and
World Rev. Anim. Prod. Vol. 8, Jan-March, 1972)
305-day      3rd/4th  Age at 1st
1st lactation lactation calving
(kg)           (kg)      (mo)
Fl Brown Swiss x Sahiwal              3,046          3,569        30
F2 Brown Swiss x Sahiwal              2,355            -         35
3/4 Brown Swiss x Sahiwal             2,535            -         30
Sahiwal                               1,783            -         40
Brown Swiss x Sindhi                  2,867            -         31
Sindhi                                1,633            -         34
(b) Southern Regional Station of N.D.R.I., Bangalore. Karnataka State
(Source: C.A.B. News Letter, No. 78, Sept. 1973)
305-day       3rd/4th   Age at 1st
1st lactation  lactation   calving
(kg)          (kg)       (mo)
Jersey x Tharparkar                2,079          2,496       30.5
Tharparkar                         1,287          1,304       39.1
(c) Hessarghatta Livestock Farm and Research Station, Bangalore, Mysore
Average milk produced  Age at 1st
per lactation          calving
(kg)                (mo)
Jersey x Sindhi                         2,700                  25
Red Dane x Sindhi                       2,900                  27
Sindhi                                  1,500                  32
Jersey x Hallikar                       1,945                  25
Red Dane x Hallikar                     2,685                  27
Hallikar                                  500                  44
(d)  Indian Military Dairy Farms
Average milk produced   Age at 1st
per lactation         calving
(kg)              (mo)
Crossbreds /a                           2,535                 36.2
Sahiwal                                 1,770                 38.3
/a   While several exotic breeds were used, Friesian was
predominant.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
(e) Central Livestock Research and Breeding Station, Haringhata,
West Bengal
Milk per lactation (kg)        Age at 1st
1st    2nd   3rd   4th    5th         calving
(mo)
Jersey x Hariana    1,826  1,875 2,084 2,372  2,206           31
Hariana                814    859   831   800    -            51
Milk production of crossbred cows in village herds in Karnataka State ranges
from about 1,000 to 4,000 kg. In Bangalore City crossbred herd averages of
3,000 to 3,500 kg are not uncommon and individual animals producing up to
7,000 kg per lactation have been reported.
Production Systems
9.        Dairying in India is a subsidiary activity, although it may be
a family's major source of cash income. It is also an activity in which
the women have almost sole responsibility. Their role is not limited
simply to milking the animals or seeing that the milking equipment is kept
clean and in order. They are also responsible for the feeding, breeding
and health of the stock, the raising of herd replacements, and the disposal
of all produce-milk, surplus animals and dung. The man is the farmer or
cultivator or laborer and his contribution to the dairy enterprise is usually
minimal.
10.       The common systems of milk production in the country may be
briefly described as follows:
(a) The landless who usually keep their animals tied near
the home or shop and who purchase' all feeds and fodders
used. These may be either urban or rural and the number
of animals maintained per household varies considerably.
(b) The small farmer who may keep from one to five or more cows
as an incidental adjunct to his farming enterprise. Most
of the dry fodder (cereal straw and other crop residues)
and a portion of the concentrate which he feeds may be
produced on the farm. He may even use a small area of
land for the production of green fodder.
(c) The milk colonies and cattle settlements containing large
numbers of animals which have been removed from urban and
suburban areas. The Aarey Milk Colony near Bombay which
is composed of some 16,000 milking buffaloes is an example.
Very few specialized dairy farmers in rural areas use their land primarily
for fodder production; even fewer follow a farming system which integrates
the production of cash crops, fodder crops and milk.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
C. The Feed Situation
Fodder Production
11.       Of India's total geographic area of about 328 million ha, 20%
is covered by forests. The cultivable area is about 140 million ha; the
net area sown annually is slightly over 139 million ha, and roughly 25
million ha are under double or multiple cropping. In 1964, Whyte 1/
reported that approximately 6.4 million ha were devoted to fodder crops.
The current estimate is 6.7 million ha, 25% of which is said to be
irrigated. The fodder crops commonly grown include the perennial grasses
such as napier, guinea, para and Rhodes, lucerne used either as an annual
or a perennial, and seasonal crops such as maize, sorghum, berseem and cow-
peas. Tropical legumes are little used for forage although there are
areas in the country, including the State of Karnataka, where they are well
adapted and, if grown, would contribute significantly to the overall feed
supply and to the productivity of the soil. Assuming an overall yield
of 25 tons of fresh material per ha, India's total annual production of
green fodder amounts to 168.4 million tons. India grows approximately
100 million ha of cereal grains and 22 million ha of pulses or food legumes.
The residues from these crops are low in nutrient content, are unpalatable
and at best, provide no more than animal maintenance requirements, yet
they constitute by far the greatest single source of feed for India's
livestock. In fact a large number of animals subsist on nothing but these
poor quality products. Assuming an average yield of two tons per ha,
there are about 244 million tons of these crop residues (dry fodder) avail-
able annually.
12.       At present it is difficult if not impossible to assess the
contribution which the natural grazing lands (estimated at roughly 14 mil-
lion ha) make to the feed res6turces of India's cattle and buffalo popula-
tions, particularly those bovines which are kept for milk production.
The grazing areas within daily walking distance of villages are notoriously
overgrazed while more productive grasslands, such as those in forest areas,
are generally inaccessible to cattle. For most of the year the herbage in
these natural grazing areas is very low in quality and would contribute
little to a productive ration. Little has been done to improve these
grazing lands. Indeed there is a lack of information on suitable
techniques which could be adopted to achieve this and almost none of the
best forage and pasture species to use in such programs.
The Feed Industry
13.       In 1971-72, India produced 93.6 million tons of cereal grains
and 11.1 million tons of food legumes. The area devoted to the major
1/   Whyte, R. 0.  The Grassland and Fodder Resources of India.  Scient.
Monograph No. 22, Indian Council of Agric. Res. New Delhi, 1964.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
crops, total production of each, and the principal producing areas in the
country are given below:
Area          Production    Principal producing
Crop                     (million ha)  (million tons)            areas
Rice                          37.3            42.7        West Bengal, Bihar,
(milled)     Orissa, Andhra Pradesh,
Tamil Nadu, Madhya
Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh
Wheat                         19.2            26.5        Northern Plains and the
Central Plateau
Grain                         16.8             7.8         Karnataka, Maharashtra,
sorghum                                                   Madhya Pradesh, Andhra
Pradesh
Maize                          5.6             5.0         Uttar Pradesh, Punjab,
Bihar, Rajasthan,
Himachal Pradesh
Millet                        18.7             9.1         Gujarat, Rajasthan,
(principally                                              Maharashtra, Uttar
pearl millet)                                             Pradesh
Barley                         2.4             2.5        Esssentially same area
as for wheat
Food legumes                  22.2            11.1
(principally chickpeas,
pigeonpeas, black & green
peas and cowpeas)
All the sorghum and millet and the major portion of the other cereal
grains are used for human food with the milling and processing by-products
and the cracked and split grains being available mainly as concentrate feeds
for livestock. Based on factors derived by Whyte and Mathur1/ the following
amount of concentrates were available for livestock feeding in 1971-72:
1/   Whyte, R. 0. and M. L. Mathur.  The Planning of Milk Production in India.
Orient Longmans Ltd. 1968.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
('000 tons)
Maize, as grain                               503
W4heat, as wheat bran                         795
Barley, as grain                              250
Rice, as rice-bran                          3,000
Food legumes, mainl5 as seed                2,212
Total                             6,760
Factors
Maize and barley          -  As grain, 10% of total production
Wheat                     -  As bran; 3% of total wheat pro-
duction
Rice                      -  As bran; 5% of paddy production
Food legumes              -  Mainly as grain; 20% of total
production
In addition to the above, India's production of oilseed cake in 1971-72
was about 4.9 million tons, about 75% of which came from peanuts and rape-
seed. Slightly more than one million tons of oilcake was exported,
leaving 3.8 million tons available for feeding to livestock. Thus the
combined quantity of feed concentrates available was approximately
10.6 million tons. This estimate is very close to the figure of 9.8 million
tons estimated by Whyte and Mathur from 1962-63 production data.
14.       None of the grains or by-product feeds are sufficiently well
ba]anced in nutrient content (i.e. energy, protein, mineral content) to
permit them being successfully fed singly. Thus, they are commonly fed
as components of compounded or mixed feeds and tend to supplement one
another so thaL inherent deficiencies of the individual feeds are not apparent.
The ;-roess of compounding also provides a concentrate ration containing
specified amounts of feed nutrients, e.g. a given percentage of protein or
minerals. The farmer may obtain the individual feed ingredients and do
his own mixing on the farm or he may purchase feeds which have been compounded
at a feed plant. In 1972, these feed plants registered with the Compound
Livestock Manufacturers of India produced 0.37 million tons of concen-
trate feeds, 0.18 million tons of which were poultry feeds. Average total
feed production was up 432 over the previous year, while the production of
cattle feeds increased only 30%. Because of price and availability the
Indian farmer presently feeds a relatively high proportion of single feeds,



ANNEX 1
Page 9
e.g. rice bran, compared to compound feeds. Also, a lot of feed is presently
wasted, thus the amount actually consumed is considerably less than that
available. The total installed capacity of all the compound feed factories
in India, both public and private, is about 8.5 million tons annually. However,
only about 50% of this capacity is presently utilized.  Karnataka State has seven
major feed mixing plants and annual production is about 30,000 tons. If
all of the feed were used for milk production, this would be sufficient for
only 30,000 crossbred cows (assuming 2,000 kg milk per cow yearly and concentrate
feeding at 1 kg per 2 kg milk). If crossbred cow numbers in the State increase
as anticipated, there must be either a considerable increase in local feed
production or large importations of concentrates from other parts of the
country.
Feed Requirements
15.       Feed must be consumed for body maintenance and production
(growth, milk, and/or growth of the fetus). The total feed requirements
of India's cattle and buffalo populations calculated in terms of energy
needs (expressed as Total Digestiile Nutrients (TDN)) are summarized below:
Total TDN required annually
(million tons)
Cattle
Males over 3 years                          13.35
Females in milk                             25.20
Females dry and breedable                   34.40
Young stock                                 42.55
Others                                       3.93
Sub-total                       119.43
Buffaloes
Males over 3 years                          17.50
Females in milk                             21.75
Females dry and breedable                   18.25
Young stock                                 19.42
Others                                       0.80
Sub-total                        77.69
Total                           197.12



ANNEX 1
Page 10
Thus approximately 200 million tons of TDN are needed annually to feed
India's bovine population adequately. However, the estimated supply
of TDN available is only about 114 million tons, as follows:
Total                   TDN
Feed                  (million tons)          (million tons)
Green fodder               168.45                21.90
Dry fodder                244.45                 86.56
Concentrates
Feed grains and           6.76                  4.54
by-products
Oil cakes                    3.80                 2.11
Total                      114.11
Based on these calculations there is an annual shortfall of about 85 mil-
lion tons of TDN.
16.       The energy needs of lactating animals represent less than 25% of
the total energy needs. Furthermore, of the 46.9 million tons of TDN
estimated for milking cows and buffaloes, only about 10%. actually goes for
milk production. The remainder is used to meet the animals maintenance
req!irements. This reflects the very high proportion of total feed that is
used for non-productive purposes, particularly in the case of animals with-a
low production potential. Thus while a crossbred cow producing 2,500 kg
of milk annually has a total TDN requirement about 60% higher than a local
cow of similar body size producing 250 kg of milk, the crossbred uses about
40% of her energy intake for producing milk compared with the local cow which
uses only about 7%.
17.       A mixed ration based on the availability of all feedstuff in
India (green fodder, dry fodder, feed grains, mills by-products and oil
cakes), is very low quality, containing only 33% TDN and less than 6%
protein, because 74% of the ration -is dry fodder. A good dairy production
ration should contain at least 60% TDN and 14% total protein (50% TDN and
0% protein for maintenance alone). Otherwise the animal is unable to
consume enough of the ration to satisfy her nutritional needs. The above
ration, based on available feed ingredients, is little better than straw
and illustrates why relatively heavy concentrate feeding is a standard
practice among Indian dairymen. Until greater quantities of high quality
forage are available, large amounts of concentrates must be fed in order
to produce milk. A ration consisting of only concentrate feedstuff,
proportional to their availability, contains 69% TDN and about 26% crude
protein. Although it is too high in protein if fed in conjunction with
adequate amounts of good forage, this is quite an acceptable ration. It
does demonstrate, however, that the major shortage is energy feeds.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
Potential for Increasin_Milk Production
18.       On the basis of the above estimates there would appear to be
little hope of increasing milk production unless the bulk of the available
feed, principally concentrates and green fodder, can be channeled to high
producing animals. If feed availability cannot be increased more non-
productive animals will have to be slaughtered or will have to subsist on
even smaller quantities of feed than at present. In view of India's
growing human population there is little reason to expect any increased
quantities of cereal grains or mill by-products to become available
for livestock feeding. The reverse is much more likely to be the case.
Also, since oilseeds and oilcake are major export earners, it is unlikely
that the supply of protein supplements will increase. However, there is
considerable scope for increasing the production of high quality forage
and herein lies the hope for raising the output of milk and doing it
economically.
D. Supporting Technical Services
Veterinary Services
19.       A number of cattle diseases are endemic to India.  Important
among these are foot and mouth disease, rinderpest, theileriasis, anaplas-
mosis, piroplasmosis, brucellosis, anthrax and black quarter. To control
these and other diseases requires the coordinated efforts of the Central
Government, Governments of all the States and Union Territories, the Indian
Council of Agricultural Research (I.C.A.R.), the Indian Veterinary Research
Institute (I.V.R.I.) and the various Veterinary Colleges throughout the
country. In the Central Government a Livestock Health Section under the
direction of a Joint Commissioner in the Animal Husbandry Division of the
Department of Agriculture performing the following functions: (a) epidemio-
logical studies to determine the incidence of mortality and morbidity caused
bv the important diseases in the country, (b) coordination, liaison and
guidance in the operation of a centrally sponsored scheme for the eradica-
tion of rin(lerpest, (c) establishlent of animal quarantine and certification
services, and (d) strengthening of the 15 Biological Production Centers in
the countrv. Veterinary aid for carrying out the necessary prophylactic and
curative disease control measures is made available to livestock owners by
the State Governments through a network of about 7,300 veterinary hospitals,
dispensaries and mobile units. These services are supported by diagnostic
laboratories at district, regional and state level. The I.V.R.I. at
Izatnagar is the primary center for the production of veterinary biologicals.
Furthermore, it is a major institution for training and research in veterinary
science and animal health. A number of research projects financed by the
I.C.A.R. are carried out at the Institute. All of the 21 Veterinary Colleges
in India provide training in veterinary science and many of these offer
opportunity for post-graduate studiLes and research.



ANNEX 1
Page 12
20.       The KArnataka State Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Services has been in existence for the past 35 years. The Department staff,
up to the Taluk level, presently number about 840. The State has 513 Rural
Veterinary Dispensaries. These are operated by veterinary and livestock
inspectors who have had university training in veterinary science and animal
husbandry. There are 271 Veterinary Dispensaries operated by veterinary
science graduates and 34 Veterinary HospitE.ls. In addition, there are 175
veterinary extension officers in the state. There is one Veterinary College
in the State which turns out between 40 and 50 graduates each year. The
Karnataka Serum Institute is located in Bangalore City. This Institute, estab-
lished in 1926, produces about 10 million doses of biologicals annually and
is to be expanded under the Project.
Artificial Insemination Services
21.       Artificial insemination services are widely available to dairymen
throughout India. Most of the inseminations are carried out through the 62
Intensive Cattle Development Projects (ICDP) and the 536 Key Village Blocks
(KVB). These programs cover a breedable population of around 12 million
cows and buffaloes and during 1971-72 a total of 2.7 million Al services were
performed (1.1 million under "CDP and 1.6 million under KVB). The total
number of inseminations carried out annually, including the ICDP and KVB
schemes is about 3.5 million. Most of the inseminations involved liquid
semen, although frozen semen is also used, particularly in intensive cross-
breeding areas such as Karnataka State which imports considerable quantities.
Data on conception rates are limited but appear to range from about 20 to
70%, reflecting considerable variability in management and technique and
indicating great scope for improvement, especially with respect to timing of
inseminations. The conception rate in buffaloes in the Kaira District Milk
Producers Cooperative Union, Gujarat State, is 58%. Al programs have been
particularly progressive in the States of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala,
Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, and are gaining momentum in Bihar,
Maharashtra, Orissa and Madhya Pradesh.
22.       The State of Karnataka was an early leader in AI and there are now
640 AI Centers in the State attached to KVB, ICDP, the Hill Cattle Develop-
ment Scheme and various veterinary institutions. In 1972-73 the State
*r- - c,vt 215,000 inseminations, 200,000 with semen from exotic bulls.
Most of the AI services are performed by the veterinary and livestock
inspectors attached to the Rural Veterinary Dispensaries. There is one
Frozen Semen Bank in the State which presently produces 2,000 doses of semen
daily. This output is expected to be increased further as a result of a
recent expansion of the semen Bank's facilities.
Dairy Extension
23.       Agricultural extension in India, including dairy extension
is carried out through the Community Development Program which is a program
of aided self-help planned and implemented by villagers with Government
technical guidance and financial assistance. The program is implemented



ANNEX 1
Page 13
in block units of over 100 villages each with a total average area of 250
square miles and a population of about 80,000.  Its execution is the responsi-
bility of the State governments with overall coordination by the Central
"inistry of Agriculture.  A block development officer and eight extension
officers specializing in various fields, including animal husbandry, operate
at the block level. Each block is divided into groups of about 10 villages,
for wlhich a village level worker acts as a multi-purpose extension agent.
The extension workers at the block and village levels disseminate knowledge
or research findings of practical importance to village farmers 'and they also
transmit village problems back to the various research organizations for
study and solution. At present there are some 4,500 block development officers,
55,000 village level workers, 6,000 agricultural extension farmers and 6,000
animal husbandry extension officers engaged in community development work.
WVhile considerable progress is be:ng made in some areas of rural development,
extension workers in animal husba7ndry have not been effective in bringing
about major improvements in livestock production mainly because of the lack
of training in ir,proved anjiral proluction techinology of these workers.
24.       The NDRI has a Division of Dairy Extension and the IVRI has a
Division of Extension with major responsibilities in the area of dairy
extension. Both institutions provide training for field extension person-
nel. In 1972, NDRI sponsored the First Dairy Husbandry Officers Workshop
in which 72 State extension officers from the Northwestern part of India
participated. The Dairy Extension Division at NDRI is involved in two
activities of special interest. One of these is the Village Model Dairy
Farm Demonstration Units which were set up to: (a) compare the economic
returns from dairy farming with those from the production of cash crops,
and (b) develop a mixed cash crop - dairy farming system. Preliminary
results are encouraging. HIowever, since the demonstrations have been
restricted to irrigated conditions and to only one region, much more work
is needed before recommendations applicable to other conditions and other
areas of the country can be made. The other activity involves the pro-
duction of cross-bred animals from native cattle, mainly Tharparkar. To
date about 450 native cows have been brought, to the Institute and in-
seminated with semen from exotic bulls. About 360 cows have been bred to
date and 40 females are now available for distribution to farmers. These
are sold as in-calf heifers for about Rs 2,000 each.
25.       In Karnataka the Department of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary
Services is responsible for dairy extension work. At the village level
the veterinary and livestock inspectors and the veterinary extension
officers advise cattle owners on matters pertaining to animal health,
disease control, breeding, and livestock feeding and management. In
general extension services are poor, particularly in the areas of fodder
production and cattle feeding. The experiences of the Kaira Union (AMUL)
in Cujarat have demonstrated that extension services which are built into
and controlled by a cooperative union are much more effective than those
operated by Government, mainly because the union is farmer owned and as
a result the individual farmer can demand good service.



A N NEX 1
Page 14
Dairy Research
?h 6.     Introduction:  Nuch of the basic information needed for the
dIevelon!uzent of the dairy industry in India is provided by the NDRI at
Karral and its regional stations at BanFalore, Bombay and Kalyani.
In acldition a number of agricultural and veterinary institutions carry
out research in dairying or in closely related areas.  Important among
thnse sre the IvRI, the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, the Alla-
habid A-riculture Institute, and the Indian Grassland and Fodder Research
Institute. Research programs in the dairy field have also been initiated
at several of the recently established agricultural universities and
veterinary colleges. Coordination of all these research activities is
the responsihility (if the ICAR.
27.       Breeding.  Early work in this field emphasized basic genetic
studies and breeding and management studies witlh the Indian dairy breeds.
A number of cattle breeding farms were established to carry out the latter
studies and to provide improved bulls for distribution to farmers. After
early preliminary studies indicated the potentialities of crossing the
indigenous cattle with exotic dairy bulls, the major research effort has
been devoted to crossbreeding as a method of producing high yielding dairy
cattle suitable for India's conditions. To accelerate this process the
All-India Dairy Cattle Coordinated Breeding Project was initiated in 1972.
All of the major crossbreeding programs throughout the country are a part
of this Project. The results obtained to date have been dramasic. Com-
Dared with their indigenous dams the Fl crosses mature more quickly,
pro(luce their first calf at an earlier age, yield double or triple the
amount of milk, and are more efficient utilizers of feed. Breeding programs
to establish and maintain the appropriate proportions of exotic blood in
subsequent generations are currently underway. Recently the N.D.R.I.
announced the development of a so-called new strain of dairy cattle, the
Karan Swiss, which combines inheritance from Brown Swiss bulls and Sahiwal
and Red Sindhi cows. While the exotic bulls used for crossbreeding in
India have been selected on their progeny records, no Indian-born cross-
bred bulls have been progeny tested to date. Efforts to improve
productivity in buffaloes are also being made through the All-India
Buffalo Coordinated Research Project.
2?3,      Niutrition.  Much nutrition research with ruminants has been carried
out in India, particularly over the last 25 years. It has dealt with the
composition and nutritive value of Indian feedstuffs, including forages
and by-product feeds, the nutritional needs of cattle and buffaloes,
and basic studies on energy, protein, and mineral metabolism, including
the effects of climate.  In general work underway encompasses the same areas.
Hiowever, increased emphasis is being given to more efficient utilization of
agro-industrial by-products and the role of forage in feeding cattle. These
are encouraging moves in view of the extreme shortage of animal feeds,
especially concentrates, and the potential for raising the output of livestock
products through the increased use pf good quality forage. The nutritional
research done to date in India has placed undue emphasis on laboratory and
digestion/metabolism studies. Very little production-oriented research in
which economic considlerations are an integral part of the work has been under-
taken.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
29.       Fodder Production.  With the increased use of high producing
crossbred dairy animals, fodder production research is receiving more and
more attention.  The Grassland and Fodder Research Institute at Jhansi is
the center for most of this research. Work is concentrated on production
systems for irrigated conditions utiliziag perennial grasses such as the
Pennisetum hybrids and the multiple cropping of annual forages such as
maize, sorghum, oats and berseem. The grasses are grown alone or in com-
bination with temperate zone leguminous forages. Under such conditions the
total annual yield of fresh material is high (100-200 tons per ha). Little
work has been done to develop a system of fodder production under rain-fed
conditions or where supplemental water is minimal. Detailed studies to
determine the comparative economic advantage of growing forage as an
alternative to cash crops, or in rotation with such crops, have not been
carried out. Other areas in which research is urgently needed include
the role of tropical and sub-tropical legumes in meeting the green fodder
requirements, the utilization of forages under grazing conditions, and the
preservation of surplus fodder. Until research information from the Jhansi
Institute is available in these fields, dairy development will be slow and
sporadic.
Education and In-Service Training
30.       India has 19 agricultural universities, 72 agricultural colleges
(including those functioning at the university campuses), and 21 veterinary
colleges. In addition a post-graduate school is operated by the Indian
Agricultural Research Institute. In 1968-69 the agricultural and veterinary
colleges submitted a total of 9,700 students and produced a total of 6,900
graduates. Mlost of these students were graduated with a B.Sc. in agricul-
ture. Only a small number were animal husbandry majors. During the same
year 1,960 students enrolled for post-graduate study at the Masters Degree
level and 1,830 were graduated. Again, most of these were in the field
of general agriculture. The N.D.R.I. at Karnal provides both under-
graduate and post-graduate training in dairying. About 50 B.Sc. students
are graduated each year but the undergraduate program there is being
phased out. At present there are 180 post-graduates at the Institute and
this number is expected to increase to 250 shortly. The Institute's
regional station at Bangalore provides post-graduate training but has no
undergraduate program. Both institutions offer the two-year Indian Dairy
Diploma course as well as specialized in-service training courses. At
Bangalore 15 to 20 dairy extension workers are given a three-month training
course each year and about 120 farmers attend a three-day short course
every year. Additional facilities are being planned to provide training
for a much larger number of farmers. Little factual information is
available regarding the future requirements of trained personnel and the
extent to which these requirements will be met. However, a very rough
estimate indicates that not more than 20 of the total dairy personnel
needed during the Fifth Five-Year Plan will be available.



ANNEX 1
Page 16
E. Bilateral and Multilateral Support
31.       Substantial outside assistance to dairy development has been provided
by hilateral and international agencies. Examples are the Indo-Danish
breeding project in Karnataka, the Indo-Swiss project in Kerala, and the Indo-
German project in Himachal Pradesli. Improved quality animals have been
provided through cooperation of the Australian Government and through Heifer
Project, Inc., from the United States. Assistance has also come from
United Nations Agencies such as UNDP, UNICEF, FAQ, and the World Food Program
(04FP). Significant contributions in animal husbandry education and research
has been made by USAID, especially through the cooperation of several U.S.
universities with the recently established agricultural universities in India.
Another bilateral contributor which deserves special mention is the Danish
Government. The Indo-Danish Cattle Development (IDP) at Hessarghatta, Karnataka
State, was conceived in 1961 and became operational in 1964. The original
purpose of the project was to establish a dairy cum-crop production farm to
provide Indian farmers and government technicians with training in modern
dairy production methods. The first agreement between GOI and the Danish
Government expired in 1970 and was followed by a second which stipulated
that the project would continue through November 1975. The new agreement
provided for strengthening the existing main center at Hessarghatta and
establishing three sub-centers (each with an area of about 50 ha) at Munira-
bad, Kudife and Dharwar, Karnataka State. Up to mid-1971 the Danish contribution
to IDP amounted to Rs 9.5 million. Denmark is also assisting GOI in estab-
lishing a foot and mouth vaccine production center in Bangalore City.
Dairy Development Plans and Policies With Special Reference to the Fourth
and Fifth Five-Year Plans
32.       During the first three plans (1954-1969) GOI expended Rs 22.1
million for all agricultural programs. Of this amount only about 8% went
for animal husbandry and dairy development, reflecting the emphasis placed
(and rightly so) on the production of food grains (cereals and legumes).
Similarly, at State levels all programs were biased towards food grain
production. However, although modest in terms of production increases,
the development achieved in the animal husbandry field over this period
was important in formulating the basis for future GOI and State dairy
development policies. The main achievements were:
(a) establishment of about 500 Key Village Schemes
and about 60 Intensive Cattle Development
Projects incorporating breeding and feeding
programs aimed at raising milk production at the
village level;
(b) expansion of state breeding farms, particularly
for the production of improved bulls;



ANNEX 1
Page 17
(c) improvement of extension, veterinary and Al
services;
(d) the National Dairy DeveloDment Board was created in
1965 as the main technical arm of GOI in dairy
development. It is financed mostly out of the fees
earned on the dairy consultancy activities;
(e) training of technical personnel; and
(f) provision of credit for the purchase of milk animals.
The most significant achievements in the area of milk processing and
distribution were:
(a) organization of milk supply to the cities of Bombay
and Calcutta (this was the forerunner of Operation
Flood);
(b) construction of 37 liquid milk plants; and
(c) increased capacity of refrigerated rail transit for
milk.
33.       Under the Fourth Plan, which terminates in mid-1974, the funds
allocated for dairy development have been significantly increased. By the
end of the plan period expenditures on animal husbandry will be about
Rs 780 million and on milk processing and distribution about Rs 820 million.
In addition to the expansion of on-going programs began under prev:ous
plans, important new programs were commenced to:
(a) encourage crossbreeding of native cows with high
producing exotic bulls using imported frozen semen;
and
(b) establish a foot and mouth vaccine production center
in Bangalore, Karnataka State.
34.       In the milk processtng and distribution programs of the Fourth
Plan most of the effort has been concentrated on Operation Flood. This
program aims at improving milk processing facilities and increasing milk
supplies to India's four largest cities (New Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta and
Madras). Under the program WFP is providing 126,000 tons of skim milk
powder and 42,000 tons of butter oil which is recombined into liquid milk
at the processing plants in these cities. The profits from the sale of
this milk is used to finance dairy development programs within Operation
Flood. Operation Flood is managed by the Indian Dairy Corporation (IDC)
which was set up in 1970 to serve as GOI's commercial arm with respect
to dairy development and is financed in part by GOI grants and in part
by the funds generated from the sale of this reconstituted milk.



ANNEX 1
Page 18
35.       In general the realizations of the first Four Plans have fallen
short of projected objectives. Many of the dairy plants erected under the
plans are operating at 60% or less of their through-put capacity as a
result of shortfalls in the production and/or supply estimates. This short-
fall is symptomatic of a more serious problem, viz. a growth rate of only
about 2% per year in milk production since 1951 which has been inadequate
to keep pace even with population growth. Thus daily per capita availability
of milk and milk products declined from 130 grams in 1951 to 114 grams in
1970. Government planners have realized that this trend cannot continue
without serious consequences since milk is the most important source of
animal protein for much of the Indian population.  It is now generally
recognized that the village farmer has had little economic incentive to
supply milk to the predominantly government-owned dairies which
often are inefficiently managed and tend to set consumer prices too low
relative to production costs. Furthermore, village milk collection is
generally poorly organized and is often controlled by middlemen which
further reduces already small producer margins. This has caused Central
and State Governments to reconsider their policies and has resulted in
Government encouraging the setting up of public sector cooperatives based
on the experience of the successful Kaira District Cooperative Milk
Producers Union Ltd. (more commonly known as AMUL). This is a commercial
approach that provides attractive financial and social incentives for
farmers to go into dairying. Farmers join village milk production
cooperatives that own and control the cooperative union which in turn owns
and operates the dairy plant, sets pricing policies, and provides numerous
services (technical and otherwise) to its members. Although this approach
will go a long way towards reaching the desired objective, namely, increased
milk production, this cannot be fully realized unless the other major
constraints, such as inadequate supply of high quality feed, limited number
of high yielding crossbred cows, and an insufficient number of well
trained dairy extension workers, are removed.
36.       Under the up-coming Fifth Five-Year Plan, dairy development is
given a high priority. A total expenditure of Rs 7,000 million has been
proposed by GOI and State working groups. The basic thrust will be on
programs that will integrate the industry from the production level (farmer)
to the consumer. Farmers will be encouraged to increase milk production
and to supply consumers with s quality hygienic product at a reasonable
price.
37.       Operation Flood will be continued and expanded to embrace 14 on-
going small and marginal farmer development schemes in seven new States.
The objective will be to double the number of milk animals now covered
under the program. Each program will be established along commercial lines
with the ultimate aim of producer ownership of the processing facilities
through cooperative unions patterned after the AMUL model (para 57).  A
significant feature of India's Fifth Five-Year Plan is the development
of a National Milk Grid, the foundations of which have been developed
during Phase I of Operation Flood. During Phase II a coordinated system
of milk supply will be developed which will link together not only the



ANNEX 1
Page 19
large centers of population but also about 10 of the important smaller
cities in the ccuntry. The system will provide for a more even distribution
of milk by channelling it from surplus areas to high demand centers. It
will also encourage milk production since farmers will be assured fair
and stable prices for all the milk they can produce. Thus the enormous
gap between milk supply and demand will be lessened.
38.       Dairy development programs under the Fifth Plan emphasize breeding,
feeding and disease control. Crossbreeding in suitable areas will be
promoted (the Plan envisages the mating of 8 million cows). Green fodder
production will be increased with emphasis on fodder extension programs
as well as production and distribution of the most productive forage
species. Also, more emphasis will be given to increasing the supply of
concentrate feeds to ensure that the high level of milk production expected
from cross-breeding and buffalo breeding programs will be sustained. In
this connection the efficiency and output of existing feed plants will
be improved and new plants will be established where required. The new
mills will be owned and managed by the proposed cooperative dairy unions.
39.       Most of the funds fcr dairy development under the Fifth Five-Year
Plan will come from local soux,ces, GOI will continue to receive significant
contributions from multilateral and bilateral sources. The WFP will
continue to support Operation Flood through contributions of skim milk
powder and butter oil. Also, for the first time, the Bank Group will provide
support to this sub-sector. In addition it is proposed that some IDA funds
for village dairy development will be provided under the Drought Prone Areas
Project. Bilateral aid is expected to be mainly in the form of technical
assistance with the main contribution coming from Denmark, Australia and New
Zealand.
40.       Role of NDDB and IDC.  These organizations, both of which are
located in Gujarat State (NDDB in Anand and IDC in Baroda) have close
working relationships one with the other and with AMUL. Both have a large
degree of autonomy and their participation in any and all aspects of dairy
development is restricted only by the agreed division of responsibility
between them with respect to technical (NDDB) and financial (IDC) matters.
Over the years NDDB has developed a competent, well trained, productive
staff with broad expertise and experience which allows it to undertake
virtually any endeavor in the field of dairy development. NDDB currently
offers a full consultancy service in dairy development to State Governments
which includes siting, planning, construction and equipping of processing
plants, as well as the training of plant personnel. It also includes
provision of "spearhead teams" to help organize village cooperatives and
form these into viable unions. The training of locally recruited "spearhead
teams" at Anand is provided as well. In short, NDDB is capable of undertaking
the complete organization of AMnUL units on a turn-key basis and in this
context, NDDB is expected to play a leading role in dairy development program
throughout India. However, its capacity is not unlimited and in order to
do this at the rate envisaged in the upcoming Plan, NDDB will need to add a
number of high level, experienced technical personnel to its staff.



ANNEX 1
Page 20
G. Conclusion
41.       W4hile it is clear that a dramatic increase in milk production
is needed in India, it is equally clear that at present the basic resources
required to bring about this increase are limited; e.g. there are relatively
few dairy animals with the genetic potential for high milk production,
feed supplies are critically short, trained and experienced personnel are
below requirements, research information is lacking, and the extension
service is largely ineffective. GOI is cognizant of these problems and in its
future plans for dairy development include steps to eliminate or reduce these
liniting factors.  Marketing improvements are also required.  The village
farmer has little incentive to produce milk for the market because milk
collection at the village level is frequently poorly organized and is often
controlled by influential midclemen. Furthermore, the processing plans tend
to set retail milk prices too low relative to production costs. The Kaira
District Cooperative Milk Producers Union Ltd (A.MUL) in Gujarat State has
successfully dlemonstrated that these problems can be overcome and that dairy-
ing can be made economically attractive to the small farmer. In view of
this experience Government is encouraging the setting up of public sector
milk producer cooperatives based on the AMUL model as the basic approach to
increased milk output. This approach is the most promising. Its success
depends in large part upon the provision of competent well trained leadership
to work closely with, and to win the confidence of, the villager.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Agricultural Cooperatives
Karnataka State
1.        The Cooperative movement in Karnataka State dates from the beginning
of this century. Coverage extends to 99% of the villages but to less than
50% of the rural population. Some 19,000 cooperative societies, mostly
agricultural credit societies, arz registered and though the cooperative
movement and experience in Karnataka has been better than in many other parts
of India, State officials estimate that only about 40% of the registered
cooperatives are functioning effectively. Government, commercial banks,
and others are making strong efforts to rehabilitate and strengthen the
cooperatives; small societies are being merged, defunct societies are
being liquidated, Government is providing capital, commercial banks are parti-
cipating in credit (Annex 3, para E), and paid qualified secretaries
(managers) are being employed by the societies. About 7,000 primary socie-
ties affiliated with 19 district cooperative central banks provi,ie short- and
medium-term credit to the villages (Annex 3, para 13).
2.        Cooperatives come under the State Department of Cooperation, of
which the Registrar of Cooperative Societies is the statutory administra-
tive head. The Registrar's functions include registration, development
of cooperatives, training, extension services, audit and inspection;
he is also the Chief Marketing Officer, Controller of Weights and Measures,
and Registrar General of Money Lenders. Close to 2,000 professional
staff work in the Registrar's office, most of them in the field as deputy
and assistant registrars, auditors, inspectors and extension officers.
3.        The Registrar of Cooperatives estimates that about 400 active
societies exist within the Project area; approximately 40% are milk producers'
cooperatives and would come into the Project. The rest -- generally credit
societies -- could be a nucleus for new milk production cells.
4.        Karnataka State has experience with dairy production cooperatives.
The Mallur Milk Producers Cooperative (33 miles west of Bangalore) illustrates
the type of village cooperative that would be set up under the Project. It
was organized in 1965 with 76 members and has now 568 -- membership acceler-
ated in 1968 when a commercial bank provided a line of credit. This, together
with other funds from the Bangalore dairy plant and the District Cooperative
bank, serve some 2,000 people or about 500 families. The cattle population
is 815, of which 43 are indigenous cows, 489 crossbred cows and 101 milk-
ing buffaloes. The balance of stock is bullocks and young animals. The
societies resources and investments together with the sources of original
financing are as follows:



ANNEX 2
Page  Z
Loan funds (original
Resources and Investments          Rs    amounts) obtained from:          Rs
Paidup Capital                    4,570  Bangalore dairy plant          30,000
Cash                           250,030  District Co-op Bank             12,000
Co-op Building and Site          15,000  Canara Bank                   218,245
Health Clinic                    10,000
(Society jointly guarantees
School Building                  12,000   these loans to members and
has had only two defaults}
Furniture and other              4,000
The Society employs one full time secretary who receives Rs 145 per month
and four part-time workers who each receive Rs 75 per month. Its expenses
are covered principally by a spread of three paisas per liter of milk sold to
the Bangalore dairy plant. It also has some income from an interest spread
of about 2% from credit funds on-lent to members, enabling the Co-op to
earn a modest annual profit.
5.        Several significant features of the Mallur Co-op experience must
be rated. Before the Co-op there was no crossbred cows (only 200 buffaloes),
no health clinic, no school, no savings, no extension services, and the
chief source of credit was the private money-lender.  During the past five
years, the Co-op has built its own milk collection center from its earnings,
supports a health clinic (staffed by a doctor and two nurses) and a school,
and accumulates cash savings twice monthly in a nearby commercial bank1/.
In summary, the social and economic benefits from a crossbred dairy production
program are manifold.
6.        Reference should also be made to the Bangalore Dairy Milk Producers
Cooperative Societies Union, the only Union operating in the State.
Operations began in 1967. Its jurisdiction extends to four districts,
Bangalore, Tumkur, Mandya and Kolar. It operates 13 milk routes collecting
about 25,000 1 of milk daily from about 135 village milk producers' societies.
The milk is sold to Bangalore dairy plant. The Union provides milk testing
equipment, veterinary medicines, food and milk cans to the Societies.
Furthermore, it pays 45 Society secretaries out of one paisa per liter of
milk delivered to the Bangalore dairy plant. Eighty percent of the Union's
paidup capital stock (Rs 443,0100) is held by Government.
1/   The Bangalore dairy plant pays the Co-op twice a week.  The Co-op in
turn deposits each member's milk sale proceeds to his respective accounts,
regardless of the amount, in the nearby Canara branch bank. Deposits
range from Rs 5 to 400 and average about Rs 50 per milk producer.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
B. The AMUL Story
7.        The well known AMUL story 1/ is the history of 25 years
(its silver jubilee was celebrated in 1971) of growing pains, progress
and achievement, experienced by small cultivators, landless farmers and
even agricultural laborers in the Kaira district, Gujarat State. The
core of AMUL's success was the organizing of thousands of small cultivators,
each cultivating an average of three acres, into hundreds of village
cooperative milk producer societies which, in turn, were federated into
a union of societies known as the Kaira District Cooperative Milk Pro-
ducers' Union Ltd., Anand. The term "AMUL" is an abbreviation of the
Union's judicial name and means Anand Milk Union Ltd. In the Sanskrit
language it means priceless and is used as the trade name for all uiilk
products sold by the Union.
8.        The Union was started in 1946 with two village milk producers'
societies. Its conception was the answer to a period of strife when the
farmers rebelled (actually went on strike for 15 days) against unfair
prices for their milk that went to the Bombay market through milk con-
tractors. Appealing to a dedicated public leader, they were persuaded to
solve their problem by organizing themselves in cooperatives. From a
handful of producers in two v.llage societies, producing about 250 1 of
milk a day, the movement grew to where 432 members were producing 5,000 1
a day in 1948. But this rapid growth brought problems. By the early
50's farmer-members of the Union were confronted with flush winter months
of milk surpluses that the urban markets of Bombay and Ahmedabad could
not absorb. The answer was to set up a plant to process the extra milk
into such products as canned butter, ghee and milk powder. With finan-
cial assistance from UNICEF and New Zealand Government and Technical
assistance from FAO, a milk processing plant was opened in 1955. This
gave milk producers another boost and the Union organized many more
village cooperatives. The next decade 1955-66 witnessed rapid expansion
of the industry. More processing facilities were constructed, product
mix was broadened, and milk production increased about five times. From
a small beginning of less than 100,000 1 collected in the first year,
the Union today is collecting about 150 million 1 a year. Of further
interest is the catalytic effect that AMUL has had on dairy development
in other districts. Eight other districts in Gujarat State have coopera-
tive milk producers' unions which together with the Kaira district formed
the Federation of Gujarat Milk Producers' Unions in the latter part of
1973. The long-time and dynamic leader of AMUL, Dr. V. Kurien, became the
Managing Director of the new Federation.
1/   Also see IBRD report on the Survey of Successful Experiences in assist-
ing the Smallholder Livestock Producer dated December 1973 by Dr. E.
McCaully (Consultant).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
9.        Several unique features contributing to the success of the AMUL
pattern stand out. Its birth was based on self-help; its motivation stemmed
from overcoming problems which were not minimal during its early history.
Farmers needed to be convinced to organize themselves into cooperatives;
financial'resources were meager and funds had to be found to establish
proper milk collection facilities and to pay producers cash daily for their
milk, and the vested interests of private milk contractors and their
village associates had to be replaced. The uniqueness of AMUL lies in its
ability to provide numerous economic and social benefits to thousands of
small farmers (average landholdings are about 3 ac per family). Some of
the more significant features include: (a) technical services on animal
husbandry and cropping programs (growing lucerne for green fodder); (b) free
and quickly available (even by telephone) veterinary health and AI services;
(c) concentrate feed; (d) seed and vegetative cuttings; (e) training programs
for men and women; (f) continuous supervision of the village cooperatives
and quarterly audit; payment every 10 days for milk based on a sliding scale
for butter fat and solids not fat content; (g) startup equipment for each
society -- butter fat testing equipment, and chemicals and milk cans; and
(h) organizing and contracting for transport of milk from the villages to
AMUL. Many societies use surplus earnings for community improvements such
as schools, health clinics, libraries, roads, water supplies, and youth centers.
10.       Today, the AMUL system is based on some 785 village cooperatives
with total membership of 225,000 individual milk producers, all affiliated
with the Union. In its last financial year, 1972-73, it had a business
turnover of about Rs 415 million (US$52 m). The Union returns a patronage
refund annually in cash to each society. A society makes about Rs 10 per
Rs 100 of business, or net profit of Rs 20-30,000 yearly. Its net earnings
are distributed first as follows:
25% to reserve
9% as dividend of share capital
2% to an education fund maintained by the Union.
The balance is distributed as follows:
65% to producers as a bonus
10% to village charity fund
10% to cattle relief fund
10% to co-op propaganda
5% to staff bonus.
11.       The AMUL experience was achieved over a span of about 25 years
with substantial bilateral financial and technical assistance (UNICEF,
New Zealand Government, FAG, WFP). It is, a story in which a Cooperative
proved to be an effective agency for rural development. This pattern can
be followed elsewhere in India and, in particular, in Karnataka under the
proposed Project.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit Situation
1.        This Annex updates information on the agricultural credit situation
in Karnataka State obtained in connection with the appraisal of two on-going
IDA credit projects. 1/
A. Cooperative Banks
2.        There are two separate cooperative banking systems in Karnataka
State -- The Karnataka State Cooperative Land Development Bank which provides
long-term credit for development purposes and the Karnataka State Coopera-
tive Bank which provides short-term loans for production purposes and
medium-term loans up to five years.  Both come under the aegis of the
Commissioner of Cooperatives and the Registrar of Cooperatives.
Karnataka State Cooperative Land Development Bank
3.        The Karnataka State Cooperative Land Development Bank system (LDB)
is a federation of 175 Primary Land Development Banks (PLDBs), one for
each taluk. 2/ LDB headquarters are at Bangalore but it is decentralized
through 19 district branch offices, one for each district. Established in
1929, its main emphasis until 1965 was on providing debt redemption loans
to farmers. The character of LDB has changed considerably since 1965 and
loans are now given mostly for development purposes, mainly irrigation wells,
pump sets and land reclamation. Its annual lending has increased steadily,
reaching Rs 16 crores (US$20 m) in 1972-73 from Rs 6.4 crores (US$8 m) in
1968-69. While its loan portfolio increased from Rs 31 crores (US$39 m) to
Rs 61 crores (US$76 m). Principal sources of LDB system funds are paid-up
capital, reserves and issuance of debentures. Share capital is contributed
by the PLDB's (at a rate of 5% of borrowings from LDB) and the State government.
As of June 30, 1973, paid-up capital was Rs 6.8 crores (US$8.5 m) (about
1/   Mysore Agricultural Credit Project, IDA Credit 278-IN of November 30, 1971;
Mysore Agricultural Wholesale Markets Project, credit of March 7, 1973.
2/   Taluk is a political subdivision within a district.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
equally divided between the PLDBs and the State) 1/; reserves and undistributed
profits Rs 1.9 crores (US$2.4 m); and issued debentures Rs 70 crores (US$88
m). Net earnings have been improving in recent years, rising from Rs 1.7
million (US$212,000) in 1969-70 to Rs 4.8 million (US$600,000) in 1972-73.
4.        Recent improvements of the financial and management structures
of the LDB system are due largely to certain requirements stipulated in
the Mysore Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 278-IN).  Among these are
that no PLDB would be eligible to participate in the Project if its over-
due loans exceed 25% of demand. Beginning with an initial 50 PLDBs con-
sidered acceptable at the time of Grey Cover Report, the mission was informed
by ARC officials that 110 Banks have now met this criteria, 90 Banks having
reduced their overdue loans to not exceeding 25% of demand and 20 Banks
having received the required percentage of collection capital contribution
from GOK through Karnataka State Co-operative Land Development Bank. Another
requirement stressed that LDB's management should be strengthened by the
addition of two experienced credit specialists, that LDB branch offices
should be reorganized to maintain effective supervision over the PLDBs, and
that proper appraisal and lending procedures based on development criteria
rather than value of collateral should be introduced. ARC has assisted in
this work through review and inspection of the PLDBs, training programs and
seminars for management and technical personnel.
Karnataka State Cooperative Bank
5.        The Karnataka State Cooperative Bank system was in 1915, has a three-
tier structure, based on some 14,000 primary cooperative societies at the
base, 19 district cooperative central (union) banks at the secondary level,
and an apex bank at State level. About 70% of the primary societies are
termed agricultural, the other 30% include consumer, marketing and small
industrial societies. The primary societies hold share capital (10% of
borrowings) in the District banks which in turn hold share capital (20%
of borrowings) in the apex bank. Central and State governments provide
substantial financial assistance by subsidies, placing long-term deposits
either interest free or carrying nominal interest with the cooperatives,
contributing to reserves and to a so-called stabilization fund for convert-
ing uncollectable (due to natural calamities like floods and droughts) short-
term credit into medium-term credit. The financial position of the 19 dis-
trict banks and the State apex bank at the end of June 30, 1973 is shown
in the following summary:
1/  State government has contributed about Rs 2.7 crores (US 3.4 m) during
the past two years. The share capital was in turn transferred to the
PLDBs to rehabilitate the weaker ones and enable them to make loans
under the Mysore Agricultural Credit Project, Credit 278-IN.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
District Banks   Apex Bank
-------(Rs million)-------
Cash                                      n.a.              9
Investments                               n.a.             79
Loans and advances                        749             385
Borrowings                                359             212
Deposits                                  419             177
Paid-up Share Capital                      131              34
Government Cooperatives              (46)            (12)
Reserves                                   45              45
Working Capital                           935             474
The Government holds 35% of the paidup share capital stock in the coopera-
tive banking system.
6.        The apex bank's outstanding loan portfolio is about 40%
short-term, 27% medium-term, 30% cash-credits (a form of revolving
credit) and 3% other. The characteristics of the loan portfolios for
the district banks are similar.  However, about 80% of the medium-term
credit represents conversion 6f uncollectable short-term loans into
medium-term loans. Straight medium-term loans have been for irrigation
development and purchase of bullocks.
7.        The RBI annually provides 40-50% of credit funds for the
cooperative banking system. Funds are granted to the apex bank at
concessional interest rates of 1.5% and 2% below the Bank rate (cur-
rently 7%) for short- and long-term cre(lit, respectively. The rate
to the ultimate borrower is 9.5-10%; the intermediary district banks and
the primary societies each receiving a spread of 1.5-2%. Other borrowings
by the apex bank are from the State Bank of India (15% of total in 1972-73)
and ARC (5% of total in 1972-73).
8.        Overall, the ratio of overdues to amounts outstanding with
the primary societies for the district banks is unsatisfactory despite
conversion of a substantial amount of short-term to medium-term. At the
end of June 1973, overdues stood at about 30%, some district banks reporting
as high as 47% but with two reporting under 10%. Cooperative officials
report that the situation of overdues has improved in the last couple of
years; management has been changed in many district banks, district staff
has been decentralized to the village level for better follow-up and
supervision of the borrowers, and banks are instituting more legal action
against defaulters. One of the larger banks, Mandya, has one of the better
repayment records with its some 500 affiliated primary societies. In
1972-73 it recovered 90% of demand; in the previous two years it was about
80%.
9.        The audit system of the Registrar of Cooperatives classifies
the district banks as A, B and C. A "C" bank is weak and virtually non-viable.
Within the Project area it is possible that some of the credit required would
be met by district banks, especially for short-term production credit needs,



ANNEX 3
Page 4
such banks could be Mandya and Karnatak-Dharwar, both classified as A banks,
but Bangalore and Tumkur banks, classified as C banks would require
financial consolidation and strengthening of management in order to
participate in the Project.
B. Commercial Bank.;
10.       The 1969 nationalization of commercial banks in India signi-
ficantly changed their role in providing institutional rural credit. The
number and value of loans outstanding to the agriculture sector in the
State of Karnataka almost quadrupled between June 1969 and December 1972 from
39,000 to 155,000 and from B 150 million to Rs 600 million respectively.
During the same period, the number of bank branch offices roughly doubled.
Thus Karnataka now has about 20,000 people per office compared with 36,000
people per office nationwide. The thrust of this expansion has been in the
rural areas, many previously without banking services.
11.       At the end of 1972, agricultural lending accounted for about
20% of the loan portfolios as shown below:
Loan       Percent
Portfolio     of Total
(Rs crores)
Agriculture                              60            19
Small scale industry and transport       45            15
Retail trade, small buniness and
professional self-employed            21             6
Other Sectors                           191            60
Total                317           100
Two channels are used to finance farmers: direct loans (about 75% of
credit extended) and indirect loans through village cooperatives (25%). The
indirect lending is expected to increase as the banks gain experience and
develop more technical expertise in lending to cooperatives (para 8). Credit
assistance to the small and marginal farmers and agricultural laborers is
also increasing through various mechanisms (para 22).
12.       Karnataka State now has 16 nationally-owned banks, three private-
ly-owned banks and two foreign banks. Project participation is expected
from three of the major national banks, namely: State Bank of Karnataka,
Syndicate Bank and Canara Bank. Together they provide banking services
through about 800 offices distributed over the entire State. The State
Bank of Karnataka is one of the associates forming the State Bank of India
Group, established in 1955 by an Act of Parliament.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
13.       After the nationalization of banks, the Reserve Bank o: India
(RBI) initiated the Lead Bank Scheme. Certain banks were designated as
Lead banks and charged with assessing local resources and credit needs,
mobilizing capital, and improving the supply of rural credit on a rational
and productive basis. The scheme is innovative, stimulating the banks to
try various approaches but, above all, to break away from traditional lending
practices which tended to constrict the flow of finance to the rural sector.
A close rapport has been established between the Karnataka Government and the
commercial banks. A high level study groupewith the Development Commission-
er as Chairman and bank representatives as members, periodically reviews
lending programs to remove "bottlenecks" hirdering the free flow of finance.
The State Finance Minister regularly meets uith the Chairmen and Managing
Directors of commercial banks. Similar committees operate in each district
with the Deputy District Commissioner serving as Chairman. Lending terms of
the commercial banks are related to the purpose of the credit and projected
repayability of the project being financed. Prevailing interest rates for
agricultural advances to small farmers holding up to 2 ha are 8-1/2%-9-1/2%
per annum which are in line with IDA financed Agricultural Credit Projects
for which funds are now received from the Agricultural Refinance Corporation
at 7% and on-lent at 9.5%.
14.       Lead banks within the Project area are the State Bank of Karnataka
(Mysore, Mandya and Tumkur districts), the Canara bank (Bangalore, Kolar,
Chickmagalur, Coorg and Ilassan districts) and the Syndicate bank (Dharwar
district). However, lead banks are not the only banking instituticins in a
district; other major and minor banks are also represented. In particular,
the Project area contains a good mix of banks.
15.       To better serve the credit needs of the rural sector, the State
Bank of Karnataka has established seven Agricultural Development Branch banks
(three more proposed within the next six months), staffed with a manager, a
technical officer, two field officers, an accountant and six clerks. The
manager and the technical and field officers are agriculturists trained in
appraisal work and project supervision.
16.       Another significant involvement of the commercial banks in
rural credit results from Government policy of assigning weak primary
agricultural credit societies to the banks. The banks are required to
work closely with each society to achieve financial discipline in its
credit operations.  As of June 30, 1973, nearly 1,000 societies were
allotted to 12 commercial banks in seven districts of Mysore. The
banks are functioning in about 75% of the societies. The allocation
to the three lead banks is:  State Bank of Karnataka, 421; Canara bank, 230;
and Syndicate Bank, 92.  The banks appoint the Secretary in consultation
with the Registrar of Cooperatives and share equally in payment of his
salary with the State government for the first three years. Thereafter,
the society is expected to pay his salary (which is only Rs 100-150 per
month). In general, the banks expressed satisfaction with this responsi-
bility. Certainly, it has resulted in a much improved repayment record by
some primary societies, one bank reporting 80% (drought year) to nearly 100%.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
17.       In summary, the Lead banks are financially sound, are expanding
their resources, principally from growing deposits (15-20% in 1972-73),
earn a reasonable margin of profit, are increasing their agricultural credit
staff at state and branch levels, and trying to develop a grass-roots
organization with requisite technical competence.
C. Agricultural Refinance >orporation (ARC)
18.       ARC is well known to the Bank Group, being the intermediary
refinancing channel for the several IBRD/IDA credit projects. 1/
19.       It was established in 1963 as a subsidiary of RBI to provide a
supplemental source of medium- and long-term finance for agricultural credit
institutions and to guide them towards a development-oriented approach in
their operations. In support of the latter objective, ARC sponsors
orientation and training programs for management and technical staff of
firancial institutions, helps strengthen the management and financial
operations of banks, especially the land development banks and, with the
expansion of its own technical division, is increasingly assisting financing
institutions in appraising the economic and technical feasibility of
development schemes as well as their supervision.
20.       During its first ten years of operation, ARC disbursed Rs 219
crores (US$274 m) against a total commitment of Rs 501 crores (US$626 m).
About 90% of its refinance assistance has been for minor irrigation
(78%) and land development schemes (12%). Other minor lending includes farm
mechanization, plantation and horticulture, poultry, fishery, dairy and
storage facilities and market yards. About 90% of ARC's refinance assistance
so far has been disbursed through LDBs, 5% through State cooperative banks,
and 5% through commercial banks. Future disbursements are expected to show
a higher participation by commercial banks.
21.       Until recently the spread between ARC's borrowings and lending
rates sufficient to meet expenses and, after allocations to special reserve
and dividend payments, to show a small profit of Rs 0.37 crores (US$463,000)
in 1972/73. Effective June 25, 1973, the interest rate to borrowing
institutions was increased from 6.5% to 7% per annum. This higher spread
should enable ARC to improve its appraisal capabilities to include economic
feasibility. ARC is in good financial condition, its equity position is
unimpaired by losses, and its assets in GOI securities and debentures of
land development banks, are guaranteed in principal and interest by GOI and
State Governments.
1/   Full details of ARC's organization and financial operations are given in
Annex 4 of the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Appraisal Report
No. 107a-IN, April 12, 1973. A full appraisal of ARC is now underway.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
D. Special Agricultural Crttdit Schemes
22.       Two other rural credit schemes have recently been designed to focus
on the needs of the small cultivator and agricultural laborer. They are
the Small Farmers Development Agency (SFDA) and The Marginal Farmers and
Agricultural Laborers Agency (MPALA). 1/ These schemes, which began
functioning in 1971-72, gained momentum in 1972-73 and GOI has decided to
continue them until 1975-76.  State and Central Cooperative banks, commercial
banks and ARC are participating on-lending institutions with most of the
funds coming from GOI. A blend of grants and credit is used for a variety
of purposes -- purchase of milk animals, high-yielding seeds, fertilizers,
pesticides and improvements stuch as irrigation facilities and land levellinz.
There are four SFDAs and three MFALAs in Karnataka State; country-wide there are
46 SFDAs and 41 MFALAs. During 1972-73 as compared with the preceding year,
total country-wide disbursements by participating banks more than doubled
from Rs 232 m (US$29 m) to Rs 495 m (US$59 m) under SFDA, and increased six
times from Rs 16 million (US$2 m) to Rs 94 million (US$12 m) under MFALA.
23.       A third approach for reaching small farmers and agricultural
laborers which was recommended by the National Commission on Agriculture
(December 1971) is also being tried. The Commission recognized that the
present structure of both cooperative and commercial banks is inadequate
to meet thB credit requirements of small and marginal farmers. It recommended
forming farmers' service societies that would be multi-purpose in function,
namely: short-, medium- and long-term credit, supply of production inputs,
supported by extension services and marketing of produce; thus in effect,
providing an umbrella organization of services. Thirty-six societies are
to be set up in selected lead bank districts which would also be covered by
SFDA/MFALA schemes. Lead banks will take the initiative and will pay the
Managing Director, who is expected to be an agriculturalist with at least
three years' experience in cooperative lending.
24.       The first such farmers' service cooperative society in India
was established July 1973 at Bidadi in Bangalore district under the sponsorship
of the Canara bank.
1/   Small farmer is one whose holding does not exceed 2.5 ha dry land or
1.25 ha irrigated. Marginal farmer is one whose holding does not
exceed 1 ha dry land or 0.4 ha irrigated. Agricultural laborer is one
who earns his income predominately as a laborer on the farms of others.






ANNEX 3
SCHEDULE A
Page     1
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Lending Terms and Conditions
Borrower:                 India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:            Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) and banks
for on-lending to dairy farmers, Karnataka Dairy
Development Corporation (KDDC), and cooperative
milk unions; State of Karnataka for improvement of
facilities of Bangalore Veterinary Vaccine Institute
and Bangalore University of Agricultural Science
(Veterinary).
Relending Terms:          (a)  For credit for farmer's crossbred cattle
purchases, and for investment in KDDC and
cooperative milk unions:
(i)  From India to ARC:
(aa) For ARC refinancing up to 9 years,
repayment would be at the end of 9
years at 5.5 percent per annum.
(bb) For ARC refinancing for more than
9 years and up to 15 years, repay-
ment wouldbe at the end of 15 years
at 6 percent per annum.
(ii)  From ARC to Lending Banks: Repayable over
a period of up to 15 years including up
to 6 years grace, at 7 percent per annum.
Grace and repayment terms would be set to
coincide with collections from ultimate
borrowers by lending banks.
(iii)  Lending Banks to dairy farmers:  Repayable
over a period of 3 to 6 years with up
to 1 year grace at 9.5 percent per annum.
(iv)  Lending Banks to unions:  Repayable over
10 years after five years grace, at
9.5 percent per annum.



ANNEX 3
SCHEDULE A
Page     2
(v) Lending Banks to KDDC: Repayable over
9 years after up to 3 years grace on
interest and up to 6 years grace on
capital at 9.5 percent per annum.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Marketing and Procurement
I. The Milk Market in the Project Area
1.        The marketing forecasts for the Milk Producers' Unions (Annex VI,
Tables 12-14), reflect the basic assumption that processed milk will exclu-
sively be sold in urban centers. Almost every village household has one or
two cows, which form an integral part of the typical mixed farming system
by providing milk for the family, manure for fertilizer, and bullocks for
draft power. Because of the widespread ownership of cattle in the village
and a traditional consumer preference for fresh milk, the more expensive
processed milk will not substitute home-produced milk for rural consumption.
2.        As elsewhere in India, the urban consumption of milk in Mysore is
supplied by three sources: (i) the traditional village intermediary system,
(ii) the urban dairy industry, and (iii) the cooperative sector. 1/ Under
the project, the latter would be transformed into Milk Producers' Unions
and would be organized to compete against other suppliers in capturing
a dominant share of urban markets. The present market shares of these three
groups of producers are estimated in the Table below:
1/   Specialized commercial dairy farming is a fourth source of supply.
It is relatively insignificant and is not expected to expand, partly
because of the lower cost of production of smallholder-dairying under
the project.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
BALANCE OF SUPPLY AND CONSUMPTION
IN THE MILKSHED AREA OF THE PROJECT - 1972 /a
Supply from Other Areas
Traditional        Government
Population Consumption Production    system               dairies
(000)   -------------------millions of litres ------- 
U rban
Bangalore      1,866         136         42           72               22 /b
Mysore           529          29          21            7                1
Tumkur, Hassan
Mandya, Kolar   812           46          26          20                _
Total
Urban    3,207         211          89           99               23
Rural            7,640         129        251          (99)              (23)
Total     10,847         340         340
/a   Estimates are based on the 1972 Livestock Census, 1972 Population
Statistics of the Karnataka Bureau of Economics and Statistics and the
following parameters:
Per capita
Consumption   Crossbred   Native   Buffalo
Bangalore             200g/day      2,000 1/yr      -
Other                 150g/day      1,500 1/yr      -         -
Rural                  46g/day          -          300       400
It is assumed that there are no net exports from the project area.
/b   Procurements of fresh milk only.  Neglects skimmed milk powder which
accounts for about 5X of Bangalore urban consumption.
The Traditional Intermediary System
3.        Without an outlet to urban markets, dairying cannot become a source
of cash income to rural smallholders. Traditionally this outlet is provided
by agents who collect milk from farm to farm and sell it to private urban
vendors. This system supplies the bulk of the rural milk marketed for
urban consumption in the Project area. The price paid to farmers varies
from 50 to 80 paises per liter and the milk is sold at Rs 1.50 to 1.70 per
liter in the cities. Thus, in spite of an inefficient transport and
collection system, traditional middlemen realize a high level of profit.
Considering the low yields of native cows, smallholder income from the sale
of surplus milk would seldom exceed Rs 100 per lactation.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
The Urban Dairy Industry
4.        Urban dairying in Mysore is well organized and has expanded
considerably over the past decade, particularly in Bangalore city. The
city industry has some of the highest yielding crossbred cows in the
country, upgraded to the point where their production is comparable to
those of exotic breeds in their native environment. The Bangalore Dairy
Association provides strong political representation to the urban dairy
industry, and there are other such associations in the smaller urban
centers. As a result of their efforts, imported high-grade semen is
provided free to urban dairymen through the Department of Animal iHusbandry.
However, no attempts are presently being made to rear male calves and a
significant loss of valuable, genetic material is being incurred.
The Cooperative Sector
5.        Over the past decade, tha State Government has entered the
dairy industry and established dairies which are the sole producers of
pasteurised milk in the State. There are eight such dairies in the State
(see below) of which Bangalore Dairy is by far the largest.
MILK HANDLED BY DAIRIES UNDER THE MYSORE
DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL HUSBANDRY /a
Date of
71/72        72/73       Commissioning
---(000 litres)---
1. Hubli-Dharwar                    4,099         4,666       to Dec. 1968
2.  Gulbarga                          751         1,121          Jan. 1971
3.  Mangalore                       1,172         1,709          June 1971
4.  Bhadravathi                       374           763          May 1971
5.  Belgaum                           812         1,240          Aug. 1971
6.  Mysore                            632           821          Nov. 1972
7.  Kudige                            403           592
/a   Data on Bangalore Dairy follow in the next table.
The dairies are run by the Department of Animal Husbandry, except the Bangalore
Dairy, which is an independent government concern. To ensure supplies of
milk for these plants the Department has fostered milk production through
various schemes aimed at multi-purpose village cooperative societies.
There are now about 250 such cooperative societies supplying the government
dairies; about half of them supply the Bangalore Dairy. Details on the
Bangalore and Mysore Dairies, which would be incorporated into the Unions
under the Project, are as follows:



ANNEX 4
Page 4
The Bangalore Dairy
6.        The Bangalore Dairy was established in 1965 with equipment
financed in part by UNICEF. Until May 1971, it operated as a government
department. However, poor performance prompted Government investigation
of its operations in 1969/70. The National Dairy Development Board (NDDB)
were engaged as consultants, and on their recommendation the Dairy was
reorganized into a "government concern" responsible to a nine-member board, 1/
and its management was strengthened and made more independent. Although
these measures helped to improve the Dairy's performance, operations are
still hampered by restrictions: the Dairy can only sell within Bangalore
city limits and it is not permitted to borrow from the commercial banking
system. More important is the ttcit government pressure to keep prices
down. The nine members of the Bcard who must approve a price change are:
The Minister of Animal Husbandry - Chairman
Development Commissioner - Vice Chairman
Secretary of Finance
Secretary of Industries
Secretary of Agriculture and Forestry
Director of Animal Husbandry
General Manager
President of Bangalore Dairy Milk Producers' Cooperative Union
Director of Bangalore Dairy
The Dairy has been selling 4.5% fat pasteurized milk at a price 20 - 40
paises below the urban market price for raw milk (6% fat).
7.        As shown in the table below, operations increased substantially
since 1970-71. About half of the fresh milk procured comes from about 150
Cooperatives Societies. However, the plant is still operating below its
installed capacity of 70,000 lit/day. With minor investments the capacity
of the plant can be increased to 100,000 lit/day. No major expansion
will be needed until Year 3 of the project.
I/ The Minister of Animal Husbandry - Chairman, Development Commissioner -
Vice Chairman, Secretary of Finance, Secretary of Industries, Secretary
of Agriculture and Forestry, Director of Animal Husbandry, General
Manager, President of Bangalore Dairy Milk Producers' Cooperative
Union and Director of Bangalore Dairy.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
BANGALORE DAIRY PROCUREMENT AND
PRODUCTION OF MILK AND PRODUCTS
1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74/a
PROCUREMENT
Procurement of Fresh Milk
(million liters)                    13.8       16.7         22.3        7.3
of which Cooperative Societies   6.4 /b'    7.8           10.2       4.2
Purchases of Milk Powder (tons)    207          412          440        453
PRODUCTION
Milk (000 liters)
Whole Milk                         9,965     11,466       17,783    11,278
Double toned milk                  2,885      6,711        4,564      1,037
CARE milk (UNICEF)                   578        560       19            _
Flavored Milk                         26         16       23,982    20,846
Total                       13,454      18,753       22,390    12,335
Products (000 kgs)
Curds                                309        714        1,182        561
Butter                                78         100         100          4
Ghee                                  11         21           41          9
Ice cream                             24        105           80         -
Casein                                42          10          12         26
Miltone                              187         385         984        111
/a   In the first half of the fiscal year, which coincides with the drought
period. The seasonally adjusted annual figure for 1973/74 would be
18.7 million liters for procurement with 11.4 million liters from
cooperatives.
/b   First quarter not available; seasonally adjusted annual figure.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
8.        The Bangalore Dairy incurred losses of Rs 1.6 million in 1971/72
and Rs 2.4 million in 1972/73 (6.9% and 7.7% of sales respectively). Losses
are due to low procurements relative to capacity and the artificially low
selling price of milk. Like cther Government dairies, the Dairy is in a
squeeze between the need to raise procurement prices to increase supplies
and utilization of capacity, and political pressure to keep urban milk
prices down.
The Mysore Dairy
9.        The Mysore Dairy was commissioned with a capacity of
10,000 liters/day in November 1972, at a cost of Rs 2.4 million. Milk
is being procured from 21 Village Cooperative Societies which supply
about 3,000 liters a day; a further 1,000 liters are procured from other
sources. With this throughput the Dairy is operating at a loss. However,
it is expected to reach full capacity by the next flush season. Assuming
an overall spread of 25 paise/l between procurement and sales prices,
the plant would break even at about 8,000 liters/day. Capacity would be
expanded to 50,000 liters/day by 1977 under the Project (see Annex VI,
Table 2).
II. Marketing Strategy
Procurement Prices
10.       Under the project, the Milk Producers' Unions are not only
expected to gain a commanding share of the market in the project area but
also to export milk to other urban centers, both within and outside the
State. To achieve this aim, procurement prices are critical. They must be
high enough to make it attractive to sell milk to the Unions rather than
the traditional middlemen and, at the same time, permit the Unions to sell
milk competitively to the efficient and dynamic urban dairy industry.
11.       Procurement prices will also determine, to a great extent, the
success of the cross-breeding program and the distribution of benefits
from dairying. The cost of producing milk (from the same breed of animal)
varies, depending upon the smallholder's access to grazing lands and
agricultural byproducts used as feed, as well as his access to market outlets
for these feeds. Although on average the smallholders' cost of producing
a liter of milk is lower than that of urban producers, the profit margins
of urban producers may remain higher in the absence of processing and
distribution costs. At the suggested procurement price of Rs 1.30/liter
to the Cooperative Societies (about 1.22 to the farmer) smallholders'
profit margins would vary between 20 and 65 paise/liter of milk from a
crossbred cow. (See Chart I below.) Under present production conditions
the margin of the urban producer varies from 50 - 80 paises liter of milk.
Unless the profit margins of rural smallholders can reach the profit margins
in the city it will remain profitable for the rural producer to sell his



ANNEX
Page 7
CHART I
TYPICAL FARM COSTS PER LITER OF MILK -
Rs.1.22 Procument Price.
Rs. 1.00 
Rs.0.5G
Smaliholder 21              Smaliholder 3/              Smallholder                 Landless Farmer 'i         Landless Farmer-
Roughage free               Roughage free              Roughage free                Buys Roughage              Buys Roughage
Green Fodder free           Grows Green Fodder         Buys Green Fodder            Buys Green Fodder          Buys Green Fodder
Raises cow                  Raises cow                 Raises cow                   Raises cow                 Buys cow on credit
Concentrate Feed                                       Roughage
W          Green Fodder                                          Amortization and Interest
-/Assuming a yield of 2,150 liters/lactaton; and feeding
M, kg of concentrate/liter of milk
15 kg of green fodder/day
6 kg of roughage/day
I2lnvestment in raising a crossbred cow is estimated at 800, to amortized over 5 years.
3/Green fodder valued at 3 paises/kg.
4/ Green fodder valued at 5 paises/kg.
51Roughage valued at 10 paises/kg.
6/Cow purchased at Rs.2,500, and amortized over 5 years. The city producer faces similar
costs, plus labor and rent; but his selling price is upwards of Rs./ 1.50 liter.
World Bank-8518



ANNEX 4
Page 8
best animals to city producers, 1/ thereby permanently impoverishing the
genetic stock of the village herd. Rural smallholders would also be unable
to compete with urban dairymen in the market for high grade crossbreds
from breeding places outside the project area. Thus the present public
sector policy of keeping the dairy price at a substantial discount below
the market price is counter-productive to fostering rural production.
12.       Any cross-breeding program to increase village milk production
will have a long gestation period. Production will not increase significantly
until the fifth year when the first cross-bred heifers are ready to calve.
Given these above cost conditions, the displacement of urban dairying will
at best take a long time. At present, consumer preference is for fresh rather
than pasteurized milk. Extra costs of producing raw milk in the city will,
for the time being, be more than offset by the Union Dairies transport,
processing, and distribution costs. The displacement of urban dairying will
be conditional on:
(a)  massive increase in Union supplies which, by keeping urban
prices down and eliminating the local cartel monopoly of
urban dairymen, will decrease the urban profit margins;
(b)  acquisition of consumer preference for pasteurized milk;
(c)  development of a low-cost transport process and distribution
system by the Unions;
(d)  increasing milk yields in rural areas, reducing the unit cost
of production:
(e)  increasing costs of city producers as rents, labor, and feed
costs increase relative to the costs of rural producers, who
would be encouraged to retain the green feed and roughage
which they presently sell to the city producers.
13.       Diverting the growth of milk production from relatively large-scale
urban producers to rural smallholders will contribute to a more equal dis-
tribution of income in the project area. However, even at the village
level the procurement price will influence the distribution of benefits.
Landless and marginal farmers who cannot grow green fodder and who must buy
roughage face higher costs than smallholders with viable farms. Thus, if
dairying is to be profitable to this poorest segment of the rural population,
the procurement price should allow a profit margin to them as well. From
Chart I, it appears that at the Rs 1.30 procurement price, a landless
farmer, who buys roughage and green fodder, can earn a profit of about
1/   Even in AMUL, the sale of the highest yielding buffaloes to city
producers remains an obstacle to the Union's program for the buffaloes
genetic improvement.



ANNEX 4
Page 9
20 paise/liter on purchased crossbreds. But the same farmer may have no
incentive to improve the native cow and/or raise a crossbred calf by
improved feeding during a relatively long gestation period.
14.       These conclusions seem to be corroborated by the experience of
Bhahtalli village, under the Intensive Cattle Development Project in
Bangalore District (see Table below).
/a
MILK STOCK HOLDING BY FARM SIZE IN BHAKTARHALLI VILLAGE-
INTENSIVE CATTLE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT BANGALORE DISTRICT
% of       Cows per   Crossbred cows  Native cows
households      family      per family    per family
Landless                     21           0.57          0.57             0
0-2 acres                    18           0.54          0.24             0.30
2-3 acres                    17           0.64          0.30             0.34
3-5 acres                    21           1.23          1.00             0.23
5-10 acres                   17           1.31          1.00             0.31
10-20 acres                   5           2.69          2.38             0.31
20 acres and above            1           8.50          8.50             0
100
/a   Data include buffaloes and bullocks.
While landed households on the average keep one native cow (which is
kept for breeding native draft animals as well as crossbreeding) the
landless keep only crossbreds. There is a higher concentration of cross-
breds/household for the landless than for households up to 3 acres, indi-
cating that the landless have fewer earning opportunities and have taken
up dairying as a main source of cash income. There is a strong correlation
between the size of holding and the number of crossbreds per holding, showing
that larger farmers are likely to derive higher incremental incomes from
the project than smaller farmers. Calf raising grants and subsidized
credit (through Small and Marginal Farmers' Agencies) should principally
benefit landless and marginal farmers to offset divergencies in cost
conditions that reflect land ownership rather than differences in economic
scarcity.



ANNEX 4
Page 10
Milk Collection
15.       Milk collection will be carried out by contracted trucks and
organized by the Union's procurement officer. Village cooperatives will
be organized along truck routes covering 12 or 13 villages twice a day.
A route becomes financially viable once collection exceeds 2,000 liters/
route. Milk collections from newly formed ,ocieties would be too low to
meet this cost, and for two years, transporc costs will be borne by a
government grant as part of the startup costs of the cooperative societies
Thereafter, transport cost will be covered by a charge of 5 paises/liter
collected by the Union.
Product Mix
16.       During the gestation period of the crossbreeding program, urban
milk shortages will persist in the project area. During this period,
concentration on fluid milk sales will help the Unions increase their
market share of the urban milk market in the State, which should be their
primary objective. However, as the crossbreeding program gets rolling,
the seasonality of supply and the saturation of local demand call for
diversification into processed milk products. Skimmed milk powder produc-
tion would start in the sixth year (see Annex 6) and would help to "store"
milk, equalizing its availability between the flush and lean season. In
sales projections it is assumed that about 20% of milk procurements would
be processed into higher profit margin products. The market study recom-
mended under the Project (Terms of Reference, para 20) will recommend the
product mix and the final phasing and composition of related investments.
Brand Differentiation and Consumer Benefits
17.       By following a policy of increased product differentiation, the
Dairies would be in a position to satisfy different segments of the market
at different costs, earn higher profit margins, and spread the consumption
benefits to the poorest segments of the population. The marketing strategy
of the Baroda Union Dairy in Gujarat, which commands about 70% of the
Baroda market, provides a case study in successful product differentiation.
t~)  For the higher income segment, milk is sold in tetrapacks
at about 2 Rs/lit, at vending places where refrigeration
is available;
(b) for middle income groups, 3% fat-toned milk sells at 1 Rs/lit
at a recently irstalled bulk-vending machine.  The same milk
sells for Rs 1.10/lit at the 200 dairy booths operated by the
Dairy. (The price of bottled whole-milk at vending booths is
about Rs 1.60/lit);



ANNEX 4
Page 11
(c) for the poorest income segment, vegetable extended milk,
fortified with soybeans, is sold at 95 paise/lit. (The
brand name translates into "milk-whitener" taking into
account that the poorest mainly consume milk by mixing
it with tea and coffee.)
18.       The Bangalore Dairy sells almost exclusively bottled 4.5% fat
milk, (see Table 3). Because of problems in controlling adulteration,
production of doubletoned milk (1.5% fat), which used to sell at a
discount of 30 paise/lit, has ceased, except for institutional clients.
The Dairy produces a limited amount of a fortified milk brand ("Miltone")
aimed at the poorer income segments, selling at Rs 1.10/lit.
Distribution
19.       The recommended marketing study (para 20) would investigate
feasibility of increased brand differentiation, and related innovations
in packaging and distribution.  Bulk vending is expected to remain the
predominant form of retailing pasteurized and chilled milk. It is,
therefore, proposed that under the project, milk would be sold at union
owned booths from 40 liter aluminum cans. Bottled milk is the cheapest
form of packaging and offers reasonable assurance against spoilage and
adulteration. The cost of bottling is 4.5 paise per 1/2 1 bottle; prepaid
or heat-sealed polybags (sackets) cost 7.1 paise/1/2. The market for
bottled milk under the project has been estimated between 25 and 50% of
total urban demand in each district. The investment projections provide
sufficient funds for either bottle or sacket filling equipment. A limited
number of bulk dispensing machines of the type recommended by NDDB would
be financed under the project. Their wider adoption would depend upon
experience under local conditions with regard to daily maintenance and
cleaning and protection against adulteration.
B. Terms of Reference for Marketing Study
20.       The study's aim is to assess the demand and supply of milk and
milk products in order to formulate an investment and market strategy for
Union Dairies under the Project. The study should recommend the number,
location, capacity and phasing of Union Dairies in the context of both
the State and national milk grid. The following points should be included:
Milk Supply Projections
--   should be made for each district on the basis of latest
available information such as livestock census, yield
estimates, etc., and taking into account past records
and trends;



ANNEX 4
Page 12
should separate supplies from di:'ferent groups of
producers such. as urban produc.r , rural commercial
dairies, agents for village prodtcers, and cooperative
societies;
on the village level, should separate consumption of
milk by the farm household Ciucluding calf rearing),
locally traded productiGnc ann marketed supply;
should project separately milk procurement of the
Cooperative Societies under the project, considering
the phasing of establishment of societies and the
conversion (and increase) of village herds resulting
from the project;
The projections should be made for each year for ten years
in order to provide a basis for the planning of plant
capacity under the project takirng into account the impact
of the effects of improved maniagement practices on
production of native cows and buffaloes and the intro-
duction of cross breeding programs. In the latter
context no significant increases can be expected for
at least five years.
Demand Projections
should include a breakdown of consumption by different
income groups, with proportion of income spent on food
and milk products;
should include a breakdovn c.f consumption by different
milk products, taking in-tc Consideration past trends,
and projected househoid ivcTroes;
should estimate the gap between effective demand and
supply in all consumption centers that may be supplied
bg t.-rel  '-  t-.? pricing policies likely
to prevail.
The Marketing Study should analyze:
--   the choice of consumption centers to be supplied with
milk and milk products from the project area, with an
analysis of transport and distribution requirements;



ANNEX 4
Page 13
-- present and projected market shares of supplier groups
such as urban producers, rural commercial producers,
agents, etc., taking into consideration the economic
conditions they are likely to face (in rural and urban
areas), and justifying the market share and segments
that can be captured by the Union Dairies;
--   the appropriate product mix to be produced taking into
consideration the seasonality of supply and the pattern
of demand by different market segments.
Processing Facilities
21.       The above studies shoulcL be used to determine the optimal location
and phasing of processing capacity, with reference to both the State and
National milk grid. The analysis should show how this objective is met in
terms minimizing investment and processing costs (including the costs of
operating below capacity), as well as transport and distribution costs; and
in terms of the provision of balancing facilities to cope with the season-
ality of supplies. Also a plan for the construction of Union feed-plants,
consistent with the phasing of Unions, should be formulated.
Feed Supply Study
22.       A related study should analyze tie current situation relating to
the supply demand and distribution of concimtrate and roughage feeds and
provide forecasts for future planning for project purposes.



ANNEX 4
Page 14
Attachment 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT-PROJECT
List of Equipment and Materials to be procured on the basis of
International and Competitive Bidding
For Dairy Processing Plants
1.   Refrigerating Equipment
2.   Milk Reception and Can Washing Equipment
3.   Milk Pasteurization and Chilling Equipment
4.   Milk Storage Tanks
5.   Cheese, Ghee and Butter Production Equipment
6.   Filling Equipment
7.   Milk Condensing and Spray Drying Units
8.   Stainless Steel Piping and Fittings
9.   Chilling Center Equipment
10.   Insulated Motorized Tankers
For Feed Processing Plants
11.   Raw Material Hoppers, Conveyors and Grinders
12.   Ground Material Hoppers, Conveyors and Mixers
13.   Mixing Bins and Bagging Scales
14.   Pellet Mill and Cooler
15.   Dust Collection System
For Dairy Livestock Production Farms
16.  Milking Units, including Coolers



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. The Village Dairy Cooperative Society
I.  Essential Features of the DCS By-Laws -
1.        Objectives:  Enhancement of milk production through improved
dairy husbandry; increased fodder production; sale of cattle feed;
profitable marketing of members' milk through the Producers' Union;
assistance to banks in administration of credit to members.
2.        Funds:  Issue of shares, deposits from members, loans,
donations and entrance fees; shares for sale or exchange or transfer
at par value only; maximum share holding per member 1/10th of paid-up
capital or Rs ............, whichever is less; loans and deposits not to
exceed 5 times the net worth. 2/
3.        Membership:  Only milk producers owning cows or buffaloes
and selling regularly through the cooperative; at least one Rs 5 share
per member; only one vote per member irrespective of share holdings;
limited liability; DCS to affiliate with the District Cooperative Bank and
the Milk Producers' Union.
4.        Management:  Ultimate authority in the General Body composed
of all members owning shares; elected managing committee of 9 members,
suitably qualified; chairman elected by the committee; fixed term of
office; provision for removal from office by a decision of the General
Body; paid secretary and helpers; regular auditing by officers of the
Registrar of Cooperatives; Registrar of cooperatives to appoint an adminis-
trator in case of mismanagement.
5.        Profit Allocation:  After regular expenses, 25% of net income
to the Reserve Fund (at least 80% of this invested in the Union shares
for the first 10 years); maximum dividend at 9% p.a.; of balance, at
least 60% as bonus to members and staff; any deviations from profit
allocations established under the by-laws to be approved by the General
Body and the Registrar.
1/   Secondary to the requirements of the State Cooperative Act.
2/   Share capital plus accumulated Reserve Fund and Building Fund less
accumulated losses.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
II. Operations
6.        Herd projections for typical DCS are shown separately for upgraded
crossbreds (Table la); purchased crossbreds (Table lb) and buffaloes (Table
lc). Table ld summarizes the village herd projections, estimates milk sales
and consumption, fodder requirements, and the sale of animals. Cash flow
projection for a typical DCS is given in Table 3 and is based on the milk
price structure of Table 2. A typical DCS would make a surplus of about
Rs 2,000 in year 4, rising to Rs 24,000 in year 10. The 25% portion of this
surplus assigned to reserves would be held in the form of Union shares,
earning a 9% dividend as well as, and more importantly, displacing Government
equity in the Union.
B. Karnataka State and Village Statistics
7.        Annex 5, Table 4 provides a breakdown of rural population in
Mysore together with the results from the 1972 cattle census and the 1971
land survey. The actual distribution of land by size of holding within
the State, and the same for a "typical village", are shown in Table 5.



ANNEX5
Table ia
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TYPICAL VILLAGE COOPERATIVE SOCIETY
Herd Pro-ections - Crossbreeding of Local Cous
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10    Year 11    Year 12    Year 13
(    -------------------------------------------           Nmb           e           ---------erof  -ead----                      -      ---------
Cows
Local                                        277         249        278         311         223        146          56          --          --          --           --           --           --
Crossbred                                     --          --          --         --          53        107         175         249        300          347          334          315          298
1st Calf ileifers-loral                       --          61          56         --          --         --          --          --          --          -_           --           --           --
1st Calf Heifers -crossbred                   _-          --          --         56          61         77         100          95        102          103          116          135          152
Total ated                                  277         310        334         367         337        330         331         344        402          450          450          450          450
LTss Deaths                                   28          32          23         18          17          17         16          10          12           13           13          13           13
1, e  ss--                                                --         --          73          67         82          56          34         43          116          122          139          139
Dn hand .t end of year                       249         278        311         276         253        231         249         300        347          334          315          298          298
Dleifers (2-3 yr.)
Local                                         68          61          --         --          _.    -                --          --          --           --                       --           --
Crossbred                                     --          --          53         64          79        103          98         105        106          120          139          157          157
Less Deaths                                    7           6           2          3           2           3          3           3           3            4           4            5            5
Less sales                                    __          _-          _-                     _            _         __          __ _-                    __          __ _-                     __-
Or hard ar  end of ye-r                       61          56          51         61          77        100          95         102        103          116          135          152          152
Ileifers (1-2 yr.)
Local                                         68          --          --         --          --          --         --          --          --          --           --           --           --
Crossbred                                     --          59         67          83         103        101         108         109        123          143          162          162          162
Less Deaths                                    7           6           3          4           3           3          3           3           3            4            5            5           5
Less sales                                    .-          ..          ..         __          __          -           -          -            .            --                        --
00 ha-d at rnd of year                        61          53         64          79         100          98        105         1D6         120          139         157          157          157
Calves (/I 1 r.)
lore d-ring year                        138         158         184       224         220        226         228         258         300        338          338          338          338
Males                                       69          79         92        112        110         113         114        129         150         169          169          169          169
L.ess deaths                              10         12           9         9           9           5           5          6           7           7            7            7           7
Less .olrv                                59         67          83       103         101         108        109         123         143         162         162          162          162
Femalts                                       69          79         92         112         110        113         114         129         150          169         169          169          169
Less deaths                                 10          12          9           9           9          5           5           6           7            7           7            7            7
On hard ot rod of year                      59         67          83         103        101         108         109        123         143          162          162          162          162
Total aeimal anits excluding calves           371         387        426         416         430        429         449         508         570          589         607          607          607
Total  cows milked                            138         158        184         224         220        226         228         258         300          338          338         338          338
P_RAMETERS                                                                                              Pe-centage -------.-------------------------  -----------------------_
Cal/ing ra-e
l.ocal vows                                  50          50         55          60          65         65          65          --          --           --          --           --           --
Crossbreds                                   --          --         --          65          65         70          70          75          75          75           75           75           75
Mortality rote
Cows                                         10          10          8           5           5          5           5           3           3            3            3           3            3
Others >  I yr.                              10           8           5          5           3           3          3           3           3            3            3            3           3
Calves <     yr.                             15          15         10           8           8          5           5           5           5            5            5            5           5
Age at 1st valving (mo.)
Levecl vows                                  45
Crossbred                                    --          --         --          36          30         30          30          24          24          24           24           24           24
Milk/l-ctation (1.)
Loyal vows                                  300         360        420         480         540        600         600          --          --           --           --           --          --
Crossbred                                    --          --         --        2150       2150        2150        2150       2150        2150         2150         2150         2150         2150
MILK PRODUCTION (.000 1.)
Local vows                                     41.4        56.9        77.3       89.7        78.3        57.6       21.6        --         *-           --           --           --          --
Crossbred                                      --          --         -_          77.4       159.1      277.4       412.8       554.7      645.0         726.7        726.7       726.7        726.7
Total                                        41.4        56.9       77.3       167.1      237.4       335.0       434.4       554.7      645.0        726.7        726.7        726.7        726.7
ANIMALS SOLD
Cows                                           --          --          -          73          67          82         56          34          43          116          122          139          139
Males                                          59          67          83        103         101         108        109         123         143          162          162          162          162



'S'SCC                C C       CC"            D       C0    RC~.   CCC             -              CC'           C                C   -CCj    
CCC   -^N                                                               1-                              ! I             -                I
X !  b~~C                    -     -                C) N         C'                 ,  o                     '     ,s or IC    
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                                                    Zn-el, 
>*ls o o  x o < e | X~~CIt
t|~~~~ 'C                            9                -                                    R CC            CI' n  R
Ne lenTEn n@e tO N NlN |iso X'SonooXIC
'S ~    ~       1 ,C ,C CC                  C                                          C _, _-' '                                            i      
'SC                                                                                                             Ci
>00.                                       C~~                                                                    ~      ~~~ I ooIO
CC     CC         CC'                    9'    iiC  IC                             CC       C  C C       C      o     C
c v ,t Z t z a a E U | ~~~~~C -          C)                 -                                       IIz
oc_,,~~~~~~~ ~~~~~                      'C                                              C ,<zc  =ma      n    Sc! svA   
CC' _  E      C   S                  c\              C               EC'   S   I             AV  .          U     o      J
-C)S    'C o) cC    CC ctctc ;c-Xr XOmn s= n                                     :~WCCC             eN     _     o      < 
z o _ 9 Xcc      c_         o          r,- cC  C>  x )  cc oo fI Ur<zXt 
z   _   :   _                   e l               t    E                                Z      Z |~~~~~~~'ICICS



ANNEX S
INDIA                                                                                Table It
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMNYT PROJECT
Typical Village Cooperative Society
Herd Projections - Local buffaloea
Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6              Year 7   Year 8    Year 9    Year 10    Soar 11            Year 12    YearS_3
TatSl -nimals milkrd                             45          45         45          45         45          45         45          45          45           45          45           45           45
Smilk/lactatiem (1.)                            400         460         520        580         640        700         700        700         700          700         7Q0          7         7To
Milk prodoction (,000 1.1                        18.0        20.7        23.4       26.1        28.8       31.5        31.5       31.5        31.5         31.5         31.5        31.3         31.5
As_mLsoni2C:
I)   ,i,ffaloos ailS simply replace themselves; thas nombers will remain coestooc.
2) Milk yield per lactation will increase 75% ie S yearo d-n co technical inputa.
Toble Id
Typical VYllage Cooperation Society
fc_nsnlldated Herd Proiections. Faddor Reocirenenc,
Prndaccicn and Soles
Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Year 6    Year 7    Year 8    Year 9    Year 10    Year 1l                     Year 12    Year 13
MilL Prad-tcion
.ros.hrodc from local cows
tonal con    lam) Ik                     13nc.)  138  158        184        187         145         96          36         .-          ..           ..           _.           .
Yield (,000 1.)            41.4        56.9        77.3       89.7        78.3       57.6        21.6        --                                                             .
'roshsbred-   In  Oilk (no.)              .-          --          -.         36          74        129         192        258         300          338         338          338          338
Yield (.000 1.)             --         --          --         77.4       159.1      277.4       412.8      554.1       645.0        726.7        726.7       726.7        726.7
13ffalcen   In milk (no.)                     45         45          45         45          45          45         45          45         45           45           45           45           45
Yield (,O00 1.)                 18.0        20.7       23.4        26.1       28.8        31.5       31.5        31.5        31.5        31.5         31.5         31.5         31.5
Po-rth-ed croshbreds:
In oilk (no.)                   --           3          5           7         10          13         20          26          35          45           58           62           75
Yield (,OOO 1.)                 --           7.5       12.5        17.5       25.0        32.5       50.0        65.0        87.5       112.5        145.0        15530        187.5
TOTALS:
Animals is milk (no.)          183         206        234         275        274         283        293         329         3fn         428          441          44S          458
Milk Produrtien (,000 1)    59.4            85.1      113.2       210,7      291.2       399.0       515.9      651.2       764.0        870.7       903.2        913.2        945.7
Village Ceot-mptio- m
milk (100 liters)  -           24.5        26.4       28.3        30.3       32.4        34.6       36.8        40.6        43.1        45.6         49.8         52.3         57.0
Milk Sabes (900 liters)         34.9        58.7       84.9       180.4      258.8       364.4      479.1       610.6       720.9        825.1       853.4        860.7        888.7
2/
Feed  (esciremoftr(000  9gs)
DCrees  Feed                        357         515         973      1,426       1,893      1,911       2,115      2,261       2,531        2,S81       3,497
Straw                          924        964       1,083      1,045       1,086       1,097      1,154       1,307      1.470        1,559        1,509 9
Coqs--trates                    30          43         57         105        147         200        258         327         382         435          452
Feed Cnsc (000 Rs)              39          56         83         143        195         247        308         377        439          494          512
Animals Sold
Cr.sshbrds fro=n local cnw.:
Yale colons                  19         67          83         103        101         108        109         123         143         162          162          162          162
Cnws                         --         -.          .-         73          67         82          56          34         43          116          122          139          139
Purohased ceossbreds
Balls                                                1          3           3           5          6           8         13           15           17           Z7           to
Cows                         --         --          --         --          --         --          --          --         -             .           10           10           le
1/  per capita milk toesumption is enp-ctod to grow at 5Y from a   sane of 50 grams/day.  Village Populatitn  is aset-ed to grow at 27.@  the growth rate of the rural populotioe
in Lhr lool decade.
2/  green feod at 3 poises/kg, straw at xoro, and concentrates at 95 poise/kg.



AXNEX 5
Table 2
2NDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Value Added per Liter of i4ilk
Paise/Liter          Paise/Liter
1   Farmer Level
Feed Costs  1/                            60
Amortization of Investment                10
Miscellaneous                             10
Profit and ieserve                        42
Cooperative's Average Procurement                -
Price                                           1.22               1.22
2. Cooperative Level
Average Retention                          8                   8
Union's Procurement Price                                             1.30
3. Union Level
Transport                                  5
Processing and Service Charge             15
20
Ex-factor ?rize of Bulk Milk                                            1.5
1/ Concentrate at 95p/kg includes the operating cost of feed mills,; green
fodder at 3p/kg, the market price.   See Annex L Chart I for  et&ils.



I-:i)IA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consolidated Income Statement and Cash-Flow of Typical .1ilk Producers' Cooperative Society
2        2        3                                    7        8               10 l1              12              au
lMilk Sales (000 liters)                      34.9     58.7      84.9    180.4    258.8      364.J  479.1   610.6   720.9    825.1    853.4    860.7          90g
_____________-------------_--------------------------------------------------       (000 Rs, 73 prices)       --------------------------------------------------------
Revenues
Retention (at 8 paise/liter)                   2.8      4.7       6.8     14.4     20.7       29.2    38.3    48.8    57.7      66.0     68.3      68.9         72.0
Commission on cattlefeed (2%)                            o.7      0.9      1.7      2.3        .2      4.1   __*. 2     6.1      7.o      _2        _7.          8.0
Total                                  3.3      5.4       7.7     16.1     23.0       32.4    42.4    54.0    63.8      73.0     75.5      76.2        80.0
Expenditure
Capital Investment                             2.5
Recurring Costs  /                             4.8      4.8       4.8      4.8      4.8        4.8     7.1     7.1      7.1      7.1       7.1      7.1          7.1
Audit fees                                     0.1       0.2      0.3      0.3       0.4       0.3     0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3       0.4      0.4          0.4
Transport, 5 paise/liter                       LZL       Z.       4.2      9.      o 12.9     18.2    24.0    30.5             41     . 4    7     43IJ   4      4.5
Total                                  9.3      7.9       9.3     14.1     18.1       23-3    31.4    37.9    43.4      48.7     50.2      50.5         52.0
Source of Funds
Capital Grant                                  2.5        -         -
Paid-up Capital and Fees                        2.4      2.5      1.6
xuaigesment Grant                              i. b       -         -
Operating Revenues                              .       5.4       7.7
Total                                  9.8       7.9      9.3
Uses of Funds
Working Capital                                 0.5       -        -
Expenditures                                   21         :        -
Total                                  9.8       7.9      9.3
Operating Surplus l"                            -         -        -       2.0       4.9       9.1    11.0    16.1    20.4      24.3      25-3     25.7         28.0
Ij   Revenues minus Expenditures after Year 4. The gross profits of the typical society would be divided at the Annual General 14eeting of members as follows:
first deductions are made for (a)  interest on outstanding loans; (b)  audit fees;  (c)  contribution to staff provident fund of employees;  (d)  bad debts,                  "
losses, etc.  Of the remaining net profits:  (a)  25%o is kept in a reserve fund;  (b)  dividends in shares are paid not exceeding 9% of paid up share capital;
(c)  other allocations, (about 15%) for social profits may be stipulated.  About 65% of the remaining balance would be distributed among the members
proportional to the milk supplied by them, and the rest would go into funds related to the Society's  activities.   80% of the allocation to the reserve is
invested in Union Shares.
v   Milk Testing Equipment:                     Ro 1,200
Insemination Crate:                        Rs   500
Veterinary First Aid Kit                   Rs   200
Office Furniture                           RS   300
Miscellaneous                              RS   300
2,500
/  Salary of Staff (secretary and two helpers in the first 6 years) rent and chemicals.



INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PRO.TECT
Village Statistics
Population                                                                                                    Rural Cattle
(Source:  1971 Census)                                                                                       (Source    1972 Cattle Census)
(1W2                            3             (4)             (5)            (6)           (7)        (8)            (9)        (10)          (11)              (12)              (13)               (14)
Rural          Number         (1)t(2)         (3)-5.5         Breedable      Follower    Working   Breedable   Native              Total      Breedable         Breedable          Breedable        Breedable
Population      of Villages   Average           Average            Cows          Heifers       Cows       Buffalo      Males        Cattle       Cows per          Cows per          Buffalo           Buffalo
Village         Village                                                    Cows       over                       Village          Household          Cows per         Cows per
Population    Households                                                              3 yrs                     (5)d(2           (11)-(4)           Village           Household
___________ ___________ _   _________ _   _________ _________   _ ______   ____ ____   ______   _______   __ _______   ___ ______8 (8        2 )2)       133t 44
--(000) ---                                       -                                        (000)-
Bangalore                 1,486           2,430             611            111            282            156            65           89          149         806            116               1.04               36             0.32
Hassan                      949           2,317             410             75            201            118            42           74          189         750             87               1.16               32             0.43
Mysore                    1,545            1,593            970            176            305            172            57           85          298         977            191               1.08               53             0.30
Tumkur                    1,442           2,452             588            107            194            107            31          101         220          675             79               0.74               41             0.38
Totals and
Averages               5,422           8,792            617              112           982            553           195           349        856        3,208           112                1.00              40              0.36
Village Lands                                                                                Indicators of Scar cit
(1971 Land Survey)               (19)                      (20) __--                           within Village Economy
(15)          (16)             (17)               (18)             (19)                     (20)                     (21)                 (22)                    (23)
Net          Fallow          Permanent           (15)t(2)          (15+16)-(2)             (16+17)-(2)              (5)-(l)             (16 + 17)-(10)         15) t (1)
Area          Land           Pasture             Area               Area sown              Grazing                  Breedable           Grazing land            Area Sown
Sown                                             Sown per           and Fallow             land per                 Cows Rural          per head of             per Rural
Village           Land per               Village                  Pop.                Cattle                  Pop.
Village
------------ (000 hectares) --------            ----------------- (hectares) --------------------                                       ---------- (hectares) -----------
Bangalore                                                 383             47              107                158               177                        163                    0.12                0.19                    0.26
Hassan                                                    308            103               99                132               177                         87                    0.21                0.27                    0.32
Mysore                                                    459             73              177                288               334                        157                    0.20                0.26                    0.30
Tumkur                                                    465            192              144                190               268                        136                    0.13                0.50                    0.32
Totals and Averages                                 1,615            415               527               184                231                       107                     0.18                0,29                   0.30
1/   not the total of columns 5 - 9: includes buffaloes below 3 years, young males and buffalo males.                                                                                                                                  z,x



ANNEX 5
INDIA                                             Table 5
KARNATAKA DAIRY j)EvI' iI,rmNT PROJECT
pistribution of Land in Karnataka State and in Typical Village
1/
Actual Distribution of Land by Size of Holding, Mysore State
Size of Holding          No of           % of holdings             Area                % of             Average
(hectares)            Holding                                   (000                 Area           size of holdinf'
(00_)                                    hectares)                              (hectares)
0 - 1                1,081                30                    549                  5                0.5
1 - 3                1,331                38                 2,407                  21                1.8
3 - 5                  499                14                 1,912                  17                3.8
5 - 10                 421                12                 2,899                  26                6.9
10 and above           220                 6                 3,601                  31               16.1
Total            3.552               100                11 368                 100
2/
Distribution of Land by Size of Holding;  Mbdel for Typical Village
Size of Holding                           No. of holdings          Area                % of             Average
(hectares)                                                     (hectares)           Area           size of holding
Landless                                  10                      0                  0                0
0 -1                                      32                     16                  7                0.5
1- 3                                      40                     80                 32                2.0
3 - 5                                     15                     60                 24                4.0
5 - 10                                    13                     91                 37                7.0
Total                                110                   247                 100
Act,al                               1123/                 231-
1/  Soarce:  State Agricu'tural Census Commissioner, Bangalore, 1973.  About 88% of holdings and area under
cultivation is wholly owned and self-operated.
2/  Based on the actual distribution of holdings up to 10 acres, as in upper part of the table.  On average
each household has one native cow, see Annex 5, Table 4, and Annex 4, para. 14.
3/  Fron census figures, see Annex 5, Table 4.
/  sowrn and Fallow Land, see Annex 5, Table 4.






ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk Prolucers' Union
A.  Essential Features of the Union By-Laws
1.        Objectives:  Purchase, process, distribute or sell milk and
milk products, cattle feed, fodder, AI and Veterinary Services, cattle
insurance, etc.; organize new DCS and supervise them; take over their
management if appointed administrator by the Registrar.
2.        Funds:  Entrance fees, shares, deposits, loans, Government
and international grants and foreign collaboration; share transactions
at par value only; maximum share holding for a member 1/10th of paid-up
capital or Rs   .     ...., whichever is less; loans and deposits not to
exceed 5 times the net worth; 2/ union could require DCSs to invest their
Reserve Fund in Union shares.
3.        Membership:  Only DCS or milk producers' cells in other
cooperative institutions; limited liability- at least one Rs 100 share
per member society.
4.        Management:  Ultimate authority in the General Body composed
of the chairmen of the affiliated DCS; a 15 member (at least 8 elected
farmers) Board of Directors to include representatives from banking
institutions, Registrar, KDDC, Department of Animal Husbandry (GOK);
Chairman elected by Board members, annually. Board to appoint the
General Manager and other staff and fix their renumeration; General
Manager could be removed by a vote of the General Body.
5.        Profit Allocation:  After meeting expenses, at least 25% to the
Reserve Fund; maximum dividend 9% p.a. on paid up capital; dividend
payable but not distributed on DCS joint equity contributed by Govern-
ment until actually purchased anid owned by DCS; such undistributed
dividend used for buying out GOK equity to increase DCS joint equity;
up to 80% of balance as bonus to members in proportion to milk procurement;
at least 3% to research and extension fund.
1/   Secondary to the requirements of the State Cooperative Act.
2/   Share capital plus accumulated Reserve Fund and building fund less
accumulated losses.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
B. Invescments and Operations
6.        Investments under the project for the expansion of the existing
milk processing plants at Bangalore and Mysore and for the new plants at
llassan and Tumkur as well as the feed mills are in Tables 1 to 4. Table 5
summarizes the other fixed investments for a Union.  Consolidated invest-
ment projections for the 4 Unions are in Tables 6-9. Income and operating
cost projections for the processing plants and the feed mills are in
Tables 12-16. Financial rates of return range from 15% for the new plants
to 28% for the expansion at Bangalore. For the feed mills the rates of
return range from 13% to 17%. Cash flow projections are shown iin Tables
18-20. Repurchase of Government equity by the DCS is shown under "Transfers"
in Tables 18-20. The DCS apply 25% of their own surplus to a reserve fund
to be invested in Union shares. Buying out of Government equity, as well
as, repayment of equity assigned by Government, begins in year 11, GOK
equity is expected to be 35%.



I 100202.00-021 I-                                            -,       -  '443               000         022000>    -
I                                                    I                                                  20
020'-o0-0-0-OH        -       0 0 2            00220       0000220-tN    002'-02  -    0222000 0.           200000200230          0  -
0  -3=900   '0  00.2  200                00000--0  . 0000-02000.--Ooo-020000002  0  0   2'2
-.      00  2       -. 0-20020  00' 000    -o00000000002-020000-00   0  0  0-00  0. 02 0  0
000200.000            0    I  020  0       0   0  00'  '0  000   I  -0-0-02000              000=00   0<                    0      0
0o0-0000.000                                  000'00  00-00-0    tN-002.0-00-00-00   <230.20-000  00200220 00.00    0-200.0
000   --ooo             HV0            0020000-000   00  -'000000   0 000    02000                   02000  0000   20  00221  0
000 0-00   ,,,,..     0.  022002          0- 0002002  0  0220.0  000    0.0000200   OO0200202h  000000023   00  0  20
0002  '-000  0             -           0       00-0000220.0  0002000000   0'                                  o000-o         22'    -  -
00  o3 000 ,,             0              -  0 - 00  000000   0  00000020000.  000-00                   00000000                     22 02
0-0000.0-00           0             0  0  0   0002                   0>0000.0             Lw      00                              H     to
ooo 000000,-   0                          000000000  -00 000   02000002  0002000002000
.-....o too-  000     0             0  0  0      000-00-0                210-230  -'-00      0000--       0002000.0000   ..
0000  0'00  -.        20            0  0.  0   00  0                00200-0000               0000          000" 0000
0000-00.0                           0  H        0000         0       0000000220              000   0        000-0200          0
0-0020               0             0  0  0    00.00         0       0-002000000-           202000-         00-  0002'..      0      0
0     00'"  0  0  0           20200                                    0            0      00003200-.  02
'100000000                        -     -                          0 -         0000        0020.0         000    00         0      0
000 000'Oo-2o        0            0  0  0   0000-          0        0020230-000            0 0000             000-OH
0200 '-oflO    o      0             0  0  0   00-00          0       Oo.00    -.           020000-          0  00  00         0      0
00                                0      0    oOO0-        K         00200.00   00        -0000
000000000                           0 JO.. 0   00                                                              -000
o-o                      02        '..                  -                           0         0  0000'
0         -0t                   0      0- -.             0-tOO            '0- 00
o*                                0  ..      10-                    0     000              0  00                   00
So                             0  0  -.   ...                   0            000       .000   0           00-00
o-    0  to. 020                    -. 0  0       30,                0                       00.020            0000
2.20  000-   0                      0  20 0    'oH,                  23     0  0  0          20-0  00
0                                   0      0   O 02                         02  0-          00200             0-00.0
00                                  0      0    -'                   0      N"'              002000             "00020
0    0  0  o'0                   0      0                                  0                000                0
000  2000    5    0.0                                                              .                             0
'00   0'0    00                                                                                                  0
00  00   0  00'                                                               0                 0                0
00   00  0    0                                                              00                 00               -
000.00000                                                                     02                -0               0
0-   0    0  00                                                              -.                 0                0
20.0  .0    00    0                                                                             0
000  00  0  00                                                                                 '0
05
0    0    02   200                                                                                                                                   0    20
0  00       0
0  HO  0- 0
0-0    0  00                                                                                                                       02
5       0-0      -                                                                                                                            0
0202                        2.          00        0202
000    0  C  0  0000    000000    diOoOoOoi 02    00000, II    0oo.,,d0                iS.        -
0-00-   .0  0002.000000002  00    20 0- 0  0    0             0,000          02
'0  0    C
02    0-    00'                                                                                                                                  0
03k     0-    02                                                                               I          -            00
20,0000  02 00    0002      0-00  -     00 00    020030202   2002  00020202   00 00 00 00
0200002  00 02 00 02000      0000-00    -00  00 000000    20020  00202   00 0  0000H
I                      0020
dlCo    0  o  0  0000       00000       000'0'000000    0000  00000    0010000000000    I
0-0-    0  00 0-
032000   20 00 00 0000      0200  0002   020002   0000000202   020000        000200000                    00  000
00  '4020    020-02200002      0000-0-00    H000000  000000    02020002  0000   00-  00002002               00
0  0  0  0000       0000000    0000000000000000000    000001000    0000000000                    0   00-
0  00        0                                                                                                                           00
0    0       0
0            0
0    H       0       02
00           00      00  00200    00  00  00                      02                    02             02                I
0-  0                -   .0.         -   ,                        -                     -              -
00                         I                                                                                                        b
20  20'0-o   0020000-0         200-  0002  00 0-000  020-002=   02002              -  0-00000
02           0       02  03020    0  00 00 30020-    0-00  0-0   020o000  CooCo    000200-00-3   02 0  00000
00 20        0       0   000    0  0  0  0000         00000000   0000000000 0000000000   000000000    00000000000           0
0                 02  0102     00
0                 02   001200200020200             00          00020202020200                       02       02       2               'H
20  oE0-    0- 00 00 00000000   00000200    0002.00020-02000-2-   20020200000-0-   00202000002000-                 020
02               02  022000   00 02 02 000-0000   0202000000   0-00000002  000200002000000020020-000000020                            20
0                 0   000    0  0  0  00000    000000200    0000000000000000    000000000    000000000               0 0 2            002
H
00          00      2000000000102020    010000, 00000    000000000000    0-00,,, 0000
02          02    02 020         00 00020   000320202  00020200000-0002000202     02       00
00          00    02 0000 0   000000    0210000 0000002    02,000200    000 I 0000



AN}EX 6
Table 2
INDIA
_al   TAKA LIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk Processing Facilities:  Mysere /1
Investment Proiections
Year I          Year 3           Year 4           Year 5           Total           Foreign Exchange
-----'----DOO-------00R-------------- -                                  -                 %
INVFSTMENT ITEMS
Total Capacity:  Liters/Day                                             50,000          100,000         200,000          300,000
FIXED INVESTMENT
Land and Infrastructare
land                                                                       -               60                -                -              60
Site preparactic                                                           -               50                -              30               80
Sub-Total                                                               -             1It                -               30              140
Civi  nWrks  /2
Plant yards, fencing, infr-ateucture                                     100              200               60             300              660
Main processing and st-rage building                                     200              200           1,200              260            1,860                 10.0
Adeinistration,  .uboratory, drenising rooms, etc.                       100              120              300             240              760                  5.0
(arage, stcre, auxiliary buildings                                       100              100             500              260              960
Water storage tank                                                         -              200                -                -             200
Effluent treatnent system                                                100                -              170               -              270                  .,-
Staff hobaing                                                              -                -             210                -              210                 10.0
Sub-Total                                                             600             820            2,440            1,004,920
lltilitiea /2
Water well., sapply line, penps, etc.                                    170               S0              ISO             150              520                 30.0
Power 1.T. iene, substation, switch gear, etc.                           120              170              120             170              580                 30.0
Package steam generaters, feel Lank and ausiliary                        300                -              300             700            1,300                 20.oLI2
Refrigerating equipment and auxiliaries                                  200              200             400              300            1,100                 70.0 /10
Service lines, maintenance equipment, etc.                                50              100             0OO              200              450                 20.0
Insctlltlon /3   (157)                                                   130               80             160              230              600                 -.'-
Sub-Total                                                             970              600           1,230            1,750             500                  31.8
Machinery and Eqisneest
Mibk rception and can washing                                            260              280              700             530            1,770                 80.0 "o
Milk pasteurization, chilling and C.l.P.                                 250              270              720             480            1,720                 80.0  10
Milk storage tanks                                                       180              080             500              360            1,220                 30.0 7/1
Milk by-product making mquipm.nt                                         150               60             400              200              810                 70.0 /10
onttle/plastic bug filler/bulk nending .nit.                             140              140             360              260              900                 60.0 /10
Milk condensing and spraydrying enit                                       -                -              660           2,640            3,300                 80.0 7io
S.5. piping and fittings                                                  30               80              150             140              400                 70.0 /10
Chilling center, complete                                                500              500             500                 -           1,500                 70.0 /10
Tnstallation /3  (157)                                                   150              150             530              690            1,520                 30.0 /1
Offiun and laborutory equipment, miacellaneous                            50                -              100              50              200                 30.0
Sub-Total                                                           1,710           1,660            4,620            5,350          13,340                  655.5
Tran-ourtation Equipment
Insulated task trucks                                                      -                -             300            1,500            1,800                 50.0 /I1
Pick up truks  nun  /4                                                   240              240             320              160              960                 25.0
Jeeps, cars                                                               40               40                -                -              80                 25.0
Alseinum  noes                                                           130              170              350             350           10000                   -
Sub-Total                                                             410             450              970            2,010           3,840                  30.2
Engineering and Overhead
Organizational eopenses /5  (1%)                                         270                -                -               -              270
Design and supernision /6  (2%)                                           70               60             170              160              460
Contractor's engineering A   (6%)                                        200              180             500              490            1.370                 50.0
Sub-T.tni                                                             540             240              670              650           2,100                  32.6
Total Fined  -nvestment u/c Datien and Taxes                             4,230            3,880            9,930          10,830           28,890                 42.5
Import Duties and Tunes /7 (70%)                                           970              890           2,270            2,480            6,610
Total Fixed Innestment w/o Contingencies                                 5,200            4,770          12,200           13,330           35,500                 34.6
C.nti.g ...iep
Physical 78                                                              260              240              610             670            1,780
Price  /9                                                              1.770           2,810           8,780            10,770          24.130
Sub-Total                                                          2,030            3,050            9,390          11,440           25,910
Total Fixed Investment                                                   7,230            7,820          21,590           24,770           61,410                  34.6
/I  The existing plant of 10,000 Its/day capacity would undergo expansion in year 1, 3, 4 and 5 shile continsing operations.
T2 Cost of machinery and equipment includes crating, insurance and freight to site.
/3 15% of total equipeent cost.
74 50% of the transportoticn of milk free societies wo-ld be contracted.
7;  1% on total project cost.
/6 On civil works, utilities and macbinery and equipment costs.
/   Assumed 70%, resulting fram 220% on stainlesn steel, 70% on components and refrigerating equipment and 40% on itema not eansfactered locally.
7 Physical contingencies 5%.
Price  oetingencie  opoli ed as civil wrks., equipment and other in accordance with Bank revised interim  guidelines.
/1 Ite-s considered for ICR subject to import duties,



ANNEX 6
Table 3
INDIA
KARiNAlAKA  )AIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk Processing Facilities: Tumkur, Hassan
Investment Pro-e-tions
('000 Re)
Year 1/2              Year 2/2              Year 4L2              Year 5/2               Total                 Foreign Exchoege
INVESTMENT ITEMS
Tatal Capacity: titers/day                               -               75,000               150,000                200,000
P1XE11 INVESTMENT
Land and Infrastrantare
land                                                 80                     -                      -                     -                    80                -,-
Site Preparation                                     60                     -                      -                    10                    70
Sab-Ttal                                       140                      -                     -                    10                    150
Civil Wlorks
Plant yards, fencing, infeastractare                310                   110                      -                    50                   470                -
Main processing & storage bhilding                  600                   240                   100                    400                 1,340               10,0
Adnicistration, lab., dressing rooms, etc.           80                   320                     50                   100                   550                5.0
(drage, stare e ac-iliI,ry bhildings                200                   200                    50                    100                   550
Water storage tank                                   70                    80                      -                     -                   150
Effl-not treatmrnt system                             -                   150                     -                     50                   200
Staff hoesing                                       200                   100                     -                     50                   350               10.0
Seb-TLal                                     1,460                  1,200                   200                   750                 3,610                 5.4
/3
l'tili ties
Water cells, s-pply line, pumpa, etc.               100                   150                     30                    70                   350               30.0
Pa-er l.1. line, -bht.tian, scitchgear, etc.  100                         150                    50                    100                   400               30.0
acknage steam generatots, Efel tank & auxil.   150                        400                     -                    200                   750               20.0 /10
Refrigerating eqtyipeent & auxillaries              150                   400                   150                   150                    850               70.0 7TC
Service line-   mainteanrne eqaipment, etc.           -                   200                    50                    s0                    300               20.0
lestalldtiancLA (157)                                30                   240                    40                    90                   400
Sukb-Total                                      530                  1,540                   320                   660                 3,050               33.7
flaml:inery and quip.ment-j
Milk reception & can cashing                        240                   960                    200                   200                 1,600               80.0 /10
Milk paateurization, chilling & C.1.P.              150                   600                   400                    400                 1,550               80.0 7/1
Milk storage tanks                                  120                   480                   250                    250                 1,100               30.0 71h
Milk ky-prod uct caking equipment                   100                   480                      -                   150                   730               70.0 7TO
Bottle/plastic bag filler/bhlk
vending -nito                                     100                   300                   100                   100                    600               60.0 /10
Milh cnedensic & spray drying unit-
S.5. piping & fittings                               40                   160                    50                     50                   300               70.0 /10
Chilling center, complete                           100                   400                   500                    500                 1,500               70.0 /10
Installatio_/4 (157)                                  -                   560                   150                   170                    880               30.0 7Th
Office &   b equipment, nisc.                         -                   100                    20                     30                   150               30.0
Sakh-Total                                      850                 4,040                  1,670                 1,850                 8,410               62.9
Transportation Equip-ent
Insulated tank track,3                                -                     -                     -                    300                   300               50.0 /10
Pink op tracks, vane-                                 -                   240                   240                    160                   640               25.0
Jeeps, ears                                          40                    40                      -                     -                    60               25.0
Aluminum cans                                         -                   280                   280                    190                   750                -
Sub-Total                                        40                    560                   520                   650                 1,770                18,6
Engineering and Overhead
Organi-atioanl enpeoo  L   (1/.)                    170                     -                      -                     -                   170
lesign & supervision- (2X)                           60                   130                    40                     70                   300                -,-
Contracetr's engineerinng/  (6.)                    170                   400                   130                    200                   900               50.0
Sub-Total                                       400                    530                   170                   270                 1,370                32.8
Total Fixed Investment w/n Dlties & Ta.es           3,420                 7,870                 2,880                  4,190                18,360               39.7
Import Maties & Taxos-  (70%)                         760                 1,750                   640                    930                 4,080
Total Fixed Investoent c/a Contingencies            4,180                 9,620                 3,520                  5,120                22,440               32.5
Contingoncles:
Pkynig1l  (5%)                                      210                   480                   170                    260                 1,120
Price-.                                          1,520                 4.340                  2.360                 4.300                12.520
SOb-Total                                     1,730                 4,820         _        2.530                 4,560                13,640                32.5
atal Fioed Investment                             5,910                14,440                  6,050                 9,680                36,080
/I Hassac and T-ak-r plants will be identical, all data corresponds to one plant.
/2  Plant wosld be built daring years 1 and 2, commence operating in year 3 and andergo expansion in years 4 and 5 while continuing operation.
/3 Cost oEf machinery and equipment includes crating, insurance and freight to site.
/4 153 of total equipment cost.
/5 507. of the transportetion of milk from societies would be contr-cted.
/6 1% on total project costs.
/7 On civil works, utilities and machinery and equipment costs.
/8  A.s.med 70%, resulting from 220% on stainless steel, 70% on camponents and refrigerating equipment and 40% on items not manufactured locally.
/9 Price contingencies applied as civil works, equipment and other in accordance with Bank revised interim guidelines.
/10  Iteem  considered for ICB sabject to import duties.



ANbT8X 6
Table 4
INDIA
KARNATARA DAIRY DEVELOFPIENT PROJECT
Feed Mill:  Bangalore. Mysore, Has.as, Toskur /1
Investment Projections
Bangalore. Mysore                                                          Hasse. .  Teedkur
Foreign                                                                  Foreign
Year 1 /2   Year 2 12   Year 5 /2    Total           Exchange            Year 1 /2   Year 2 /2   Year 5 /2    Total            EnChange
--------- '0 s--_---------- -. b0    --------                           -----------            '000 Rs -----------~-~S-           %
INvESTMENT ITEMS
Total CaPacity:  ToeslDay                                      -          100           150          150           -                     -           60          100           100         - -
FIXED INVESTMENT
Land and Infrastructure
Land                                                        80            -             -           30           -                   80             -            -            80
Situ preparation                                            30                                      30                               30                                      30
Sub-Total                                              110             _            _          110                                              _          -             110
Civil Works
Plant yards, fencing, infrastructure                       300            -           40           340           -                  230            -            30          260
Main prcesning bu:lding                                    380            _             -          380        10.0                  290             -            -          290         10.0
Office, lal., dreusing noons                               150          150           60           360         5.0                  120          120            40          280          5.0
Raw mateniul, storage sheds, weigh bridge                 220           220          150           590        15.0                  170          170           110          450        15.0
Product storage, auxiliary sheds,  isc.                    140          140          110           390           -                  110          110            80          300
SAb-Total                                             1510                        360        2,060         7.0                   920          400          260         1.580         7.0
utilities /3
Water well, pcnp, tcnk                                      80            -             -           80        30.0                   60             -            -           60         30.0
Pacer I.T. Iien, substation, switch gear                    80          140          120           340        30.0                   60           110           90          260        30 0
Package stean g.nerater, fuel tank, auxiliary               90          290          140           520        20.0 10                70          220           110          400        20 0/10
Service lines, naintenance eqaipent, etc.,                 40            90           30           160        20.0                   30            70           20          120        20.0
Tnstallatien /6  (157)                                     40            90           40          170            _                   30           70            30          130
Sub-Total                                              330          610           330        1,270        iT;                    250          470           250          970        20.6
Machinery and Equipment /3
Raw naterial hoppers, eo-nynrs., grinders                   70          170           60           300        90.0 /10               50           130           50          230        90.0 /10
i;round msterial boppers, conveyors, nixers                 90          340          160           590        90.0 /i1               70          260           120          450        90.0  m
Feed nit biss and bagging stole                              -          110           20           130        70.0 /i                 -           80            20          100        70.0 /10
Pellet mill, cooler and a.xiliaries                         80          180          260           520        90.0 7/1               80          180             -          260        90.0 710
inst collecting system, nist-                                -           90           30           120       20.0 7i0                 -           70            20           90        20.0 110
T-notllatioe /4  (15/Y)                                    40           140           40          220        50.0  710               30          110            30          170        50.0 7!?
Office sod lab. equipent, nin.                               -           70           10            80        30.0                    -           50            10           60         30.0
Sub-Total                                              280        1,100           580        1,960        77.4                   230          880          250         1,360        76.3
'Iransportation Equipnent
Tr_cbs  /5                                                  80          400          240           720        25,0                   b0          240           160          480        25.0
Jeeps and 'a-s                                             40            40            -            80        25.0                   40           40             -           80        25.0
Su.b-Total                                             120          440           240          800        25.0                   120          280           160          560        25.0
Enginenring and Overhead
Organizational eopenses /6  (1/)                            20           20           10            50           _                   20            20           10           50            -
Design and supervision 17  (27)                            40            40           30           110           -                   30           40            20           90            -
Contractor's  egiseering /7  (67)                          110          130           80           320        50.0                   90          110            50          250        50.0
Sob-Total                                              170          190           120          480        33.1                 1t0          T170 T80                     390        32.1
Total Fiend In.etnt w/o Dutie.s and Tanes                  2,200        2,850        1,630         6,680        34.2                1,770        2,200         1,000        4,970         32.5
Impert Dsties and Taxes L/  (60%)                            140          470          280           890           -                  120           380          110          610            -
Total Fined Investment w/o Contingencise                   2,340        3,320        1,910         7,570        30.2                1,890         2,580        1,110        5,580         2869
c-tincetxins
Physical  (5%)                                             120          160          100           380          -                    90          130            60          280            -
Prite /9                                                  890         1.510        1,640        4,040            -                  720        1.180           980        2 880
S0b-Total                                            1,010        0,670         1,740        4,420            -                  810        1,310        140            160
Total Fixed lnvestment                                     3,350        4,990        3,650        11,990           -                2,700         3,890        2,150        8,740         28.9
/1  Bangalore and Mysora plants will be identical, a11 data carresponde to one plant, this also applies to Hassan and Tukur.
/2 Plants would be built in years I and 2, commence operating in year 3 and undergn expansion in year 5 while continuing operations.
/3  Cant of machinery and eqeiptent includes crating, insurance and freight to site.
/4  15% of total equipment cest,
/5  For distribution of feed to village societies.
/6  On total project oost.
/7  on civil works, utilities and nanhinery and nqsipnent costs.
T8  Assuned 60% as most of this eauipmnat is eurrently .ansfactured lncally.
T! Price contingenties applied as civil workss, equipeeent and other in accordance with Bank revised interim guidelines.
/10 Iteen cnssidered for ICB and subject to teepert duty.



KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fixed Investments in Administration and Services:  Projections for Ilassan and Tunkur r7ilk Producers' Unions, 400 Societies 1/
(000 Rs)
Year        1       2        3        4        5       6               Total        Local        Foreign
Overhead
buildings, including laboratory
space                                            150     350       -        -        -       -                500         450            50
Staff and Labor Quarters                         100     100      100    100       100       -                500         475            25
Vehicles (Jeeps .3 Rs 40,000)                     80       -       80      40        -        -               200         150             50
Subtotal                                   330      450      180    140       100       -             1,200       1,075            125
Technical Services
1.  Animal Eealth
Equipment, Instruments,
Glassware                                    45      105       -        -       -        -                150          60            90
2.  I.I and Pull Farms
J.ulls                                      300       -       100       -       -        -               400          130           270
`hullsheds                                   25       -        25       -       -        -                 50          50            -
Bull Exerciser                               20       -        -        -       -        -                 20          20
Collection Yard; with roof
& floorings                                  50       -        -        -       -        -                 50          50
Laboratory Equipment                        200       -       100       -       -        -                300         120           180
Fencing and Land Development                  30      70       -        -       -        -                100          90            10
Tractor and Farm Implements                 125       _ -               -       -        -                125          94            31
Tubewell and sprinkler system               175       -        -        -       -        -                175         131            44
Subtotal                                   925       70      225      -        -        -             1,220          685           535
Total without Contingency                         1,300      625      405    140       100       -             2,570        1,820           750
Physical Contingency                                 65       30       20      5         5       -               125           90            35
Price Contingency                                   455      345      245    125       125       -             1,295          910          a385             vo
Subtotal                                            520      375      265    130       130       -             1,420       1,000            420
TOTAL                                             1,820   1,000       670    270       230       -             3,990       2,820          1.170
1/  Bangalore and Mysore Milk Producers Unions will be identical but with 10% added in view of the larger scale of operations.
2/ bulls will be imported in the first year at an estimated cost of Rs 12,000 each. Followers will be purchased from the corporation
at Rs 4,000 each.
3/  Price contingencies applied as civil works, equipment and other in accordance with Bank revised interim guidelines.



LX 6
INDIA                                  Table 6
KAARNATAKA DAIRY DE  IDPMENT PROJECT
Iwvstteat  piolectiona. Ban alo   Milk freduc.es' Pninz - S
1  9 ^.9 ( n 4.'50fi0).
X'y'; !7   97(      l9;?7      1275      1979       195I 7 199
TeTAL
ohi   'r ocr'0SS ri  1/       3<<          (2    5r'9       r,<r     12(20(         02   211290
Mi;ws 1(rl                                      7  27?     pn3       ,n           b 0     n73
Pfllrr   r(OtT             A9          9      -    n?,                                   n(0
SlRTOTAL cn2KT                             750 2<i    4"77                    o 0
TOTAL                12<'r         "     75Pl    13     '   17930            0    37951__
Fpr2 r1111  Y               ?II2      320 _                   0     l.102          e     7'790
PPJYS COO!T                117        TF. 7        n         o        9 7.        0       37 
PRICE  CONT                                                          rI(2  15(10  e___ 0  l  h
StIRTOTAI (I MT        2.2(27      67(                    o      1737fi         2     4Il12
TOTAL                35117     499fi         02                3(253         0    17ns
SF(R\'IC9S  21              1'r30       599        1!<       tr0        12.2         0      <(
0 Y'S  COO!T                72         15         7                               o
PRICE  (20(T                5020       <3(2       27n       11Pn      1S           0 (    j2 ?
StJPTOTAL (22:7         572         I        23         1S        141
TOTAL                2r0(2     110S        7 o<! 23    2        251          n      51r,7
ESTAE1L 4/7r                           2pso      29 7rn)     (o2          0          0      7'70
PPYC  (2(2!T               12(1       1'12      l!l4        ?9          92        02      ?'?
oD,(22F    l' C T             r1     (227      1   I 9    _3        _ _ _ 0       n __
SJRTnTAI CONT           (29       L(215     12 '        (20          000
TrTAL                 h r( (2  ?27P       ?)1      1920          0          0 (  1n<
'0(2(  CAO 5/                fl9        5Pn    _         02               (2        (2       (22
"'I1YS  rCOO!T              31         29          n         9          (2       r(
Dp(1(2F (:nr)T             201        2(122!       n n       o9'l
SIP!JTOTAL ro(20        232        27i; (T      n                    9                  "
TOTAI.               92(J .R ?                          0         9          9
TOTA,- '!/O (00!T            77Ln      (P2.      72(2       f2<0(    1799(20              l:9
"'!(S r2O"T      *     7TT      T)T        -                                           < ('I
OPTC:F tDOlzT       ?79t       ?07       l!ff 97 lZ.O          th
120       2,r        <.        3< n       2 -.'     f.n <
192752    107f      1977       1<75       1I7n      1<         1 <()n
9 1 VI, TA I  o, 7~~~~~~7) 5               1~~~7,7, ~~Fl        '-~7<TI
(2'lTOTAL            2(22<     JIll *~T7p          ('<hy    1n,r           <    2<27"
UPrANI TOTAL               1<2351(2231          11(2(2    1'<P2    222                  9    r7r<<
1/ See Annex 6, Table 1.
2/ See Annex 6, Table 4.
3/ See Annex 6, Table 5, but with 107 added in view of larger scale of operations.
[/ Establishment Cost - derived from projected cash flow Annex 6, Table 18.
5/ Working Capital for: milk processing Rs 390,00(1 in year 1, based on I month's turnover,
equivalent to 1/12 operating cost in year 3; fee-d mills Rs 580,000 in year 2, based on 1
month's turnover equivalent to 1112 operating cost in year 1; and services Rs 220,000
in year 1 as lump sum allocation.



ANNEX 6
INDIA                                    Table 7
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVEIOPMENT PROJECT
Investment Projections, Myso   Dair  lilk Producers' Union - Sumary
1 n       2.n        3.'                                17 .    
.' 7;       q 7 ;r     1 77     I",        I  7'      1  ^       1 
T"TT l
1'771  -~~~~~~In  '7      I ~~~~I'7
T                              77.   rn .-1 1    1n F  r'               (1 r,r1_
T,T                         1          1                     , 1        1                 r __-,_
Fr- ff r ,- / {> 'T1177                   ,                     7)     ql                   3117 7
CIC~1'1'T      ~         117       )Lr,1                                                   3`C U!  C )
) ITrTp,l '~~~~~Ev T .eo~In                                 r) r -n 1r   r,
T(1TA)                77?i"     ,rn>(        17 11r    21 rnn              C          11 C1 1I7
Tr nA 17   2/              -!7                                           r) r n  C  r  l^1  11   rin
11) tVC r3T                   7, 7                  117 -                             n1     2
!YI,'T17TA   CC1           771       b          27      ,P~               
Cr 7L                      211        7117T  7    '7')lI      24 '       1  Cr       111rnl7
"'fY T(T7 )'r'T ^1 rr IT  l17                                           C 11)) !) -           7
Sr    TOT- 3/ 1-                                            2n                              hirn'_T^O
n IIY  -nrltT                 7?1                   4:          q          0                  )
InTC11  Cr''T7                         7111 ',                          7                 2C1r
SOQT1)TAI                          1r           117          C          C          C        7
Tn7TAI.              17  1734                )147          C                            93
,q.n,l c,.,, 5/?n 7                       t7< 0                    n          r!         n       ^o
7'))S  CONET                 Cl '!                                                    1   n    ?1
nnI CF C r rofT            1'51        ? 44 14                  C          C    n    C          12
SI'Tir)T'WT   COl!T       CCiCl     27?  7        C7         r1         C          01 7
T     0I 7n T1 A                                                      J                              l t  
T-- TAL 11 7-'n                   CC?y          0          11        97          C      1/17n
T?TII  -In Cr)NIT            1)!rCT3n1                                                   C. r1 nF
miyrF  cnN'T           7)         1 ?4       nC          T            nn   11  ?7r`
"fl1C7  170)7T       )i'3C       01137      -171       On             n          n       5Fl
To)71      117717 7r  1177       7C7        I 1171     17211     117 1n1
J L   TOTAL n1 TA           C?n     cOr             111 1771    7 2.-~ n7              17^
rPAr ~ ~     ~    ~    l( .)T),f  ,r   O     s.n I-)n I. )(PP           r        < r r
1/ See Annex 6, Table 2.
2/ See Annex 6, Table 4.
3/ See Annex 6, Table 5, with 10  added in view of the larger scale of operation.
/r Establishment Cost derived from projected cash flow, Annex 6, Table 19.
5/ Working Capital for: milk processing Rs 540,000 in year 1, based on 1 month's
turnover, equivalent to 1/12 operating cost in year 3; feed mills Rs 580,000 in year 2,
based on 1 month's turnover, equivalent to 1/12 operating cost in year 1; and services
Rs 220,000 in year 1, as lump sum allocation.



1,A  n    2C.OT       n       130        T ,     *       i
19075     1.        1         Ln7 10 71 _____
>?lvS'I~T . COn!!                             e                   R         o    T
sFIRIYSCM ,/                                    20  -       - -           ---7        1 1
H'.TF Crn!T            -)<?n       4?04, ('II'                   41nr          0    12'ri?
SrTnTA1 CIT           1729 C21               't    2rr2        4r5r         0 - a2
TOTA-\ 1,                   1h" 11 1.      e'7r                           0    3r(580
FFESt A T0LI V              le97     29           00                             0     313 0 
PIVS C!nNT                 395       45         0         0         0         0       179
PPtFr  CONT          _   ??n le I               n n 500 0o                           20 PO
SIJ1TOTAL CONT        St5                              0 n                 0 -77
TOTAL              170e     310        23            0       I0          0      873't
SFORKCAP  /                 200nn   J.?S        0h1r      0!l-      0ne          0     2r07
PHYS nCONT                 10      Tl           0         7         0         0       12<3
PDRICF  CONT               465       ?40 240                                   0 12  125   2
SIJOTnTAI. CONT !n               37          r5                                    1
TOTAL               182 0 25 lOl          70       272       270          0      9911
TSTAPL I/                   77O         9o     177n          0         0         0      3_1_3r
PivYS CO!JT                39        45 7CO!              n                   o       157
PRICE Cnt!NT              254        7JI  _  79 l         0         0         0      1ht22
StJRTnTAI. rnNT        297       4tS --'r               O(  O---            O     15Sv
tFt(RK CAP  ?               2nn      I94n          o                   0         n     2190
PHtYS Cot'!                lo                     -----                     -7 n     Oe  5
ORTCF GnNT                 hli     ?2.6   _     0            n      0 o0 o               2
SUI5TOTAL. CTNToL
TOTAI.               27iC    P295          9         G         n         o      3?11
TnTAL TloT    !7T 34n    2565                  p08 I6n    12052                  0    5r9to
PHYVS CONT           41        755  5-91??                    .L 7              LlJ
PRICF CONT          3nli~   ;1171       1019    2>48s       s(os         9    1Cl tP
ln        2.9 ne              4.e 6.n Tl 
-1975     1(7F      l977      1q7?A     1979      in'lo     19'20
Te)TAL
OiTTAI,          ?,432    78r.        l30f8               7207Tr
GRAtND TOTAL              11772    235f5    -?Or)        6.? 2P    12t)52        ni    <7;) 4
so.5c Ann" 6, a?lble 3.
gSa  Annex 6, Table 5.
J 20tablibhment Cost - derived from projected cash flow, Anne  6, Table 20.
/ Working Capital for: milk processing lo 1,320,000 in year 2, baed an 1 moth's turnover
equivalent to 1/12 operating coaot i year 3; feed .iLl1  Re 470,000 il year 2, based on
1 mth'  turnover equilvatent to 1/12 operatint cost in year 3; eVd services Rs 200,000
in Year 1, as lump s? allocation.



le9
INDIA
KARNATAIA DAIRY DEVELOVIENT PROJECT
eouolidated Investmnt ProdectionuZ  Inilore, uIfcr. and two other Unions -
1.n       2.0       R n        I. n      r10         .n       k.5
jrt  l975r0           177     V 72                 in79  lIT   n   P
TOTI, I-
PITIK DRPOcFl;STNr         1450    1(24n -1 In    2n9rr    pS7 n                    r  2 0173'1
DHYS COtN                  72'       9f'?                             ( 122  127  ,     5-7
rRC.   OtT            510       350 rqr  ~    00    l75       275             0 r'5
pII' TnTAI- COMT                            r ThO    1  R      27P,rn          n    f2ll7
TOT"I_             2npR,    2OP 1R W22    1'0?2    51(I,)                   n  1 711177
cFFr   fl1iL                 145Pn    1   0          (O n      n       n4rn         n    2f n1
2HYS  COrNT          ---1 r9n                    -1 n               '0? r"1   7
'0rCF r`:O                2220       rpr               r,       r   2Im 24   n          1cl
2l/DTOTAI  CO,!T       o         227(           n                rr7)4 r2 ,rTr42
Tr)TA 1IIn                 17771           n         r    11222           n    Ill,2.
2FRVT 2n5 r/i5n                       oro          7 1710    7(1f       1on r1(- 1 r, r
PHYS CONT                  273,      13 2                  29         21         n       54tl
PRICE CONT                 l910      1450       10.10      5Tn        r,(n     e_ _       A)l/
S!V'TOTPl  CTIT        ?l?       -    -5                         r'T,)
TOTAI               7 r'?      421?      2 `25      192I 9Il                n    1'7n'
EOTAL                                     n r  <2  I02  '22               n         0
P54Y-  rOlIT               III                    r 2  )2z  3 r        0          0     1n
001= OCO!T               1711?     2?2'r     ?_97         n           r71 r
S IOTOTAI  0N"T       '115       2f70                  1422         2          0 
TOTAO              1145        3  ?2rsI11o          122           0         n    32252
i.021'  oA0                 177n       5-14n         2         0          0                '91'
'YS CrnT                            2 D9   257  -           n         e l
I'P 1r2  rn,IT             si       21 50   _    0           0         0         0      271
S!I'TO9TAL CO'T         673      241            9         r         0          0      ?n'  '
TOT`L               2)1.1O     7552r         0         n          O         n      22"
TOTrA  -!/9 COIT           3921A0     411411    17r11    2227 r      422'0          0  1 20,f)
PI'IY  CO`T         197'       222r                -L  171    2no2          no
P01ICF. COINT      1r?rp     210514    `9'17    1500r   33rfo               o n  0    95
1.0       2.0        20        4r4.2     5.0        60 r      f"'
1 7r      1275       r'77      197P      1979       1222      1202
TOTAL
3lJ"TOTAI          TTT.Os    22272    12r07       1}1 '    -rr 72         n  13 17 r2
C2Ar' 'o TOTAI             53232    5275r2    27'.-7 7 7    14222   7 Fl2           n  2r99r
1/ Consolidation of 3 previous tables.



ANNNEX 6
Table 10
INDI A
KA.1NATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMYENT PROJECT
Services:  Operatinig Cost Projections;  Hassan and Tumkur Unions - 400 Societies   1
(000 Rs)
1         2          3          4          5
COSTS
Overhead
Seneral Manager and Staff              31       31         31         31         31
Buildings:  upkeep and maintenance   -           5         10         10         10
Vehicle Operating Costs and
Replacements                        24        24         48         60        100
Miscellaneous                           5       10         15         15         15
Subtotal                           60        70       C1          M)        156
Milk Product Marketin
Staff 2/                              29        29         41         41         41
Technical Services
1. Animal Health      2/
Headquarters Staff    2               67        67         67         67         67
Mobile Units   : Staff-/               38       96        154        230        288
Medicine & Materials;
Rs 30,000/Jnit                     60       150        240        360        450
Hiring of Cars,Rs 30,000/Unit    60         150        240        360        450
Subtotal                       22.5     73         701      1,017      1,2w
2. A.I and Bull Farm
Headquarters Staff                   76        76         76         76         76
Laboratory Staff                     49        49         49         49         49
A.I Materials                         16       16         20         20         20
Replacement Bulls @ 4,000             -        -          60         60         60
Agricultural Laborers                 22       22         38         38         38
Fertilizers, Seeds, Power, Water    8           8          8          8          8
Concentrates and Hay                 25        25         50         50         50
Miscellaneous                        10        10         1                     15
Subtotal                         2-R7      26T        316        316        31
3.  Calf-rearing Program, Staff           17       17         17         17         17
4.  Seed-Production Program
Staff                                17        17         17         17         17
Seeds Production                       9       27         45         72         90
Subtotal                          26        44         62         89       107
Promotion of Cooperatives
Spearhead Teams                     140       274        274        411        274
Staff: Administration &
Extension                  54       71        107        124        140
Farmers'Visits to Anand 9 250        10        20         20         30         20
Farmers' Visits, Competitions,
Siows, Rs 350/Society             14        42         70        112       140
Publications                           5       20         30         30         30
Subtotal                         223       427        50         7077
Administration
Staff                                41        64         86        109        132
TOTAL                                    827    1.303      1 828      2.412      2.628
1/ Bangalore and Mysore Unions will be identical but with 10% added in view of the
larger scale of operations.
2/ see Annex 6, Table 11.



ANENX 6
Table 11
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Staff Projections;  Hassan and Tuakur Unions - 400 Societies 1/
Administration and Services
1          2          2          4          i                      Monthly
---------------- (number) -----------------                        Salary
(RsB)
Head Office
General Manager                  1           I         1          1           1                      1,800
Stenographer                     1           1         1          1           1                        500
Attendant                        1           1          1         1           1                        300
Milk Product Marketing
Chief Marketing Officer          1           1         1          1           1                      1,500
Officer                          -           -         1          1           1                      1,000
Stenographer                     1           1         1          1           1                        500
Clerk                            1           1          1         1           1                        400
Technical Services
1. Animal Health
Senior Vet. Officer              1           1         1          1           1                      1,600
Stockmen                         4           4         4          4           4                        800
Laboratory Attendant             1           1         1          1           1                        500
Attendant                        1           1          1         1           1                        300
Vet.Officers Mobile Units        2           5          8        12          15                      1,300
Attendants, Mobile Units         2           5          8        12          15                        300
2. Artificial Insemination
Center and Bull Farm
(a) Headquarters
Manager-Training Officer         1           I          1         1           1                      1,500
Vet. Officer                     1           1          1          1          1                      1,300
Asst. Training Officer           1           1          1         1           1                      1,000
Asst. Agronomist 3/              1           1          1         1           1                      1,000
Accountant                       1           1          1         1           1                      1,010
Stenographer                     1           1          1         1           1                        500
(b) Laboratory
Plant Technician                 1           1          1         1           1                        700
Technical Asst.                  2           2          2         2           2                        700
Lab. Attendant                   2           2          2         2           2                        400
Livestock Asst.                  2           2          2         2           2                        400
Attendant                        1           1          1         1           1                        400
(c) Bull-Farm
Bull Attendants                  4           4          8         8           8                        200
Stall Clearers                   1           1          2         2           2                        200
Night Watchman                   1           1          1         1           1                        200
Vet. Attendants                  1           1          1          1           1                       200
Field Labor                      2           2          4         4           4                        200
Calf-Rearing Program
Officer                          1           1          1         1           1                      1,000
Clerk                            1           1          1          1          1                        400
Seed Production Program
Offioer                          1           1          1         1           1                      1,000
Clerk                            1           1          1         1           1                        400
Promotion of Cooneratives
(a) Spearhead Tesms
Leader                           1           2          2          3          2                      1,500
Officer                          1           2          2         3           2                      1,500
Assistants                       8          1c         16        24          16                      1,000
(b) Head Offioe
Head Officer                     1           1          1          1          1                      1,500
Officers                         1           2          3         4           5                      1,000
Clerks                           1           2          3         4           5                        400
(c)  Extension
Extension Officers               2           2          4         4           4                        800
Administration
Head-Chief Assistant             1           I          1          1           1                     1,500
Officers                         1           2          3         4           5                      1,000
Stenographers                    1           2          3         4           5                        500
Clerks                           1           2          3         4           5                        400
1/   for BangaLore and Mysore staff projections see Table 10, footnote l.
2/   includes benefits and allowances
3/   is also in charge of bull-farms



INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk ProcessinR Plant:  Bangalore
Income and Operating Coat Proiections
Year I          Year 2          Year 3           Year 4          Year 5          Year 6           Year 7         Years 8-20
-- - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - million     lts  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -
VOLUME  ,9
Total Milk Processed                                                 27.3             30.1            33.7            43.2             58.7            80.7            108.7           109.5
_---_-_--------__------------------------------- million Rs ----------------------------------------------------
INCOME   2/
Pasteurized milk in bulk (tankers)
0.45            1.35            2.40             5.25            9.90            24.75           37.20            37.80
Pasteurized milk in bulk (cans)                                       1.76             4.32            7.84           16.96            31.84           39.68            59.36           60.48
Milk by-products                                                      0.83             2.38            4.15            9.08            17.03           29.27            43.75           44.44
Milk povder                                                           _                _ _             _ _             _ _              _
TOrAL SALES                                                        3.04            8.05            14,39           31.29           58.77            93.70          140.31           142.72
OPERATING COST  3/
Direct Costs
Cov milk purchases)
Buffalo milk purchases)                                               2.21             5.85          10.38            22.88           43.03            71.63          107.65           109.70
Direct labor                                                          0.52            0.52             0.52            0.79             0.79            1.07             1.07            1.07
Utilities                                                             0.16            0.27             0.41            0.81             1.43            2.33             3.43            3.49
Materials and retailing expenses                                      0.17             0.44            0.78             1.71            3.18            4.85             7.27            7.39
Freight                                                               0.09            0.23             0.41            0.88             1.66            2.76             4.13            4.20
Excise tax                                                            0.08             0.24            0.42            0.91             1.70            2.93             4.38            4.44
Sub-Total Direct Costs                                             3.23            7.55           12.92            27.98           51.79            85.57          127.93           130.29
Overhead Costs
Maintenance labor                                                     0.11             0.11            0.11            0.15             0.15            0.22             0.22            0.22
Maintenance materials and lubricants                                  0.50             0.50            0.50            0.80             0.80            1.10             1.10            1.10
Supervisory personnel                                                 0.12            0.12             0.12            0.13             0.13            0.14             0.14            0.14
Technical personnel                                                   0.12             0.12            0.12            0.13             0.13            0.14             0.14            0.14
Administrative personnel                                              0.09             0.09            0.09            0.12             0.12            0.15             0.15            0.15
Administration expenses                                               0.50             0.50            0.50            0.80             0.80             1.00            1.00            1.00
Plant manager and assistant                                           0.05             0.05            0.05            0.05             0.05            0.05             0.05            0.05
Sub-Total Overhead Costs                                           1.49            1.49             1.49            2.18            2.18             2.80             2.80            2.80
TOTAL OPERATING COST                                               4.72             9.04           14.41           30.16            53.97           88.37          130.73           133.09
NET SURPLUS                                                       (1.68)           (0.99)          (0.02)           1.13             4.80            5,33            9.58             9,83           >
Rate of Return:  287.
It To obtain net incremental volume deduct 25.6 million liters yearly.
2/  Based on the following product mix:  Bottled Milk 60%;  Products 20% and UnbotLled milk 20% to year 5, and then onwards, 45%, 257. and 30% respectively;
and the following prices: Bottled Milk Rs 1.5/1; Products - Butter Rs 14/kg, Ghee Rs 14/kg, Yogurt Rs 1.4/kg; and unbottled milk Rs 1.4/1.
3/ Based on NDDB and Bangalore Dairy cost data.



INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk Processing Plant: Mysore
Income and Operating Cost Projections
Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4          Year 5         Year 6          Year 7        Years 8-20
-- - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - million    Its - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Total milk processed /I                                           3.5            7.5           13.6            28.6           51.4           80.7           108.5          109.5
--------------------------------------------- million Rs -----------------------------------------------------
INCOME /2
Pasteurized milk in bulk (tankers)                                0.56           1.96           4.20            9.38          20.86          33.18           44.80          45.22
Pasteurized milk in bulk (cans)                                   0.75           2.55           5.25           12.00          18.60          29.55           40.05          40.35
Pasteurized milk in bottles                                       0.64           2.24           4.80           10,72          11.84          18.88           25.60          25.92
Milk by-products                                                  1.05           2.88           6.16           13.80          22.41           35.83          48.33          48.75
Milk powder                                                       -.-            -.-            -.-             -.-            6.55           10.41          14.08          14.21
TOTAL SALES                                                    3.00           9.63          20.41           45.90          80.26          127.85         172.86         174.45
OPERATING COSTS /3
Direct Costs
Cow milk purchases
Buffalo milk purchases)                                           4.55           7.41          15.34           34.84          64.48         102.57          138.71         140.01
Direct labor                                                      0.38           0.38           0.38            0.65           0.65           0.94            0.94           0.94
Utilities                                                         0.13           0.25           0.43            0.90           1.59            3.28           4.39           4.43
Materials and retailing expenses                                  0.11           0.36            0.77           1.73           2.48            3.94           5.34            5.39
Freight                                                           0.11           0.35           0.71            1.61           3.08           4.89            6.62            6.68
Excise tax                                                        0.15           0.29           0.62            1.38           2.90            4.62           6.24            6.30
Sub-Total Direct Costs                                         5.43           9.04          18.25           41.11          75.18          120.24         162.24          163.75
Overhead Costs
Maintenance labor                                                 0.06           0.06           0.06            0,11            0.11           0.19           0.19            0.19
Maintenance materials                                             0.40           0.40           0.40            0.80           0.80            1.10           1.10            1.10
Supervisory personnel                                             0.12           0.12           0.12            0.13           0.13            0.14           0.14            0.14
Technical personnel                                               0.12           0.12           0.12            0.13           0.13            0.14           0.14            0.14
Administrative personnel                                          0.07           0.07            0.07           0.11            0.11           0.14           0.14            0.14
Administration expenses                                           0.20           0.20            0.20           0.40            0.40           0.55           0.55            0.55
Plant manager and assistant                                       0.05           0.05           0.05            0.05           0.05            0.05           0.05            0.05
Sub-Total Overhead Costs                                       1.02           1.02           1.02            1.73           1.73            2.31           2.31            2.31
TOTAL OPERATING COST                                           6.45          10.06           19.27          42.84           76.91         122.55         164.55          166,06
NET SURPLUS                                                   (3.45)          (0.43)          1.14           3.06            3.35           5.30           8.31            8.39
Rate of Return:  19%7
/1 To obtain net incremental volume deduct 1.8 million liters yearly.
Li Based on the following product mix:  Bottled milk 25%;  Products 20% and unbottled milk 55% for years 1-4 and 15%, 20% and 65% respectively for years 5-20;
and on the following prices:  Bottled Milk Rs 1.5/1; Products - Butter Rs 14/kg, Ghee Rs 14/kg, Yogurt Rs 1.4/kg; and unbottled milk Rs 1.4/1.
/3 Based on NDDB and Bangalore Dairy cost data.



INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIkY DEVELOPMENT ?AOJECT
Milk Processing Plants: Hassan, Tumkur /1
Income and Operating Cost Projections
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3          Year 4           Year 5          Year 6           Years 7-20
- --------------------------------------- million Its ----------------------
VOLUME /2
Total Milk Processed                                                                    .             10.9            22.9            41.1             64.5            73.0
----------------------------------------- million Rs -----------------------------------------------
INCOME /3
Pasteurized milk in bulk (tankers)                                    -.-             -.-              4.62            9.66           22.96            36.12           40.88
Pasteurized milk in bulk (cans)                                       -.-             -,_              4.95           10.35           12.30            19.35           21.90
Pasteurized milk in bottles                                                             .              2.56            5.44            6.56            10.40           11.68
Milk by-products                                                                        .              6.51           13.63           25.05            39.35           44.48
Milk powder                                                           -.-             -.-              -.-             -,-             -,-              -,-              -
TOTAL SALES                                                                         .             18.64            39.08           66.87           105.22          118.94
OPERATING COST /4
Direct Costs
Cow milk purchases .
Buffalo milk purchases)                                                                 .             14.70           29.77           53.43            83.85           94.90
Direct labor                                                                           .              0.26             0.26            0.54             0.77            0.77
Utilities                                                                               .              0.39            0.75            1.31             2.05            2.30
Materials and retailing expenses                                      -.-              -.-             0.60            1.24             1.80            2.85             3.21
Freight                                                                                 .              0.68            1.43             2.72            4.26            4.82
Excise tax                                                                              .              0.65            1.36            2.51             3.94            4.45
Sub-Total Direct Costs                                                              .             17.28            34.81           62.31           97.72           110.45
Overhead Costs
Maintenance labor                                                                       .              0.09            0.09            0.13             0.16            0.16
Maintenance materials                                                 -                                0.40            0.40             0.50            0.70            0.70
Supervisory personnel                                                                  .               0.10            0.10            0.11             0.12            0.12
Technical personnel                                                                     .              0.10            0.10             0.11            0.12            0.12
Administrative personnel                                                                .              0.06            0.06             0.10            0.12            0.12
Administration expenses                                                                 .              0.15            0.15             0.25            0.35             0.35
Plant manager and assistant                                           -                                0.05            0.05            0.05             0.05            0.05
Sub-Total Overhead Costs                                                            .              0.95             0.95            1.25             1.62            1.62
TOTAL OPERATING COST                                                                .              18.23           35.76           63.56            99.34          112.07
NET SURPLUS                                                                                        0.41             3.32             3.31            5.88            6.87
Rate of Return:  15%                                                       a z
/1  Hassan and Tumkur plants will be identical, all data corresponds to one plant.                                                                                                             D x
/2  It is assumed that plant construction will take place during years I and 2.                                                                                                                 r
/3  Based on the following product mix:  Bottled milk 15%, products 25% and unbottled milk 60% for years 1-4 and 10%, 30%, 60% respectively for year 5 onwards;
and on the following prices:  Bottled Milk Rs 1.5/1; Products - Butter Rs 14/kg, Ghee Rs 14/kg, Yogurt Rs 1.4/kg; and unbottled milk Rs 1.4/1.
/4  Based on NDDB and Bangalore Dairy cost data.



INDLA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feed Mills: Bangalore, Mysore
Income and Operating Cost Projection
____________________,________---------------------Years -------------~--~------------------------------------
1              2               3               4               5               6               7             8-20
VOLUME                                                   -000 tons------------------------------____--                                                              -______
2/
TOTAL PRODUCTION                                        _                .             6.8            14.3            25.7            40.4            54.4            54.8
INCOME                                                   --------------------------------------------------Million Rs-------------------------------------------------
3/
TOTAL SALES                                              .               .             6.46           13.59           24.42           38.38           51.68            52.06
4/
OPERATING COST
5/
DIRECT COSTS
Raw Materials                                            .               .             5.47           11.51           20.69           32.52           43.79            44.11
Direct Labor                                             .               .             0.18            0.18            0.23            0.23            0.23            0.23
Utilities                                                .               .             0.20            0.38            0.66            1.02            1.36             1.37
Materials, Freight                                      -.-             -.-            0.33            0.69             1.25           1.96             2.64            2.66
Sub-Total Direct Cost                                -.-             -.-             6.18           12.76           22.83           35.73           48.02           48.37
OVERHEAD COSTS
Maintenance Labor                                        .               .              0.06            0.06            0.08            0.08            0.08            0.08
Maintenance Materials & Lubricants                      -.-             -.-             0.03            0.07            0.13            0.20            0.27            0.27
Supervisory Personnel                                   -.-             -.-            0.04            0.04            0.04            0.04            0.04             0.04
Technical Personnel                                     -.-             -.-            0.02            0.02            0.02            0.02            0.02             0.02
Administrative Personnel                                -.-             -,-             0.03           0.03             0.04            0.04            0.04            0.04
Administrative Expenses                                 -.-             -.-             0.50            0.50            0.60            0.60            o.60            0.60
Plant Manager and Assistant                             -.-             -,-             0.05           0.05            0.05            0.05             0.05            0.05
Sub-Total Overhead                                    -.-             -.-            0.73            0.77            0.96            1.03            1.10             1.10
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                     _.               .              6.91           13.53           23.79           36.76           49.12           49.47
(0.45)          0.06             0.63            1.62            2.56            2.59  -3>
Rate of Return:  13%
1/ Bangalore and Mysore plants will be identical, all data corresponds to one plant.                                                                                            '
2/ It is assumed that plant construction will take place during years 1 and 2.
3/ Based on the following typical mix of a variety of balanced formulaes,
Cost per ton              Cost
----- at plant--------Rs------
Maize                         25%                      1,000                   250
Ground nut cake               30%                      1,400                   420
Wheat Bran                    33%                        350                   115
Molasses                      10%                        100                    10
Salt, minerals, vitamins       2%                        500                    10
100%                                            8605
a price of Rs 805 per ton at plantis obtained, equivalent to a sales price of Rs 950/ton delivered at the societies.
4/ Based on NDDB and Bangalore Dairy cost data.
5/ No taxation on production or sale of animal feed.



INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Feed Mills: Hassan, Tumkur
/1
Income and Operating Cost Projections
---------------------------------------Years-----------------------------------------------
1               2               3               4               5                6             7-20
VOLUME                                                                    ------------------------------------------'000 tons--------------------------------------------
/2
TOTAL PRODUCTION                                                                                         5.5            11.5             20.6            32.3            36.5
INCOME        /3                                                          ---------------------------------------Million Rs-------------------------------------------
/3
TOTAL  SALES-                                                                             .              5.23           10.93            19.57           30.69           34.68
/4
OPERATING COST
/5
DIRECT COSTS
Raw Materials                                                             .               .              4.43            9.26            16.58           26.00           29.38
Direct Labor                                                              .               .              0.14            0.14             0.18            0.18            0.18
Utilities                                                                 .               .              0.16            0.32             0.54            0.83            0.94
Materials, Freight                                                        .               .              0.27             0.56            1.00            1.57             1.77
Sub-Total Direct Cost                                                   .               .              5.00           10.28           18.30            28.58           32.27
OVERHEAD COSTS
Maintenance Labor                                                         .               .              0.05            0.05             0.06            0.06             0.06
Maintenance Materials and Lubricants                                     -.-             -.-             0.03            0.06             0.10            0.16             0.18
Supervisory Personnel                                                    _               _               0.04            0.04             0.04            0.04            0.04
Technical Personnel                                                       .               .              0.02            0.02             0.02            0.02            0.02
Administrative Personnel                                                  .               .              0.02            0.02             0.03            0.03             0.03
Administrative Expenses                                                   .               .              0.40            0.40             0.50            0.50            0.50
Plant Manager and Assistant                                               .              -               0.05            0.05             0.05            0.05            0.05
Sub-Total Overhead Cost                                                 .               .              0.61            0.64            0.80             0.86            0.88
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                                       .               .               5.61           10.92           19.10           29.44            33.15
NET SURPLUS                                                                 .                .             (0.38)           0.01            0.47             1.25            1.53
Rate of Return:  17%
/1  Bassan and Tumkur plants will be identical, all data corresponds to one plant.
/2  It is assumed that plant construction will take place during years 1 and 2.
/3 See footnote 3, on Table 15.
4 Based on NDDB and Bangalore Dairy cost data.
/5 No taxation on Droduction or sale of animal feed.



KAiRIATAKA DAIR,Y DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk Procnesinit PI.nts and Feed Mills
Valise and Capacity Prol-tci-ns
__----_.__________-___-_--_------------------- Y- ------- - -- ------- - --- -- -- -- -- - ----------------~
/I                                               1          2         3          4          5         6          7         8          9         10
UNIONS:  BANGALORE and MYSORE
Coo-erative Societies ImPleasested. Each Onice                                 58        100       100        150        100         -          -         -          _          _
Fl-id Milk Procured,  Each Unsi-L2
Total per Year, Million Lts.                                                  1.7       6.4       13.6       28.6      51.4       80.7      121.8     171.7      225.6     282.7
Average Dicly, 1,000 Ltn/day                                                  4.8       17.6      37.3       78.4     140.7      221.2      333.8     470.5      618.0     774.5
Average DIily Duriog Flash Month, 1,000 Lts/dsr-                              5.7       21.1      44.7       94.1     164.2      258.2      389.5     531.7      698.3     875.2
BANGALORE:  Non-Union Milk Sapply, 1,000 Lts/dap4                              70.0       65.0      55.0       40.0      20.0        -
Total Average Dcily DurinB Flash Mocth, 1,000 Lts/dcy                          75.7       86.1      99.7      134.1      184.2     258.2      389,5     531.7      698.3      875.2
Milk Procesein- Ca.c.ity Required. 1.000 L.ts/davX                             70.0      100.0     100.0      150.0      200.0     300.0      300.0      380.0     300,0      300.0
Milk Plant Yearly Vol_uea. Millicn Lts-                                        27.3       30,1       33.7      43.2       38.7      80.7      108.7      109.5     109.5      109.5
'Milk Plant Enp-esi-n Schedule                                              Ennansing           iEnesni na e.p.isinn.Exn.nsicn1
Fend Mill CaPacity Realiend. T.es/day                                                              187        100        100       150        150        150       150        150
Feed Mall Yearly VOctae. 1.000 Tons                                             3.3        3.8       6.8       14.3       25.7      40.4       54.4       54.8      54.8       54.8
Feed Mill Co-struotion Schedale                                               C.nstruasiin                            Enpansion
MYSORE:  Mon-Union Milk Supply, 1,000 Lt./day                                   5.0        3.0                                  -          -         -               -
Tonal Average DOiln During Flash Month, 1,000 Lts/d-y                          12.7       24.1      44.7       94.1      164.2     258.2      389.5      531.7     698.3      875.2
Milk Processing capacity Required. 1.000 Ltn/day                                5.0       50.0      50.0      100.0      200.0     300.0      300.0      300.0     300.0      300.0
Float Yearly Volane                                                             3.5        7.5      13.6       28.6       51 4      80.7      108.5      109.5     109.5      109.5
Milk PFlat Enp-nsi-e Schedale                                              ,Enansln              Epas... io Ex nn .. ansi.EP.-i.
Fend Mill Capaicty Reqair-d, Tnns/day                                           _                  100        100        100       150        150       150        100        150
Fend_Mill  nar    Vplume. 71,000 C Tans                                         3.3        3.8       6.8                            14.3  25.7  40.4  54.4  54.8    548        54. 
Feed Mill Con.. ot-tion Schedule                                              C-nstruction                               p-i
UNIONS:  hASSAK - TITMKIIR
Coopreraive Societies Icplecerted, Each Union                                  40         80        80        120        80          -          -         -          -          -
Floid  1ilk Procured, Eack Onion:
Total per Y-ar, Million Lten                                                  1.4        5.1      10.9       22.9      41.1       64.5       97.5     137.4      180.4      226.2
Average Daily, 1,000 Lts.                                                     3.8       14.1      29.8       62.7      112.6     177.0      267.0     376.4      494.4      619.6
Average Daily D.r-ng Flash Month, 1,000 Ltn/day                               4.6       16.9      35.8       75.3      131.4     206.5      711.6     425.4      558.6      700.2
Milk Pcocessing Capacity Required, 1.000 Lts/dav                               -           -        75.0       75.0      150.0     200.0      208.0      200.0     200.0      200.0
Milk Place Yearly Vo10me. Hillion Lts.                                          1.4        5.1      10.9       22.'9      41.1       64.5      73.0       73.0      73.0       73.0
Ploot Constraction and Expansion Schedule                                    .Const,,ction                  4. p.ansian1EnpassiInf
Feed Mill CeecPitn Reeuired. Tens/day                                           -          -        60.0       60.0      60.0        100.0     100.0     00.0      100.0      100.0
Fend Mill Ye-rly volure. 1,000 Tens                                             0.7        2.6        0.5      11.5        20.6     32.3       36.5       36.5      36.5       34.5
Fend Mill Constr-cti-on  bchediala                                             Construction    IEranslnn
/1  Each anion is approximately identifIed with the distrist bearinS the s-ne ns.
/a baned on Model oE typicel nillage coope-atine saiety, Annex 5.
/3  RDeic  ot milk supply bhtwean fln6h and lean .easans has been assased tn decrease fram 1.4 in years 1-4 tn 1.35 in yars 5-7 and 1.3 in year 8 and aonwrds doe to introduction
of crnsskreoln and inputs.
14  Preanct eilk supply to the            B    isting  nagal-e and Mys-e plants i- aesnied tn fall geadeelly coder the central of the -i.sns in 5 and 2 yearn. -especti-ely.
/5  Dectrnined en basin of daily velo"es dueing flesh snth.
I6  Yearly tiroughput bnc-en  constant after yeat 7 as prajeet dose nnt provide far farther plansnt spnnione afte- year 5.
75  Coeputed en bais of Ikg feed/2 Its nilk.
/8  BO-h c nions are a-ss-ed siil-r, data shown co-rrspands to one .nian.



,A A _AKA DAIT '  [)f'EIJ)P>TX F 'R1JEI I
Sources and Uses of funds, i rojections, for t e asaisre  lo i1Kroducers' Union
-----------------------------------------------------------------__ ______------------ .(constant 73 prices, 000 Hs)                          ------------------------------------------------------
1   2     3          _          i         6          I          8         9          10          11          12          11          1i         15          16-20
OPERATIONS
Sources                       i/
Net Revenues, Processed Milk            (1,680)      (990)      (20)    1,130       4,800      5,330      9,580     9,630      9,630      9,630       9,630      9,630        9,630       9,630      9,630        9,630
Net Revenues, Feed Mill i/                  -          -       (450)       63)        630      1,620     2,560      2,590      2,590      2,590       2,590      2,590        2,600       2,600      2,600        2,600
Levy on Cooperative Societies ./           120        190      410        860       1,540     2,420      3,660      5,150     5,150       5,150       5,150      5,150        5,150       5,150     5,150         5,150
GOK   Establishm.ent Costs 5/           2,470      2,230    2,070        600
Uses ,
Operating Costs; Services & Adim.          910      1,430    2,010      2,S50       2,890      2,970      2,970     2,970      2,970      2,970       2,970      2,970        2,970       2,970      2,970        2,970
Operating Surplus (Deficit   i/             -           -        -          -       4,080      6,400    12,830    14,400    14,400        14,400     14,400    14,400        14,400      14,400    14,400        14,400
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (current  prices, 000 Rs) --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating Surplus (Deficit)                     1-               -          -       7,00    11,970    25,150    29,670    31,100          32,690     34,410    36,140        37,880      39,740    41,740        43,920
INVESTMENTS
Sources I
Loans for fixed investment 2/             5,260     4,880    6,670      8,420      18,260
Equityfr fised invetament!/               1,320     1,220    1,670      2,100       4,570
Uses:
Fixed Investments t                       6,580     6,100    6,340    10,520       22,830
1oan Repaymes t5          /                                                                    8 620     8 620      8,620      6 620      8,620       8,620      8,620        8,620       8,620      8,620
Loan Repayment,  oangaisre DairyM                                                              4,680     4,680      4 680      4 680      4 680
Total Surplus (Deficit)2/                     -           -        -          -       7,100    (1,330)   11,850    16,370    17,800         19,390      25,790    27,540       29,260      21,120    33,140        43,920
TRllSPiERS throush the Union
(uses - Sources)
Repurchase of State Government
Equity by Cooperative Societies II/                                                            1,250      1,250     1,250      2,500      2,500       2,500      2,500        2,500       2,500      2,500        1,703
Government Calf Raising Subsidies
to  sa mers                                                   2,500     2,500       2,500      2,500
Government Seed Suisidies 14/                 10        40        60        100        130        130
Transport Grants,  /                         340      1,100    1,650      2,120       1,000       670
/    See Annex 6, Table 12.
3/   see Amnex 6, Table 15.                                                                                                 11/  for 80% of the Bangalsce Dairy, valued at Rs 14.266  tillion.  Icterert nompounded
3/  at 3 paises/liter of milk,                                                                                                   at 9?7.; repayable over years 6-10.
i    see Amnex 6, Table 10;  with 10% added to take into accoont the larger scale of operations.                            12/  fcc plant expansion and distribution of dividends and bonuses to DCSs, see Anne. 6,
5/   the deficit of the first four years will te financed by State Government                                                    Bylaws.
&I    307 in Year 1, then at 757 compounded to Year 6 - the final project cost year, and subsequently                       13/  total outstanding Stats equity at the end of ysqr 5, (R  '000):
at 5% compounded.                                                                                                                Equity contribution:  20% of fixed as etsp    10,880
j/   80o nf Fixed Investments, financed cy participating Denks and refi..nmed by ARC and IDA.                                                                 20h of DaBgnloce Dairy's
20Y of Fixed Investments;  financed by State Government as equity.                                                                                          asets-                 4 490
s/ ee Amnex 6, Table 6 :  comprises Milk Processing, Feed Mill, and                                                                                           Establishmmn.  cost c/   12 690
Administratlon and Services                                                                                                                                                        28,060
39/  see footnote 7 above;  at 9j9i and with a 5 year grace period during which interest is                                      a!  see footnote 8
capitalized, repayable over yearn 6-15.                                                                                     b/  see footnote 11
o/  Establishment cot inclades working capital - see Ane  6,   b   6, nrdee lo    nt-erest
The reserve fcnd ce the DCS's (25% of operating s-rplu., see Annex 5, Table 3) vould
be applied to the purchase of Union shares,  The averags DCS purchase commitment is
estinated at Rs 2,500 in years 6-8 and Rs 5,000 thereafter.  On this assumption 0(7K
would have divested itself of its equity by year 20 (as shown above).  However, Union
dividends paid to DCl's would also be used te buy oct GOK equity.
14/  the Union's share, see Asses 9, Table 1.
15/  see Annes  6, Table 6.
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b 'N



INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sources and Uses of PFnda. Projections for the MYore Milk Producers' Union
---------------------------------------------_ _-- -----_____------_____-------_____---------_ (constat 73 prices, ant   Rs) ----------------------------------------------------------3-p-----0---------
1         2         1         4                    6         7         8        _          10         11          12         13          14         1S          16-20
OPERTIONS
Sources,                     1/
Not Revenues, Processed Milk    (3,450)       (430)   1,140      3,350    5,300      8,310      8,390     8,390    8,390      8,390       8,390      8,390     8,390        8.390      8,390        8,390
Not Revenues, Feed Mill g/           -         -       (450)        60       630     1,620      2,560     2,590    2,590      2,590       2,590      2,590     2,590        2,590      2,590        2,590
Levy on Cooperative Societies I/    60         190      410        860    1,540      2,420      3,660     5,150    5,150      5,150       5,150      5,150     5,150       5,150       5,150        5,150
GOL-  Establishment Costs         4,300      1,670      910
Uses
Operatizg Costs, Services &
Admin.   /                          910     1,430    2,010      2,650    2,890      2,970      2,970      2,970    2,970     2,970       2,970      2,970     2,970        2,970      2,970        2,970
Operating Surplus (Deficit) i/       -         -        -        1,620    4,580      9,380     11,640    13,160   13,160    13,160       13,160    13,160    13,160        13,160     13,160      13,160
------------ ----~~~~~---- - --------------------------------------------------------- (Current prics, 000 Rs) -------------------------_---_________________________---__________________
Operating Surplus,(Defioit) W        -         -        -        2,620    7.970    17,540      22,810    27,110   28,430    29,870       31,450    33,030    34,610        36,320     38,160      40,140
IIVNE!WTS
Sourcest
Loa8 for fixed investment2!       10,060     4,880    6,790      17,510   22,930
Bquityfor fixed investment!f       2,520     1,220    1,700      4,380    5,730
Fixed InOve5Unt 2t                12,580     6,100    8,490      21,890   28,660
Loon Repayment lo/                1,/                                               12,400     12,400    12,400   12,400    12,400       12,400    12,400    12,400        12,400     12,400
Loan Repment, MYsore Dairy                                                             880        880        880      880       880
Total Surplus (Deficit)  /             -         -        -         2,620    7,970     4,260      9,530    13,830   15,150    16,590        19,050    20,630    22,210       23,920     25,760       40,140
TRANSFUS through the Unions
(Uses - Sources)
Repurchase of State Government                                                                                                                                              1
Equity by Coop. Societies  /                                                       1,250       1,250      1,250    2,500     2,500        2,500      2,500     2,500        2,500      2,500        1,723
Government Calfraising Subsidies
to Farrs 1/                                          2,500      2,500    2,500    2,500
Governmet Seed Subsidies to
Farmers  /                           10        40       60         100      130      130
Transport Grants to Coop.
Societies  /                        340     1,100    1,650      2,120    1,000       670
s/ see Annex 6, Table 13                                                                                           11/  for 80% of the Mysore Dairy, valued at Rs 2.7 million.  Interest compounded at
/see Annex 6, Table 15                                                                                                  95j%, repayable over years 6-10.
3/ at 3 paises/liter of milk.                                                                                      12/  for plant expansion and distribution of dividends and bonuses to DCSs, see Annex 6,
see Annex 6, Table 10, with lO,% added to take into account the largest scale of operations.                        Bylaws.
the deficit of the first three years will be financed b[ State Governmet                                       13/ total outstanding State equity at the end of yeay 5, -(Rs '000):
30% in Year 1, then at 7k7, compounded to Year 6 - the final project cost year, and subsequently                          Equity contribution: 207 of fixed assets-          15,550
at 5% compounded.                                                                                                                                20% of Mysgye Dairy's
I./  80% Fixed Investments, financed by participating Banks and refinanced by ARC and IDA.                                                                assets       c/            850
20% of Fixed Investments, financed by the State Government.                                                                                      Establishment Goat-         11740
5// see Annex 6, Table 7    co9wrises Milk Processing, Feed Mill, and Adninietration and  ervfr.ea.
/ sbe foutnoje 7 above;  at no    and with a 5 year grace period during which interest is capitalized,                 a  see footnote 8.
bi see footnote 11.
ci Establishment coat includes working capital - see Amnex 6, Table 7and is an irterest..
ihe reserve fund of the DCS's (25% of operating surplus, see Annex 5, Table 3)   ree
would be applied to the purchase of Onion shares. The average DCS purchase
commitment is estimated at Rs 2,500 in years 6-8 and Rs 5.000 thereafter.  On
this assumption GOX would have divested itself of its equity by year 20 (as shown
above). Rowever, Union dividends paid to DCS's would also be used to buy out GOK
equity.
14/ the Union's shares, see Annex 9, Table 1.
15/ see Annex 6, Table 7.



INDIA
KARNATAKA UAIRY DEVELOPMEST PROJECT
Sources and Uses of Fnda                                         rMPrcjections for Ujasoa nd Tuakur Milk Producers' Unions
---------------------------------------- -----(conetant 1973 prices, 000 Rs)------------------------------------------
1        2                                                     7 _  i  6  8         i           10          11          12          1           14                      16-20
OPERATIONS
Sources:
lot Revenues, Processed Milk                -          -         410      3,320      3,310    ;,880        6,870      6,870     6,870       6,870       6,870       6,870      6,870       6,870       6,870         6,870
Additional Net Revenues from Milk
Sal1es g/                                  i          6
stalevs uefrmyedlito 1                               260         -          -         -          -           -         -         -           -           -            -         -           -            -            -
Not Revenues from Feed Mill 31/                                 (380)         10       470    1,250        1,530      1,530     1,530       1,530       1,530       1,530      1,530       1,,30       1,530        1,530
Levy on Coo erative Society i/              42        153       327         687      1,233    1,940        2,930     2,930      2,930       2,930       2,930       2,930      2,930       2,930       2,930        2,930
G00:  Establishment Costs 61                775       890      1,471
Uses:
Operating Costs, Services and Admin.V/  827         1,303     1,828       2,412      2,628    2,700        2,700      2,700     2,700       2,700       2,700       2,700      2,700       2,700       2,700        2,700
Operating Surplus (Deficit) 5/              -          -          -       1,605      2,385    6,370        8,630      8,630     8,630       8,630       8,630       8,630      8,63O       8,630       8,630        8,630
---------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- (current prices, 000 le) ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating Surplus                           -         -          _        2,600      4,150   11,910       16,910    17,770    18,640       19,590      20,620      21,660    22,690       23,820      25,030       26,320
IDVESTMDTS
Sources@
Leans for fixed investmentil             8,340      15,460       540      5,060      9,640
Equity for fixed investenst-             2,090       3,870       130      1,270      2,410
Uses:
Fixed Investments  /                    10,430      19,330      670       6,330    12,050
Lon Repayments 21/                                                                             8,400       8,400     8,400      8,400       8,400       8,400       8,400      8,400       8,400       8,400
Total Surplus (Deficit) L2/                   -           -         -       2,600      4,150    3,510        8,510      9,370    10,240      11,190      12,220      13,260    14,290       15,420      16,630      26,320
TRANSFERS through the Union
(Use - Source)
purchase of Government Equity by                                                                1,000       1,000      1,000      2,000      2,000       2,000       2,000       2,000      2,000       2,680
Coop. Societies  /
Government Calfraising Subsidies
to  Farmers 14/                                               2,500       2,500      2,500    2,500
Government Seed Subsidies to
Farmers  /                                  10          30        50         80        100       100
Transport Grant 15/                         280         880    1,320       1,700        800       530
/  see Annex 6, Table 14.                                                                                                               12/   for plant expansion and distribution of dividends and bonuses
2/ at an operating surplus of 5 paise/liter of milk;  based on the  individual societies' supply projections,                                  to DCSs, see Annex 6, Bylaws.
Annex 5, Table  3.                                                                                                                 13/   total outstanding State equity at the end of  year 5, (RN  '000):
3/ see Annex 6, Table 16                                                                                                                          Equity contribution:  20% of fixed assetsa   9,770
5/  at 3 paisee/liter of milk.                                                                                                                                             Establishment costb/   7,910                    H
5/ see Annex 6, Table 10                                                                                                                                                                           17,680                  , x
5/ deficit in first three years will be financed by Government                                                                                 a/  see footnote 9
7/  30% in Year 1, then at 7M% compounded to Year 6 - the final project cost year, and subsequently at 5%                                      bI  Establishment cost includes working c-pital - see Annex 6,              ,., a
compounded,                                                                                                                                     Table 8 snd  is an interest free Ioan
5/ 80% of Fixed Investments, financed by psrticipeting Banks and refinanced by ARC snd IDA.                                                    The reserve fund of the DCS's (25% of operating surplus, see Annex 5,
J   20% in Fixed Investments, financed by State Government as an equity contribution.                                                          Table 3) would be applied to the purchase of Union shares.  The
10/ see Annex 6, Table 8 :  Milk Processing, Feed Mill, and Administration and Services.                                                      average DCS purchase corrmitment is estimated at Rs 2,500 in years 6-8
Di  see footnote 8 above, at 9j% and with a 5 year grace period during which interest is capitaliced.                                          and Rs 5,000 thereafter.  On this assumption GOK would have divested
itself of its equity by year 15 (as shown above). however, Union
dividends paid to DCS's would also be used to buy out GOK equity.
14/   the Union's share, see Annex 9, Table 1.
15/   see Annex 6, Table 8.



INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART-COOPERATIVE MILK PRODUCERS UNION
Board of Directo
General Manager
2/
M ilk Product                      Processing Plants                        Technical                           Promoting of                          Administration
L   Marketing                          Milk       Feed                           Services                           Cooperatives
Animal Health                         Spearhead Teams                       Personnel
Supervision                   Supervision                      Al and Bull Farm                      Milk Procurement                      Accounting
Engineering                   Procurement                      Calf Rearing Program                  Feed Supply                            Audit
Quality Control                   Mixing                           Seed Production Program               Training                              Finance
Spearhead Teams                       Publications                          Budget
-  Marketing would be done initially by the Dairy Development Corporation                                                                                                    C
2 Cooperative Promotion essential during starting period. Later would be phased into other departments.
Source: IDA MISSION                                                                                                                                   World Bank-8247(R)






ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELCPMENT PROJECT
Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation
Responsibilities and Functions
1.        Although the core of the Project would be the village dairy
cooperatives and the milk producers' Unions, a central body to coordinate
and implement the several Project components is needed and would be
obtained by establishing the KCarnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC).
The formation of corporations to coordinate development in industry and
agriculture is common practice in India. They are formed under the
Companies Act of 1956. The KDDC would have multiple responsibilities
and functions, but principally:
(a) promotion of and technical assistance to 1,800 village
milk producers' cooperatives and four milk producers'
unions that would participate in the Project;
(b) taking over and management of six farms from Karnataka
State, comprising about 5,000 ha, that would be
iperated for dairying, breeding, forage and seed
production, and applied research in forage programs,
animal nutrition, and small farm management systems; and
(c) ancillary activities including: (i) procurement of
goods financed by the Project, (ii) acting as a channel
for advancing IDA funds granted by GOI to support enlarged
programs for animal health, applied research on animal
nutrition and forage production, and training for tech-
nicians and farmers, and (iii) holding certain State
properties in trust for the milk unions, namely: the
Bangalore dairy plant and the new facilities to be
constructed under KDDC supervision, until the unions
are formed and evidence viability.
Further details on the Corporation's responsibilities and functions are
given in Appendix 1.
Board of Directors
2.        The powers and control of the corporation would be vested in
a Board of Directors representing the several Project participants. GOI
equity in KDDC would be represented by one representative each from: GOI
Department of Animal Husbandry, NDDB, 3 Lead Banks in Karnataka, Indian
Institute of Management, University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore,



ANNEX 7
Page 2
and 4 representatives of the Unions. GOK's equity would be represented
by one representative each from: GOM Department of Animal Husbandry,
Karnataka State Land Development Bank, Karnataka State Cooperative Apex Bank,
Registrar of Cooperatives and 4 representatives of the Unions. The Unions
would together elect 2 representatives to the Board. As the Unions buy out
Governments' equity, elected Union representatives would replace Union
representatives appointed by GOI ani GOK. Because the Board would meet
only about four times a year, and have up to 19 members, a five member
Executive Committee could be appointed with appropriate power.
Management
3.        The Corporation would be managed by a general manager and
about six assistants or deputy managers. About six divisions on a
line of functions would be needed, namely: (a) Development of Corpora-
tion Farms, (b) Promotion of Cooperatives, (c) Marketing and Studies,
(d) Engineering, (d) Controller, and (f) Administrative. The management
level would be assisted by the Registrar of Cooperatives through a
working arrangement and by NDDB through a ccntract arrangement. The
Registrar of Cooperatives would assist in the promotion, organization
and supervision of the cooperatives and would issue the Charter to
legalize them. NDDB would assist in several ways: (a) training
spearhead teams employed by the corporation to develop cooperatives
and supplying consultants to work with the teams in the field during
the first year, (b) carrying out the feasibility studies on location
and plant design of the Unions' milk and feed processing facilities
and supervision of construction, (c) carrying out milk supply/demand
studies and coordinating at state and national milk grid levels, and
(d) conducting animal feed resource surveys. See Chart I for organization
structure of the Corporation.
4.        The Corporation's principal assets would consist of the
six State farms, excluding land which would be leased, fixed improvements,
livestock and machinery to be transferred to it. The Government would con-
tribute enough equity capital to give the corporation adequate borrowing
power. Lending banks require that 25% of the cost of fixed assets be
financed as equity. GOI proposed that the allocation of share capital be
50. Central Government, 40% State Government and 10% cooperative milk
producers' Unions. The Bank concurs, as it is desirable that the Unions
have a share interest in the Corporation, and that provision be made to
i-2crease their ownership.
Financial Operations
5.        The Corporation's principal revenue would be derived from
coniercial operations of its six farms and a levy of the milk through-
put of the unions. Three farms would be operated with a purebred dairy
herds, the fourth with a crossbred dairy herd, and the fifth and sixth
as crossbred bull rearing farms. Income would come from sales of milk,
surplus heifers, bulls, seed, fodder, and AI services. The Corporation
would apply cost accounting practices to each of its farms. Financial
projections are shown in Tables 2-4.



ANNEX 7
Appendix I
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Functions and Responsibilities of the Karnataka
Dairy Development Corpcration
The Corporation established under the Companies Act of 1956,
would assist Central and State Governments in increasing the national
supply of dairy products. The Corporation would be empowered, but not
limited to deal with the following functions and responsibilities:
1.   Overall coordination and execution of the Karnataka
State Integrated Dairy Development Project.
2.   Recipient of Central and State Government equity
fund, grants and other assets channeled to the
Project.
3.   Develop and operate six farms within the following
general concept:
(a) three purebred dairy farms stocked with exotic
dairy breeds; and one crossbred dairy farm;
(b) two bull breeding farms together with storage
banks for artificial insemination (AI) services;
(c) storage banks for fodder for use during acute
period of feed shortages in the villages:
(d) seed production schemes making the seed available
for village farmers;
(e) applied research programs on pasture and forage
mixtures, and animal nutrition;
(f) about 50 small (2.5 ha) demonstration farms
(farmed by villagers) to test the economic
viability of various farm management systems
including trials on high yielding greed feed
and dry storage systems and water harvesting
systems adaptable to local farming systems; and
(g) engage consultants in tropical pasture agronomy
and pasture management/utilization to assist in
development of the pasture programs on the MDDC
farms and to provide technical supervision of the



ANNEX 7
Appendix I
Page 2
program outlined in section (g) above. Terms of
reference for these consultants are attached
in Appendix II.
4.   Designate milkshed areas and the location of milk producers'
cooperative unions to secvice the areas.
5.   Carry out feasibility, design, specifications and super-
vision, and construction of new milk and feed processing
facilities and expansion of existing facilities in
consultation with NDDB.
6.   Central procurement agent for goods financed by the
Project.
7.   Coordinate the marketing of dairy products produced under
the Project and formulation of a price policy that would
ensure an adequate return on investments at the producer
level until the unions become incependent and can assume
this function.
8.   Conduct studies to determine among other things, supply/demand
situation for milk products and for animal feed including
roughage, green fodder and concentrates, to formulate devel-
opment planning and future investment strategy of the State
dairy industry.
9.   Employ about four spearhead teams to assist in promoting,
organizing and operating village milk producers' coopera-
tives and milk producers' unions.
10.   Train administrative and technical staff for the milk
cooperatives and the Unions.
11. Administer Central/State Government grants needed for
start-up costs of the milk cooperatives and Unions as
well as for the calf rearing programs.
12.   Oversee and pass on certain IDA funds to Institute
of Veterinary Biological Production and Veterinary
College Crossbred Animal Health Program.
13.   Organize and guide in-service training programs for
farmers and technical personnel concerned with
village animal husbandry and management.
14.   Maintain appropriate accounts and records, apply
cost accounting procedures to each Corporation farm,
monitor the impact of the Project on rural development,
and make such reports as required by IDA.



ANNEX 7
Appendix II
Page 1
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Qualifications and Terms of Reference for Specialists in
Pasture/Forage Development and Farm Systems Studies
1.        Tropical Pasture/Forage Specialist:
Qualifications: Degree in agriculture or related field with at least
five years' experience in tropical pasture/forage agronomy.  Should also
be experienced in the design and implementation of production oriented
research programs.
Duties and Responsibilities:
(a)  He would be responsible for the pasture improvement
program on all the Karnataka Dairy Development Corpora-
tion's (KDDC) farms (which total area of about
13,000 acres). The program will include irrigation
and dryland pastures with particular emphasis on
tropical legume establishment.
(b) Pasture conservation fodder bank/programs on all farms.
(c) Seed production and distribution.
(d) Training and demonstration programs related to the
proposed milk unions technical staffs and village
cooperative farmers.
(e) In collaboration with the pasture/animal production
specialist and the University of Agricultural Sciences,
Bangalore, design and supervise milk production oriented
studies on traditional small farming systems. 1/
1/   The objective of these studies will be to quantify the effects of
changing the small village farmer traditional land use pattern,
now geared basically to subsistence cropping to a system aimed
towards use of increasing proportions of land for commercial dairy
production through introduction of permanent pastures and crops
grown exclusively for forage. These studies would also include
investigations on water harvesting to determine the feasibility
of including small farm ponds on individual farms.



ANNEX 7
Appendix II
Page 2
2.        Tropical Pasture/Animal Production Specialist:
Qualifications: A degree in agriculture or related field with at least
five years' experience in animal production in the tropics with emphasis
on pasture management and utilization.
Duties:
He will be responsible for:
(a)  Developing management programs to maximize production
from the Corporation's pasture and forage program and
minimize reliance on purchased concentrate feed for
milk production.
(b) Training and demonstration programs related to the
proposed milk unions' technical staffs and village
cooperative farmers.
(c) In collaboration with the Tropical Pasture/Forage
specialist design and supervise milk production
oriented studies on traditional farming systems.
3.        Duration of both the positions would be about six years, starting
about September 1974.



ANNEX 7
Table 1
INDIA
KA1UNATARA DAIRY DEVELUPNT PROJBCT
KfTD, Investments
(Rs '000)
% Foreign
YEAR                                               1          2         3          4          5         6          TOTAL          Exchange
I.  CORPORATION FARMS
A.  Investments
1.  Hessarghatta                             569      1561         341         50        -          -           2521              53
2.  Lingadahalli                             1027     2634         319        100        -          -           4080              55
3.  Rayanakere                                351     1002         110         20        -          -           1483              66
4.  Ajjumpur                                  718      449         216         56         -         -           1439              21
5.  Habbanaghatta                           2673      1728         699        100        -          -           52,00             16
Sub-total 2/          5340      7370        1680       330         -          -         14720               39
B.  Contingencies
1.  Physical                                 270       370          80        20         -          -            740              39
2.  Price                                   1760      3170         910        210        -          -           6050              39
Sub-total             2030      3540         990       230         -          -           6790              39
Total (I)         7370    10910        2670        560         -          -         21510               39
II. MANAGEMENT & TECHNICAL SERVICES
A.  Investments
1.  Vehicles                                 500        -           -          -         -          -            500              25
2.  Furniture & Equipment                      20       -           -          -         -          -             20              -
3.  Consultant Services                      300       600         600        600       600        600          3300              90
4. Research Materials                        400       200         200        200       200        200          1400              90
Sub-total             1220       800         800       800        800        800          5220              83
B. Contingencies
1.  Physical                                  60        40          40         40        40         40           260              -
2.  Price                                    400       340         430        520       620        730          3040              -
Sub-total              460       380        470        560        660        770          3300              83
Total (II)        1680      1180       1270       1360       1460       1570         8520               83
III. WORKING CAPITAL
1. Working Capital 3/                        350       150          -          -         -          -            500              -
2.  Price Contingencies 4/                    110       60                                                       170              -
Total (III)        460       210         -          -          -          -            670              -
TOTAL KDDC INVESTPENT
1.  Investments                             6910      8320        2480       1130       800        800         20440              49
2.  Contingencies
Physical                             330       410         120        60         40         40          1000              49
Price                               2270      3570        1340       730        620        730          9260              49
Sub-total Contingencies        2600     3980        1460        790        660        770        10260               49
GRAND TOTAL              9510    12300         3940       1920      1460       1570         30700              49
1/ See tables 5, 8, 11, 14 and 17.
2/ Total has been rounded.
3/ Excluding startup costs of Rs 2.5 million in year 1, (see table 2).
41 Excluding contingencies of Rs 0.82 million attributed to start-up costs -- see note 3.



INDIA
LARNATANA DAIRY DEVELOPM13ST PROJECT
rKMj. Projected Income Statement
YEAR                                1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9         10         11          12         13         14        15
I. REVENUES
A. Sales from Farms,
1.  Hessaighatta                                 490        505       1045       1415       1435       1550       1590
2.  Lingadhalli                                    -        300       1465       2015       2070       2250       2340
3.  Ray.nakere                                   --          -         670        470        585        610        655  )           Constant
4.  Ajjumpur                                      140       295        685        790        950         960        960
5.  Habbaftaghatta                                 -       2375       2375       2385       2450        2450      2450  )
Total Sales                        630       3475       6240       7075       7490       7820       7995       7995       7995       7995       7995       7995        7995       7995       7995
B. Milk Levy from Unions  -/                         365        475        690       1175       1925       2905       3630       3650       3650       3650       3650       3650       3650       3650        3650
C. Total Revenoes                                    995       3950       6930       8250       9415      10725      11625      11645      11645      11645      11645      11645      11645      11645       11645
II.  OPERATINC COSTS
A.
1.  Nes,mrghatta                                 427        459        782        820        844        865        865
2.  Lingadhalli                                   150       370        822        966       1038       1046       1076
3.  Rayanakere                                   131        185        345        326        377         380       390   )           Constant
4.  Ajjumpur                                      213        291        399        413        533        521       521
5.  Habbanaghatta                               1063        1463      1605       1719        1719       1719      1719   )  ____       _____
1986       2768       3953       4244       4511       4531      4571        4571       4571       4571       4571       4571       4571       4571        4571
B. Management Services  2/
1.  Staff Salaries - local                       700        735        770        810        850        890        935         980      1030       1080        1135       1195       1260        1325       1395
- spearhead                 600        200
2.  Office Space                                   30        30         30          30         30         30         30
3.  Travel Expenses                                35        35         35          35         35         35         35   )          Constant
4.  Vehicles Operation                            150        110         60         60         60         60         60   )
1515       1110        895        935        975       1015       1060       1105       1155       1205       1260       1320       1385        1450       1520
C. Total Operating Costs                            3499       3878      4848        5179       5486       5546       5631       5676       5726       m776       5831      S    F       93     5517    6091
III.  OPERATING INCOME
in constant 1973 prioes                            (2504)        72       2082       3071       3929       5179       5994       5969       5919       5869       5814       5754        5689       5624       5554
in current prices          -                       (3300)       100       3140       4970       6830       9680      11740      12300      12780      13300      13900      14440       14960      15520      16100
IV.  DEPRECIATION -                                       950       1860       2080       2130       2130       2130       2130        2130       2130      2130        2130       2130       1180         260         40
V.  INTEREST  (@ 94)-                                                           -         2220      2220        2220       2220       2050       1870       1670       1450       1210        950         660        350
VI.  GROSS INCOME                                        (4250)    (1760)      1060         620       2480       5330       7390       8120       8780       9500      10320      11100      12830       14600      15710
VII.  CORPORATION TAXES 5/                                  -          -          420        250        990       2130       2960       3250       3510       3800       4130       4440        5130       5840       6280
VIII.  NET INCOME                                          (4250)    (1760)        640        370       1490       3200       4430       4870       5270       5700       6190       6660        7700       8760       9430
j'  Tables 6, 9. 12, 15 and 18,
2/ Milk levy is set so as to caner the cast of technical services to Unions.
/  All items below "III operating income" are in current prices:  30% in Year 1, than at 71: compoonded to Year 6 and sobseqocotly at 1. co-poonded; all sbove are i  conastant 1973 prices.
4/  Depreciation aver the project period:of i-vestments, inclading management vehicles and furniture  (Rs 720,000) and R. 3.3 M for livestock and equipment.
5/  Terms of loans are:  91b p.a. interest, 3 years grace, 3 years interest only and 9 years repayment; Tomes (at 40%) are appromimate since amortioatio- of capitalized  interest and management and
technical services is not imcloded here--see Table 3.



INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOIPENT PROJECT
cDnt;  Pro1ected Cash Flo 1/
(Rs '000)
Year                       1         2            3          4.          5          6          7           8          9          10         11          12          13         14   IS
I. Sources of Funds-!
A. Equity
GOI and GOK Initial          3,300
Subscription
G01 and GM0 for Fixed        1.610    1.590         530         110
Inwestent 2
Sub-total               4,910    1,590         530         110
B. Loans
Fixad Irustnt                6,480    9,320      2,140          450
Working Capital                460      210
Sub-total               6,940    9,530       2,140         450
C. Operating Surplus it         (3,300)     100       2,720       4,720      5,840      7,550        8.780      9,050       9,270      9,500       9,700   10,000         9,830      9,680      9,820
Total Sources of Funds           8,550   11,220       5,390       5,280      5,840      7,550        8,780      9,050       9,270      9,500       9,700   10,000         9,830       9,680     9,820
11. Application of Funds!/
A. Inva.t_nt'c
Corporation Farms4/          8,090   10,910       2,670         560
Working Capital                460      210
Sub-total               8,550   11,120       2,670         560
B. Debt Service5/
Interest                                -           -         2,220      2,220      2,220        2,220      2,050       1.870      1,670       1,450    1.210           950         660        350
Amortization                                                    -          -           -         1.750      1.920       2.100       2.300      2.520    2.760          3.020      3.310      3.620
Sub-total                                                2,220      2,220      2,220        3,970      3,970       3,970      3,970       3,970    3,970         3,970       3,970      3.970
Total Application of Funds       8,550   11,120       2,670        2,780     2,220       2,220       3,970       3,970      3,970       3,970       3,970    3,970         3,970      3,970      3,970
C. Met Inflow
Aillm                          -         100      2,720       2,500      3,620      5,330       4,810       5,000       5,300      5,530       5,800    6,030         5,860       5,710      5,850
Cemulative                     _        100      2,820        5,320     8,940      14,270      19,080      24,080     29,380      34,910      40,710   46,740        52,600      58,310    64,160
i ln current prices.
2/ Excluding Managesent and Services except as in footnote 4.
3/ 2ul on all items except for bulls and semen at 10%.
4/ Including vehicles and furniture from management and services.
5/  Terms of loans are: 9k1% p.a. interest capitalized for 3 years, then interest payment for 3 years with loan repayment over 9 years subsequently.
6/ Net of taxes.



INDI A
KAiNATAKA DATLhY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KDDC: Projected Balance Sheet, End of Year 1
(Rs '000)
ASSETS                                                LIABILITIES
A.  CASH & CURRENT V                        460        A.  LOANS
B. FIXED ASSETS                                            1.  For Fixed Investment                    6,o8o
1.  Livestock and Equipment 3,300                      2.  For working capital                       460
2.  Project Investments     7,370                                                                            6,940
3.  Vehicles and Equipment    720
for management service                       B.  EQUITY
4. Loess Depreciation         (950)                    1. GOI and GOK initial capital-GoodwilI1Y3,300
Sub-total              10, 440            * GOK equipment and livestock             3,300
GOI(/GOK capital contribution            1,610
C. Capitalized Startup  Costs              3,300
14.  Less Depreciation                       (950)
D.         TOTIAL ASSETS                  114,200                                                          -
Sub-total                         7,260
.  TOTAL LIABILITIES                                    1L.,200
l/ Indicative figure only.
2/ These Tunds will have been spent to cover operating deficits of the first year--see Annex 7, Table 2.
CDJIg



ANNEX 7
Table5
INDIA
KAATAKA DAIRY DIVELOPJNIT PROJECT
Corporation Hessarghatta Purebred Freisen Dairy Farm 1950 ac
On-Farm Investments
No of      Unit      Total                Year      a
Investments Items               Unit   Units        Cost     Cost       1       2         3       4
(s)      (---------------Rs '000---------------)
Pasture Establishment            ac   1,000         250      250      75      75        50      50
Imported seed for initial
pasture establishment           ac      300         160       48      48      -         -       -
Cattle housing, including
storage 1/     AU      175      1,120       196    100       50        46      _
Fencing                         m    8,400            3       25      10      10         5      -
Cattle - imported               hd      138      8,000    1,104      -    1,104         -       -
Frozen semen-imported          doses   800           10        8       1       2         5      -
Tractors and accessories        set    1.5    147,000        220      25     110        85      -
iMilking equipment, including
cooler      unit      1    120,000       120    100       20        -       -
Yehicles                        unLt     2      45,000        90     -        40       50       -
Irrigation wells and pumps,
including distribution system  unit    30       15,000       450    200      150       100      _
i4iscellaneous  2/                                            10      10      -         -       -
Total- excluding contingencies           2,521    569   1,561       341       50
1/  Pre-development housing is sufficient for 175 AUs, new investments would be for an
additional 175 AUs.
2/ Such as AI equipment.



ANNEX 7
Table 6
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMNIT PROJECT
Corporation Hessarghatta Freisen Dairy) Farm(1,950 ac)
sales and Operating expenses
(xis ' 000)
Year
Sales                               1       2      3       4     5       6       7     8-10
Milk                 Its 1.2/1     175    188    726    645    702    751    751    751
;ull Cows            Rs 2,000/hd   -       -      -       10     46     46      46     46
Heifers (in calf)   as 4,000/hd   -        -      -      200    164    200    216    216
Bulls                As 4,000/hd   76      76     80    320    284    320    336    336
Fodder               Rs 120/t     240    240    240    24s0   240    24t0   240    240
Total        491    504  1,046  1,415  1,436  1,557  1,589  1,589
Operating Exenses
Wa-ges                            210    210    210    210    210    210    210    210
Concentrate Feed  1/               98    102    374    353    376    397    397    397-
Pasture Maintenance 2/              -      -       -      58     58      58     58      58
i,aintenence:
iiachinery and souipment 3/      15      31     76      76     76      76     76     76
Buildinvs  4/            -       -       12    112      12     12      12     12     12
j-uel and ?ower                   100    100    100    100    100    100    100    100
ieterinary Supplies  5/             4      4      10     11      12     12     12      12
Total        427    459    782    820    844    865    865    865
Operating7 Surplus (Deficit)       64      45    264    595    53      692    724    724
1/-J'oncentrate f'eed consumed at the rate of 1 kg/2 1 milk produced and 1 kg/hd/day naintenance;
priced at ts 1,000/t.
2/ Vastuire re-establishment/renovation 200 ac/yr at -is 290/ac.
3/  !anhincry inaintenance at 10,-' of cost.
LI/ BuildinL- laintenance at 2A. of cost.
5/ Veterinary supplies at is 0C/hd/yr.



Table 7
INDIA
A3NATAKA DAIRL DEVELOP!IE'T PROJECT
Mysore Dai!- 2crrcraLio . liessary-hatta Stud F2rr. (1950 acres)
Herd Projection
I 3VZ,ITORY                 0       1       2        3       4        5       6        7       8       9
Cn hand                        -       23       60      64     191      200     200      200     200     200
1st calf heifers               -       39        6     133       20      30      30       30      30       30
Total mated                    -       62       66     197     211      230     230      230     230      230
Less deaths                    -         2       2       6        6       7        7       7       7        7
Less sales                     -        -       -       -         5      23      23       23      23       23
On hand at end                 23      60       64     19g     200      200     200      200     200     200
iiEIFEtS (1 -2 yr)
On hand                        -        6       19      21       82      73      82       87      87       87
Purchases                      -       -       119      -        -       -        -       -       -        -
Less deaths                    -       -         5       1        2       2        2       3       3        3
Less sales                     -        -       -       -        50      41       50      54      54       54
On hand at end                 39       6      133      20       30      30      30       30      30       30
CALVES ( 1 yr)
3orn during year                   4 43   46      178      158       172      184    184      184     184
Males                        -       22       23      89       79      86      92       92      92       92
Less deaths                -        2        2       7        6       4       5        5       5        5
On hand at end             13      20       21      82      73       82      87       87      87      87
Females                      -       21       23      89       79      86      92       92      92       92
Less deaths                -        2        2       7       6        4       5        5       5        5
On hand at end              6      19       21      82      73       82      87       87      87      87
MALES (1-2 yr)
On hand                        -       20       20      21       82      73      82       87      87       87
Less deaths                    -         1       1       1        2       2        2       3       3        3
Less sales                     -       19       19      20       80      71       80      84      84       84
On hand at end                  7      -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -
TOTAL: AU        69       66     197      211     230     230      230     230      230     230
Milked   -        43      46     178      158     172      184     184      184     184
PARAMETERS
Calving                        -       70       70     100       75      75      80       80      80       80
Mortality
Cows                         -        3        3       3        3       3       3        3       3        3
Others   I yr                -        3        3       3       3        3       3        3       3        3
Calves   1 yr                -       10       10       8        8       5       5        5       5        5
Milk/lactation (1)          3,400
SALES 1/
Cows              No.                                             5      23       23      23       23      23
Heifers           No.                                            50      41       50      54       54      54
Males             No.                   19      19      20       80      71       80      84       84      84
Milk          '000 1.                 146.2   156.4   605.2   537.2   584.8   625.6   625.6   625.6   625.6
Fodder 1/       Tons                2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000
1/ 3eing surplus of 2,000 tons per year above farm requirement.



INDIA                              Table 8
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
,Jorporation Lingadahalli ?ureored Preisen Dairy Farml   350 ac)
On-Farm investments
No.of      unit    Total             ,Yar
Investments Items                        Unit    Units       Jost   !Jost   1         2     3       4
Rs    (-   - - - - - - is '000 - - - - - -
'asture Establishment                     ac      2,200       250     550  250       100   100    100
Imported seed for initial
pasture estaolishment                    ac        400       160      64   64        -     -       _
cattle housin,, includin% storage         AU       435    1,120       487  200      200    87       -
Fencing                                   m      4,400          3      13    6         4     3      -
*,attle - imported                        hd        250    8,000   2,000    -   2,000        -      -
F'rozen semen-imported                    doses  1,83C         10      18    7         5     6      _
'Tractors and accessories                 set      2.o5  150,0CC      3y8  200      125    73       -
,ilkin;> equipment, includin6 cooler    unit          1  150,000      150  100        50     -      _
*lehicles                                unit         2   45,000       90   40       50      -      -
Irri,ation wells and purpps,
includin:, distribution system           unit       20   15,000      300  150      100    50       -
Miscellaneous  1/                          -         -        -        10   10
Total - excluding contingencies                 4,G80 1,027  2,634   319    100
1/ Such as AI equipument.



ANNEL 7
Table 9
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Corporation Lingadahalli Purebred Freisen Dairy Farm (4,350 ac)
Sales and Cperating  &xpenses
(Ris '000)
Year
1     2       3      4     5      6      7     8    9-10
,iales__
liilk                A.s 1.2/1       -      -     26)4  673   853   860   918   918   918
Juli Jows            Rs 2,000/hd   -       -       -      -     42    48    48    48    48
Heifers (in calf)   is 4,000/hd   -         -      -    212   160   249   260   260   260
Bulls                Rs 4,COO/hd   -        -      -    412   296   372   392   412   412
Fodder               Rs 120/t        -    300    500   720   720   720   720   720   720
Total                       -    300  1,464 2,017 2,071 2,249 2,338 2,358 2,358
Qperatin' Xpenses
Ianes                               50      50     50    50    50    50    50    50    50
Concentrate Feed   1/                -     88    480   381   453   461   491   491   491
Pasture 1$1intenance- 2/             -     -       _    174   174   174   174   174   174
iviaintenance:
iachinery and Szuipment 3/         -     20      20    77    77    77    77    77    77
-3uildin:;s  4/                   -      -       -     10    10    10    10    1C    10
?uel and PoweF                      100   200    260   260.  260   260   260   260   260
Jeterinary 6upplies  W/-                   12      12    14    14    14    14    14    lb
Total                     150   370    832  466 1,038 1,046 1,C76 1,076 1,076
Gperatin   3urplus (Deficit)      (0   LZ)-_ 642  1,051 103 ,203 12262 1 ,98 1,28'
17 .,oncentra         csumed at the rate of 1 k./2 1 milk produced and 1 kjhead/day
mainten3 icepriced at zIs 1000/ton.
2/ 7ias ture re-estaolishmient/renovation 200 ac/year at its 290/ac.
a/ vchinery maintenance at 10. of cost.
/ 3uildin. maintenance at 2/, of cost.
e/ ieterinary supplies at is 53/hd/yr.



ANNEX 7
Table 10
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mysore DaiTy' CorDoration Lingadahalli Stud Fanm (l4350 acres)
iHerd Projection
INVENTORY                    1        2       3        4        5        6       7        8        9       10
COaS
On hand                         -        -        -      236      229      250     250      250      250      250
1st Calf heifers                -        -      2143      -        50       32       32      32       32       32
Total mated                     -        -      243      236      279      282     282      282      282      282
Less deaths                     -        -         7        7       8        8        8       8        8        8
Less sales                      -        -        -       -        21       24       24      24       24       24
Ch hand at end                  -        -      236      229      250      250     250      250      250      250
HEIFERS (1-2 yr)
On hand                         -        -        -      106       75       97     100      107      106      107
Purchases                       -       250       -       -        -        -        -       -        -        -
Less deaths                     -         7       -        3        3        3        3       3        3        3
Less sales                      -        -        -       53       40       62       65      72       71       72
On hand at end                  -       243      -        50       32       32      32       32       32       32
CALVES
3orn during year            -        -      236      165      209     211      225      225      225     225
Males:                        -        -      118       83      104      106     112      113      112      113
Less deaths                 -        -       12        7        8        5       6        6        6        6
On hand at end              -       -       106       76       96     101      106      107      106     107
Females:                      -        _      118       82      105      105     113      112      113      112
Less deaths                 -        -       12        7        8        5       6        6        6        6
On hand at end              -       -       106       75       97     100      107      106      107     106
MALFES (1-2 yr)
On hand                         -        -       -       106       76       96     101      106      107      106
Less deaths                     -        -        -        3        2        3        3        3       3        3
TOTAL: AU         -       243     236      279      282      282     282      282      282      282
Milked   -        -       236     165      209      211      225      225     225      225
PRODUCTI0ia COEFFICI1TS8
Calving                         -        -        97      70       70       75       80      80       80       80
Mortality
Cows                          -         3       3        3        3        3       3        3        3        3
Others   1 yr                 -        -        3        3        3        3       3        3        3        3
Calves   1 yr                 -        -       10       10        8        8        5       5        5        5
Milk/lactation (1)           3,1400
SALES
Cows -             No.          _        -                -        21       24       24      24       24       24
Heifers -          No.          -        -        -       53       40       62       65      72       71       72
Males -            No.          -        -        -      103       74       93       98     103      104      103
Milk -        1,000 1.          _        _       802.4   561      710.6   717.4   765        765     765      765   2,000 1/day



ANNEX 7
Table 11
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Corporation aayanakere ?urebred Jersey Farm (700 ac)
On-Farm Investments
No.of      Unit      Total             Year
Investment Items                  Unit    Units        -'ost    Cost    1      2     3      4
(is)    (- - - - - - Rs '000 - - - -
Pasture Establishment              ac     370          250       93   25    25    23       20
Imported seed for initial
pasture esta'olishment            ac     100          160       16   16      -      -      -
C,attle housing, includins
storage                      ATJ    175        1,120       196  100    50    46       __
Fencing                           m    2,800             3        8    4      2      2      -
,attle - imported                 hd      100       8,000       800    -   800      -       -
Frozen semen-imported              doses  760           10        8    1      2      5      -
Tractors and accessories           set      1       72,000       72   50    13       9      -
iilkin,. ecuipment, includinm
cooler                      unit      1      75,000        75   50'   25      -       _
/ehicles                          unit      2      45,000        90   40    50      -
Irrigation wells and pumps,
includinL distribution system   unit       8      15,000       120   60    35    25
;i'scellaneous  1/                 -                   -          5    5
Total - excluding contingencies               1,483  351 1,002   110       20
1/ Such as AI equipment.



ANNE 7
INDIA                        Table 12
KALWATA U DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Jorporation rtayanakere Purebred Jersey Dairy Farm (700 ac)
Sales and Operating _&penses
(as '000)
_ear
oles                                 1    2      3      4       5       6      7       8-10
i4ilk              iRs 1.2/1       -    -    378    264    318    325    348    348
MUll voWs           As 2,000/hd   -    -       -       18      24     24      24      24
Heifers (in calf)  Rs 4,000/hd   -    -    116         64      92    100    112    112
3ulls               -s 4,000/hd   -    -    176    124    152    160    172    172
Total                   -    -    670    470    586    609    656    656
0peratinL. Lxpenses
Ja les                            105  1C0   105    105    105    105    105    1C5
.)oncentrate i1'eed  1/            -    37   186    152    174    177    187    1FP7
'asture vlaintenance  2/           -    -      -       -       29     '9      29      29
laintenance
Piachineyry and Equipment  3/    -    10    15       16      16     16      16      16
3uildinZ,s  4/                   6      6     8       8       8      8       &       8
t'uel and Power                   20    22    26       40      40     40      LO      L0
leterinary Supplies  5/            -      5     5       5       5      5       3       5
Total               131   185   34    326    377    38C0   390    390
Cperatin, iurplus (Deficit)   (131) (185)  325    144    209    229    266    266
1/ voncentrate feeds at rate of 1 kJ2 ] Ti-lk produced and miainttenance 1 k,jhcV/da-y;
priced at .Is 1,000/t.
Pdasstre establishi:ent/rernovation 1CC ac/year at Rs <C/ac.
3 acniner-y and  pCU.i.Jrlent rainteninc  at 1C, o,f cost.
i ,L n'.  n, aten4rnce at 2,b of' cost.
J /eterjinarFy supplles at HiS r/hd/yr.



ANNEX 7
Table 13
i DIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Mysore Dairy Corporation Rayanakere Stud Farm (700 acres)
Herd Projection
IIVE'tTORY                         1        2        3        4       5        6        7       8        9        10
cows
Cn hand                                 -       6         6      100      97      100      100     100      100      100
1st Calf heifers                        -        -       97       -        15      15       15       ,5      15       15
Total mated                             -       -       103      100     112      115      115     115      115      115
Less deaths                             -        -        3        3        3       3        3        3        3       3
Less sales                              -        -       -        -         9      12       12       12       12      12
On hand at end                          -       6       100       97     100      1 00     100     100      100      100
HEIFERS (1-2 yr)
On hand                                 -       -        -        45      32       39       41       44       44      44
Purchases                               -      100       -        -        -        _
Less deaths                             -         3      -         1        1        1       1        1        1       1
Less sales                              -        -       -        29       16       23      25       28       28      28
On hand at end                          -       97       -        15       15      15       15       15       15      15
CALVES (< 1 yr)
Born during year                    -       -       TOO       70      84       86       92       92      92       92
Males:                                -       -        50       35       42      43       46       46      46       46
Less deaths                           -       -         5        3        3       2        2        2        2       2
On hand at end                        -       -        45       32      39       41       44       44   t 44        44
Females:                              -       _        50       35       42      43       46       46       46      46
Less deaths                           -       -         5        3        3       1        2        2        2       2
Gn hand at end                        -       -        45       32      39       42       44       44      44       44
MALES (1-2 yr)
On hand                                 -                -        45      32       39       41       44       44      44
Less deatns                             -        -       -         1        1        1       1        1        1        1
Less sales                              _ -              -        44       31      38       40       43       43      43
TOTAL:  AU          -       103      100     112      115      115     115      115      115      115
Milked      -       -       100       70       84      86       92       92       92      92
PARAMETERS                                                                       %
Calving : Local                         -        -       70       -        -        -       -        -        -       _
Imported                    -        -      100       70       75      75       80       80       80
Mortality
Cows                                  _        3        3        3        3       3        3        3       3
Others >1 yr                          -        3        3        3       3        3        3        3       3
Calves<  yr                           -       10       10        8        8       5        5        5        5
Culling/sales
Cows
Heifers, 1-2 yr
MALES, 1-2 yr
Milk per lactation, kg               3,15O
Age lst calving, mo                     24
SALES
Cows -             Ac.                                                      9      12       12       12       12      12
Rs.
Heifers -          No.                                            29       16       23      25       28       28       28
Rs.
Males -            No.                                            44       31       38      40       43       43       43
RS.
Milk          1,000 1.  (800 -/day)   -          -      315      220.5   264.6   270.9   289.8   289.8   289.8   289.8
Rs.
TOTAL           Rs.



ANNEX7
Table J1
IIDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY D)EVELOPMET PROFJCT
,orporation Ajjulur    ssbredDairy     (2,250 ac)
On Farm Investments
(Rs, 000)
N\o of      Unit   Total               Yeaar
Investment Items                      Unit    Lnits        Cost   Cost_  1         2      3    4_
R(s)  (- - - - - - Rs '000 -  
Pasture LstablishrLent              ac      1,265        250   316    100    100    60   56
imported seed i'or initial
pasture establishment             ac        350        160    56      56      -      _    -
,at'tle 1o01sin', includin
storage 1/         AU        350      1,120   392    200    150    142
Eencin;                             mn      3,600          3    11        5      3            -
.Wrozen sesner- - ,noorted         dose.3    1,940         10    19       7       6       6
Tractors and accessories            set          t   1 73. C! 10         5       4c0    -.C
.,i..<:n- eal;onen,incliidin-)
cooler           unit          1    75,00(G    75       SC     2$       _
iehic!es                          uni-          2    4L.oOCJ    90       4fD    50       _
Irri2ation wells and purnps
i;ncludin2l di stribution system  un--t        16    15,00G    24C    100       75     65
jis el1aneous  2/                   -           -         -      1       10C
Total - excluding              305             1, 439    71 Fi ,9       216  56
contingencies
I/ Pre-development housing is sufficient for 350 AUs; new investments would be for an
additional 350 AUs.
2/ Such as AI equipment.



ANNEX 7
INJDIA                              Table 15
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Corporation Ajjumpur Jrossbred Dairy Farm
Sales and Operatin, Expenses
(Rs 'oco)
________ __      _____ Year
1     2      3      4     5      6      7    8-10
6ales                                                   -
hilk                 ds 1.2/1    132   150   182   270   288   322   322   322
Heifers (in calf)  Is 3,OO0/hd  -         -    270   282   390   369   369   369
Bulls               1RS 1,GCG/hd  10 1/ -       90    95   129   123   123   123
Fodder               As 1W2/t      -    144   144   144   144   144   144   144
Total                    142   294   686   791   951   958   558   958
Operating 1ixpenses
,Jates                            110   110   110   110   1C   110   110   110
Joncentrate Feed 2/                55    62   135   141   195   184   18)4   184
Pasture i4J3intenance 3/           -      -      -     -      58    58    58    58
'-aintenance
>Iachinery and kQuipmnent 4/    -      3C    66    66    66    66    66    66
.3uildincs  5/                   -            -       8     8      8      8      8
,'cel and Power                    40   E8    8C    80    80    8C    80    8,0
reterinary Supplies 6/             8      9      8     8      8      8     8      8
Sub-total               213   291   399   413   525   514   51 4   51 4
Heifer Purchase 7/                 -      -     -      -       8      7     7      7
Total                   213   291   399   413   533   521   521   521
Operatin, .,irplus (Deficit)    (71)    3   287   378   418   437   437   437
1/ Local 1 st year male calves      sold at Rs 1OCO/hcI.
V2/  oncentrate feed cons Uiied at rate ot 1 k/2 1] milk prod,uced.
3/ Pasture re-establishment/renovation 200 ac/yr at Rs 29G/ac.
L/ ~-achinnery maintenance at 10G' of cost.
,' .lildin  cmintenance at 2, of cost.
O/  Ieterinar\r supplies at :'s 20/hd./yr.
7/ Local bred replacement heifers at .s 600/hd.



ANNEX 7
ll.DIA                                  Table 16
KAIRNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mysore Daiiy Jorporation Ajiampur Crossbreeding Farm (2250 acres)
Herd Projection
L VE TORY                   1        2       3        4       5        6        7       8        9       10
COWS
On hand
Local                          400     380      361     343      411     399      46u     400      400      400
Crossbred                       -       -        -       -        -       -        -        -                -
lst Calf heifers                -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -
Local                         -       -        -       89       -       13       12       12      12       12
Crossbred                     -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -
Total mated                   400      380      361     432      411     412      412     412      412      412
Less deaths                     20      19       18      21       12      12       12       12      12       12
Less sales                      -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -
On haud at end                380      361     343      411      399     400      400     400      400      400
HEIFE.iS (2-3 yr)
Local                           -       -        94      -        -        -       -        -       -        -
Purchased 1/                    -       -        -       -        13      12       13      12       12       13      75
Less deaths                     -       -         5      -        -        -        1       -       -         1
Less sales                      -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -
On hand at end                  -       -        89      -        13      12       12      12       12       12
HEIFEIIS (1 -2 yr)
Local                           -       99       -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -
Crossbred                       -       -        95      99      134     127      127      127     127      127
Less deaths                     -        5        5       5        4        4       4        4       4        4
Less sales                      -       -        90      94      130     123      123      123     123      123     929
On hand at end                  -       94       -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -
CALVES ( (1 yr)
Total born during year  220 local  209 CBS 217    281         267     268      268     268      268     268
Males                        110     104      109     140      133     134      134      134     134      134
Less deaths                11       10        9       7        6       7        7        7       7        7
Less sales                 99       -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -
On hand at end             -        94     100      133      127     127      127     127      127     127
Females                      110     105      108     141      134     134      134      134     134      134
Less deaths                11       10        9       7        7       7        7        7       7        7
On hand at end             99       95      99      134      127     127      127     127      127     127
MALES (1-2 yr)
On hand                       -       -        94     100      133     127      127     127      127      127
Less deaths                   -       -         4       5        4        4       4        4       4        4
Less sales                    -       -        90      95      129     123      123     123      123      123     929
TOTAL:'. AU      380     455      432     411      412     412      412      41 2    412      412
Milked  220      209     217      281      267     268      268     268      268     268
PARAMETERS                                                            - %
Calving rate
Local cows                    55      55       60      65       65      65       65       65      65
Mortality
Cows                          5        5        5       5        3       3        3       3        3
Other 7 1Iyr                  -        5        5       5        3       3        3        3       3
Calves 41 yr                 10       10        8       5        5       5        5        5       5
Milk production
per lactation, 1.            500     600      700     800      900   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000
SALES
Heifers            No.          -       -        90      94      130     123      123      123     123      123
Bulls              No.          99      -        90      95      129     123      123      123     123      123
Milk               kg.        110      125.4   151.9   224.8   240.3   268        268      268     268      268  700+/day
1/ Local heifers bought in from yr 5 to maintain herd at 400 cows.



ANNEX 7
Table 1 7
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Corporation Habbanaghatta  (2050 ac) and 3irur (1950 ac)
Bull Rearing Farms
On-Farm Investment
No of       uni t    Total            Year
Unit   UTnits       Cost      Cost    1      2     3      4
Investment Items                                           (Rs)             (-        Rs 000-------)
Pasture establishment                 ac      3,000        250       750    300   200   150   100
Im,orted seed for initial
pasture establishment               ac        850        160      136    136    -       -
Cattle housing,, including
storap,e                      AU      2,000      1,120    2,244C  1,000 1,000   240
Fencing                               m      16,800          3       51      20    20    11
Bull calves                           hd      1, 300       100      1 IC     60    60    -
Frozen semen-irmported               doses   3,840          10       3L      12    13    13
Tractors and accessories              set         4   111,200       445    225   135    8,
ehicles                                          4    50,C0        200    100   10G -G
Irri-ation wells and pumps
includingc distribution system      unit       40        30    1,200    80C   200   200
r4Iscellaneous  1/                     -         -          -        2C      20
Total - excluding contingencies                      5,200  2,673 1,728   699   1CC
1/ Such as AI equipment.



ANNEX 7
INDIA                                Table 18
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
lorooration Habbanaghatta (2,050 ac) and Birur (1,850 ac) Bull Rearing Farms
Sales and Operating Expenses
(Rs '000)
Sales                           Unit Price    1         2      3        4        5       6-iC
3ulls (Habbanaghatta)          2,000 ea      -    1,068   1,068   1,072   1,106   1,106
3ulls (Birur)                  2,000 ea      -    1,068   1,068   1,072   1,106   1,106
Fodder  1/                     120/t         -       240C    240      240      240      240
Total                             -    2,376   2,376   2,384   2,452   2,452
0peratin_ u4enses
Jaa es                                      145      145      145     145      145      145
Concentrate Feed  2/                        384      764      764     820      820      8'20
i'li]k (calf' rearinj,7  3/                 240      240      240      24C     240      240
.asture 1'aintenance  4/                      -     - -        _        ,8      58       58
iviaintenance:
iMachinery and EQuipment  5/            180      180     180      18a      1 &o     1 80
3uildin,s  6/                            -        -        22      22       22       22
IYiel and Powner                             90       90       90       90      9G       90
lJeterinary Supplies  7/                     24       44       44      44       44       44
Sub-total                      1,063   1,463   1,485   1,599   1,599   1,599
Galf Purchase  8/                            -        -       120      120     120      120
Total                          1,063   1, 403   1,6 5   1,719   1,719   1,71W)
Operatin, Jurplus (Deficit)              (1,i63)    913       771      665      733     733
1/  Total of about 1,000 ac available f'or both/farms, 1 cut per yr, 2/t ac.
_/  Concentrate consumption 1 k/hd/day at fRs 1,000/t.
3/  lilk f-or calf rearin- 200 l/hd at cs 1/1.
T/ Pasture re-establishment 200 ac/yr at Rs 21-0/ac.
-/ ]achinery and equipment maintenance at 10,0 of cost.
~/  Building maintenance at 2V of cost.
7/  Teterinary supplies at Ks 20/hd.
~/   Calves boug-ht from 3anLalore city private dairies at Rs 100/hd, initial number
of 1,200 calves would be financed by the Project, thereafter fcram Corporation's
operatin_ income beginning year 3.



INDIA
KABRNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mlysore Dairy Corporation Habbanaghatta and Birur Bull Rearing Farms
Herd Projection
1          2           3           4          5           6
HA3BBNAAGHATTA
CALVES (<1 yr)
Purchased                                 600        600         600         600        600         600
Less deaths                                60         60          48          30          30         30
On hand at end                            540        540         552         570        570         570
MALES (1-2 yr)
On hand                                    -         540         540         552        570         570
Less deaths                                -          16          16          16          17         17
Less sales                                 -         534         534         536         553        553
On hand at end
BIRUR
CALVES (( 1 yr)
Purchased                                 600        600         600         600        600         600
Less deaths                                60          60         48          30          30         30
On hand at end                            540        540         552         570         570        570
MALES (1-2 yr)
On hand                                    -         540         540         552         570        570
Less deaths                                -           16         16          16          17         17
Less sales                                 -          534        534         536         553        553
On hand at end                             -          -           -           -           -          -
Mortality:
< 1 yr                            10          10           8          5           5           5
1-2 yr                             3           3           3           3          3           3
'IO






INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
KARNATAKA DAIRY
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION               _        _            _      _       _
BOARD OF DIRECTORS                                                     l
Biological
-.jVeterinarian Vac.|
Vaccine Institute
Uniersty  of
Im i Agricultural
I   I Sciences
Registrar of                                                                          General                   National Dairy                       L       National Dairy
Cooperatives                                                                           Manager       r           DvBoardpien                                Research Insti
romot  Marketing      Development of~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Am   s aiv
Cooperatie                      and                          Corporation                      Engineering                Controller             Administrative
1. SPea redStudies                           .Farmns                                                                                                  Se rvice
2. Technical
Cooperative                   Services            Milk Marketinr
CookPerativ                                                                     FodrPurebred                                    Design andFiac
Milk Producers  *                                    Feed Supply    -            Banks                Dairy Farms              Specifications               Finance                  Secretary
| Vixdagers milk   -                                of Products         |Marketing  Seed           Crossbred Heifer            Construction              Accounting    l              ansport
Cooperatives                                        oPrducts                   Production            Rerng Farm
|  Village  L                                                          |  Demonstration           Crossbred Bull
Farmers                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Small Farms  Rearing FarmsManencPruemtRcod
Source: Karnataka Government and IDA Mission.
World Bank-8236(R)






ANNEX 8
Table 1
EADIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Biological Veterinary Vaccine- Institute (BVVI
Investments
(F's '000)
Year                 _     Foreign
Investments Items                        1         2        3         4         Total  Exchange
Investments Items                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~Component
Buildings                               800      1,000      400       -         2,20C       -
Ecuipment:
Vaccine Production Units 1/            -       2,000     900        -         2,900    2,400
Quality Control:
Storage Media and
Statistics Units                    300       700      400        -        1,400    1,100
Vehicles                                400        -         -        -           400       100
Chemicals and Glassware                  -         500     800       700        2,000    1,600
Sub-total             1,500      4,200   2,500       700        8,900    5,200
Contingencies:
Physical                          75       210      125        35          45       260
Price                            55      1,980   1,455        455       4,455    2,600
Sub-total               640     2,190   1,580        490        43900    2,860
TOTAL           2,140      6,390   4,080    1,190        13,800    8,060
1/ Includes units for production of vaccines for haemorrhagic septicaemia, anthrax, rabies
and rinderpest; also Brucella antigen and TB Jhonin.



ANNEX 8
Table 2
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Biological Veterinary Vaccine Institute (BVVI)
Production, Sales and Operating t3xpenses
Year_    _    _
1      2      3       4      5       6-10
Jaccine Production
(1C!A'.' loses/year)
Rinderpest                                    -     500   1,000  2,000  2,500    2,500
Others                                        -     500   1,000  1,500  2,000    2,000
Sales  (Rs '000)
Hinderpest (at Rs 0.30/dose)                  -     150      300    600    750       75C
Other (at Rs 1.0/dose)                        -     500   1,000  1,500  2,000    2,000
Total                   -     650   1,300  2,100  2,750    2,750
Operatin~~ Icenses (r.s '000)
Salaries                                  400    600      750    750    750       750
Replacement Chernicals
and Glassware                            -      -       10C    200    40C)      40GC
Laboratory Animals                         -     300      500    500    50       500
lnirial r'eed                              -      60       70     70      70       70
A:el and Power                            100    100      10C    150    150       150
ihaintenance:
.quipment                                -      -       1CC    100    150       15G
3uildin-s                                -      -        -      -       50
'Total                 500  1,60C  1,620  1,770  2,070    2,070
OperatinT 3urplus (Deficit)              (50C) (LuG)   (320)    330    680        680



ANNEX 8
Table 3
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Faculty Veterinary Science (FVS) Animal Health Program
Investments
(Rs '000)
Year                        Foreign
Investments Items                       1       2      3      4       5      Total   Exchange
-                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Component
Diagnostic Field Laboratories 1/    500  1,000    800       -       -      2,300     1,400
Rinderpest, Foot and Mouth Disease
Programs 2/                        200    800    200      -      -       1,200       700
Reproductive Disease Program 2/      300    900    500      -      -       1,700       300
TB Program 2/                        100    200    100      -     -          400       300
Parasites and Parasite Borne
Disease Programs 2/                200    600    300      -      -       1,1 00      700
Training Facilities 2/                -     300    200      -     -          500       200
Staff 3/                              -     300    300    300   300        1,200        -
Sub-total            1,300  4,100  2,400    300   300        8,400      3,60o
Contingencies:
Physical                            60    200    120      10    10         400       170
Price                              470  1,900  1,490    200   230        4,290     1,840
Sub-total               530  2,100  1,610    210   240       4,690      2,010
TOTAL      1,830  6,200  4,010    510   540       13,090     5,610
1/ Costs are for 2 fully equipped field laboratories to be located strategically in Project
area.
2/  Expenditures exclusively for laboratory, analytical and veterinary equipment and chemicals.
3/  Includes 6 teaching fellows at Rs 14,000 p.a.;  12 assistant investigation officers at
Rs 10,000 p.a.; 8 research assistants at Rs 7,000 p.a. and 10 laboratory technicians at
Rs 4,000 p.a.






ttANNEX 9
Table I
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY _EVELOPENT PbOJECT
Pro-ect Costs bv 5101Cr Investments
(PE 000)
y Foreign
1               2              3               4               5               6                Total            Exchange
A.    On Fars Investments
1.  Crossbred Ctl                    3,240          7,560           9,720           15,120          15,120          10,800             61,560
2.  Price Contingen-ies             1,000           3,020           4,960            9,380          11,190           9,400             38,950
Total on Farn                   4.240          10.5S0          14.680           24.500          26,310          20,200            100.510
B.    Dairy Cooperative Socinties
.  Capital Expenditures 2/           450             900             900            1.350             900            -                 4.500                -
2. Establishment Costs 3.'             900           79150             900           4-100           3.730           7 340             16 30O               40
Slb-total                  1,350           3,150           3,890            5,530          4,630           2,340              20,890               32
3.  Contingni-s
Pyysic-l                         70             160             190              280             230             120              1,050
Pice                            450           1,320           2.100            3.590           3,560           2.130             13.150
Sub-tntal                    520           1,480           2,290            3,870           3,790           2,250             14,200               32
Total Coops                     1.870           4.630           6.180            9.400           8.420           4.590             35.090               32
C. Union Investments4/
I.  Milk Processing Plants         14,450          19,250           9,380           25,090          33,570            0               101,730               33
2.  F-ed Mills                      8,460          11,800            I                0              6,040            0                26,300               30
3. S-ri-es                           5,460          2,630           1,710              580             420            0                10,800               29
4.  FEtoblish-ent Coot              10.I80          10.820           5.920             b00            0               0                27.420                -
lSb-total                 38,450          44,490          17,010           26,270         40,030             0               166,250               27
5, Contingencies
Pby-i-al                      1,920           2,230             850            1,310           2,000            0                 8,310
Price                        13.520          20.050           a 770           18 s00          33 'An            n                05 LCa
lSb-total                 15,490          22,280          10,570           19,810          35,560            0               103,710               27
Total Uni-ns                   53 040          66,770          97,S80           46,n80          75 590 n                          26a eA n
D.    00DC I0 vestmnnts-
!.  C-rporation Farms               5,340           7,370           1,680              330                                             14,720               39
2.  Technical Services              1,220             800             800              800             800             800              5,220               83
3.  Establisieent Cnot               2.850            150                                                                               3.000                -
lSh-trial                  9,410           8,320           2,480            1,130             800             800             22,940               44
4.  Continge-cies
Physical                        330             410             120               60              40              40              1,000
Prrcei                        3.090           3.570           1,340              730             620             730             10.080
Sob-total                  3,420           3,980           1,460              790             660             770             11,080               44
Total  K                       12._            12.300           3.940            1.920           1.460           1.570             34.020               44
E.    Researbh & Spp-orting Activities
1.  BVVI a-d FF1-      6/            2,800          8,300           4,900            1.000             300            -                17,300               51
2. Establish-ent Cost-                500             410             320             -               -               -                 1 230                -
3.  Calf-Cearing Gr-otsZ7             -              -              lOtOOO          10,000          10,000          10,000             40,000
4.  Fodder Seeds Sabsidy-'              50             140             230              360            450             450              1.680                -
Sub-total                  3,350           8,850          15,450           11,360          10,750          10,45(1            60,210               15
5. Contingencies
Physital                        160             430             260               50              10            -                   910
Price                         1.200           4,050           3.120              650             230            -                 9.250
Sob-total                  1,360           4,480           3,380              700             240            -               10,160                15
Total Research & Supporting
Activities                         4,710         13.333          18.830           12,060          10,990          10.450             70.370                15
F.    Grand Total Withoot
Contingen-ins                    55,800          72,370          48,550           59,410          71,330          24,390            331,850               21.3
Contingenties0
Pbysical                           2,480          3,230           1,420            1,700           2,280             160             11,270
Price                            19. 310         32-  0          21 240           32 850          49 160          12  60           166 850
Slb-total                 21,790          35,240          22,660           34,550          51,440          12,420            178,100
PROJECT COSTS                       77 500        107 610          71 710           93 08           " 171 770       pA  -5             50 q5n               21 I
I/   Or the assouption thbt in eath sotiety, 6 nros-bred tows are porchased is year 1 and 2 cows in year 2-6.  Crossbred cowe are  -osted ot Rs 3,000 ea-h.
2t   See Aarn 5, Table 3.  Capital T-oost-ent.
3/   Sre Annex 5  Table 3.  Paid-op capital and fCos pod  -nngen.t  re-nt.
4/   See Annex6,  Tabl: 9.
5/   See A.er 7, Table 1.
6/   See Annex 8 fo- details.
7t   Govnrnnent financing of feed subsidies in kind.  The foods scold be produced by union feednills *nd distributed at subsidized r-eis  neng nerdy farners who are roaring
crossbred talvns.
8/   307 Government s-bsidy of fodder seeds, Rs 250/Soc-ety/Year.



I N D I A
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs by Disbursement Categories - including taxes
I. D. A. Financing
1            2           3              4            5             6           Total         7. of Total       Rs '000       $Million
( R s  ' 0 0  )
A.  On Farm Investment                             4,240        10,580      14,680       24,500         26,310       20,200        100,510            1/             61,490          7.69
B.  DCS                                            1,870         4,630       6,180        9,400          8,420        4,590         35,090            -                -              -
C.  Union Investments 2/
I.C.B.                                         9,240        23,700       5,340       24,780         42,020                     105,080            3/             80,830        10.10
Steam Generators                               1,580         3,350         600          650          4,370                      10,550            -                -              -
Other Equipment                                8,170         9,060       5,810        8,240         10,320                      41,600           60              24,960         3.12
Civil Works                                   15,880        10,960       4,640        8,650         13,650                      53,780           60              32,270         4.03
Bulls                                          1,730          -            670                                                   2,400           90               2,160         0.27
Overhead                                       3.430         3,790       1,110        2,740          5,230                      16i300            -                -
Sub-Total                               40,030         50,860      18,170      45,060          75,590                     229,710                          140,220        17.52
Establishment Cost 4/                         13,910        15.910       9,410        1,020           -                         40.250            -                -              -
Total Union                              53,940        66,770      27,580      46,080          75,590                     269,960                          140,220        17.52
D.  KDDC Investments
Equipment 5/                                   4,700         2,170       1,250                                                   8,120          60                4,870         0.61
Civil Works 5/                                 3,270         2,900       1,360          560                                      8,090           60               4,850         0.60
Bulls and Semen 5/                               120         5,850          60                                                   6,030           90               5,430         0.68
Consultants and Research 6/                      960         1,170       1,270        1,360          1,460        1,570          7,790           90               7,010          0.88
Establishment Cost 6                           3,780           210                                                               3,990            -                -
Sub-Total                                12,830        12,300       3,940        1,920          1,460        1,570         34,020                           22,160         2.77
E.  Research and Supporting Activities 7/
Equipment                                      2,790        10,940       7,350        1,700            540                      23,320           60              13,990          1.75
Civil Works                                    1,180         1,650         740                                                   3,570           60               2,140          0.27
Establishment Cost                               690           600         510                                                   1,800            -                -              -
Calf Rearing Grant                              -             -         10,000       10,000         10,000       10,000         40,000            -                -              -
Fodder Seed Subsidy                               50           140         230          360            450          450          1,680            -                -              -
Sub-Total                                 4,710        13,330      18,830       12,060         10,990       10,450         70,370                           16,130         2.02
F.  Total Prolect Costs                           77,590       107,610      71,210       93,960        122,770        36,810        509,950                          240,000        30.00
1/ Equivalent to 90% of ARC refinancing.
-/ Derived from Annex 6, Tables 1-5.  The sub-total corresponds to the total of milk processing, feed mills and technical services - see Annex 6, Table 9.
3/ Estimated net of tax expenditure.
See Annex 6, Table 9.
5/ Derived from Annex 7, Tables 5, 8, 11, 14 and 17 with vehicles and furniture and equipment from Annex 7, Table I included.
6/ See Annex 7, Table 1.
7/ See Annex 8 and Annex 9, Table 1.



I N D I A
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Financing
(Rs Million)
Parti-
Governm   t         Grants            cipating                        IDA            IDA
Farmers      Equity -         GOI        GOK        Banks          ARC          Through ARC       Direct       Total
Processing Plants and Technical Service                          45.5                                  18.4           25.3         138.1 1'                       227.3
Other Equipment and Civil Works 31
KDDC                                                        3.2                -         -          .7            2.6           9.7               -           16.2
BVVI and FVS                                                 -               3.5        7.3         -              -             -              16.1          26.9
Sub-Total                                              3.2              3.5        7.3         .7           2.6            9.7             16.1          43.1
Cattle
Purchased on Farm                             20.1            -                -         -        12.1            6.8          61.5               -          100.5
Imported 4/                                                                    .8        -          -                                            7.6           8.4
Sub-Total                               20.1                             .8         -       12.1             6.8          61.5              7.6         108.9
Management and Technical Service                                                              .8                                                       7.0           7.8
Establishment Costs
DCS                                           23.1                                     12.0                                                                    35.1
Unions                                                                                 40.2 5/                                                                 40.2
BVVI                                                                                    1.8                                                                     1.8
KDDC                                                         3.3                                    .7                                                          4.0
Sub-Total                               23.1           3.3                         54.0        .7                                                        81.1
Grants and Subsidies to Farmers
Calfrearing Grant                                                            30.0      10.0                                                                    40.0
Seed Subsidies                                                                          1.7                                                                     1.7
Sub-Total                                                              30.0       11.7                      34.7                                         41.7
TOTAL                                   43.2          52.0             34.3        73.8      31.9           34.7         209.3              30.7         509.9
1/ Breakdown of GOI and GOK commitment is shown in Para 4.16.                                                                                                                         w -
2/ Rs 80.8 million for items procurred under ICB, and Rs 57.3 million for locally procurred civil works and equipment, see Annex 9, Table 2.
3/ For breakdown between equipment and civil works, see Annex 9, Table 2.
4/ Rs 2.1 million for Union AI Centers and Rs 5.4 million for KDDC farms, see Annex 9, Table 2.
5/ Interestfree GOK loan to the Unions, see Annex 6, Tables 18, 19, 20.



ANNEX 9
Table 4
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Quarterly Schedule of Disbursement
Cumulative Disbursement at End
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                             of Quarter
-----   (US $ Million)--------
FY 1975
lst
2nd
3rd                                             -
4th                                           0.75
FY 1976
1st                                            2.10
2nd                                            3.17
3rd                                           4.23
4th                                            5.91
FY 1977
1st                                           7.59
2nd                                            9.27
3rd                                          10.93
14th                                          11.79
FY 1978
1st                                           12.65
2nd                                          13-51
3rd                                          11438
14t}                                         15.84
FY 1979
1st                                          17.30
2nd                                          18.76
3rd                                          20.22
4th                                           22.24
FY 1980
1st                                           21.26
2nd                                          26.28
3rd                                           28.28
4th                                           28.71
FY 1981
1st                                           29.14
2nd                                          29.57
3rd b/                                       30.00
1/ Calculated from Annex 9, Table 2.  Year 1 expenditure completed by 3rd
quarter FY 1976, Year 2 by 3rd quarter FT 1977, etc.
a/ Estimated date of effectiveness.
b/ Estimated closing date.



o0ITAADIRY DRVRLOFS770R
4,AdteA OoleROoRO
.. olid-td Go            -'q3   CahFIg
(4R  '000)
YAO                           1             R                                                        A                                                      in R                          12            13            14             15           1039-20
6ag    n 50es 1'
R00g.,I10 Unonn                               83           226           413           nO8         i.on3         3,927         4,375          4,444         4,644         4,444          4,444         4,444          4,444         4,444         4,444        4,444
losoro 02,,ow                                105           266           AIR         1,380         2,896         4,b25         6,241           6,296        6,296         6,294          6,296          6,296         6,296         6 296         6.296         6 296
n.,,,onn 4,,lw,                                _             _           651         1,616         2,505         3 935         4,446           4,448        4,448         4,446          4,448         4,448          44,448        4,446         4,44         4,446
T       Union _1w                                          _             6L R        I 1363        73n3 95          g,915      4.448           4,448        4 44R         4,448         4_448           4.44 4R448                 4_448          4.448        _4 44
nSG-Tnt.1                               160           I 530       2,330 3        ,nAo 9,610                15,420        16,510         19,640       19,640         19,640         19,640        19,640        19,040         19,640        19,640       l6.640
Oon- 216                                    ,.310        S,460         1,700         4,814         7,25-
Oonor nonso, Alwnl. l -lIh)                I70           3,f20         1,530           430            250         1nn         -      
6,,4-fol                              4,980         8,760         3,230         5,240         7,460           1710             _              _            _ 
notnl Ino Rononnoo                           5,170         9,310          5,500, 04,200              n7,0n         15.590        19,510         19,640       16,640        19,640         19,.610        16,640        19,640        19,640         19,b40       19,640
-----------------------------------  ----------------------------    -- ----- -------- ------------------ -- --I-----------------   r             I   n  t  7- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------____ -__.
Onto0  4,,, OoooonoZJ,nd 1,016-,,,, 700604'  6,400        13,010         8,400        16,600        2n,741        09,150         38,320         40,490       40,520        44,650         46,880        49,220         5,1,60        54,270         56,980       59,10
Roo.nlwoRnORnOiRn~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                          2   o          ,o
RnngnIn3lor  ion 3/                            -             -             _             _              _        1,250          1,2530         1,230        2,5n00          0    2,300          2,500  lon-22,5n0                   2.500         2,50n         1non
wonos lOnion, 4/                               -             -             _              -             _         i,osn         1,Z50          1,050        Z,nnO         Z.00,5D3,00                   2,900 2SO             ,50       0 so       l,eon        1,020
IIooGn, doOn, 5 -               -                       -                                 -             -        Inl             ,onn          1,000    1 Oo               ,000     2     ,000     2    ,on0     2 .no sno          o,nnn     z non          o z,8
f,n0nr nooo  5/                                            _                                               _ 1.1 _2            1,000          0 000D       2 00    2.,000              .2.2n0n09   ..4)11Q   2.noo44                            .1.22
Sob- ronnO                               _              _             _             _             -        4 500         4 500           4,500        9,000         9,000           9,000         9,000         9,000          9,000        10,n360        ,420
nKo   2.'                                                                                                                        7700             nO          OOn           700             700           70O           700           700            7n           7000
Ro,oomnoI of toann on, tIlotnIn 050060
9.,IRnOoooUnion 3/                             -             -             -.             -             -        4,680          4,6S0          4,0          1,660         4.6K0               -
yono On.oni. 4' .                                         _                -           _                -           38n           88n            880          662           660               -
nnl-lnonn                                 - _           _                                         -         3,000         3,560          5,560        5,560         5,564               -             -              -  
Tont Inmflow
6,720        03,030         8,470        16,6nn        29,740       33,nno          46060         51,250       37,760         39,600         00,360        58,9Z0        60,30          62,800        69,040       63.930
OoniOn foIornixdOnnessOennt
2,06 to Innonlln Vioo  403/                1,300         1,n2n         1,670         0,100         4,570
Gn  l= 2200000 21io  4                     2,3210 1-220                1,700         43nIO          307n
40K mo n.,oonl o,,o,,a 4/                  0,090         3,970           130         1,272         2,410              -             -
ooo 1w nsoOoo Dnoon 5/                     2,09n         3,870           130         1,270         2,410 
000,n8 G9K In KDDC 7/                      4..910        0.39Q           33n            1            _           __                 - _                      _                _         __                _               _1__                         _
Two                                 02,932        1Oo77n          4,160         9,130        05,120
Ilnoooos booe 4n,n or IGon OR, 6.,nl-
______                                     13,820        05,710         9,410         1,020              -
Ion, 0nI0O6IP 92                    1.200         Z,170          2,350         3,769         2,060 7                         -              -            -              -              --
rc80  ow  O y                              4,b60        13,2l90        8 ,600        1,700            540D 
CMI 6-1,                                       -             -        10,000         00.400       bo,oon        10,00-
09d-, S-do                                    30           140            230           360           453           450        _                _            _                _               _
6,,0-1n6.,l                          5,730        15,500        21,180         1             1,82n  03,680  10,450            _              -            _              _
T3660  O-oIlno                      32,570        42,Y60         34,000        Z5,970       82,80D         10,450
9dr 260010N  Icn-n                         (25 (23 ,8         509,D    (06,3504       0 9,370)          945       29,460         49,060         51,250       30,760        39,910         56,560        51,920         61,300        63,97.0       6,040         63,632
OOflND.,90i00 110400 OOooooIo)             (23,830)      230,6002      (42,134)      (91,5200       (90,560)      (61,20)      (12,040)        39,210       96,990      150  900        013,480        272,400       333,07n       39n  ,030     465,790
RKr 7Nfl.OW024n00000R2 42/                 429,-06        2o1,n9no      (17,450'      n 5.780)          540        10,290        25,050         25,360       26,700        203g92          03,670        29,363        01,340         13,010        22,460       01,320
0607uL6'389i  Olboon 201nonoowo            229,2202      oi,27n,,      736,72n2       (04,3007      52,3,0642     040.6702     (2Z,]ZO)          3,240       20,990 9 46no                8u,nsn        103,62,610    126,90         -o,i30        083,590
1.   n 22 n  nb  2n-o10000,n. oiA  --bo  -.On-.0,o 6, Tob-n  02-24.  -on.   bo   ..,  oobd
3GI         1, SP- e. U  n.7   opudd io -  6 _      i-;  -j.-ti--4 I-,al  .av                       ......ndb                                                                                                                                                          r
3/0.0 Ilnxb. Oonlo 06.
hl  00200  6, TnbI. 10.
22 40000 10, 0.,60t 00.
i/  10p.0..nO of  .....      nOy i2n0    10-1006 7), i-bl  3.  .onOlo           . nOon tin, Rs 3.3w. 0016111  -n lrnib--ol n   f-om 006.
7/  4now 7, Tobls 0.
8)  10050 6, To_l: 9.
9/  S-  A1000  9, Onlbl  0, Yoootnu   _.






INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FLOW OF PROJECT FUNDS
Participating~ ~ ~ ~ ~                            Blgia Veterinarl
anks                                                     VacciNe Equtity GKundste
Univeity ofity                                                                             quity Capital
Agricultural                                                        Karnataka iGrants eLoans
Refinance                                                      Dairy Development
Union                                    CorCorporataon  tCoporatnon                                                                                              Grants
ParticiTating                                                 Blological Veterinary
Banks                                                       Vaccine Institute
University of
Agricultural Sciences
f  _  Technical Programs                                    Karnataka DairV
T                                T                                                         Feasibility Studies                                      Development Corporation
Cooperative    _                   _    g        ~~~~~~~~~~Kantk               Applied Research
Cooperative                                             Programs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coprtie
Milk Producers                   Village Farmers           l   Dairy Development                  Demonstration                                                          _Dairv Plants and Feed Mills
Unions                                                         Corporation                    Small Farms                                                           _Technical Services
_EquitV Capital IGOK)
Grants (GOI & GO K)
Cooperatives
Milk Producers
_Grants /GOI and GOKj
Technical Services
Village Milk
Producers
Cooperatives
_Grants (GOI & GOKi
~Technical Services
For Loan components.                                                                                                                            Village
For consultants, importation of cattle and BVVI and FVS programs.                                                                               Farmers
Source: IDA Mission
World Bank-8233(R)






INDIA
RARNATAKA DAIRY DOVELMOPNT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return 1/
(Rs '000)
Year                               1               2                3                4                5                6            7to  15
A,  INVESTMENTS  2/
1.  KDDC Investments                                   5800            6990             2090              950              67D              670
2.  Milk Processing Plants                            12400            16530            8140            21530            28820                -
3.  Feed Mills                                         8340            10610               -                -             5520                -             2020 Z/
4.  Services and Administration                        5730             2750             1785             620              440                -
5.  DCS Investments                                     490              970              970            1460              970                -
6.  On Farm Investments                                5480            12100           14360            22110            20030            11340
7.  Animal Health and Biological
Production Units                                2350             6970             4120              850              250               -
Total Investments                   40590            56920            31465           47520            56700             12010             2020
B.  OPERATINC COSTS 3/
1.  EDDC                                               3500            3880             4850             5180             5490             5550             5700
2. Milk Processing Plant                                 -              1130             904,0          17020            28210            45440             56920
3.  Services and Administration                        3735             5850             7970           10570             i1570           12150             15750
4.  Transport Cost                                      900             2700             4500             7650            9000            14540             16420
5.  DCS Management                                      900             2700            4500             7200             9000             9000             13500
6.  Animal Health & Biological
Production Unit                                  240              480              720              760              760              760              760
7.  Fodder and Feed Cost 3/                              -              1620            8280            27720            68060           122040           199440
Total Operating Costs                9275            18360            39860            7t100           132 0X          209480            308490
C. BENEFITS
1.  Incremental Milk (000 liter/year) 4/                 -              3600           14220            44280           106560           198900           334800
Value      (Rsl.50/liter)                    -             5400            21330            66420           159840           298350           502200
2.  Surplus Heifers  (000/year) 5/                       -                -                -                 6.6             19.0             32.5             51.5
Value      (Rs 300/head)                     -                _                _             1990             5700             9750            15450
Total Benefits                         -              5400            21330            68330           165540          308100            517650
D.  NET BENEFITS                                         (49865)          (69880)          (49995)          (55290)          (23259)           86610           207140
E.  ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN  6/          =  33b
1/  Milk collection and nrocessing are critical to stimulate year round Production.   Investments under the project are adequate to meet needs
till year 7 and additional investments would be required in year 8 if the full potential milk production (footnote 5) is to be exploited.
Only the level of production reached by year 7 is charged as a project benefit.
21  Net of taxes and duties.   See Annex 7 for K(DDC  Annex 6 for the Unions and Annex 5 for the DCS in,est.,,nts.
3/  Labor  for plants and mills is costed at market rates; Labor costs for fodder production are included in the 3p/kg price at which it                             ,, W
sells in the market.   Concentrate cost of 95p/kg includes the operating cost of the feed mills.   Incremental labor requirements for
milking crossbreds as opposed to native cows are minimal (10 min/day) and will not affect alternative employment opportunities.                         c:
4/  Potential milk production from project DCSs is estimated at I million tons/year in year 10 given adequate milk procurement, processing
and marketing facilities.   Further investments in these would be required in year 8.   Milk is valued at Rs 1.50/liter (see Annex 5, Table 2).
5/ Surplus heifers from project DOCSs are valued at Rs 300/head, the projected market price.
6/  If the cost of the existing plants at Bangalore and Mysore is charged to the project, the rate of return is estimated at 30%.
7/  Replacement of equipment.



ANNEX 10
Table 2
INDIA
KARNATAKA DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return: Sensitivity Analysis
Economic Rate of Return Assuming that ....
COSTS ARE ....                     BENEFITS ARE 
Standard            -10%             -15%
Standard                     32.8               25.6             21.5
+  10%                       26.3              18.6             14.0
+  15%                       23.3              15.0             10.0
March 22, 1974



70'              J           ;                            S3  
AFGHANISTAN
INDIA
JAMMIU  eoSKASHMIRJ                            YS R
(.   nog'2JaM(rnd   H                    MYSORE DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
NATIONAL MILK GRID PROGRAM UNDER THE 5th. 5 YEAR PLAN
'-I
HIMACHA                                                                              100       200       300
5  -  ,<        PRADESH                                                   0 L~          MILES
00  PAKISTAN                   r k    kndi9gy--l                                                                      l   100   200   300   400   500
300 ~        .-      -o    C                                                 \  ,
PAKISTANShKLOMETEI e                                                                                  o  GA                                A
NEW                                                                                                    JJ           pRAd IsVD8RA  \  t  = 
Muzzafurpu                      GaEarmarked for Development Under OperaFon Flood
0'; J g   0  W   kMrdrgb                         E     l  ~~~~~~~~~~~Irtegroted Deny Development Programs Being Prepared for IBRD Submisoion
.uRegAonol Grd
---S-oelremted Grij ods
TriwndrumOp~~~~~~~                       ~     ~~~~~~ FSdRIalnco  PlAnKA        Unde OperionFloo
-R Malnorie Coy DLqid ilkPlns  Underhe  fopr Detl^petUne  per Flood
10' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~A
O.            AhmadabKrALAJNbD                                                                                       Natioal: capItal
GLIA AnT                                                                SRI  LAN A                          Rellov-ys
0A., ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      -
e.O,,soentn~~~~  p.~~,. I. 'BURM
p.                                                                                                                                                *0~~~~~~~~~Ngu
~0   e,,ueuvn~,soj   prics 



