.., CIRCULATING COPY \
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
oNL DEVELOpEN
DOCUMENTO l- NTERNATION       DVLPE          SQ1TO
Not For PubUC Use
Repo,t No. p-1458UN
REpORT AND RE0OgE1DT
OF THE
pRES IDENT
TO THlE
EXECUTIVE DItRECTORS
ON A
pRopOSED CREDIT
TO THE
GOVERN  T OF INDIA
FOR TIHE
KARNATAlA
RY DEvELOPENT PROjCT
June 3, 1974



(As at May 25, 1974)
U$1.00             Rs.   7.88
Rot 1 .00          US$   0.127
Rs . 1 mJ1ux       US$   126,904
The Ruxpee is officially valued at a fixed Pound Sterling
rate. As the Pound is now floating relative to the US
Dollar, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in the appraisal report and in this
report hare been retained at US$1= Rs. 8.0 which was the
rate prewailing at the timie of appraisal.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECCMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE KARNATAKA_/ DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$30 million on standard
IDA terms, to help finance a project for providing dairy processing
facilities and developing an integrated dairying system in the State of
Karnataka.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(402-IN, dated May 7, 1974) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 20, 1974. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.         India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size, diversity, and extreme difficulty of its economic conditions.
India's economic policies and performance can be criticized on many counts.
Some of the shortcomings have their origins in the open political system,
where the reconciliation of conflicting political views tends to favor less
than optimal economic solutions; others are due to the sheer magnitude of
the task facing the Government. Governing a country divided into more than
20 States with a population of some 580 million and over 60 major languages
is an extraordinary responsibility. The country's poverty and poor natural
resource endowniment, supplemented by a net transfer of external resources
averaging in recent years well below US$1 per head per annum, have imposed
sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Any judgment of India's economic
performance must take these underlying circumstances into account. So, also,
must account be taken of two massive uncertainties which overhang India.
The first is the availability of water. A bad monsoon, which is inevitable
from time to time, has a pervasive influence over the entire economy and
wipes out the results of years of effort. The second uncertainty is the
availability of external assistance. The vast majority of bilateral aid is
committed annually, usually several months after the start of the fiscal
year, and with considerable uncertainties about the level of commitments
and disbursements of particular donors. Any delay in IDA replenishment has
an enormous impact on aid flows. Together, these considerations severely
complicate planning and force a high degree of caution in foreign exchange
management.
- The name of the State was changed recently from Mysore to Karnataka.



-2-
4.         In this perspective, the performance of the economy has been
far from bad. Since the inception of economic development planning in
1950/51, national income has grown at nearly 4 percent per annum, which
compares very favorably with the average annual growth rate of less than
one percent during the preceding 50 years. Population has also grown
faster in the past two decades than previously, but per capita income has
nevertheless risen from a more or less stagnant level in the first-half
of this century to achieve an average growth of roughly one percent a
year since independence.
5.         Progress has been impressive on many fronts but disappointing
on others and has all too often fallen short of India's massive needs. The
growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport, education, health
services, etc.) has been spectacular, but has often been achieved at high
cost and has yielded results of variable quality; many industrial and
agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful, but others
have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well below
full capacity; in some regions of the country growth and structural change
have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other parts
of the world, but in other regions there has been stagnation and possibly
even decline. Despite these improvements and although the distribution
of income in India is relatively even by comparison with many other
countries, there has been little impact upon the living standards of the
vast masses of the urban and rural population. The Government has become
increasingly concerned about the plight of the lower income strata which,
conservatively measured, consist of some 200 million people with incomes
of less than US$60 per head per year, and has initiated in recent years a
variety of programs specifically designed to alleviate poverty.
6.         In broad terms, the structure of the economy has been slow to
change. Agriculture remains the dominant sector, accounting for some 42
percent of national product in the early 1970s compared with around 49
percent twenty years previously. The share of output contributed by the
industrial sector has increased only slowly and, partly due to the generally
good performance in agriculture, since the late 1960s has remained approxi-
mately constant at a level of 23 percent. There has, however, been a shift
in the composition of industrial production, with consumer, intermediate,
and capital goods now contributing about one-third each compared with an
overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods production 25 years ago.
7.         One of India's most impressive achievements since the mid-1960s
has been the doubling of the average growth rate of productivity in food-
grain production. This has been achieved primarily through the introduc-
tion of new, high-yielding seed varieties and through complementary
improvements in farming practices. Nevertheless, much remains to be done
to consolidate the production growth in the wheat belt and to extend it
both to other areas and to other foodgrain crops, most particularly rice.
Other crops have, in most cases, shown a slow but fairly constant rate of
productivity increase. Irrigation has played a major part in agricultural
growth and, by reducing dependence on the monsoon, has reduced variability in



-3-
performance. For instance, the drought-induced decline in foodgrain
output in 1972/73 was only some 6 percent, coumpared with a fall of almost
20 percent due to the drought in the mid-1960s. At present only about
half the potentially irrigable area has been developed. Fuller utiliza-
tion of the existing irrigation system and extension of the irrigated
areas are, therefore, matters of the highest priority in order to meet
India's rising food needs and to protect the econonw against the vagaries
of the weather. Land which cannot be irrigated accounts for about 50
percent of the cultivable area; output from non-irrigated land will thus
remain inportant and substantial benefits remain to be realized through
technical change and investment.
8.         Performance of the industrial sector has been variable and to
some extent disappointing. Industrial growth averaged about 7 percent a
year in the 1950s, rose to 9 percent in the first-half of the 1960s, but
declined to scme 5 percent through 1972 and in the past three years has
been negligible. The slower growth of recent years is especially worrying.
To some extent it was precipitated by the severe drought of 1966 and 1967
and the accornpanying general recession. But it has also been the result
of many other factors: the relatively limited opportunities for further
import substitution which had from the outset been at the center of the
industrialization strategy; the recurring and at times acute bottlenecks
in the production of a number of key intermediate goods such as power,
steel, and cement; shortages of inport.ed raw materials; and cumbersome
administrative procedures. In the past year, the Government has made a
number of inportant changes in the regulation and administration of the
industrial licensing system, and in the recent budget for 1974/75 has made
several tax concessions in order to stimulate the private sector. There
are one or two promising signs that these measures may be having some
effect, but it is too early to form a balanced overall judgment.
9.         The gross domestic savings rate has been in the region of 14
percent for the past decade. While this compares favorably with other
countries having similarly low income levels, it has fallen far short of
India's resource needs. And although external assistance has been subs-
tantial in absolute terms, in relation to national income it has been
small, so that the gross investment rate has reached as high as 17 percent
in only a few years. More recently, at a time of generally sluggish
economic activity and also because of a decline in foreign assistance,
the gross investment rate has been only about 14-15 percent.
10.       The economy has been passing through an unusually difficult period
in the past two years. On top of the stagnation of the industrial sector,
agricultural production was severely set back by the drought in 1972/73.
Foolstocks have been depleted and there have been severe food shortages in
many parts of the country. Prices have risen to very high levels and there
has been considerable political unirest. Despite the favorable monsoon in
1973 and the consequently good autumn harvest, as well as large imports in
1973/7I, the food position has remained tight. The situation has been
greatly aggravated by the withholding of grain frorn the market for specula-
tive and insurance reasons, induced by the prevailing climate of inflation



-4-
and shortage, and by the growing realization that the 1974 spring harvest
would fall short of earlier expectations. The crop shortfall has been the
result of acute shortages of fertilizer and of electric power and diesel
for irrigation pumping as well as poor winter rains. All these difficul-
ties have meant that performance in the Fourth Plan (1969/70-1973/74) has
turned out well below the targets: an aggregate growth rate of 3 percent
per annum coapared with the aim of 5.7 percent, with capacity and produc-
tion achievements in all the major sectors falling far short of the
origiLnal goals. The growth rate of 5.5 percent in 1973/74 represented no
more than a recovery from the negative growth the previous year.
11.       Shortfalls in agricultural production, both of food crops and crops
used for industrial raw materials, have been a prime cause of the inflation
which has beset the country for the past two years. Prices have gone up as
a direct result of the imbalance between supply and demand, and also indirectly
because of the massive budgetary outlays, and consequent deficit financing,
needed for drought relief, food subsidies, and crash production programs.
The acute shortages of many intermediate and industrial commodities and more
recently the surge in import prices have also contributed to the inflationary
situation. Inflation is now running at an annual rate of around 25 percent,
compared with only 4-5 percent a few years previously. The Government has
made several attempts to reduce the rate of inflation, so far with little
success.
12.       The domestic economic difficulties together with the recent surge
in world commodity prices have severely upset the development program. The
Fifth Plan, which was published in draft last December and was due for
implementation starting in 197b/75, is currently under revision, and in the
interim the Government is proceeding with a substantially scaled-down pro-
grain. Capital expenditure is being held down to a level which in real terms
is likely to be below that last year. The thrust of the investment program
is on the key sectors whose output is in critically short supply: coal,
electric power, oil, non-ferrous metals, fertilizer, steel, and transport.
Within the tight budget, allocations to the social sectors, most particularly
education, have been cut below previous levels. In line with the Government's
aim to relieve the pervasive commodity shortages and to stimulate industrial
production, the 1 974/75 budget has also made a number of tax and other con-
cessions to private industry. But the budget has also introduced additional
taxation as well as increases in rates on transport and other public services
in order to hold down the budget deficit.
13.       Ever since the balance of payments crisis of the late 1950s, a
shortage of foreign exchange has constituted one of the most critical con-
straints on development of the economy. The recent increases in world
commodity prices have added to these problems, at a time when the economy
is singularly ill-placed to deal with them. Petroleum has become a very
prominent item in the import bill. In 1972/73 imports of crude oil and
petroleum products amounted to US$265 million, equivalent to 10 percent of
merchandise imports; estimates of the corresponding figures for 1973/74 are
US$625 million and 18 percent, and for 1974/75,depending on the availability
of external financing and other factors, US$1,300 million and 26 percent.



In the Draft Fifth Plan the Government had already set out ambitious pro-
grams of indigenous energy development in order to reduce dependence on
imported oil, but these have had to be supplemented by a variety of other
measures. The short-term focus is to reduce consumption, by increasing
the prices of petroleum products and, more important, by converting oil-
burning equipment to coal wherever possible. But there are only limited
opportunities for immediately reducing petroleum consumption, and some
cutback in supplies appears inevitable. Since the bulk of petroleum con-
sumption is concentrated in such vital sectors as agriculture (as feedstock
for fertilizer production, and as fuel for irrigation pumping and mechanised
farming), goods transport, and industry, with final, private consumption
accounting for no more than 10 percent of total consumption, reduced oil
supplies are bound to depress overall economic production. Another emphasis
of short-term policy is to remove the immediate bottlenecks on coal pro-
duction and transport. For the longer term, programs are already under way
to raise the efficiency of oil utilization and to step up the pace of
development of coal-based fertilizer technology, of oil exploration, and of
exploitation of the considerable hydroelectric resources. None of these
energy adjustment measures will be easy or quick of attainment and it will
be several years before results of appreciable quantitative significance
will be realized.
14.       The increase in oil prices is only one element in a large widening
of the trade deficit. The need for large imports of food and fertilizers,
at the exceptionally high prices of the past year, and the price increases
in oil, steel, non-ferrous metals, and other vital imports increased the
import bill by 37 percent in 1973/74.   This increase was partly offset by
a 14 percent increase in exports, several export items benefiting from the
commodities boom, but the estimated trade gap was about US$650 million com-
pared with US$50 million the year before. The outlook for 1974/75 is bleak,
as the full effect of the deterioration in the terms of trade comes to be
felt. Even with a severe compression of food, fertilizer, and petroleum
imports and a probable decline in general maintenance imports in real terms,
the total import bill could rise by a further 40 percent if prices continue
at their present level. Exports promise to continue doing well, which should
reduce the impact of the enlarged import bill. Nevertheless, there is a
critical need for external assistance at a much higher level than the US$1,300
million last year, which was itself US$400 million r 45 percent) higher than
the previous year. The Government secured 2 million tons of food aid from the
USSR last year, half of which remains to be disbursed this year, and has
negotiated credits from several oil-producing countries. The Government
has also drawn its gold tranche and first credit tranche from the IMF. In
addition, the Consortium is discussing what action is possible to help India
overcome its difficulties and several members have already announced large
increases in their aid programs for 1974/75.



-6-
15.        As a result of substantial past borrowings, India's external
public debt (disbursed only) stood at US$9.9 billion on March 31, 1973.
Debt service in 1973/74 is estimated at US$700 million, equivalent to
around 24 percent of export receiptsO This compares with a level of
debt service of about US$200 million in the mid-1i060s. In order to
mitigate the negative effects on growth of such a high burden of external
debt and to forestall any danger of a foreign exchange crisis, from
1968/69 onwards the Consortium has extended debt relief to India.   In
1973/74, the most recent year in which this action was taken, the amount
of debt relief was about US$185 million. On the assumption that India
can obtain its large, new financing requirements on appropriately soft
terms, debt service is expected to grow more slowly over the rest of this
decade than it did in the 1960s and should be equivalent to around 20
percent of export receipts by 1980.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
16.        Since 1 949, the Bank Group has made 41 loans and 59 development
credits to India totalling US$1,177 million and US$2,573 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$627 million has been
repaid, and US$959 million is still undisbursed. Annex II contains a
summary statement of disbursements as of April 30, 1974 and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
17.        Since 1957, IFC has made 13 commitments in India totalling
US$42.3 million, of which US$6.8 million has been repaid, US$706 million
sold and US$6.3 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$21.6 million,
US$14.6 million represents loans and US$7.0 million equity. A summary
statement of IFO operations as of April 30, 1974, is also included in Annex
II (Page 2).
18.        In recent years the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting
minor irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit
operations. Major irrigation, marketing, and seed development are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. In recognition of
the importance of industrialization for India's future development, the
Bank Group has been active in financing the expansion of output in the
fertilizer sector and also, through its sizeable assistance to development
finance institutions, in a wide range of geographically scattered medium
and small-scale enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials
and components for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in
facilitating fuller capacity utilization in these sectors. The Bank Group
has also been active in supporting infrastructure development for power,
telecammmnications, and the railways. Family planning, education, water
supply development and related urban investments have also received Bank
Group support in recent years.



-7-
19.        The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has
been consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The
emphasis of the program on agriculture, industry, power and transport
remains highly relevant. The priority of the agricultural sector has
been further enhanced in the present world commodity situation. Thus,
quick-yielding projects designed to foster agricultural production through
the provision of essential inputs such as credit and on-farm investments,
command area development of existing irrigation schemes or seed produc-
tion form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next
year. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefiting small farmers
and landless laborers, as in the dairy project described in this report.
Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will focus
on energy related projects. Repeater credits for power and railways have
high priority in this context and discussions are under way with the
Government in an effort to identify and prepare projects specifically
designed to facilitate coal production and coal transport. Lending for
fertilizer projects, which has been an important feature in recent years, is
expected to occupy an even more prominent place in our future program;
the use of coal-based technology wil1 receive particular attention.
20.        The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources
in support of India's ecanomy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic
reports and of the discussions with the India Consortium. The need for
readily usable foreign exchange assistance is especially pressing in a
time when output and investment have to be adjusted to a radically
different price situation. Consequently, Bank Group lending for essential
industrial raw materials and components continues to be an essential
feature within the overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank
Group assistance for projects in India should include as appropriate the
financing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital
goods because of the capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The
import component of projects tends to be especially low in such high
priority areas as agriculture, education, or family planning. For the
Bank Group to be able to make an appropriate contribution to the financing
of projects, such as the one proposed today, it is important to cover a
proportion of local expenditures.
21.        Of the external assistance received by India the proportion
contributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70 the
Bank Group accounted for 34, 13 and 12 percent respectively of total
ccmmitments and gross and net disbursements as compared with an estimated
35, 28 and 42 percent respectively in 1973/74t   The contribution of the
Bank Group is expected to continue growing. Whereas on March 31, 1973
the Bank Group's share of India's outstanding external public debt was
21 percent, by 1979 it is likely to account for about 30 percent.
Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1972/73
about 13 percent of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.



O8 -
PART III - DAIRYING IN INDIA
22.        This project in Karnataka (formerly Mysore) will contribute to
the development of the Indian agricultural sector, which accounts for
about 40 percent of Indian GNP and enploys 70 percent of the total work
force. Although GOI's emphasis in the agricultural sector in recent years
has been to increase the output of foodgrains through increasing the
availability of improved inputs such as seeds, fertilizers, agricultural
credit and irrigation, the Government is making efforts to diversif'y agri-
cultural investment, with special attention on the dairy sub-sector.
over the past two decades there has been a marked decline in the per capita
consumption of milk, a primary source of animal protein for the bulk of the
population. Efforts are now being made to improve the situation aiming
at an increase in milk production from 21 million tons in 1 972 to 30 million
tons by 1979. The proposed project is the first of a series designed to
make a significant contribution towards achieving this target. It is the
first Bank Group project in support of the dairy/livestock sector in India.
23.        A large proportion of the world's bovine population is located
in India. It has 17 percent of the worlds cattle and 50 percent of its
buffaloes. However, the indigenous varieties of cattle (which make-up the
bulk of cattle) and buffaloes produce very low yields of milk. Their main
contribution has been to provide draft power and to support a small live-
stock industry which accounts for only 14 percent of the total agricultural
sector's share of GNP and for about 5 percent of total exports. In order
to significantly increase milk production, a large scale effort to develop
higher yielding animals, together with expansion of facilities of animal
health care and breeding are required.
24.        The crossbreeding of indigenous cattle with exotic varieties in
order to get higher yielding dairy cattle has been conducted in India for
many years, but past efforts have achieved only limited success and, with
one rather notable exception, have not been accompanied by adequate
institutional support, effective organization of small and marginal pro-
ducers (who account for the bulk of milk production) into economically
viable production units, nor by development of sufficient facilities for
milk collection, processing, and marketing. Nor has there been adequate
provision of animal health care and technical services tofIarmers. Dairying
in India remains essentially a subsidiary farm activity. Few farmers use
their land principally for dairy production. Most of the milk that is
marketed is produced by (i) the landless (rural and urban) who maintain
mostly just one cow per household and who purchase all feeds, (ii) small
farmers who grow a portion of the feed (mainly strawJ) for a herd which
ranges from 1 to 5 cows, and (iii) milk colonies and cattle resettlements
where large groups of animals are kept. There is also in India an acute
shortage of animal feed, the major portion of which is low quality. If a
significant increase in milk production is to be achieved, additional
amounts of feed must be made available or an increasing amount of the
available feed supply must be reserved for high producing animals. The
demand for cereal grains as human food and the favorable export position
of oilseeds and oilcake preclude any significant increase in the future
supply of concentrate feed for livestock. Therefore, it is important to



-9-
develcp animal production systems which will result in more efficient
use of available supplies and to encourage development of higher quality
forages, particularly by integrating fodder crops into the existing
cropping pattern.
25.        A notable bright  spot in the Indian dairy picture is the
successful experience of the Kaira District Cooperative Milk Producers
Union Ltd. (AMUL). AMUL is centered on the formation and operation of
hundreds of village milk producers cooperatives (a typical member owns
two buffaloes and tills less than 1 ha). The village cooperatives are
welded together into a cooperative Union which owns and operates facili-
ties for milk and feed processing, collection and distribution and provides
its members with a full range of technical services. The Union is respon-
sible for setting milk prices and obligated to buy milk in any quantity
from members. Thus, the fanmer is assured of a year-round outlet for his
milk at fair prices. Members are provided with a package of services
which includes routine veterinary health coverage, concentrate feed,
fodder seed, and training. The outstanding success of the AWL experience
has encouraged GOI and a number of other States to foster the establishment
of similar programs in other parts of the country.
Status of Dairy Development in Karnataka
26.        Although its environment and experience differ considerably
from Gujarat, the home State of AMUL, Karnataka is a progressive dairy
state. It is foremost in crossbreeding with a total of about 100,000 cross-
bred cattle. Some of the best extension and animal health services in the
country are available in the State. There are nine milk processing plants
and about 45 chilling centers in the major milkshed areas, of which 2
plants and 10 chilling centers are in the project area. The present
project is designed to build on the foundations already laid, and to
further develop the state dairy industry using AMWL as a model.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
27.        The project was prepared by the staff of the Animal Husbandry and
Veterinary Services Department in Kaniataka along guidelines from the GOI
Animal Husbandry Division of the Ministry of Agriculture. During prepara-
tion, assistance was given by two Bank Group pre-appraisal/preparation
missions in February/March and April/May 1973. The project was appraised
in October 1973. Negotiations were held in Washington from May 13, 1974 to
May 15, 1974. The Borrower was represented by Mr. G. Venkataramanan,
Deputy Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs and Mr.V. K. Malik, Director,
Agriculture. AIC was represented by Mr. Chidambaram, Managing Director. The
State of Karnataka was represented by Mr. K. So N. Murthy, Secretary
(Agriculture); Mr. P. B. Karumbiah, Director, Aniral Husbandry; and Mr. B.
S. Muddappa, Project Coordinator. A report entitled "Appraisal of Dairy
Development Project" (Report No. 431a-IN, dated May 21, 1974) is being circu-
lated to the Executive Directors separately. A credit and project summary
is attached as Annex III.



-1 0-
'e Project Description
2°.       The proposed IDA credit of US$30 million will help finance an integ-
rated program for increasing the production of milk in rural areas (about
,0,000 farmers, the majority of which farm less than 2 ha or are landless,
viould be involved) through a five-year program which focuses on quality cross-
>reeding, animal health, and the development of facilities for milk collection,
.processing and marketing. Under the project, village cattle owners would be
organized into about 1 ,800 Dairy Cooperative Societies (DCS) which would in
-;irn be grouped into four Unions. The Unions would manage the collection,
irocessing and marketing of milk, and would be controlled by the farmers. Each
Union would own and operate dairy and feed plants and would be capable of pro-
viding technical, extension, milk collection and marketing services to the DCS
members. In addition to the establishment of the DCSs and the four cooperative
milk producers' Unions, a Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC) would
be formed to coordinate and implement the project, and to operate farms for
dairy research and for the production of purebred exotic breeding stock.
Consultant's services would be utilized to assist KDDC in operating about 50
demonstration farms, conducting trials and research in pasture and fodder pro-
duction, carrying out milk marketing studies, and training KDDC staff in
cooperative extension work.  An animal health program, to protect the invest-
ments in crossbred cattle, would be acconplished by strength7ning the capabi-
lities of the Bangalore Veterinary Vaccine Institute (BVVI)1/ which produces
biologicals and vaccines, and of the Bangalore University of Agricultural
Science (BUAS), which carries out animal health research and veterinary
activities.
29.       Membership in the DCSs would be made-up of cattle owners of which
10 percent are expected to be landless and 80 percent sma1l farmers with
holdings of less than 2 ha. Milk production would be increased by focussing
inputs at the DCS and farmer level. Credit would be provided to farmers for
purchase of locally crossbred heifers. The DCS would be the village level
center for milk collection, daily payment to producers, and for supplying
concentrate feed, fodder seed and artificial insemination services. The
DCS would also distribute feed to individual members under a GOI subsidy
program to encourage crossbred calf rearing. It is expected that by year
five in a typical DCS, one-third of the native cows will have been replaced
by crossbreds, increasing annual milk production from a present level of
60,000 liters to about 290,000 liters.
30.       Under the project each Union would be provided with staff and faci-
lities required to carry outits principal functions of: (i) assisting the
village societies with organization and management; (ii) establishing and
supervising milk transportation; (iii) processing and marketing the members'
milk; (iv) operating feed milling facilities and organizing transportation of
feed to DCSs; (v) providing animal health and breeding services; (vi)
channelling feed to the DCSs under the GOI incentive subsidy program to promote
the raising of crossbred calves; and (vii) inspecting and auditing the accounts
of the DCSs.
1/ This is the proposed new name for the Karnataka Serum Institute.



Project Implementation
31.        The KDDC would be responsible for implementation and coordina-
tion of project activities and would play an essential role in the initial
establishment of village cooperative societies and milk producers' Unions.
It would be organized with a professional management staff reporting to a
19 member board of directors consisting of representatives of government,
banking, and dairy farmers. The KDDC would be responsible for recruiting
four spearhead teams, one for each Union, which would become the nucleus
staff of each Union as it is formed. These spearhead teams would con-
centrate on promotion, organization and operation of the DCSs. KDDC would
own and operate dairy plants and other facilities, either transferred from
GOK (such as the Bangalore and Mysore Dairies) or built under the project,
until the Unions had been adequately capitalized and staffed, minimum faci-
lities had been constructed, and a sufficient number o,f DCSs had been
organized. Assurances to this effect were obtained.1, It would be a con-
dition of effectiveness that the KDDC had been established under articles
mutually accepted by GOK and IDA and GOK had transferred to KDDC the
operation of the existing Bangalore Dairy, Mysore Dairy, and related
chilling and artificial insemination equipment in the project area. It
would also be a condition of effectiveness that GOK had transferred to
KDDC the buildings, cattle and equipment of four government dairy live-
stock production farms.2/ Assurances were obtained that GOI would invest
in KDDC an initial equity contribution of at least Rs. 2.5 million; GOK
would contribute Rs. 3.8 million through the transfer of cash, buildings,
cattle, and equipment; GOI and GOK would provide additional equity
financing as required over the project period to ensure that KDDC qualified
for loans from participating banks; and, over a period of time, GOI and GOK
would offer their shares in the State dairy corporation for sale to the
Unions, until the Unions had attained at least a majority ownership.3/
32.       To assist in formation of DCSs and Unions along AMUL lines, KDDC
would engage the services of consultants to help in recruitment, training
and field supervision of each spearhead team. It would be a condition of
effectiveness that recruitment of staff for spearhead teams had begun.
Consultants would also be employed by KDDC to conduct a milk marketing study,
which would provide data for optimally locating new milk and feed facilities.
Construction of facilities would be carried out by KDDC with assistance in
the preparation of designs and specifications to be provided by consultants.
Additionally, consultants in tropical pasture agronony and pasture management
would be hired to assist the KDDC in the development of pasture programs
and in the testing of small-farm management systems. All consultants would
be subject to approval by IDA./
/ (See Sections 4.04(b) and 4.06 of the Karnataka Agreement).
2/ (See Sections 5.01(d), (f) and (h) of the Development Credit Agreement),
2/ (See Sections 5.01(e), (f), 3.04 and 3.06 of the Development Credit
Agreement and Sections 4.04(c) and 4.05 of the Karnataka Agreement)0
4/ (See Section 2.08(a) and (b) of the Karnataka Agreement; Section 5.01(g)
of the Development Credit Agreement).



-12-
33.        The four Unions are expected to be formed within the first year
and a half, initially with at least 80 DCSs per Union. Each Union would
ultimately be constituted by about 400 to 500 DCSs. Union by-laws would
be similar to AMUL's. Assurances were obtained from GOK that through the
tDDC, it would promote, under by-laws approved by IDA, the formation of
four dairy Unions by December 31, 1975, and about 1800 DCSs over five
years.1/ A Union would have a Board of Directors comprising representa-
tives of dairy farmers, government departments, KDDC, and participating
banks. GOK assured that it would provide an equity contribution to cover
the Union's start-up costs, and additional equity as required over five
years to ensure their creditworthiness in financing plant and equipment2/
GOI agreed to reimburse the dairy Unions for the cost of feeds distributed
free to farmers under the incentive program to promote the raising of
crossbred calves..3/ The Unions are expected to earn surpluses fromn year
four and these would be declared as bonuses to DCSs in proportion to milk
sold to the Union, as dividends or reinvested. The dividend and a part of
the surplus would be used to buy out from the sixth year onward, the GOK
equity in the Unions, until the DCSs became the Union's majority stock-
holders, probably by about year ten. GOK provided assurances that it would
offer its shareholding in the Unions for sale, at par value, to the
individual DGSs until such time as the DCSs were majority shareholders.4/
34.        Each Union would be free to set prices for its products and
services, and for milk procurement from members.5/ The Unions initial price
for processed milk would be more in line with the free urban market price
than the subsidized prices of government dairies. However, average consumer
prices are expected to decrease over time as the Unions reduce costs,
increase the availability of milk, and differentiate their products. Urban
producers now taking advantage of a situation of milk scarcity would have
to reduce their prices to remain competitive. Village producers would be
able to earn much more for milk sold to Unions and would begin to retain
for their own use fodder now sold to urban producers. The present policy
of government dairies implies a consumption subsidy that is not justified
and would come to an end when the Unions determine prices in their members
interest. The only non-recoverable expenditures under the project are
government start up grants to DCSs and farmers which are justified to
facilitate the establishment of new cooperative organizations and the spread
of proven crossbreeding technology to rural areas.
1/ (See Sections 2.10 and 2.12 of the Karnataka Agreement).
2/ (See Section 4.o4 of the Karnataka Agreement).
3/ (See Section 3.05 of the Development Credit Agreement).
b/ (See Section 4.05 of the Karnataka Agreement).
'/ (See Section 4.07 of the Karnataka Agreement).



-13-
35.        The DCSs, the basic organizational unit to be established
under the project, would each be managed by a committee of nine members,
headed by an elected chairman who would also be eligible to be elected
to the Union Board of Directors. The committee would appoint a secretary
who would be responsible for day to day running of the DCS. Each DCS
would also have one to four helpers to assist the secretary. These
helpers would be trained in artificial insemination, emergency veterinary
aid and milk testing by Union technicians. To expedite project implemen-
tation, it was agreed with GOK that financially sound mnlti-purpose
farmerst societies may participate as DCSs in the project through formation
of a milk cell within the society. However, it was agreed that after a
specified time period or level of milk production had been rea ched, such
cells would be transformed into independent, autonomous DCOS.1
36.        Each DCS would be capitalized by share purchases by members and
entrance fees. For each newly formed DCS. GOK agreed to contribute
as grants initial capital equipment wor   Rs. 2,500 and operating deficits
for the first year of about Rs. 1,600 .- These grants are available else-
where in India where GOI promotes producer cooperatives, including the AWJL
scheme and are essential in bringing about the rapid transformation in the
rural institutional farming and dairying system that the AMUL approach
implies. The typical DCS should break even within three years and earn
surpluses thereafter, which would be used according to the DCSs by-laws and
to purchase shares in the Union.
37.        The animal health activities financed under the project would be
carried out by the Bangalore University of Agricultural Science (BUAS) and
the Bangalore Veterinary Vaccine Institute (BVVI). Under this program BUAS
would be provided with two fully equipped diagnostic field laboratories and
other equipment and materials in support of the University's veterinary
training and research in rinderpest, foot and mouth disease, reproductive
disease, tuberculosis, parasites, and parasite borne disease. For the BVVI,
facilities, equipment, chemicals and glassware would be provided to enhance
production of vaccines for such diseases as septicaemia, anthrax, rabies,
rinderpest, brucella and TB. Although the BVVI would continue to function
as a government agency under the GOK Ministry of Agriculture, a BVVI Board
of Management would be established to ensure fuller representation of the
organizations involved in animal disease control in Karnataka. This Board
would be responsible for major policy matters involving the integration of
the various disease control programs with production of appropriate vaccines.
The Board would include, inter alia, members from KDDC and BUAS. Project
funds for BVVI and BUAS would be provided on an annual basis in accordance
with annually prepared plans to be approved by GOK and IDA.Y
1/ (See Section 2.11 of the Karnataka Agreement).
2/ (See Section 2.10 of the Karnataka Agreement).
3/ (See Section 2.09 of the Karnataka Agreement).



-14-
Project Cost and Financing
38.        The total project cost is about US$64 million equivalent
(including duties and taxes) of which the foreign exchange conponent is
about 21 percent or US$13.6 million. Included in the project costs are
initial operating deficits, working capital, and fodder seed and calf
rearing subsidies. These costs, of appraximately US$15 million, would
be borne by GOI and GOK and are necessary to assure a sound financial
start for the project and to provide incentive for participation by
far-mers. A breakdown of the cost components is in Annex III.
39.        The proposed IDA credit of US$30 million would cover 47 percent
of total project costs. The remaining 53 percent would be financed by
GOI (13 percent), GOK (19 percent), ARC and participating banks (13 percent)
and farmers (8 percent)o
40.        The IDA proceeds under the project would be applied as follaws:
(a) US$13.8 million   - Equipment and materials for dairy
plants, feed mills, and KDDC farms.
(b) US$2.0   million  - For animal health protection, two
fully equipped regional diagnostic field laboratories,
other equipment and supplies for veterinary research
at BUAS, and facilities and equipment for production
of animal vaccines by BVVI.
(c) US$1 .0 million - Exotic purebred cattle and semen
for KDDC and the Unimns.
(d) US$7.7 million - Credit for dairy farmers' crossbred
cattle purchases.
(e) US$4.6 million - Civil works for dairy plants, feed
mills, and KDDC farms.
(f) US$009   million  - Consultants' services for KDDC.
41.        IDA funds for the investments in dairy plants, feed mills, KDDC
(except for imported cattle and semen), and dairy farmers' crossbred
cattle, would be channelled from GOI to ARC and local banks. ARC would
refinance loans the banks made to farmers, KDDC and the Unions in respect
of project investments. The IDA proceeds for the animal health program,
imported purebred cattle and semen, and consultants would be channelled
by GOI to GOK. Relending arrangements and terms are specified in Annex
III. The lending rate of 9.5 percent per annum from banks to farmers,
KDDC, and the Unians, is in line with prevailing interest rates, and
reasonable in relation to the risk element involved, and the cost of
appraisal and supervision of individual loans.



Procurement and Disbursement
42.        Materials and equipment valued at US$13.1 million would be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Association's Guidelines. Domestic suppliers would be accorded
the usual preference of 15 percent or the rate of customs duty, whichever
is lower. Importation of exotic dairy heifers, bulls, and frozen semen
(US$ 1.0 million) would be procured on the basis of price quotations from
at least 3 countries free from foot and mouth disease where suitable
animals are available.
43.        Other equipment items valued at US$6.2 million would be unsuit-
able for international bidding. These include minor items such as electrical
installations, factory fittings, furniture, and farm equipment. They would
be purchased over five years to coincide with the phasing of operations and
would require service and spare parts to be readily available locally.
44.        The equipment, chemicals and glassware for the crossbred health
program in the Faculty of Veterinary Science and for the Bangalore Veterinary
Vaccine Institute (US$2.9 million) would be purchased localUy. Bulking of
orders for international competitive bidding would be impractical due to
small and spaced orders. The world's leading manufacturers' of scientific
equipment are represented in India and are conpetitive, and local maintenance
service offered by these established retailers would be needed to maintain
much of the equipment to be purchased under the project.
45.        Buildi.ngs and civil works (valued at about US$8.2 million) for
the KDDC farms, Union dairies and health support program would not be
attractive to international bidders. These facilities would be dispersed
geographically and over time. Contracts would be small (averaging less than
US$30,000) and buLking of them would not be practical. The facilities would
be constructed by local contractors who are competitive and well-equipped
to carry out the works.
46.        The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed against the
full c.i.f. costs of imported equipment, cattle and semen, and the ex-factory
cost of local equipment bid internationally; against the full costs of
expenditures by KDDC for technical and management services; against 90
percent of ARC refinance for DCS members crossbred cattle purchases; and
against 60 percent of locally procured expenditures on equipment and civil
works.
Economic Benefits
47.        The project would provide important economic and social benefits.
The direct economic benefit of the project will be the increased production
of milk and heifers. The incremental milk production is estimated at one
million tons/year by year ten and the project is expected to produce over
100,000 surplus heifers by year seven valued at Rs. 300 per head, the projected
market price. The project would directly benefit about 450,000 farming house-
holds, or approximately 2.5 million people, which is about half of the rural
population in the project area and would contribute to the fuller utilization



-16-
of labor in the rural areas. The AMUL experience indicates that significant
social benefits at the village level would also be derived under the project
particularly after the village cocperative dairy societies become firmly
established with a regular net anr.ual surplus of funds. Such funds would
most likely be used to augment or initiate village development schemes invol-
ving education, health, family planning, minor public works and infrastructure.
A~ further unquantifiable benefit to the village would accrue from improved
nutrition which would result from increased intake of milk particularly by
children and infants. The benefits which would accrue to consumers would come
f-om an improvement in nutrition as a result of increased availability of
wrlhole pasteurized milk in the urban areas. Also as the share of hygienic
pasteurized milk to raw milk increases, the risk of milk born diseases such
as TB, brucellosis and gastrointestinal infections (particul-arly with infants)
will decrease greatly. Based on the quantified incremental costs and benefits,
the economic rate of return to the project is about 33 percent.
PART V  - LEGAL INSTRUMEMFM AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
Agricultural Refinance Corporation, the draft Agreement between the Association
and the State of Karnataka, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section 1(d), of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a
draft Resolution approving the proposed Development Credit are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
49.       The features of the draft agreements of special interest are
described in paragraphs 31 through 37 of this report.
50.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONMNDATION
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 30, 1974



COUT.TRY DATA - INDIA
E;AR_                                               POPULATION                                                       DENSITY
2/                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2/
3,158,550 Icc-                                        577 million (mid-1973)                                           177 per ker
Rtate of growth: 2.23' (from 1961 to 1971)                       350 per km of arable land
P011,_ATION CHARACTERISTICS (1971)                                                          HEALTH
C:rudle Birth Rate (per I o00)             38 (est)                                         Population per physician (1571) 6,000 (est)
C-,ede Death Rate (per I 000)              16 (est)                                         Population per hospital bed (1968/69) 1,826
infant Mortallty (per I ,000 live births)  120-140 (est)
.IICONE Di3TIUBUTION (1967/61)                                                              DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSPIP (1954/55)
of consumPtion, lowest quinitile  rural 8% (est)     urban  7% (est)                      % owned by top 7% owners          523 (est)
A'  consumption, highest quintile  rural j1% (est)   urhan 46% (est)                      % owned by smallest 25% of owners  1% (est)
'__   _TO ?PI"-'ED WATER (1971)                                                             ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (19 1f
cCf. c opulation - urban    n.a.                                                            d of population - urban     n.a.
, of population - rural     n.a.                                                            % of population - rural     r.a.
NUTiITION (1960 - 69)                                                                       EDUCATION
CI1orie intake as % of requirements        83 (est)                                         Adult literacy rate % (1971            36 b/
Per rapita protein intake (gr. per day)    55 (est)                                         Primary school enrollment % (1969/70)  79
c/
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1970  : US  $ 110
GROSS NATIONAL PRQDUCT IN 1972/73                                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, c,nstant prices)
US $ Bln.    ,                                        1961/62-1965/66  1965/66-19c9/70   1970/71-1972/73
GNP at Market Prices                    57.7      100.0                                           3.3              4.7              2.0
Gross Domestic Investment               9.7        16.8
Gross National Saving                    9.2       15.9
Current Account Balance                 -0.5       -0.l
Resource Gap                             0.7        1.2
OUTPUT, LABOR rORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)                              Labor Force      V.A, Per Wc.rker
US $ Bln.            i                                    Min.     %       US $     , of National Average
Agriculture                         19.6              42.6                                 129.9   72.0      1O9           67
Industry                            13.3              23.3                                  20.2   11.2      658          208
Services                            24.3              34.1                                  30...  16.8      35            255
Total/average                      77.0              100.0                                    .1  1O         3            100
GOVEHN1Ma:T FIN1ANCE                                          S/
General Government                                         Central Government
(R      IfG                                               (Rs. Bln)          9:o  GNIP
197;/7     1972/73Tl9701li9773                             1972/73      1972/73T   T iO/711972/73
Currenit Receipts                   78.71         17.0         16.1                           L6.06         10.0            9.3
Current Expenditures                80.78         1 7.5        16.2                           1      6      10.0            9.2
Current Surpluis/Defici            - 2.07        -            - 0.1                            0.38          -             0.1
Capital Expendituires -             26.21          5.7          5.5                           19.84          6.3            6.0
External Assistance (net)            3.30          0.7          0.8                            3.30          0.7            0.8
a/ Population of 10 years and over; extracted from 1% sample data of the 1971 Census.
b/  Ufficial estimate: probably overestimates actual enrollment of age group 6 - 11 by one-fifth.
c/  The per capita NIP estimate is at 1970 market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the 1972 World Atlas.
- Ill other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
d/ Estimates.
e; ;ransfers between Center and States have been netted out.
f/ .All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.



,dKN;2E2 I
PaEe 2
COUNTRY DATA - INDIA
;'Ci!E'', ''RED1T ;J01D PP6f02                          1965/66    1969/'0    1970/71     1971/72    1972/73   December   1972   December  1573
(Billion its. outstanding. at end of period)
m,mc[ .,iiasi lionev                               61.6        93.3      105.6       122.3      1nJ.3         135.1             162.0
:z  -radit to Public Dietor                              0.6i      525. 56.9              63.9       82.7           78.2              91.2
- -nc t -: . ,ivte V:ector                         2h.1 6J.3              56.7       oL.4       73.1           71.4             81.6
(Percentages or Index (Fusbers)
____.___   1 965/70   1970/71    1971/72    1972/73   Febroary 1973      Febr-v-ary l
:;i  ey a5 , of CLP                      26o.0       216.1      21'.7      2G.3        26.5
c:!le'-tPrile -i' Indcx (1961/62=100)                 131          1    1      i .6   1  158 6      207.0         217.4             lYt.3
''F':11.1  "w--iucn :.-Ihan,cs in:
im.c esale Price Index                                     7.6        3.7         5.5       1l.j        9-9                             26.2
o 'cOlic Sector                              12 .         1.5        8 .6      21 .1       20.0                             5.
-1   :   t to Pri-vate Sector                              .           F       17.4        13.6       13.5                            14.
i '    O1  0  PA'7tEiITS
1971/72    1972/73     1975i74     pE±CHA1NDI S  EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1970/71-1572/_
(Mitlion OS $4-i) (uet . )                                $ RS5
r , ,, - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,1, 7,'                 ,         4 H.90  Ju1. Mrl t,le.21l
,572      2,1 ;           --   Tea                          -°C
'Ia;L.; -.                                               2l         - 4';      bF55    (:sLunrl '1.-e                147r              e
ilF:;      . )t. Tron    iJre                   IT7
4605FF
IlzF-F-c  F R-g:r],;  (Fr-Fl                              ';:0      -2-7       -2,9     Ot,hers                    I                   '5
; H ile: ! ' 1l: 1 [r 1\yinell1 < ( rs: i )  _ ~ ~   ~~~7  _ -   l.S     Tota.2l>,R-10
i!.FFFFCFFF (;-  r:.1t58                                                                                                 1. -( 1.
c        r9 . :   ADLI-nt                  --86                            EXTEPRAL DEBT, March 31    iNL
i-i a     A4i d2
R,payable in forei1 g  currency             y,232
I .89        e F       1, 305   Renayya e thronign e--pDru, Of rocds         660
A;,,i-,rti 7:-a;;~ Dia sz4 - 'o'o _!6CJc',                                 -
Ta]. Ouz_stancd ,ig a, Dislused             9e2
T r a 'nF' ti FM -  ]  Fi  4511'
In 0^1-3 - i I l                                        -14-0         32       c:.a,
1)DEBT SERVICE iHAT1ON FOR 1973/74           24. 2 pet-cent
. . .... a'; fi Reserfres (-F                          -22                     115
',FDF';': Peserves-F7 1erld y,277                                    1, 01i    i,426
N,-f.-Re  s (  l1: er--cF                 t, 277       1, 311    1   ~ 1    7, 1 3RD/ilA LEtlLING  Anril 30> i.774   (us$ I'tin.
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                   IBP'l        IDA
imports                                    ~~~~         ~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~262  265  625
imOofl which:  Petroleurni                              261         625         625      Outsta-nding and disbuarsed         Lo       1,s<d0
E'xports W374ch PetI n.a.                                                                1Indisbursed                         ,.        ; .
Exports                                                      93                   ..       Ottniginl
of which:   Petrolcurn                                                                   Outstanding iec'   0'd'_s-c-'39._  ,79
FATF (IF EXuRAN(GE
crior c, /nid-d )cerber 1971 : US $ 1.00 = Its. 7.5
its.  1.00 = US $ 0.133333
26"d-!Iecenbe- 1971 to      : tl  3 l.00 = its. 7.27927
enld ,lune 1972            Is.  1.00 = US $ 0.137376
.-cr end June 1272         : Floating Rate
Spot i-ite (May 25, 1974)   : approx. 1TS $ 1 .00 = Rs. 7.88
appr'ox. its.  1 .00 = US $ 0. 127
/ A:soi-ization .nd interest payments as a percentage of nerchandise expo:ts.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA. CEDITS
(As of Avril 30, 1974)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                 (Net of Cancellation)
Credit No. Year Borrower               Purpose                       BAN!     IDA   Undisbursed
37 Loans!
25 Credits fully disbursed                                            993.6  1,218.1
89-IN      1966   India   Beas Equipment                             -       23.0       1.0
614-IN      1969   India   Tarai Seeds                              13.0       -         9.8
176-IN      1970   India   Kadana Irrigation                          -       35.0      11.1
683-IN      1970   ICICI   Industries DFC VIII                      40.0       -         1.5
191-IN      1970   India   Gujarat Agricultural Credit                -       35.0       2.6
203-IN      1970   India   Punjab Agricultural Credit                -        27.5      27.3
226-IN      1971   India   Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit        -        24.4       9.6
230-IN      1971   India   Agro-Aviation                              -        6.0       6.0
241-IN      1971   India   Telecommunications IV                      -       78.0      38.5
212-IN      1971   India   Power Transmission II                      -       75.0      72.0
249-IN      1971   India   Haryana Agricultural Credit                -       25.0      16.4
250-IN      1971   India   Twill Nadu Agricultural Credit             -       35.0      12.6
264-IN      1971   India   Cochin II Fertilizer                       -       20.0      11.2
267-IN      1971   India   Wheat St-rage                              -        5.0       4.9
268-IN      1971   India   Pochampad Irrigation                       e       39.0      16.4
789-IN      1971   ICICI   Industry DFC IX                          60.0       -        16.5
278-IN      1972   India   Mysore Agricultural Credit                 -       40.0      28.7
279-IN      1972   India   Gorakhpur Fertilizer Expansion             -       10.0       4.8
280-IN      1972   India   Railways XI                                -       75.0        .7
293-IN      1972   India   Naharashtra Agricultural Credit            -       30.0      17.2
294-IN      1972   India   Bihar Agricultural Markets                 -       14.0      14.0
312-IN      1972   India   Population                                 -       21.2      20.6
328-IN      1973   India   Shipping                                   -       83.0       7.3
342-IN      1972   India   Education. Project                         -       12.0      12.0
356-IN      1972   India   IDBI                                       -       25.0      25.o
357-IN      1973   India   Nangal Fertilizer Expansion                -       58.0      53.3
377-IN      1973   India   Power Transmission III                     -       85.0      85.0
378-IN      1973   India   Mysore Agricultural Markets                -        8.o       8.0
902-IN      1973   ICICI   Industry DFC X                            70.0      -        62.8
390-IN      1973   India   Bombay Water Supply                        -       55.0      54.2
391-IN      1973   India   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit         -       33.0      32.8
392'-IN     1973   India   Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit          -       38.0      35.8
402-IN      1973   India   Industrial Imports VIII                    -      100.0       9.8
403-IN      1973   India   Telecommunications V                       -       80.0      80.0
427-IN      1973   India   Calcutta Urban Development                 -       35.0      34.4
440-IN      1973   India   Bihar Agrlcultural Credit                  -       32.0      32.0
448-IN      1973   India   Railways XII                               -       80.0      69.9
456-IN      1974   India   Himachal Pradesh Apple Proc & Marketing -_         13.0*     13.0
Total                                                            1,176.6  2,573.2
of which has been repaid                                    621.6       C7
Total now outstanding                                              r553w0   
Amount sold                                        111.5
of which has been repaid                    110.2             1.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1t -r                                   37   56
Total Undisbursed                                                   90 6 76758
* Not yet effective                                                        ===3'====u=t
2j Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 197h)
Amount US$
million
vear                  Company                    Loan         EquitZ         Total
1959        Republtr Forge Company Ltd.          1.5            -            1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.          0.9            -            0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.               1.4            -            1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                   0.2            -            0.2
1963-66        Precision Bearings India Ltd.       0.7           0.3           1.0
196b         Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.        0.8           0.)4           1.2
196h         Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.       2.3           1.0            3.3
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.          1.0           0.3            1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.             1.0           0.1            1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.              8.6           2.9           11.5
1969-70       Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.           15.1           3.8           18.9
TOTAL                               33.5          8.8           42.3
Less: Sold                           6.0          1.6            7.6
Repaid                        6.8            -            6.8
Cancelled                     6.2           .1            6.3
Now held                            1l.6          7.0           21.6
Undisbursed                          1.8           .6            2.5



ANNEX II
Page 3
1/
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln No. 683   Eighth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Projects; US$40.0 million loan of June 3, 1970; Closing Date:
September 30, 1974
Ln No. 789   Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
Ln No. 902   Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. The first two loans are fully
committed, and disbursements under Loan 789-IN are ahead of schedule.
Cr No. 89    Beas Equipment; US$23.0 million credit of June 29, 1966;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1974
The purpose of this credit is to provide part of the foreign
exchange cost of imported equipment and services required to develop hydro-
electric power from the Beas River, to extend irrigation in the Punjab and
Rajasthan and for associated construction works. The project, which has been
subject to some delays, is part of a larger scheme for the integrated develop-
ment of the eastern rivers of the Indus Basin. The closing date of December 31,
1972, has been postponed for the second time to June 30, 1974.
Ln No. 614   Tarai Seeds; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;   Closing
Date: December 31, 1974
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in the
development of seeds of high yielding varieties. The Corporation is working
efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed quality. Seed
production is meeting targets. Implementation problems over processing plant
construction and land-leveling have been resolved. Expansion of an existing
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution.



ANNEEX II
Page 4
'%', essing plant is in progress, and tenders for a new plant are under
preparation. Large scale land-levelang demonstrations have stimulated
c,c>r.and for such work and orders are to be placed shortly by contractors
(cr imported machinery.
lo. 176   Kadana Irrigation;  US$35.0 million credit of February 9, 1970;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam on
.-e Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the dam. The project
aiso includes field channel construction, land levelling, drainage works and roads
and a program to support agricultural development. The project will be completed
about two years behind schedule because of delays on dam construction. The agri-
cultural components of the project are also behind schedule. Some of the delays
in implementation have occurred at the start of the project, before major invest-
rents have been made. These will not affect the economic justification of the
project. Further delays have occurred as a result of material shortages in the
present construction season, and the need for additional spillway construction.
If material shortages are not relieved and the additional spillway construction
is not started forthwith, the resulting delays could affect the economic justi-
fication of the project.
Cr No. 191   Gujarat Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million credit
of June 3, 1970; Closing Date: June 30, 1974
Cr No. 203   Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit of
June 24, 1970; Closing Date: December 31, 1974
Cr No. 226   Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1974
Cr No. 249   Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Cr No. 250   Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 197
Cr No. 278   Mysore Agricultural Credit Project;  us$40.0 million credit of
January 7, 1972; Closing Date: October 31, 1975
Cr No. 293   Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1975
Cr No. 391   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr No. 392   Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million credit
of June 8, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr No. 440   Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit of
November 29, 1973; Closing Date:   June 30, 1977



ANNEX II
Page 5
The above agricultural credit projects total US$319.9 million.
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization equipment only,
all are similar in structure, being designed to provide long and medium-term
credit to farmers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments
as imported tractors, minor irrigation and land-levelling.    Disbursement
of these credits started slowly.    So far as the minor irrigation components
were concerned, the main difficulties stemmed from the institutional require-
ments, in particular the introduction of changes in lending criteria and
lending terms and the strengthening of institutions responsible for assessing
groundwater availability.    These constraints have now been overcome and dis-
bursements are accelerating, reflecting high demand for minor irrigation
investments spurred by the experience of the    1 972  drought.   Tractor pro-
curement has been delayed following the substantial change in both the supply
and demand situations since the projects were originally appraised.     The
credits have recently been amended to permit the financing of indigenously
manufactured tractors as well as imported tractors and to reallocate some
funds earmarked for tractors to minor irrigation components.
Cr No 230 Agro Aviation; Us$6.o million credit of January 28, 1971;
Closing Date,; December 31, 197-
The project is designed to improve facilities for aerial spraying
of pesticides as part of Indiafs plant protection program.     So far no dis-
bursements have taken place.    There were initially difficulties over air-
craft procurement specifications which have      been resolved.    More recently,
however, issues have arisen concerning the training program for agricultural
pilots and maintenance engineers, the implementation of which is a prerequisite
for disbursing against importation of aircraft.    These difficulties are under
discussion with GOI.
Cr No. 267   Wheat Storage;   US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
This credit, which provides storage facilities in India's wheat
belt, comprises construction of 10 warehouses (100,000 tons capacity) and 10
silos (200,000 tons capacity) and an all-India grain storage study. Warehouse
construction is about 75 percent complete and preparations for silo construction
are progressing. The Government Food Ministry intends to select a local research
institute in the near future to conduct the study.
Cr No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apples Processing and Marketing;    US$13 million
.credit of January 22, 1974; Closinig Date: December 31, 1976
This project has been designed to promote the development of apple
production in Himachal Pradesh and comprises, roads, cold storage, juice
processing, and marketing. The conditions of effectiveness have to be ful-
filled by July 23, 1974.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr lo. 241   Telecommunications IV;  US$78.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1974
rr No. 403   Telecommunications V; US$80.0 million credit of June 25, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Both projects are continuations of Telecommunications III. Tele-
cor,mn,unications IV has be.n designed to support the telecommunications expan-
sion program over the last two years of the Fourth Plan (1969-74). Procurement
action for delivery of imported goods in 1973/74 has been largely completed.
rroduction problems in local factories delayed initial disbursement by about
6-9 months. However, production has now picked up and disbursements have
accelerated. Full disbursement is expected by the closing date of December
1974. Telecommunications V was declared effective on July 30, 1973.
Cr No. 242   Power Transmission II; US$75.0 million credit of May 3, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1975
Cr No. 377   Power Transmission III Project;  uS$85.o million credit of May 9,
1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project financed
by Loan 416-IN, has been designed to assist in financing the purchase of equip-
ment and materials required to develop a power transmission program in nine
States under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred because of
problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for international
bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids involved, but contract
awards have now been completed. Disbursements started in June 1973 and should
be completed by the closing date of September 30, 1975. Power Transmission
III became effective on October 10, 1973.
Cr No. 268   Pochampad Irrigation;  US$39.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the comprehensive agricultural development
on the right bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to
some 100,000 ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-
lined main canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads.
Until mid-1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with
construction and Credit disbursements progressing ahead of schedule. Acute
shortage of construction materials, especially explosives for the canal
excavation, has since hampered progress. As a result, construction of the
main canals is now likely to fall more than one year behind schedule.
Land development is presently haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water
availability in the project. Government is aware of the inadequacy of the
credit operation for land development and has requested IDA financing for a
Command Area Development Project (GAD), to be implemented by a Central Authority
for all farmers in need of land development. The project will include the
setting up of a well-coordinated technical and administrative organization
backed by suitable legal measures. Project preparation is underway arnd appraisal
scheduled for November 1974.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr No. 264   Cochin Fertilizer;  US$20.0 million credit of July 30, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975
Cr No. 279   Gorakhpur Fertilizer;  US$10.0 million credit of January 7, 1972;
Closing Date: March 31, 1975
Cr No. 357   Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project;  us$58.0 million credit of
February 9, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The Cochin Fertilizer project is now proceeding about one year behind
schedule. Procurement has been conpleted and, although labor and management
problems remain a potential source of difficulty, no further delays are anti-
cipated.   As of April 30, 1974, US$8.8 million had been disbursed under the
Credit.   The engineering design for the Gorakhpur Fertilizer project is
well advanced and virtually all the equipment has been ordered.    Although
delivery of some equipment may take longer than forecast during appraisal,
the project is progressing without serious difficulties.   Engineering work
and procurement for the Nangal Fertilizer project are proceeding satisfact-
orily.
Cr No. 280   Railways XI;  US$75.0 million credit of January 24, 1972;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1974
Cr No. 448   Railways XII; US$80 million credit of December 21, 1973;
Closing Date:  September 30, 1975
These projects consist of new and ongoing works in the Indian Railways
investment program.  The first of these credits is almost fully disbursed.  q,h'
second was declared effective on February 25, 1974.
Cr No. 294   Bihar Agricultural Markets; US$14.0 million credit of March 29,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Cr No. 378   Mysore Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project;   US$8.0 million
credit of May 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The Bihar Agricultural Markets project will he:Lp to finance the
establishment of wholesale markets in about 50 towns.    A supervision mission
visited the project in February and reported good progress in the selection,
design and appraisal of individual market sub-projects.    Disbursements have
begun and should accelerate as construction of markets get underway. Mysore
Wholesale Agricultural Markets became effective on September 7, 1973.
Cr No. 312   Population;  US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
This credit, which will help finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka (Mysore) and Uttar Pradesh, was declared
effective on May 9, 1973. Project implementation is gaining momentum; all key
project staff have been appointed and the construction program is under way.



ANNEX II
Page 8
No. 328   Shipping;  US$83 million credit of September 27, 1972;   Closing
Date: June 30, 1975
This project for financing four crude oil tankers and two product carriers
.i5 ahead of schedule. Delivery of the two product tankers is scheduled for the
z>hhd and fourth quarters of 1974. Three of the four crude carriers have been
&eLivered, with the fourth scheduled for delivery shortly. The credit was fully dis-
ioarsed as   Kay 4   l714. The full amount was disbursed ahead of schedule due to
iereases     co0s rM con cos s.
Cr No 342  Agricultural Universities;  US$12.0 million credit of November 10,
1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Progress of implementation has improved with the selection of campus
planners/executive architects, project architects and specialist advisers.
Contract negotiations for these personnel are presently in progress and appoint-
ments are expected to be made shortly.   University development plans and
fellowship programs have been submitted to the Association and are under
review. Equipment lists are still being prepared.
Cr No. 356   Industrial Development Bank of India;  Us$25.0 million credit
of February 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This credit became effective on June 22, 1973. A review mission
has just returned and reports that after a slow start, satisfactory progress
can now be expected.
Cr No. 390   Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project;  US$55.0 million credit
of January 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Project implementation is behind schedule due to a delay in appointing
the principal consultants. Bidding for principal material requirements commen-
ced in October 1973 and will continue for the next six/nine months.
Cr No. 402   Eighth Industrial Imports Project;  US$100.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Closing Date: November 30, 1974
This credit was declared effective on July 30, 1973 and US$90.1
million had been disbursed by April 30, 1974.
Cr No. 427   Calcutta Urban Development Project;  US$35.0 million credit of
September 12, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
This credit became effective on January 10, 1974, except for a
US$2.6 million portion allocated to a slum re-development proposal and a site
and services scheme. Conditions of effectiveness for this portion are to be
fulfilled by July 31, 1974.



ANNEX III
INDIA - DAIRY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AN[) PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:      Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) and banks for
on-lending to dairy farmers, Karnataka Dairy Development
Corporaticn (KDDC), and cooperative milk unions; State of
Kamnataka for improvement of facilities of Bangalore
Veterinary Vaccine Institute and Bangalore University
of Agricultural Science (Veterinary).
Amount:             US$30 million
Terms:              Standard
Relending Terms:    (a)  For farmer's investments in crossbred cattle, and
investments by KDDC and cooperative milk unions:
(i) From India to ARC:
(aa)  For ARC refinancing up to 9 years, repayment
would be at the end of 9 years at 6.0 percent
per annum.
(bb)  For ARC refinancing for more than 9 years and
up to 15 years, repayment would be at the end
of 15 years at 6.5 percent per annum.
(ii)  From ARC to Lending Banks: Repayable over a period
of up to 15 years including up to 6 years grace, at
not less than 7 percent per annum. Grace and repay-
ment terms would be set to coincide with collections
from ultimate borrowers by lending banks.
(iii) Lending Banks to dairy farmers: Repayable over a
period of 3 to 6 years including up to 1 year grace,
at not less than 9.5 percent per annum.
(iv)  Lending Banks to unions: Repayable over 15 years
including five years grace, at not less than 9.5
percent per annum.
(v) Lending Banks to K     DC: Repayable over 15 years
including up to 3 years grace on interest and up to
6 years grace on capital, at not less than 9.5
percent per annum.
(b) For facilities for Bangalore Veterinary Vaccine Institute,
Bangalore University of Agricultural Science Veterinary,
and importation by GOK of exotic cattle:



Annex III
Page 2
From India to Karnataka: Repayable according to
established GOI policy of lending to States on terms
prevailing at the time. Current terms are 5.25 percent
interest per year over 15 years.
(c) Foreign exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
Project             The purpose of the project is to finance an integrated program
Descriptiom:       for increasing the production of milk in rural areas through a
program which includes quality cross-breeding, animal health
improvement, and the development of facilities for milk collec-
tion, processing and marketing. The project consists of:
(a) The establishment of about 1,800 dairy cooperative
societies, four milk producers unions and the KDDC;
(b) An artificial insemination program of cross-breeding the
native village cattle with high producing exotic breeds,
and associated programs for fodder production and pro-
duction of purebred exotic breeding stock;
(c) Establishment of milk collection routes and centers and
the expansion of two existing dairy plants and construc-
tion of two others, as well as, of four cattle feed mills;
(d) Establishment of two regional diagnostic laborato
support for an animal health research program, and
production of veterinary biologicals and vaccines;
(e) Provision of consultant services to assist KDDC in
developing demonstration farms, applied research trials
on pastures and milk marketing studies; and
(f) Provision of credit to dairy farmers for purchase of
crossbred cattle.
Estimated                                                   (US$ Mllion)
Cost:                                            Total      Local     Foreign
Credit for crossbred cattle     7.7        7.7        -
Dairy Cooperative Societies     2.6       1.8          .8
Union Investments              20.8      15.2        5.6
KDDC Investments                2.9       1.6        1.3
Animal Health Research and      705        6.4        1.1
Support Activities
Sub-Total             41.5      32.7        8.8
Physical Contingencies           1.l       1.1         .3
Price Contingencies             20.8     16-3         4.5
Total Project Costs    63.7      50.1       13.6



ANNEX III
Page 3
Financing                                                  (US$ Million)
Plan:                                            Total     Local     Foreign
IDA Credit                     30.0      16.4       13.6
Local Financing:
GOI                         8.0       8.0
GOK                        12.0      12.0
ARC and Banks               8.3       8.3
Farmers                     5.4       5.4
Total                  63.7      50.1       13.6
Estimated           FY75    FY76    FY77    FY78    FY79    FY80    FY81
Disbursements:     Amount Amount Amount Amount Amount Aaount Amount Total
(US$ Million)      .7     5.2     5.9    14.0     6.4     6.5     1.3    30.0
Procurement
Arrangements:      The major portion (about US$13.1 million) of materials and
equipment required for milk processing and feed mill facilities
would be procured on the basis of intermational competitive bid-
ding with domestic bidders accorded the normal preference of
15 percent or customs duty whichever is the lower. For dairy
heifers, bulls, and frozen semen (US$1 .0 million), procurement
would be on the basis of prics quotations from suppliers in at
least three countries. The remaining 4tems such as furniture,
laboratory supplies, and farm equipment (US$ 9.1 miIIIcn) would
be procured locally due to smll amounts involved, the piece-
meal n2ture of procurement, and in some cases the need to main-
tain standardization with existing items and local maintenance
capabilities. As civil works for the construction of milk
processing plants, feed mills, and farm buildings would be
dispersed geographically and over time, they would be too
small to attract internatimnal bldders, and would be contracted
locally or built by force account (US$8.2 million).
Consultants and     Specialists would be contracted to assist KDDC with research
Technical          studies in pasture development and farm management systems.
Assistance:       Consultants would also be employed by KDDC to carry out a
marketing study and to assist in design and specification of
dairy and feed plants. US$0.9 million would be provided under
the credit for these services.
Rate of Return:     33 percent economic rate of return.
Appraisal Report:   No. h31a-IN, dated May 21, 197h.






70°    jx      _>$ ,3                        
'1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9C
AFGHANISTAN         ;      K            \                                                ND,A
i   ,  am~~~~~¢ fmim  2   X ~~~~~I N D I A
JAMMLI and K(ASHM//R
C    '         .     Srinagor          rJ          MYSORE       DAIRY    DEVELOPMENT          PROJECT
NATIONAL MILK GRID PROGRAM         UNDER THE 5th. 5 YEAR PLAN
.-  ,    PRADfSH                                          I _ L    MIIES
0   00o  200  300  400  500
PAKISTAN                                  OsI ' J                                        ,LOMETERS
-30'~P//S                                 m~
Biot Bh
/SdIgang nag I-                                            C H /N A 
~<__   n     u NE DalEJf1                                    (TiN et) HI
f   t.- -.                   -P   OttflHI  L/TJAPS      NEPAL            >   LKM?/ BRUTAN      /   ,     >
-  -- A~~~~\  PRADESH-                      SIKKI   BHUTA
u w 4A $ SA
-eo      RC 0g         Mtr &O
i<1  <  Juln O   S 3  tndOg:on9D/          <                                  ih~~~~~~~~~~~tn  0 
N''.      E/BeANGLADES           o       /
AhmadnbadP"D - -         \      MADYA                               J \ Pessore
Ah~ ~~      w  a, [pu                                                       0 a|-  ml :gnlFrnr gnismDiyDvlpn  rc
C,~ ~ ~ 0            |01         z                                    Rg:clAl
\ tY ' ~~^~~ < &  t           --- Interr    alcutta      - R  Nt
\                      p Rry  >      A              FeeEerYBr            Itngmg Plotts  BURMA
-2d'~~~~~~~ AmmoO                                                           Clte]ndTon
0rvnumi                  nd ag  ANA         A.      aiwy
Bombay  MA17A,?ASHTRA~ ~ ~~~~~~~somoop>
Say
Sea
AtVDHRA                 LiPili t'~~~~~~~~~~rcject Area
Eaendorked for Developrneen Under Operation Flood
Madras                ~ ~~~~~~~~Integrated Dory Denelopmentr Programns Being Prepared for lARD  Sabmissio
Smatl Marg no! Farmers Agencies in Dairy Development Areas
/              -  -   -  Interregional Grid
/                       A    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Feeder/Balancing Plonts Under Operation Flond
o    Mnjor City Liquid Milk Plants Under Operation  Flood
O    Cities and  To1pn.
cecnirO\    TAM! f                                    Natieeal Capitol
DU h*Salected Mater Ronse
Tris-ndr.r9                  R   LANKA
Boundaries of Districts Eorrmnrked for Denelopmnnt Undoer Operatien Fla,
'1~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~Stone ann       Union  Territory  Bounoaries
-Interrtotenal Boundaries
Ln     nnnlr  nn e  nl,dee



