'CREDIT NUMBER 482 IN
Amending Agreement
.(Karnataka Dairy Development Project)
among
INDIA
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
THE STATE OF KARNATAKA
and
INDIAN DAIRY CORPORATION


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 482 IN
AMENDING AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT among INDIA, acting by its President (hereinaft6'r
called the Borrower), INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (here-
inafter called the Association), THE STATE OF KARNATAKA, acting
by its Governor (hereinafter called Karnataka) and INDIAN DAIRY
CORPORATION (hereinafter called rDC).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement dated June 19,
1974 between the Borrower at; the Association (hereinafter
referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), a Karnataka
agreement of the same date between the Association and Karnataka
(hereinafter referred to as the Karnataka Agreement), and a
project agreement of the same date between the Association and
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (hereinafter referred to as
the Project Agreement), the Association agreed to lend to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty
million dollars ($30,000,000), on the tarms and conditions set
forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and on
the basis, inter alia, that Karnataka and Agricultural Refinance
Corporation (hereinafter called ARDC) agreed to undertake cer-
tain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Borrower has proposed and the Association has
agreed that a part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for
under the Development Credit Agreement should be made available to
IDC for relending to KDDC, Unions and Federations under the Proj-
ect on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development
Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined)
have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Amendment to the
Development Credit Agreement
Section 2.01. The following paragraphs shall be added to
Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement:


﻿-2-
"(r) "IDC" means Indian Dairy Corporation, a corporation
established under the Companies Act, 1956 -C the Borrower;
(s) "IDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and IDC pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) hereof, and all schedules thereto, if any,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(t) "Federations" means apex bodies of Unions
registered under the laws of Karnataka;
(u) "sub-project" means a project for which a sub-loan
is made or proposed to be made to KDDC, Federations or a
Union under the Project by IDC out of the equivalent of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to IDC by the Borrower
under the IDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(v) "sub-loan" means a Loan made or proposed to be
made to finance a sub-project."
Section 2.02. Section 3.01 (b) and (c) of the Development
Credit Agreement shall be amended to read as follows:
"(b) The Borrower shall enter into (i) a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with ARDC and (ii) an IDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement
with IDC, on terms and conditions (including, inter alia,
those set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement) satisfactory
to the Association for the purpose of relending to ARDC
and IDC the equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit under
Categories 1 (a), 2, 3 (a), 5 and 7 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for relending to the Participating Banks, KDDC,
Unions and Federation- The Borrower shall exercise its
rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the IDC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accom-
plish the purpose of the Credit and except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the IDC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or any provision thereof.
(c) In order to assist Karnataka in carrying out
Parts B.1, C and D of the Project, the Borrower shall make
available to Karnataka the equivalent of the proceeds of
the Credit under Categories 1 (b), 3 (b), 4, 6 and 8.
Section 2.03. Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall be amended to read as follows:


﻿-3-
"The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agen-
cies to 'ake all action which shall be necessary on their
part to enable (i) Karnataka to perform all its obligations
under the Karnataka Agreement and (ii) ARDC and IDC to per-
form their obligations under the Project Agreement and the
Amending Agreement, and shall not take or permit any of its
agencies to take any action which would prevent or interfere
with the performance of any such obligations of ARDC and
IDC."
Section 2.04. Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall be amended to read as follows:
(c) In order to assist Karnataka in carrying out
Parts B.l, C and D of the Project,, the Borrower shall make
available to Karnataka the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Credit under Categories 1 (b), 3 (b), 4, 6 and 8.
Section 2.03. Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall be amended to read as follows:
"The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agen-
cies to take all action which shall be necessary on their
part to enable (i) Karnataka to perform all its obligations
under. the Karnataka Agreement and (ii) ARDC and IDC to per-
form their obligations under the Project Agreement and the
Amending Agreement, and shall not take or permit any of
its agencies to take any action which would prevent or
interfere with the performance of any such obligations of
ARDC and IDC."
Section 2.04. Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall be amended to read as follows:
"For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) Karnataka shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Karnataka Agreement;
(b) ARDC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) IDC shall have failed to perform any of its obliga-
tions under the Amending Agreement or the IDC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;


﻿-4-
(d) any extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that (i) Karnataka will be able
to perform its obligations under the Karnataka Agreement,
or (ii) ARDC will be able to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
or (iii) IDC will be able to perform its obligations under
the Amending Agreement or under the IDC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(e) ARDC, IDC, KDDC, Federations or Unions shall have
become unable to pay any of its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARDC, IDC,
KDDC, Federations, Unions, or by others whereby any of the
property of ARDC, IDC, KDDC, Federations or the Unions
shall or may be distributed among its creditors; and
(f) the Borrower or any other authority having juris-
diction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of ARDC, IDC, KDDC or any Federation or
Union or for the suspeasion of the operations of ARDC, IDC,
KDDC or such Federation or Union."
Section 2.05. Section 4.03. of the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall be amended to read as 'ollows:
"For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Condi-
tions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the B.-rrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of
Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall occur."
Section 2.06. Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement
shall be amended to read as follows:
"Principal Terms of Subsidiary Loan Agreement and IDC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
I.   For the Subsidiary Loan Agreement:
A.   Annual interest rate of not less than 7-1/4%
less 1/4% for prompt payment.


﻿-5-
B.   Repayment at the end of 15 years.
C.   The exchange risk to be for the account of
the Borrower.
II. For the IDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement:
Terms for On-lending to IDC
1.  Interest rate:              7.5% per annum
2. Amortization period:         20 years
3. The exchange risk to be for the account of
the Borrower.
Terms for IDC Financial Assistance
1. Amount of sub-loan from      80% of the invest-
proceeds of Credit:         ment cost of a
sub-project
2. Interest rate on             8.5% per annum
sub-loan:
3. Amortization of              20 years, inclusive
sub-loan:                   of maximum 5 year
grace period on
interest and prin-
cipal, the interest
during grace period
to be capitalized."
ARTICLE III
Amendment to the
Karnataka Agreement
Section 3.01. Section 2.04 of the Karnataka Agreement
shall be amended to read as follows:
"Karnataka shall take all action which shall be neces-
sary on its part to enable ARDC and IDC to perform their
obligations under the Project Agreement and the Amending
Agreement and shall not take or permit any of its agencies to
take any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance of any such obligations of ARDC, Participating
Banks associated therewith or of IDC."


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. Section 2.06 (a) of the Karnataka Agreement
shall be amended to read as follows:
"Karnataka shall cause KDDC and Federations to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to KDDC and Federations by ARDC or IDC against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by KDDC or Federations to replace or repair
such goods."
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Project
Section 4.01. IDCXshall carry out its part of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, agricultural, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to the Karnataka Agreement.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
IDC shall cause all goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the Project.
Section 4.04. (a) IDC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contracts documents and construction and procurement
schedules for its part of the Project, and any material modifi-
cations thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) IDC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of its part of the Project
(including its cost and impact), to identify the goods and ser-
vices financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by


﻿-7-
the Borrower, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable she Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in its part of the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning its
part of the Project, its annual work programs, budgets, and
quarterly progress reports, its cost and impact, the expenditure
of such proceeds and the goods and services fitianced out of such
proceeds.
(c) IDC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, pro-
perty and equipment of IDC and any relevant records and documents.
Section 4.05. IDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the IDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, IDC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the IDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 4.06. The lending terms and conditions for carrying
out the Project shall be as set forth in Part II of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement, as said Part II of such Schedule
may be amended from time to time by agreement among the Borrower,
IDC and the Association.
Section 4.07. IDC shall not make sub-loans to Unions unless
such Unions are organized and registered under constitutions
and by-laws which are in conformity with models acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.08. IDC shall, in its appraisal of every sub-
project to be financed under the Project, apply criteria accept-
able to the Association.
Section 4.09. IDC shall submit sub-projects approved by it
for review by the Association.
Section 4.10. IDC shall monitor the progress of each
approved sub-project against specific targets acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.11. (a) The Association and IDC shall exchange
views, as may be necessary from time to time, with regard to


﻿-.. 8. -          --
-8-
the progress of the Project, the performance of the obligations
under this Agreement and under the IDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) IDC shall promptly inform the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of its part of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by IDC of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement and under the IDC Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenant
Section 5.01. IDC shall cause KDDC, the Federations and
Unions which are sub-borrowers under the Project to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
ARTICLE VI
Financial Covenants
Section 6.01. IDC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 6.02. IDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors; and (iii) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning the said
accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 7.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect when:
(a) the IDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement referred to in Sec-
tion 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement, as amended, has
been duly executed on behalf of the Borrower and IDC and has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and
corporate action; and
(b) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower
and ARDC has been amended in a form satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 7.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of IDC hereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with. its terms; or
(ii) a date on which the Karnataka Agreement and the
Project Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with their terms.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
IDC of this event.
Section 7.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 8.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.


﻿- 10 -
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by ail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Karnataka:
The Secretary to the
Government of Karnataka
Agriculture and Forest Department
Vidhana Soudha
Bangalore 1-560001
India
Cable address:
AGRISEC -
Bangalore


﻿- 11 -
For IDC:
Indian Dairy Corporation
'Darpan', R.C. Dutt Road
Baroda - 390005
India
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDAIRY                           175 239 IDC IN
Baroda
Section 8.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any docuLrent required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of IDC may be taken or executed by the
Managing Director or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and IDC shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated spe-
cimen signature of each such person.
Section 8.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By0
Authorized Representative
Date


﻿~ 12 -
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By k-                                             -
ac           44Ña             eee-e--
South Asia Prg.am
91~ /-                    9 80
THE STATE OF KARNATAKA
By       /
Authorized Representative
Date
INDIAN DAIRY CORPORATION
By   &/       -
Authorized Representative
Date                   iO>    /q9


