CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 482 IN
Project Agreement
(Karnataka Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
DATED JUNE 19, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 482 IN
Project Agreement
(Karnataka Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
DATED JUNE 19, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition inter alia that ARC agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the State of
Karnataka and the Association, the said State has agreed to undertake certain
obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ARC, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to ARC on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS ARC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARC shall carry out Parts A and E of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, administrative, financial
and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. (a) ARC shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
the Borrower on terms and conditions (including iter alia those set forth in
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement) satisfactory to the Association.
ARC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, ARC shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(b)   ARC shall, in sufficient time before the Effective Date, invite to
participate in the Project, LDB and the banks listed in the Second Schedule to
the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, including KCAB, on terms and conditions
(including inter alia those set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement)
satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   ARC shall enter into agreements with each bank responding to ARC's
invitation under paragraph (b) of this Section on terms and conditions (including
inter alia those set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement)
satisfactory to the Association.
(d)   ARC   shall: (i) require Participating Banks and LDB to maintain
separate accounts for Project lending and (ii) ensure that the annual audited
accounts of such Banks and LDB are submitted to the Association within four
months of the end of their fiscal year together with a statement of Project lending
for such Banks, certified by ARC.
Section 2.03. ARC shall furnish to the Association for its approval a Banking
Plan with regard to KACB not later than December 31, 1974 or such other date
as the Association shall agree.
Section 2.04. The lending terms and conditions for carrying out Parts A
and E of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower, ARC and the Association.


﻿5
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services (other than consultants'
services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in
Schedule 1 to the Karnataka Agreement.
Section 2.06. ARC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of Parts A and E of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's representatives to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so re-lent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. ARC and the Association shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, ARC and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the Project, and other matters relating to the
purpose of the Credit.
Section 2.08. ARC and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC
Section 3.01. ARC shall: (a) at all times manage its affairs, maintain its
financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in
accordance with sound business and financial practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced and competent
staff in adequate number; and (b) take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain
and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business or in the carrying out of the Project.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. ARC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of ARC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ARC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)         the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ARC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.


﻿7
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Shri Niketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India
Cable address:
AGREFINANS
Bombay


﻿8
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of ARC may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other person
or persons as ARC shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. ARC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ARC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by ARC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Mervyn L. Weiner
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Principal Terms and Conditions
of Relending
ARC to Participating Banks and LDB
(a)   Annual interest rate to be not less than 7%;
(b)   Installment repayments to coincide approximately with collections
from ultimate borrowers; and
(c)   Refinancing by purchase of debentures or loans at the rate of:
(i)         90% of individual loans to dairy farmers under the Project;
(ii)        95% of loans to KDDC and Unions under the Project.
2    Participating Banks and LDB to Dairy Farmers
for Purchase of Cross-bred Cattle
(a)   Annual interest rate to be not less than 9-1/2%;
(b)   Grace period to be not more than 1 year, repayment 3-6 years;
(c)   Repayment to be made in monthly installments over not less than
three and not more than six years;
(d)   Such security as shall be prescribed by ARC as required under existing
ARC schemes.
3.   Participating Banks and LDB to Unions
(a)   Annual interest rate to be not less than 9-1/2%;
(b)   Grace period to be not more than 5 years;
(c)   Repayment to be in ten years after the grace period;
(d)  A   20% down payment shall be required and contributed by the
Borrower as part of its equity contribution referred to in Section
4.04(c) of the Karnataka Agreement.


﻿10
4.   Participating Banks to KDDC
(a)  Annual interest rate to be not less than 9-1/2%;
(b)   Grace period to be not more than 6 years;
(c)   Repayment to be up to nine years after the end of the grace period;
(d)  A 20% down payment on each investment so financed to be required
and to be contributed equally by the Borrower and Karnataka as part
of their contribution to the share capital of KDDC referred to in
Sections 3.05 and 5.01(e) and (f) of the Development Credit
Agreement and Section 4.04(b) of the Karnataka Agreement.


