CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 482 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Karnataka Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 19, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 482 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Karnataka Dairy Development Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 19, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 19, 1974, between INDIA, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the State of Karnataka acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Karnataka),
Karnataka has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Agricultural Refinance Corporation, certain obligations in respect of the carrying
out of the Project have been undertaken by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation;
and
(D)   The Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)  in Section 2.01, the following paragraph is substituted for paragraph 5:
"5. The term Borrower means India, acting by its President.";


﻿4
(b)   Sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (a) of Section 9.01 is deleted and the
following sub-paragraph (i) is substituted therefor:
"exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
progress of the Project, the benefits derived therefrom and the performance
of their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
performance by the parties to the Karnataka Agreement and to the Project
Agreement of their respective obligations under the said agreements."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Karnataka" means The State of Karnataka (formerly known as the
State of Mysore) acting by its Governor, a State of India, or any successor thereof.
(b)   "ARC"   means Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a statutory
corporation established and organized under the laws of the Borrower.
(c)   "LDB" means Karnataka State Cooperative Land Development Bank,
Limited, a cooperative society established and organized under the laws of
Karnataka.
(d)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and ARC, and all schedules thereto, as the same may
be amended from time to time.
(e)   "Karnataka Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between Karnataka and the Association, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
(f)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARC pursuant to Section 3.01(b) hereof, and all
schedules thereto, if any, as the same may be amended from time to time.
(g)   "Loan" means any loan made or proposed to be made to a Beneficiary
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(h)   "Beneficiary" means (i) any farmer, (ii) group of farmers (iii) a
cooperative society carrying out activities relevant to the Project in the territory
of Karnataka which is eligible to receive a Loan, or (iv) KDDC.


﻿5
(i)   "Participating Bank" means any bank, including Karnataka Cooperative
Apex Bank (hereinafter called KCAB) listed in the Second Schedule to the Reserve
Bank of India Act, 1934, which has entered into an agreement with ARC in
accordance with Section 2.02(c) of the Project Agreement.
(j)   "KDDC"    means Karnataka    Dairy  Development Corporation, a
government corporation to be established under the laws of the Borrower.
(k)   "Category" means a category of the allocation of proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(1)   "KSI" means the Karnataka Serum     Institute, established in the
Government of Karnataka.
(m)   "UAS" means the University of Agricultural Sciences, an educational
institution established under the laws of Karnataka.
(r.)  "DCS" means: (i) the dairy cooperative societies established uuder the
laws of Karnataka, as set forth in Section 2.10 of the Karnataka Agreement, and
(ii) such multi-purpose cooperative societies as are deemed to be DCS under the
provisions of Section 2.11 of the Karnataka Agreement.
(o)   "Union" means the Milk Producers' Unions to be established as
cooperative societies under the laws of Karnataka as set forth in Section 2.12 of
the Karnataka Agreement.
(p)   "Project Area" means the districts of Bangalore, Mysore, Hassan,
Tumkur, Chikmagalur, Kolar, Mandya and Coorg.
(q)   "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,


﻿6
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts
for the purchase of goods, the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Schedule 1 to the Karnataka Agreement.
(b)   When, with respect to any contract for goods described in paragraph
(a) above, the lowest evaluated bid falls under Group C (as defined in paragraph
B(2)(a) of Schedule 1 to the Karnataka Agreement), the Borrower shall immediately
grant permission to import the goods covered by the contract, and no reviews
of such permission to import shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its
agencies, and all foreign exchange required therefor shall be promptly made
available. When, with respect to any contract, the lowest evaluated bid falls under
Group A or under Group B (as defined in paragraph B(2)(a) of Schedule 1 to
the Karnataka Agreement), the Borrower shall (i) promptly upon receipt of the
appropriate applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall
be required to implement the contract; (ii) make available, or cause to be made
available, promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor;
and (iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation,
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required for such contract.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1982 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1984 and ending January 15, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿7
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause it to
be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
administrative, agricultural and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with ARC
on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement) satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of relending to ARC
for relending to the Participating Banks and LDB the equivalent of the proceeds
of the Credit under Categories 1(a), II, 111(a) and V. The Borrower shall exercise
its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purpose of
the Credit and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
(c)   In order to assist Karnataka in carrying out Parts Bl, C and D of
the Project, the Borrower shall make available to Karnataka the proceeds of the
Credit under Categories I(b), 111(b), IV and VI.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to
take all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable (i) Karnataka to
perform all its obligations under the Karnataka Agreement, and (ii) ARC to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement, and shall not take or permit any of
its agencies to take any action which would prevent or interfere with the
performance of any such obligations of ARC.
Section 3.03. Except as tht Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall pay in, shares of KDDC in an amount of not less than Rsl,900,000 not
later than March 31, 1981, such amount to be in addition to the amount set


﻿8
forth in Section 5.01(e) of this Agreement and such payments to be made as and
when needed by KDDC to qualify for loans from Participating Banks.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure that the
cost to each Union of such cattle feeds as such Union shall have distributed to
farmers raising crossbred heifers is reimbursed to such Union.
Section 3.06. It is the mutual intention of the parties to this Agreement
that, after the Unions are established and operational, the Unions own the majority
of the shares of KDDC. To this end, the Borrower shall offer to sell not less
than 5% of its shares of KDDC to each Union, at par value, each year, starting
not later than January 1, 1982.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. The Association may, upon the occurrence of certain events
specified in Sections 6.02 or 7.01 of the General Conditions or in Sections 4.02
or 4.03 of this Agreement and the continuance thereof for the period, if any,
specified for the purpose: (i) suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Credit Account or (ii) declare the principal of the
Credit the i outstanding to be due and payable immediately together with the
interest and other charges thereon.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Karnataka shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Karnataka Agreement; ARC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that (i) Karnataka will be able to perform its obligations under the
Karnataka Agreement, or (ii) ARC will be able to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)   ARC or KDDC shall have become unable to pay any of their debts
as they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARC, KDDC
or by others whereby any of the property of ARC or KDDC shall or may be
distributed among its creditors.


﻿9
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC or KDDC or any
Union or for the suspension of the operations of ARC or KDDC or such Union.
Section 4.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 4.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The Project Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The Karnataka Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by
Karnataka and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action.
(d)   KDDC has been duly established under the laws of the Borrower and
under a memorandum and articles of association satisfactory to the Association.
(e)   The Borrower has subscribed to shares of KDDC in an amount of
not less than Rs4,400,000 and has paid in such shares in an amount of not less
than Rs2,500,000.
(f)   Karnataka has subscribed to shares of KDDC in an amount of not
less than Rs5,700,000 and paid in such shares in an amount of not less than
Rs3,800,000 in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.04(a) of the Karnataka
Agreement.


﻿10
(g)   KDDC has employed consultants in accordance with the provisions
of Section 2.08(a)(ii) of the Karnataka Agreement and at least eight cooperative
extension specialists therein referred to have been employed.
(h)   Karnataka has transferred to KDDC the operation of assets referred
to in Section 4.04(b) of the Karnataka Agreement in accordance with the provisions
of such Section.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of ARC in accordance with its terms;
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ARC in accordance with its terms;
(c)   That the Karnataka Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, Karnataka and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of Karnataka in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date October 21, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director
or Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of th-. General Conditions.


﻿11
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / T. N. Kaul
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mervyn L. Weiner
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Civil works                                        60%
(a)   for Parts A,              3,700,000
B2 and B3 of
the Project
(b)   for Part C                 200,000
II.   Equipment and ma-               8,100,000          100% of foreign
terials procured                                   expenditures (CIF)
by International                                   and 100% of local
Competitive Bid-                                   expenditures (ex-
ding for Parts A,                                  factory)
B2 and B3 of the
Project
III.  Equipment and ma-                                  60%
terials procured
under procedures
other than Inter-
national Competi-
tive Bidding
(a)   for Parts A,              3,000,000
B2 and B3 of
the Project
(b)   for Part C                1,400,000
of the Proj-
ect


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
IV.   Imported cattle,                 800,000           100% of foreign
semen and related                                  expenditures
equipment                                          (CIF)
V.    Loans for purchase              6,100,000          90% of ARC refi-
of crossbred cattle                                nancing of such
loans
VI.   Consultants'                     700,000           100%
services
VII. Unallocated                      6,000,000
TOTAL         30,000,000
2    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from, the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿14
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above: (a) if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) with respect to Categories III, IV and V, if such reallocation cannot fully meet
the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made; and (b) if the estimate
of expenditures to be made under any Category shall decrease, the Association
may by notice to the Borrower: (i) re-allocate the amount of such Category no
longer required therefor to Category I and (ii) increase the percentage applicable
to such Category I correspondingly (up to a maximum of 100% net of taxes).
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is an integrated program for increasing the production of milk
in rural areas of Karnataka through the development of village dairy cooperative
societies and unions thereof.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.    Dairy plants and feed mills
A phased program for the construction of two dairy plants in Hassan
and Tumkur districts, the expansion of two existing dairy plants at Bangalore
and Mysore City and the construction of four cattle feed mills, to be managed
by the Unions.
B.    Cattle breeding and fodder production
1.   The importation of exotic purebred cattle and semen and related
equipment.
2.    A program of Artificial Insemination for the cross breeding of native
cattle of members of DCS with high producing exotic breeds.
3.    The operation of five farms for the breeding and rearing of purebred
and crossbred cattle, the rearing of dairy bulls and the production
of fodder and seed materials.
C.    Animal health
1.   The construction and equipping of two regional diagnostic laboratories.
2.    The completion of an animal health research program.
3.    The production of veterinary biologicals and vaccines.
D.    Project support activities
1.   The establishment and operation of about 50 demonstration farms;
2.    The carrying out of applied research trials on pastures and forage
mixtures;


﻿16
3.    The carrying out of milk marketing studies; and
4.    The training of KDDC staff in cooperative extension services.
E.    Credit
The provision of medium- and long-term credit for the purchase of
crossbred cows.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1982.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Principal terms of Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
For ARC refinancing up to 9 years:
(a)   Annual interest rate of not less than 6-1/4% with a rebate of 1/4%
for prompt repayment of principal and interest.
(b)   Repayment to be made at the end of nine years.
II. For ARC refinancing from 9 to 15 years:
(a)   Annual interest rate of not less than 6-3/4% with a rebate of 1/4%
for prompt repayment of principal and interest;
(b)   Repayment at the end of 15 years.
III. General
The exchange risk to be on the account of the Borrower.


