Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20191 RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR A
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
RURAL FINANCE PROGRAM
MARCH 8,2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Leu
I Leu = US$0.00004
US$1 = 27,040.18171 Lei
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AC              Agricultural Credit
APL             Adaptable Program Loan
ASAL            Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
EU              European Union
FMS             Financial Mangement Specialist
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
GOR             Govemment of Romania
IAS             Intemational Accounting Standards
IBRD            Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IDA             Intemational Development Association
IMF             Intemational Monetary Fund
LACI            Loan Administration Change Initiative
LSMS            Living Standards Measurement Study
MOAFF           Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MOPF            Ministry of Public Finance
NBR             National Bank of Romania
NCS             National Commission for Statistics
NGO             Non Govemmental Organization
OM              Operational Manual
PFI             Participating Financial Institution
PIB             Private Intermediary Bank
PLC             Participating Leasing Company
PRB             Participating Retail Bank
PSAL            Participating Sector Adjustment Loan
RCLF            Rural Credit and Leasing Facility
ROL             Romanian lei
SAPARD          Special Accession Program for Agriculture and Rural Development
SME             Small & Medium Scale Enterprise
PMU             Project Management Unit
SOE             State Owned Enterprise / Statement of Expenditure
SP              Microcredit Service Provider
Vice President:    Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:        Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager/Director:       Kevin M.Cleaver
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Rodrigo A. Chaves



ROMANIA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                  Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                3
2. Project development objective                                                      3
3. Key performance indicators                                                         3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                  9
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     12
3. Benefits and target population                                                    13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                          21
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        23
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          25
4. Indications of borrower conmmitment and ownership                                 26
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       26
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          27
2. Financial                                                                         28
3. Technical                                                                         29
4. Institutional                                                                     30
5. Environmental                                                                     32
6. Social                                                                            35
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                38
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    39



2. Critical risks                                                                     40
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     41
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            41
2. Other                                                                              42
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          43
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         43
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          44
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    51
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         56
Annex 4: Analysis of Selected Investment Activities in Rural Areas                       57
Annex 5: Analysis of the Profitability of Providing Financial Services in Rural Areas    60
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       79
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     97
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   98
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  99
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           101
Annex 11: Letter of Development Program                                                 103
Annex 12: Implementation and Institutional Arrangements: Flow Charts                    109
Annex 13: Eligibility Criteria and Selection Procedures for Participating Financial Institutions,  112
and Eligibility Criteria for Sub-Projects and Sub-Borrowers
Annex 14: Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loans, Sub-loans, Lease Contracts, and     126
Micro-loans
Annex 15: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                     130
Annex 16: Financial Management                                                          149
MAP(S)
28710



ROMANIA
RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: March 8, 2001                                 Team Leader: Rodrigo A. Chaves
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink                 Sector Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID: P056891                                 Sector(s): AC - Agricultural Credit
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Rural Development; Financial Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan         Implementation Period           Borrower
._______   __________.____                                 (Bank  FY)
IBRD             Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m        US$ m        Date        Date
APL 1        80.00    54.2    67.61       147.61    07/31/2001   01/31/2006 Romania
Loan/
Credit Lon []I rdt     [__rn_[]Garne__]Ohr
APL 2        70.00    54.2    59.16       129.16     10/31/2005   04/30/2009 Romania
Loan/
C red it  _ _ _ _ __      _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ __               _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Total       150.00   ___126.77           276.77                   _________________
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ J Credit    [1Grant       []Guarantee       [IOther:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 80.00
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                                 Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                    Service charge: 0.75%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%



Financing Plan:    Source                                     Local         ForeignN        Total
BORROWER                                                         0.99           0.00           0.99
IBRD                                                            58.03          21.97          80.00
OTHER SOURCES OF BORROWING COUNTRY                              55.74           10.88         66.62
Total:                                                         114.77          32.84         147.61
Borrower: ROMANIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF PUBLIC FINANCE
Address: 17, Apolodor Str. Sector 5, Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: Mr. Stefan Petrescu, Deputy General Director, General Directorate for External Finances
Tel: (40 1) 33749 63                Fax: (40 1) 337 49 63               Email: N/A
Other Agency(ics):
Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry
Address: Blvd. Carol No. 24, Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: H.E. Ilie Sarbu, Minister
Tel: (40 1) 312 44 10             Fax: (40 1) 315 44 12               Email: N/A
National Bank of Romania
Address: 23 Lipscani Str., Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: Mr. Emil Iota-Ghizari, Prime-Vice-Governor
Tel: (40 1) 613 04 10             Fax: (40 1) 312 48 05               Email: N/A
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY      7  !            32001  2002  2003   2004       2005
Annuail   0.80        13.40      14.80      23.80      27.20
Cumulative    0.80       14.20      29.00      52.80      80.00
Project implementation period: 2001 - 2005
Expected effectiveness date: 07/31/2001  Expected closing date:  01/31/2006
OM A  PAD Fo,PR Ph,   .200
-2-



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The program's purpose is to support the government's long term view of developed and internationally
competitive rural areas with significantly less incidence of poverty by establishing effective private
financial markets and intermediaries which will provide access to investment capital and safe deposit
services to all segments of the rural population; especially to individual farmers, rural micro-entrepreneurs,
and small and medium businesses.
The first phase of up to four years will focus on designing and establishing a self sustainable distribution
network for financial services adequate to serve the large majority of rural enterprises and population
which are retail and micro-clients. This first phase, which is described in this Project Appraisal Document
(PAD), will also provide a comparatively small amount of long-term investment capital urgently required
by the rural sector to meet the immediate challenge of adjusting to the major policy reforms of recent years,
the aftermath of the exchange rate crisis of early 1997, and the strong devaluation which has occurred since
1999. The second phase, expected to last up to three years, would provide additional investment capital to
finance the structural transformation of the rural economy as it moves toward accession to the European
Union. This second phase would aim to further develop the financial infrastructure by providing support
for the development of non-bank intermediaries such as credit cooperatives. The second phase would be
triggered when an evaluation demonstrated that (a) credit is being (i) demanded in sufficient amounts, (ii)
allocated effectively to the targeted segments of the rural population, and (iii) repaid and (b) that the retail
distribution network for financial services is being used effectively and is achieving acceptable levels of
sustainability measured as subsidy independence.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex I)
The proposed project seeks to promote economic growth and reduce poverty in rural Romania through the
provision of financial services. In pursuing this objective, the project will assist in (a) accelerating the
economic transformation of the rural economy by increasing the flow of investment capital to the sector, (b)
augmenting the role of the private sector in the rural economy by (i) improving access, on the part of rural
households with entrepreneurial activities and private enterprises, to financial services and by (ii) helping
regulated private financial intermediaries to augment their presence in rural localities and in filling the
vacuum that may ensue after the privatization of state banks and the likely closing of a significant portion
of the existing network of rural branches; (c) facilitating accession to the European Union (EU) by assisting
the rural economy to absorb the grants that will be allocated under the EU's Special Accession Program
for Agriculture and Rural Development (SAPARD) by making available counterpart funding for the
private investments that will be financed by this program, and (d) alleviating rural poverty by financing
farm and off-farm investments for poor segments of the rural population which currently have no access to
credit. The project also seeks to improve the legal and institutional environment for financial transactions to
reduce the costs and risks assumed by lenders when allocating rural credit, specially to the relatively poorer
segments of the population (see Annex 1).
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
Progress toward the program's objectives will be monitored through a monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
system of key performance indicators. These include increases in the (a) amounts of long-term financing
granted to private agriculture, rural households, and small and medium rural non-farm enterprises; (b)
amount of credit and value of leasing contracts allocated by the financial sector to rural retail and
microenterprise clients; (c) value of aggregate rural investments and agricultural gross value added; (d)
- 3 -



number of rural localities with branches of private banks; (e) financial sustainability of rural branches and
micro-finance organizations, including loan repayment rates; (f) number of rural households and enterprises
which accessed SAPARD grants with counterpart funding provided by the financial sector, (g) amount of
SAPARD funding to the rural private sector leveraged with project funding, (h) outreach of the financial
sector to poor rural households and the number of them which are able to take advantage of profitable
investment opportunities. Specific quantitative targets for the key indicators at every stage of Project
implementation are detailed in the project's Operational Manual (OM) while the values of the project
performance indicators that would trigger the program's subsequent loans are presented in Section B.4
below. The performance of the technical assistance activities will be gauged by timely adoption of the
relevant policy recommendations generated by these activities.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 16559-RO           Date of latest CAS discussion: June 3, 1997
The proposed project will support multi-sector goals in the CAS because rural finance in Romania is a
complex multi-sector subject. One reason for this complexity is that the definition of "rural areas" used in
Romania is administrative. In order for a locality to acquire the status of "urban," Parliament must enact a
law. In practice, rural areas include the entire country minus about 200 localities which have been granted
urban status by legislative action. More than half of total employment and roughly a fifth of all formally
incorporated businesses are located there. Hence, rather than being a sector in itself, the rural economy
constitutes a collection of sectors including banking, state-owned enterprises, private SMEs, and
agriculture.
The CAS includes development objectives in four sectors, achievement of which requires increased general
availability for the private rural sector of viable, competitively priced, and untargeted deposit and credit
services from formal financial intermediaries, as follows:
Banking Sector Objectives
e   Strengthen the financial sector in line with EU directives and improve the efficiency of financial
internediation to meet the needs of the private rural sector.
-   Reduce the share of the state in the banking sector.
Strategy/actions of the proposed project:
* Eliminate subsidized directed credit (an agreed project condition) and increase the availability of
medium and long-term financing to agriculture and small and medium rural enterprises.
* Improve the quality of financial services available to these economic agents and the ability of
private financial intermediaries to serve rural retail clients.
* Assist regulated private financial intermediaries in augmenting their presence in small rural
localities and in filling the vacuum that may ensue after the privatization of state banks and the
likely closing of a significant portion of the existing network of rural branches.
Rural State-Owned Enterprise Objectives
*   Eliminate SOE losses and restore financial discipline.
Strategy/actions of the proposed project:
*   Impose hard budget constraints and restore financial discipline to rural SOEs through the
dissolution of all directed rural credit programs and all government credit funds for which SOEs
are eligible (an agreed condition for the project), and by restricting the eligibility of World
Bank-financed credit lines to private enterprises and individual households.
- 4 -



Private Sector Development Objectives
*   Increase the private sector's role in agriculture and banking.
Strategy/actions of the proposed project:
* Create and finance special financial instruments for small and medium-sized rural businesses
which do not have access to bank credit (e.g., leasing, warehousing receipts).
* Alleviate constraints to rural investment and provide funds needed for the modernization and
growth of rural private firms.
*   Increase the presence and competition of private banks in rural areas.
Agriculture and Rural Development Objectives
* Raise the efficiency and competitiveness of agriculture.
* Improve income-earning opportunities and raise living standards in rural areas.
* Reduce rural poverty.
Strategy/actions of the proposed project:
* Eliminate directed credit and credit subsidies.
* Stimulate private off-farm medium, small, and micro enterprise development and rural
employment.
* Reduce the role of the state in the provision of rural credit and promote the development of rural
finance institutions.
3 Increase the likelihood and opportunities of poorer rural households to access SAPARD grants by
providing counterpart funds.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Sector issues. The Romanian authorities and the World Bank have conducted significant analysis on the
rural financial sector (see Financial Markets, Credit Constraints, and Investment in Rural Romania,
Report No. 19412-RO). The analysis ascertained empirically that that rural financial markets perform very
poorly in the following dimensions: (a) the degree of access to credit services by rural agents was very low
because the supply of rural credit was weak and the terms and conditions of the credit actually offered were
unattractive to most potential borrowers; (b) constrained access to credit markets negatively influenced the
investment behavior of households and enterprises in that such constraints reduced the number of agents
that invested and the amounts they invested, (c) financial markets failed to allocate credit to the best
alternative uses within the rural economy as lenders allocated significant portions of rural credit to
enterprises with low or negative value added.
This poor performance of rural financial markets is very relevant for public policy because of its negative
impact on rural growth and poverty. In the absence of sufficient investment capital, the rural economy has
experienced difficulty in adjusting to the major policy reforms of recent years, the aftermath of the
exchange rate crisis of early 1997, and the strong devaluation which has occurred since early 1999. These
events require rural households and enterprises to adjust factor proportions, modify output mixes, change
their scale of operations, and invest in new technologies. Their success in this endeavor, which depends on
the performance of all factor markets, has been hindered by the observed performance of financial markets.
Obviously, Romanian rural agents have been and will continue to be at a disadvantage when competing
with counterparts in European Union countries and the United States where rural households and
enterprises have much better access to far superior and more affordable financial services.
The overall access to credit of rural households and enterprises was limited. In fact, the percentage of
households and enterprises that used loans to finance consumption, working capital, or investments was
only 20 percent. Lenders avoided rural credit not because of lack of liquidity but because the retums to
- 5 -



rural lending (adjusted by risk and transaction costs) were unattractive relative to alternative investments
available because of the following reasons.
(a) The Government crowded-out private lenders from rural credit markets and hindered the private supply
of rural credit as private lenders were not in a position to compete with a poorly run government bank
which was not subject to a budget constraint (Banca Agricola) and with numerous directed credit lines that
financed rural loans at subsidized rates and with a high probability of debt-forgiveness;
(b) The legal and institutional framework made rural credit transactions riskier and more costly than
necessary; diminishing, therefore, the inclination of lenders to allocate rural credit, especially small and
medium businesses and informal entrepreneurs. In particular, the majority of movable assets and real
estate in the sector could not be effectively pledged as collateral and other financing instruments such as
warehouse receipts and financial leasing were not available.
(c) The country's financial industry has not developed the operational methods to serve micro and SME
clients (rural and otherwise), which are the large majority of potential clients. These clients are small in
that the average rural private enterprise and household had assets of US$11,900 and US$1,564,
respectively.
(d) The banking sector cannot provide the long term credit demanded by the rural economy because the
average maturity of the sector's liabilities is below six months.
There are two additional "second generation" sector issues. The first is the reduction of the network of bank
branches that is likely to result from the expected privatization or divestiture of state banks. These banks
own 87 percent of all bank branches. A network of retail finance will be required to finance rural
entrepreneurs and SMEs which, as mentioned above are the large majority of potential clients. The second
issue is that the estimated 1,400 independent mutual financial intermediaries registered under Law
109/1996, a majority of which are domiciled in rural areas, are in urgent need of an appropriate regulatory
and supervisory framework. The reasons for concern are that (a) the Government may have assumed
important contingent liabilities by chartering them and (b) that they may constitute a regulatory hazard
because they can be used to avoid the general regulation of the banking sector profitably.
Government strategy. In order to address these issues, the Government has developed a strategy based on
the premise that instead of financing directly the sector through subsidized credit lines or public banks, the
Government should provide an enviromnent in which property rights, contracts, and financial services can
prosper. Such an environment entails, for example, a new improved legal framework for enforcing
contracts and making use of collateral (see below). In addition, the Government intends to assist the
financial sector in acquiring the capacity to provide sustainable retail financial services to rural households
and enterprises and by making available well targeted and appropriately priced long term investment capital
to the private sector in rural areas.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues to be addressed by the project. The proposed project will address the following sector
issues (a) elimination of subsidized credit directed to agriculture in order to (ii) reduce the crowding out of
private lenders by the Government (ii) improve the allocation of credit to rural users with profitable
investment opportunities; (b) negligible access to credit and long term capital on the part of rural
households and private enterprises; and (c) the lack of appropriate methods in the financial sector to serve
micro and SME clients and the likely massive reduction of the network of bank branches in rural areas. In
the process of preparing this project, important progress was achieved by the Government in increasing the
ability of movable assets to carry debt.
-6 -



Strategic choices. The main strategic choice made by the World Bank regarding the proposed project was
one of timing. The Government has requested a World Bank Loan to finance a rural finance project in
1997. The Bank determined that providing credit in the presence of the constraints and distortions present
at the time would only worsen the prevailing problems. Thus, rather than providing financing, the Bank
deployed advisory services to support the Government in devising a strategy aimed at solving the structural
causes of the problem. In particular, the Bank assisted the Government in undertaking the analytical work
to answer the following questions: (a) what is the impact of the limited use of credit and what are the roles
of demand and supply factors in determining such limited use; (b) what are the specific changes required in
the legal and institutional environment for rural financial transactions; (c) what is the profitability of a well
designed retail banking business in rural areas, and (d) what would be the impact on the rural economy of
reforming government participation in rural credit markets.
A second strategic choice was to include in the project a credit and leasing facility targeted exclusively to
the rural sector; rather than a general credit facility which could be accessed by all households and
enterprises, rural and otherwise. The importance of the rural economy, its characteristics, the high
incidence of rural poverty; all combined with the strong evidence that Romania might not be able to absorb
EU-SAPARD grants because if there is a lack of counterpart funding, were considered to be valid reasons
to target the project's credit and leasing facility exclusively to rural areas.
The rural economy is an important cross-section of all other sub-sectors of the economy in itself. More than
half of total employment is located in rural areas (52 percent in 1997) as well as roughly a fifth of all
incorporated business are headquartered there. These businesses are active in industry, construction, trade,
services, and agriculture.
In addition, the rural economy as the aggregate of these sub-sectors is different from the urban economy. In
particular, there are important differences in terms of the (a) size and geographical dispersion of economic
agents, (a) importance of agriculture, and (c) incidence of rural poverty which is far greater and deeper
than urban poverty. These differences imply that rural areas are more prone to capital market "failure"
because, among other reasons: (a) greater geographical isolation of borrowers and depositors causes higher
transaction costs; (b) small borrowers and small markets cause high fixed cost (in a physical sense) of
establishing intermediaries; (c) farmers, the large majority of rural households, require long delay in
servicing debt due to the gestation period for growing and marketing farm produce; (d) risky farmland
represents a large portion of assets which causes difficulties in risk diversification; and (e) local levels of
income are highly correlated which causes difficulties for local lending. Allowing capital flow to the areas
with the highest private returns would leave rural areas bereft of long term capital. Instead, the project
interventions can raise the return on capital flows to the rural areas.
An exclusive private sector focus is a related strategic choice regarding the project's credit and leasing
facility. Eligible sub-borrowers and participating intermediaries will be limited to private entities.
Another strategic choice made by the project is to support private commercial banks and non-governmental
or private micro-credit service providers, as opposed to state-owned finapcial institutions, with long term
funding and technical assistance aimed at assisting these intermediaries in (a) developing suitable
technologies and methods to provide retail financial services to small and micro-entrepreneurs in small
rural localities; (b) establishing and operation of a network of pilot private banking offices; and (c) training
their staff in retail banking and micro-lending. The proposed support will accelerate the private banks'
understanding of the rural sector, of how to evaluate business plans from new private farns and rural
businesses, of how to use and value rural assets that might be pledged as security, of how to dispose of
such assets and so forth. Financial and technical assistance to non-profits will support the provision of
- 7 -



micro-credit to poor segments of the rural population which will likely not be reached by the banking
sector.
Government support for these activities is justified from a public policy point of view for various reasons.
First, the development of sustainable technologies for delivering financial services to retail and micro rural
clients requires extensive local experimentation. The problem is that the investment in experimentation may
be inadequate unless the government provides the necessary stimulus. Since no single lender can capture a
significant portion of the social value of improved lending, the rational strategy is to wait for someone else
to assume the risks and costs of experimentation and, in case the technologies were successful, to copy
them. It is also justifiable for the government to invest in this experimentation because past government
interventions in financial markets have been extremely costly. Any future mistakes are likely to also be
expensive. Hence, limited support to private interrnediaries that will avoid future goverrnent direct
involvement may be a good policy. Micro-finance, on the other hand, has proven to be a cost effective and
sometimes sustainable instrument to deal with the rural poor.
The likely massive reduction in the number of rural bank branches in the very near future is an additional
public policy justification of the project's strategic choice of supporting private intermediaries in developing
a retail network. The on-going government efforts, supported by the World Bank and IMF, to restructure,
privatize, or divest the state banks will likely lead to a dramatic reduction in the number of bank branches.
State banks own almost 90 percent of bank branches in the country. When restructured or privatized, these
banks will likely close many existing branches which, in contrast to the branches that will be supported by
the project, are not appropriate to offer retail financial services. Closing retail branches is consistent with
strategies focused on the corporate portion of the market. This tendency has characterized the behavior of
the banking sector in most countries in Central and Eastern Europe and is already occurring in Romania
where, for instance, Banca Agricola has closed about half of its branches in the last few months. Finally,
banks may close existing branches as macroeconomic stability would reduce the profitability of
"deposit-only" branches. These branches have been used to arbitrage on the lack of access of the population
to government securities. Banks have enjoyed disproportionately high margins from collecting retail
deposits to finance portfolios of government securities.
The likelihood of these events provides a compelling policy justification for government to give incentives
to private intermediaries to increase their presence and replace the disappearing state banks in the retail
portion of the market, especially in rural areas. A financial sector presence will be required to provide safe
deposit services to the large portions of the rural population which have bank deposits. The vacuum that
will be left by the state banking sector introduces the risk of unregulated intermediaries increasing their
share of the deposits of the population. The most expensive program of incentives to safe and sound
intermediaries would be cheaper than the cheapest of crises of un-regulated intermediaries. The presence of
a network of retail finance will also be required for the efficient functioning of the payments system and
especially for lending to small and medium businesses and farmers, which are the large majority of the
rural population. Small credit transactions are highly elastic with respect to transaction costs which are
reduced in the presence of a point of sale in the locality of residence of borrowers. Thus, a network of retail
finance will be required to allow for the massive re-deployment of resources expected to occur in the rural
economy.
In making the strategic choice of supporting private intermediaries under the project, the government and
the World Bank took into account the fact that eventually private banks will develop a retail capacity and
will establish an appropriate distribution network. The process, however, will take too long in the absence
of government intervention, as evidenced by the experience of neighboring Balkan countries; most notably
Albania and Bulgaria. The decision was made that the costs and risks caused by a long absence of
- 8 -



regulated financial intermediaries in rural areas justify the proposed intervention.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The proposed program is a natural complement of the SAPARD program and the logical follow-up to the
reforms that have been supported by the World Bank under the ASAL, PSAL I, PSAL II (which is being
prepared), and the advisory services deployed by the Bank. The program will have two phases which will
take up to 7 years to be implemented.
First Phase. The first phase of the proposed program, the proposed Rural Finance Project described in this
PAD, will be implemented in a period of four years or less. The project consists of the following three
components, which are outlined in section Cl and fully described in Annex 2: (a) a Rural Credit and
Leasing Facility to provide credit and leasing to final beneficiaries through eligible private financial
intermediaries; (b) Rural Retail Banking and Micro-Finance to expand the existing network of private rural
bank branches and microcredit service providers by supporting expansion of new branches and service
provider retail points; and (c) Project Management and Technical Assistance on Rural Financial Market
Development to develop a technical and legal framework more conducive to rural finance.
Second Phase. The program's second phase would commence upon achievement of the specific
quantitative targets set forth below for key indicators of program performance. The second phase is
expected to be implemented in three years or less. While the specific components of the project that would
be financed during the program's second phase will be designed and appraised in about two years, it is
envisioned that they will include: (a) an augmented rural credit and leasing facility; (b) development of
non-bank financial intermediaries (e.g., rural credit cooperatives, bonded warehouses) and rural risk
management instruments (e.g., weather index insurance); and (c) project management.
Performance Triggers. Progress toward the program's objectives will be monitored through a monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) system of key performance indicators and policy relevant variables (see Annex 1).
The M&E system will produce information about specific quantitative targets for key indicators of project
performance. The second phase would be triggered when the M&E system and a World Bank evaluation
demonstrate (as indicated by the specific triggers below) that (a) credit is (i) being demanded in sufficient
amounts, (ii) allocated effectively to representative segments of the rural population, and (iii) repaid and (b)
that the retail distribution network is being used effectively and is achieving acceptable levels of subsidy
independence. In addition, movement to the second phase will be contingent on a continued adequate policy
framework for rural financial intermediation, as indicated by the policy environment conditions set forth
below
(a) Credit allocation triggers.
* Disbursements: At least 70 percent of the project's rural credit and leasing facility disbursed.
* Extent of outreach: At least 4,500 clients served.
* Depth of outreach: Average outstanding sub-loan, micro-loan and sub-lease balances of less than
8 times per capita income.
* Arrears: Accumulated loan losses of not more than 7 percent per year of the average outstanding
sub-loans, micro-loans, and sub-leases financed under the project.
(b) Distribution network triggers.
*   Breadth of outreach: At least 65 rural communas with experimental retail branches and SP points
-9-



of service.
*   Sustainability: Subsidy Dependence Index of less than 20 percent and adjusted returns on assets
greater than 2.5 percent.
(c) Policy Conditions.
*   Rural credit lines: Any future credit lines made available by govemment to the sector will have
market terms and conditions and will not represent unfair competition to the credit and leasing
facilities financed under the program.
*   Financial sector policy: The government will commit to an adequate environment for the country's
financial sector. One possible way to verify the presence of such environment is compliance with
the relevant conditions of the PSAL II, currently under preparation.
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed Rural Finance Project will have the following three components:
Component A: Rural Credit and Leasing Facility. The component will finance (a) sub-loans on-lent
through selected participating Private Internediary Banks (PIBs) to eligible private sector borrowers to
finance rural productive activities (farmn and non-farm), (b) micro-loans disbursed through participating
non-govemmental and/or private Service Providers (SPs) to rural entrepreneurs, and (c) leasing of
depreciable capital assets (e.g., machinery, tools, vehicles, equipment) by PIBs and leasing companies to
final beneficiaries.
There is agreement with the Romanian authorities that (a) eligible sub-borrowers and lessees will be limited
to private sector legal entities and physical persons, (b) eligible sub-projects and sub-leases will include all
productive investments in all sub-sectors of the rural economy (agriculture, services, and industry), and (c)
eligible intermediaries will be limited to private banks, private leasing companies, and non-govemmental
and/or private entities meeting minimum financial performance standards and in compliance with all
relevant financial market regulations. Detailed eligibility for the Facility that are consistent with these
principles are laid out in Annex 13 to this PAD.
It has further been agreed with the Government that all lending, sub-lending, and leasing under the project
will be on market terms and conditions. In particular, the pricing of the credit line and leasing will reflect
all costs and risks involved. Detailed terms and conditions for component-financed financial transactions
(loans, sub-loans, micro-loans, and lease contracts) consistent with these principles are detailed in Annex
14 to this PAD.
Component B: Rural Retail Banking and Micro-Finance. The component will finance incremental
expenditures incurred, inter alia, in: (a) the development of suitable technologies to provide retail financial
services to medium, small, and micro enterprises and entrepreneurs in rural localities through participating
Private Retail Banks (PRBs) and microcredit Service Providers (SPs); (b) establishment and operation, by
PRBs, of a network of pilot retail banking offices; (c) operation, by SPs, of a network of microcredit retail
points; and (d) training and technical assistance in retail banking and micro-lending to PRBs and SPs,
respectively.
- 10-



The component will support up to four private commercial banks that will participate in the project as
PRBs to (a) develop the capacity to provide rural retail banking services profitably, especially retail credit,
and (b) explore the market opportunities in small rural localities with no branches of other private banks.
The selected PRBs will establish a combined number of up to 120 pilot rural retail branches. The project
will provide long-term financing to cover (a) a portion of the start-up investments required to establish the
experimental branches; (b) a portion of the cost of incorporating the experimental branches into the PRBs'
existing accounting and internal control systems; and (c) a declining portion of the fixed costs of operating
and monitoring the branches over four years. Reasonable cost estimates of these items are presented in the
project's cost tables. The specific percentages to be financed under the project will be determined in the
process of selecting PRBs. One of the variables that will be used to select these PRBs will be the share of
the costs that eligible applicants will be willing to finance out of their own resources. The project's
Operational Manual (OM) contains a detailed description of the competitive process that will be followed
to select PRBs.
To assist the project's final beneficiaries in gaining access to EU-SAPARD grant funds, PRBs will provide
assistance, as part of their normal business operations, to interested beneficiaries on SAPARD grant
application documentation and procedures. To participate in the proposed project, PRBs must meet the
same eligibility criteria established for PIBs under Component A (see Annex 13). Finally, PRBs will
participate in the project's Rural Credit and Leasing Facility (RCLF) as PIBs.
Component proceeds will also finance: (a) reasonable fees for up to eight NGOs and/or private entities
which will act as Service Providers (SPs) on a consultant basis for the Government in allocating rural
micro-loans using project credit line funds (see section B4 for details); and (b) training and technical
assistance to eligible SPs. Participating SPs will co-finance at least 25 percent of each micro-loan provided
to rural entrepreneurs and informal enterprises under the component. The fees for SPs are, therefore,
intended to cover reasonable portions of the initial investments and operating costs of managing the
Government's share in the portfolio of micro-loans generated under the component. To assist the project's
final beneficiaries in gaining access to EU-SAPARD grant funds, SPs will raise awareness among their
sub-borrowers of the availability of these funds and promote the use of their own financial instruments as
means to gain access to such funds.
Component C: Project Management and Technical Assistance on Rural Financial Market
Development. The component will finance the: (a) incremental expenses incurred by the Government in
implementing and monitoring the project; (b) technical assistance to the Government in (i) developing a
warehousing receipts system, (ii) examining options to reform the accounting and fiscal treatment of
depreciable assets and leasing, (iii) studying the possibilities for establishing instruments for lenders to
share the credit history of borrowers in rural areas (e.g., credit rating agencies, centrally managed
databases for banks), and (iv) examining options to reduce the general risk of rural credit transactions by
improving the supply and quality of private insurance services in rural areas (especially index-based
agricultural insurance); (c) activities to promote public awareness in rural areas of the Project's Rural
Credit and Leasing Facility, and (d) technical assistance to final beneficiaries under the project on how to
use the Project's Rural Credit and Leasing Facility to obtain and pre-finance grants under SAPARD.
- 11 -



UP   Total    ina$M      finnci
Component A. Rural Credit and      Agricultural       114.94      77.9      58.00      72.5
Leasing Facility.                  Credit
Component B. Rural Retail Banking  Financial Sector    25.89       17.5     16.86      21.1
and Micro-Finance.                 Development
Component C. Project Management    Institutional        5.98       4.1       5.14       6.4
and Technical Assistance in Rural  Development
Financial Market Development.
Total Project Costs                 146.81       99.5     80.00      100.0
Front-end fee                     0.80       0.5       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                   147.61      100.0     80.00      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The analytical work associated with the preparation of the proposed project has had a positive impact on
the reform of rural financial markets in Romania. Significant progress has already been achieved in
securing and agreeing on the key policy and institutional reforms that would provide an appropriate
environment for the proposed project and, more importantly, the foundations for the future development of
the sector. The following are the main reforms achieved and sought.
First, Romania has today a state of the art legal and institutional framework for transactions secured with
movable assets. Parliament enacted a secured transactions law drafted with the support of Bank
consultants. The Ministry of Justice has developed, again with Bank support, a privately run archive of
secured interests in movable assets. One of the few comparable systems in the world is that of the State of
Texas in the United States. Overturning more than a century of old laws on collateral will have more
economic impact than a World Bank credit line of any amount.
Second, under the auspices of the PSAL I and PSAL II (under preparation), the Government has
significantly reduced the distortions introduced into rural financial markets by Banca Agricola, a poorly
run state-owned bank which was not subject to a hard budget constraint and with which private lenders
were not in a position to compete. It is expected that the Government will continue the process of
privatization or divestiture of Banca Agricola with the continued support of the World Bank.
Third, the Government has agreed as a precondition of this loan to dissolve all existing directed credit
programs and all government funds financing rural and agricultural credit, including Ordinance 36/99
(Support for Farm Equipment Purchases) and Ordinance 165/98 (Ordinance for Providing Finance for
Crop Planting). These directed credit lines have financed rural loans at subsidized rates and with a high
probability of debt forgiveness.
Finally, the World Bank has also required as condition for the project the elimination of VAT on the
interests accrued (as opposed to eamed) by non-bank lenders on their loans. Banking institutions are
excepted from this tax. Its effect is a very large reduction of the risk adjusted effective rates for non-bank
lenders because the tax is above the bottom line. This reduction is so significant that some NGOs pay fees
to commercial banks of up to 10 percent of principal amounts outstanding as "rental" payment on the
- 12-



bank's name simply to avoid the tax. These NGOs originate the loans and book the risks through
counter-guarantee deposits made in the "lending bank." This discriminatory tax regime has had a negative
effect on the development of micro-finance in Romania. Thus, its removal will aid in the development and
sustainability of micro-lending.
3. Benefits and target population:
All three project components will directly benefit rural households, SMEs, private banks, and NGOs. On
the one hand, the project will relieve credit constraints for rural households and enterprises, helping to
improve productivity and rural income. The sector work supporting project design indicates that the
benefits of removing credit constraints are significant, especially for enterprises. Lack of financing has
significantly impeded rural enterprises and households from taking advantage of the investment
opportunities available in that a considerably larger number of them would have made investments had
credit constraints not been present. In particular, econometric analysis estimated that in the absence of
credit constraints the aggregate amount invested would have been about 57 percent larger than the amount
actually invested by enterprises and about 10 percent larger for households.
The targeted population of rural households and private rural enterprises represents more than half of total
employment and roughly a fifth of all Romanian incorporated businesses. The large majority of the targeted
population is comprised of farmers and micro, small, and medium enterprises. These groups include a
formal sector consisting of about 80,000 incorporated businesses working in all sub-sectors (trade,
industry, agriculture) and an informal sector consisting mainly of small-scale, subsistence-based farm
households which conduct a handful of other informal businesses. The average rural private enterprise had
US$11,900 of assets and 80 percent of them had less than 5 employees. Households were even smaller
clients as their average monthly income was US$67 per month and the average value of their assets was
US$1,564. About 40 percent of the residents in rural areas are poor and they account for about 55 percent
of the total number of poor people in the country.
Component B (Rural Retail Banking and Micro-Finance) will also benefit private banks and NGOs by
providing them with suitable technologies to offer retail financial services to small and micro-entrepreneurs
in small rural localities and by assisting them in establishing and operating a network of private bank
branches and points of sale which would represent the required first step for private internediaries,
especially banks, in filling the vacuum that will be left by shrinking state banking institutions.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Project implementation will take place over approximately four years with an expected effectiveness date of
July 31, 2001, completion date of July 31, 2005, and Loan closing date of January 31, 2006. The Ministry
of Public Finance will be the implementing agency.
Project management and monitoring. The project will be managed under the general guidance of a
Steering Committee which will consist of representatives from the main government agencies involved in
the sector, including the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry (MOAFF), the Ministry of Public
Finance (MOPF), and the National Bank of Romania (NBR). The members of the committee will be the
Ministers of Agriculture and Food and of Finance and the Govemor of the National Bank of Romania or
their representatives. The NBR has agreed to serve on the Steering Committee in an advisory capacity to
assist in verifying and certifying that financial intermediaries seeking to participate in the project meet all
required eligibility criteria, and in monitoring the continued eligibility of those intermediaries that are
selected to participate. A steering committee is required because rural finance in Romania is a complex
multi-sector subject with multiple influences on the economy ranging from macroeconomic stability to
- 13-



impact on rural poverty. A consistent set of policies towards rural financial markets is a vital concern,
therefore.
The members of the Steering Committee will appoint and supervise the activities of a Project Management
Unit (PMU). The Director of this PMU, whose qualifications and experience will be satisfactory to the
Bank, will be given sufficient legal powers to represent the Ministry of Public Finance in contracts with (a)
a few individual long term consultants who will be hired with the proceeds of the Loan to support the PMU
in administering and monitoring the proposed project, and with (b) other entities involved in implementing
Components A and B of the proposed project; namely (i) the Treasury Bank, (ii) participating Private
Intermediary Banks, (iii) participating Private Retail Banks, and (iv) participating microcredit Service
Providers. The PMU will also procure, in accordance with World Bank procedures, the consulting services
required to implement the technical assistance entailed in Component C.
The Treasury Bank (TB). The Government will enter, or cause the Ministry of Public Finance to enter,
into a standard Resource Management Agreement with a reputable Romanian bank ("Treasury Bank", TB)
which will assist in maintaining and managing the resources available to the project including making
authorized payments and disbursements with said resources. The TB's functions will include (a)
maintaining the Special Account and the consolidated Project Accounts, (b) acting, under instructions of
the PMU, as paying agency for the eligible retail banking and micro-finance incremental expenditures
under Component B. Sample terms of reference for the TB are included in the project's OM. The TB may,
with the agreement of the World Bank, also maintain the Loan Account.
Commercial banks meeting the criteria set forth below will be eligible to be the TB under the project. To be
eligible as TB, a commercial bank must (a) be in full compliance with all laws and regulations issued by
Romania's banking authorities and (b) maintain records and accounts which would be adequate to reflect,
in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operation of the funds committed by the Government to
the project. These criteria include (a) specific indicators of financial performance as detailed in Annex 13;
(b) reasonable capacity and experience in issuing letters of credit and for making direct foreign payments
and other international transactions; (c) capacity to perform a wide range of banking services at the local
level, including cash payments, transfers to other banks, issuance of debit notes, and application of
conversion rates from foreign currencies; (d) willingness to issue a Comfort Letter to ensure that project
resources deposited will not be set off or otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts due to any creditor
by the Government or the Borrower; (e) willingness to charge competitive rates for their services and
provide reasonable interest income to the balances held; and (f) capacity to prepare financial statements in
accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS), independent auditing acceptable to the World
Bank by auditors acceptable to the World Bank, and an audit report, including a portfolio review, covering
the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of application for participation in the project, prepared by a
firm acceptable to the Bank. Full eligibility criteria for participating banks, including the TB, are presented
in Annex 13. Finally, the commercial bank selected as the TB will not be eligible to be a participating
private intermediary or retail bank, as defined below, under the proposed project.
World Bank loan proceeds will finance reasonable service fees to be charged by the TB. An estimate of
these fees is included in the project cost tables. Selection of the TB will be made according to World Bank
procurement procedures.
Implementation arrangements for Components A and B. These components will be carried out under
the supervision of the PMU by (a) the Treasury Bank, (b) participating private intermediary banks (PIBs)
which will allocate sub-loans and leases, and eligible private leasing companies (PLCs) which will
purchase productive assets for leasing to final beneficiaries, financed by the project's rural credit and
- 14 -



leasing facility, and accept all the credit risk in doing so, (c) up to four participating private retail banks
(PRBs) which will establish and operate the retail bank branches supported by the project, and (d) up to
eight NGOs and/or private entities which will, as service providers (SPs), allocate micro-loans financed
jointly by their own capital and government (the project's rural credit and leasing facility) funds.
Participating Private Intermediary Banks (PIBs). Any interested bank that meets and remains in
compliance with the eligibility criteria established for PIBs may participate in the project as a PIB.
Eligibility criteria for PIBs include being (a) a fully private bank and (b) in compliance with all laws and
regulations issued by Romania's banking authorities. The full eligibility criteria for PIBs are presented in
Annex 13. Each PIB will enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Government. This agreement
will rule the terms and conditions of the PIB's access to the component's credit facility. A draft sample of
such agreement is included in the project's OM. The agreement will set forth the rights and obligations of
the Government and PIBs in implementing the component's rural credit and leasing facility including, inter
alia (a) the calculation of interest rates and repayment terms on amounts outstanding and withdrawn by
PIBs; (b) the maximum amount to be made available by the component to each PIB from the proceeds of
the facility; (c) total exposure in terms of outstanding sub-loans to any single sub-borrower financed from
the facility; (d) eligibility criteria for sub-projects, including that the purchase or lease of land, dwelling
construction or improvement, or the refinancing of any existing debts will not be eligible for financing; (e)
eligibility criteria for sub-borrowers; (f) criteria for selection and appraisal of sub-projects, including
confirmation that all proposed sub-projects meet all environmental laws and standards in force and that no
safety hazards or environmental deterioration will result, directly or indirectly, from the investment to be
financed by sub-projects; (g) repayment terms and interest rate structures of sub-loans; (h) currency of
sub-loans; (i) accounts, record-keeping, and auditing, including that PIBs will satisfy World Bank financial
management policies and procedures; and () other general conditions applicable to all sub-loans, including
the requirement of procuring the goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loan in
accordance with instructions of the PMU and in compliance with World Bank Procurement Guidelines as
well as compliance with all applicable World Bank Safeguard Policies.
Participating Private Leasing Companies (PLCs). Eligible private leasing companies will act as
financial intermediaries by accessing project funds either from PIBs or directly from the Treasury Bank to
purchase depreciable capital assets for leasing to final beneficiaries. To be eligible to intermediate project
funds, leasing companies must meet specific eligibility criteria (see Annex 13) and must obtain an
enforceable unconditional guarantee issued by a local or internationally reputed bank. This guarantee
would be in an amount sufficient to cover the total exposure of the Government in terms of principal
amount and interest payments.
Participating Private Retail Banks (PRBs). Up to four PRBs will be selected through a competitive
bidding process to establish and operate 55 rural bank branches each. Pre-selected banks, which must meet
the same eligibility criteria established for PlBs, will be invited to submit bids for the lowest amount of
long-term financing they would require to establish and operate 55 retail branches. The four banks
requesting the lowest amount of long-term financing will be selected. If competing banks submit the same
bid, the selection will be made on the basis of their financial situation and their commitment to carry out the
project. Each selected PRB will receive the amount of long-term financing equal to the largest amount bid
by any of the four winning banks.
Each selected PRB will enter into a Participation Agreement with the Government. A sample draft of such
agreement is included in the project's OM. The agreement will set forth the rights and obligations of the
Government and of the PRBs in implementing the component including, inter alia, the termination of
support to any bank under the project in the case that one such bank (a) fails to perform any of its
- 15 -



obligations under the Participation Agreement, (b) fails to maintain the eligibility criteria, or (c) is the
subject of intervention, dissolution, or disestablishment actions by any authority having jurisdiction. The
Participation Agreement will also set forth the exact content, format, and periodicity of the records and
reports that will be kept and provided by PRBs, as well as all auditing, disbursement, and procurement
requirements necessary to satisfy World Bank policies and procedures.
Microcredit Service Providers (SPs). Up to eight NGO and/or private financial institutions will be
selected to provide microcredit to eligible final beneficiaries in the eight agro-regions that make up the
country's rural areas. These service providers (SPs) will be granted authority by the Government to assume
the responsibility of (a) verifying the eligibility of micro-borrowers and micro-projects; (b) allocating
micro-loans to new and existing rural micro-enterprises financed with 25 percent of SPs' own resources and
75 percent of government resources (including those from the project's rural credit and leasing facility); and
(c) if required, enforcing micro-loan contracts in Romania's courts on behalf of the Government and on its
own behalf.
Eligible SPs must be legally incorporated private entities, satisfactory to the World Bank, which are able to
demonstrate (a) sufficient capacity to deliver microcredit, (b) sound organization with competent
management, strong internal control, financial management, and operational capacity, (c) preferably an
established record of delivering services successfully in rural areas, and (c) the willingness and ability to
share in the credit risk and to co-finance up to 25 percent of the micro-loans allocated under the
sub-component. The risk-sharing mechanism has been designed to provide incentives to the selected SPs for
the careful screening of micro-loan sub-borrowers and strong incentives to recover the micro-loans financed
under the component. Full eligibility criteria for SPs are presented in Annex 13.
Proceeds from the World Bank loan will be used to cover the fees that will be charged by SPs for their
services. In particular, these fees will cover the initial investments and operational costs of managing the
Government's share in the portfolio of micro-loans generated under the component.
Service Providers will be selected through competitive bidding according to the Guidelines for Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999, published by the World Bank. Interested NGOs and/or private financial institutions which
meet all established eligibility criteria will submit technical proposals and economic offers to become SPs
in one of eight agro-regions in which the project will be implemented. The SPs selected for a given region
will be the contestants which submit the economic offer for the lowest amount of service fees among those
which meet the eligibility criteria and whose technical proposals are deemed satisfactory. The same eligible
entity may be selected as SP under the component for more than one of the agro-regions. If competing
potential SPs submit bids for the same amount, the selection will be made on the basis of their financial
situation and their commitment to carry out the project. The selection process is described in detail in
Chapter 3 of the project's OM.
Selected SPs will enter into the following two contracts with the Government: First, a Consultant Services
Contract based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services for complex, time-based
assignments issued by the World Bank; second, an Agency and Co-financing Agreement which will be
entered into simultaneously with the Consultants Services Contract. The Agency and Co-financing
Agreement will be an integral part of the Consultant Services Contract and as such will be attached to said
contract as an Appendix.
The Consultant Services Contract will set forth, inter alia, the obligations of the SPs for (a) establishing
and maintaining adequate accounting and internal control systems to reflect all outlays and expenditures
- 16 -



made under the project in accordance with sound accounting practices, satisfactory to the World Bank; (b)
keeping documentation which will support disbursements of micro-loans at every stage of component
implementation and which will form the basis for generating monthly financial statements for the SPs and
the component; (c) auditing the records of all outlays under the component each year by auditors
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied; (d)
providing all necessary information to the PMU and to World Bank staff to monitor the success in terms of
outreach and economic sustainability of the package of activities financed by the sub-component, including
data (i) to compose financial statements (e.g., income statement, balance sheet, statement of uses and
origins of funds) for each SP, and (ii) to monitor the socio-economic profile and economic activities of
beneficiaries.
The Agency and Co-financing Agreement's main purpose is to furnish SPs with (a) the obligation to use
their own existing resources to co-finance and assume 25 percent of the risk implicit in each and every
micro-loan made during component implementation to eligible borrowers and (b) the legal authority to (i)
negotiate and sign micro-loan contracts with eligible borrowers on behalf of the Govemment and on their
own behalf and (ii) legally enforce micro-loan contracts on behalf of the Govemment and on their own
behalf, including repossessing collateral and assets from final borrowers in default. The project's OM
contains a sample draft Agency and Co-financing Agreement.
Implementation arrangements for Component C. This component will be carried out under the overall
responsibility of the PMU in very close collaboration with consultants in the areas of (a) retail banking and
micro-finance, (b) warehouse receipts systems, (c) international accounting standards and fiscal treatment
of depreciable assets and leasing, (d) credit rating agencies, (e) index-based agricultural insurance, (f)
development economics and impact studies, and (g) social assessments. Selection of these consultants will
be carried out by the PMU and in accordance with the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999,
published by the World Bank. Consultants eligible for these assignrnents will be (a) internationally
recognized individual experts and (b) internationally recognized (i) consulting firms and (ii) financial or
micro-finance institutions. Detailed terms of reference for consulting assignments under this component
will be prepared prior to the effectiveness of the Bank Loan financing the project.
Flow of decisions, funds, supporting documents, and legal arrangements. Charts detailing the project's
institutional and implementation arrangements (flow of funds, decision-making, and documentation, as well
as the necessary legal arrangements between project entities) for each component are presented in Annex
12, which may be summarized as follows.
First, the Ministry of Public Finance will transfer or cause the transfer of the project resources to the
Treasury Bank as disbursed by the World Bank and following signature of the Resource Management
Agreement. The agreement will authorize the PMU to issue orders to the TB to disburse project proceeds to
the PIBs, PLCs, PRBs, SPs, and consultants following the required appraisal and selection procedures and
signature of the corresponding Subsidiary Loan Agreements, Participation Agreements, Consultant
Services Contracts, and Agency and Co-financing Agreements. These disbursements will be used for the
purposes and under the terms and conditions established in the corresponding agreement or contract.
Flow of funds for Component A. Disbursement of proceeds from the proposed project's Rural Credit and
Leasing Facility to PIBs and PLCs will follow normal procedures for World Bank Financial Intermediary
Loans. These procedures will require, inter alia, that PIBs disburse sub-loans to eligible sub-borrowers
and lessees, and that PLCs purchase productive assets for leasing to final beneficiaries, with their own
resources and request ex-post reimbursement directly to the PMU. Financing percentages for sub-loans and
- 17-



the amounts for free limit sub-loans are detailed in Annex 6 (Table C) and Annex 14, respectively, as well
as in the project's OM. For micro-loans to be financed jointly by Service Providers and the Government,
cash advances representing the Government's portion of this financing will be transferred by the Treasury
Bank upon receiving instructions from the PMU into bank accounts opened by Service Providers solely for
the purpose of disbursing the fumds, together with their own funds, to eligible micro-borrowers.
Flow of Funds for Component B. The Resource Management Agreement will grant the PMU the
authority to instruct the TB to credit bank accounts established by PRBs and SPs for the sole purpose of
implementing the component, as follows:
First, PRBs will finance eligible expenditures under the component from their own resources and request
the PMU to instruct, upon verification of appropriate documentation, the TB to reimburse to the PRBs the
corresponding financing allowed for each category of documented expenditures. Specifically, PRBs will be
reimbursed for (a) initial investment costs incurred in establishing new rural branches (80% of goods and
works procured locally and 100% of goods procured abroad) and (b) incremental costs, on a declining
basis, incurred in operating these new branches (80% until July 31, 2003; 65% until July 31, 2004; and
25% thereafter). PRBs will prepare and present to the PMU certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) to
be used as the basis for reimbursing these expenditures. Supporting documentation for SOEs will be
retained by PRBs and the PMU and made available for examination by staff of the World Bank, and by
external auditors. PRBs which access the project's credit and leasing facility will do so under the same
procedures as PIBs, above.
Second, the PMU will instruct the TB to transfer cash advances to SPs which will be used for the purposes
and under the terms and conditions established in the Consultant Contracts between the Govenmment and
SPs, namely covering fees to SPs for managing the Government's share of the portfolio of micro-loans
under the component.
The initial advance to each SP will be for an amount sufficient to cover two months of the estimated costs
of operation for each SP, according to SPs' business plans. Service Providers will prepare and present to
the TB and to the PMU certified Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) to be used as the basis for replenishing
these cash advances. Supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by SPs and the PMU and made
available for examination by staff of the World Bank and by external auditors.
Since the Government will retain ownership of its share of micro-loans under component, the SPs will
provide custodial services for micro-loan contracts and the PMU will keep inventory, on behalf of the
Government, of such contracts at all times.
Finally, SPs will deposit or cause final borrowers to deposit the Government's share of interest and
principal payments on micro-loans under the component in an account ("repayment account") established in
the TB for the purpose of implementing the component. This account will hold all cash related to the
component, including initial allocations from the Government, the repayments of principal, and the interests
accrued by the Government.
Procurement. Goods and works will be procured in accordance with the latest edition of the World Bank's
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits. Consulting services and training will be
procured following the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's standard and sample
bidding documents, evaluation reports and contract formats will be used. A General Procurement Notice
will be published in the UN's Development Business. The PMU will be responsible for the overall
- 18 -



supervision and monitoring of procurement under Components A and B, and for carrying out procurement
under Component C. Procurement under Component A will be carried out by final beneficiaries
(sub-borrowers and lesees), and will be monitored by PlBs, PLCs, and SPs. Procurement under Component
B will be carried out by PRBs. A detailed description of the procurement arrangements for the project is
presented in Annex 6.
Special Account and withdrawal applications. To facilitate disbursements, the TB will open a Special
Account before loan effectiveness and maintain it until project completion, according to World Bank
procedures. After loan effectiveness and at the request of the PMU, an initial deposit for an amount of
US$1 million will be made into this Special Account. This initial allocation may be increased once
aggregate disbursements of US$4 million are reached by submitting the relevant withdrawal applications.
The Special Account will be drawn upon for disbursing sub-loans and according to the actual expenditures
incurred in implementing the project, including payments to suppliers and consultants under the project.
Replenishment applications should be submitted by the PMU at least every three months and must include
reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents. If and when the Borrower
adopts a PMR-based disbursement system, the authorized allocation for the Special Account will be
increased to US$6.0 million.
Financial management. The PMU will be responsible for the project's overall financial management
system, but will engage the services of a commercial bank - a Treasury Bank (TB) - to effect the project's
financial transactions. The Borrower through the PMU will, and will cause the TB to, establish and
maintain a project financial management system in a format acceptable to the World Bank and satisfying
LACI requirements. All procurement, financial management and disbursement procedures for the project
will be in accordance with the relevant World Bank guidelines.
It was agreed during project negotiations that the existing PMU for the Romania PIBL Project will initially
undertake all financial management functions for the project, until such time when the new PMU for the
Romania Rural Finance Project is established, when the project's TB is selected, and when both of these
entities are certified by a World Bank-certified financial management specialist.
A financial management consultant (firm) may be procured to develop the project financial management
system for the TB, if necessary, in accordance with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02 and LACI requirements. Such
a system would feature customized accounting software fully developed to respond to the project specifics.
The PMU director will be responsible for authorizing all payments. The procurement specialist will have
limited rights to access the software on procurement related aspects. The appropriate training will be
provided to the TB staff and maintenance of the software will be assured by the consultant (firm).
The consultant, together with the PMU and TB staff, would develop specific charts of accounts, detailed
financial statements, reporting formats and methods, internal control procedures, disbursement and flow of
funds arrangements, and assigned staff responsibilities in order to ensure a complete segregation of duties,
using the existing project's OM.
The PMU will be responsible for procurement, contracting, disbursement, reporting to the World Bank,
planning, budgeting and auditing relating to the project. The TB will be responsible for consolidating all
payments and accounting. No project funds (including Loan amounts) can be transferred directly to
beneficiaries or any other parties, outside the project's documented framework.
Detailed accounts will be kept for each project component and its sub-components. The accounts will also
reflect: the status of payment against each contract; utilization of the Special Account (SA) and
- 19-



replenishments made by the Bank; and statements of sources and application of funds.
The PMU, on the basis of the TB's data, will prepare reports showing detailed budgeted and actual
expenditures, uses of funds by source, summary of withdrawals and forecasts, statements of progress
achieved to date and the objectives for the forthcoming quarter and semester. The PMIU will submit the
first set of Project Management Reports (PMRs) to the Bank from September 30, 2001 and quarterly
thereafter. All PMRs are required to be produced by August 1, 2002.
A Special Account will be opened at the project's TB. The Government's contribution to the project will be
channeled through the TB. Financing from other sources (micro-credit service providers, which will
finance 25% of each micro-loan allocated under the project) will be received in different project accounts.
In addition, all other project implementing entities (participating private banks, leasing companies, and
micro-credit service providers) will be responsible for the financial management of the project resources to
which they will have access under the respective project components in which they will participate. All
project implementing entities, including the PMU and the TB, must have financial management and
accounting systems in place, acceptable to the Bank, before they can use Bank loan funds. A World
Bank-certified financial management specialist (FMS) will verify that each of the implementing agencies
will have an adequate financial system in place (a) following its establishment in the case of the PMU, and
(b) prior to the awarding of any contract or the signing of any agreement required for participation in the
project in the case of the TB, participating private banks, leasing companies, and micro-credit service
providers.
All project implementing entities, including the PMU, will maintain their accounts in accordance with
Intemational Accounting Standards (IAS). Each project implementing entity will submit quarterly reports
and accounts to the PMU. The PMU, on the basis of accounts kept by the TB, will be responsible for
ensuring the production of PMRs and statements of expenses (SOEs), and submitting them to the World
Bank.
During project negotiations, agreement was reached on the need to recruit a Treasury Bank which will
designate sufficient staff for the purposes of the project's financial management. Such positions may
include an accountant(s), disbursement specialist, intemal auditor and financial controller. The training
needs of the TB financial and accounting staff will be assessed once the TB is engaged and this staff is
designated.
The PMU, TB, and participating financial intermediaries will have their accounts audited (including special
accounts and statements of expenditures) in accordance with ISA, by firms of independent auditors
acceptable to the World Bank. Recruitment of auditors to audit the project accounts will be done on a
yearly renewable contract (subject to satisfactory performance). The existing independent auditors of the
TB could be engaged for this purpose if they are acceptable to the World Bank. Audit reports and
management letters for all project implementing entities, including the PMU, will be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
A detailed description of the financial rnianagement and accounting system that will be used for the project
is presented in Annex 16 and in the project's OM.
Monitoring and evaluation (M&E). Monitoring and evaluation of project implementation will be the
primary responsibility of the Steering Committee and the PMU. The PMU will implement a simple
monitoring and reporting system to gather information on the implementation of project, the sustainability
- 20 -



and performance of PIBs, PLCs, PRBs, and SPs, the socio-economic profile of sub-borrowers financed
with project proceeds, and the project's impact on these beneficiaries (see Annex 15).
The M&E system will be based on the logical framework presented in Annex 1. The impact indicators that
will be monitored are presented in Annex 15. They will include, inter alia, outreach to intended clientele
(especially disadvantaged groups and SMEs in rural areas) and economic measures of sustainability
(Subsidy Dependence Index).
PIBs, PLCs, PRBs, and SPs will maintain all records necessary to judge the performance and viability of
their activities under the project. These records will be available to the PMU and World Bank staff. These
entities will prepare quarterly reports that will be reviewed during World Bank supervision missions, and
they will also agree to provide all necessary information to the PMU and to World Bank staff to monitor
the success, in terms of outreach and economic sustainability, of their activities supported by the project.
This information will include all required data to compose financial statements (e.g., income statement,
balance sheet, statement of uses and origins of funds) for their operations at the aggregate and point of sale
levels. They will also assist the PMU in monitoring the socio-economic profile of eligible sub-borrowers.
The exact content, format, and periodicity of the reports that they will be required to provide will be an
integral part of the agreements that they will enter into with the Government, and will also be detailed in the
bidding documents issued to eligible potentially interested entities.
The nature of the project will require frequent World Bank supervision. The monitoring results will be
consolidated into quarterly reports and submitted for World Bank review. The World Bank will conduct a
Project Implementation Review on a semi-annual basis. During the first year of project implementation,
these Implementation Reviews will be carried out quarterly. These reviews will include (a) assessment of
project implementation; (b) evaluation of the work plan for the next six months; (c) meetings with
participating PIBs, PLCs, PRBs, and SPs, and rural users of financial services to obtain feedback on (a)
and (b) above, and to agree on any required modifications to the originally proposed program.
A formal Mid-Term Review for the project will be held one year after the Loan is declared effective or
when disbursements have reached 25 percent of the credit line, whichever is first An Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared within six months after the project's closing date. A follow-up
social assessment will be undertaken following the first formal Mid-Term Review using the existing
baseline database established during project preparation. This assessment will capture the experience of
project initiatives and determine which elements or approaches should be modified to increase project
effectiveness.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A large number of design issues were considered and rejected, including:
State-owned banks and Banca Agricola. One alternative approach to provide financing for rural
activities would be to invest into the accelerated restructuring of state banks, most notably Banca Agricola,
as the basis for the future development of the rural finance network. This approach was rejected in view of
(a) the slow progress in restructuring Banca Agricola, (b) the uncertainty about the future business
strategies adopted and market niches chosen by the future new owners of these banks following their
privatization, and (c) the project's private sector emphasis.
- 21 -



Local finance companies. Another approach considered was to assist large rural entrepreneurs such as
agricultural traders, processors and input suppliers in establishing local finance companies to extend
advances on future delivery of crops or sell inputs on credit. The proposal was rejected because they were
likely to have access to other funding sources.
Creating a new financial institution. Creation of a new government owned financial institution to provide
credit to individual private farms or rural enterprises was rejected because all experience shows that: (a)
Govermment-owned institutions are vulnerable to political influence and (b) they are difficult to privatize.
PMU management of the credit line. Using the PMU to distribute credit line funds to PIBs was
considered and rejected because the PMU might be vulnerable to political influence and might not have the
expertise required.
Participation of mutual financial intermediaries in the project. A great deal of consideration was given
to the possibility of incorporating into the project the estimated 1,400 independent mutual financial
intermediaries, most notably credit cooperatives, registered under Law 109/1996 and of which a large
majority are domiciled in rural areas. Possibilities considered for this participation included allowing them
to become PIBs, PRBs, or SPs and/or design an institutional development component to strengthen such
intermediaries. These possibilities were rejected because Romania does not have an appropriate regulatory
and supervisory framework for these intermediaries. In fact, there are legitimate concerns that the
government may have assumed important contingent liabilities by chartering them, and that they may
constitute a regulatory hazard because they could be used to profitably arbitrage on the general regulation
of the banking sector. The vacuum that may be left by a shrinking state banking sector introduces the risk
of these unregulated intermediaries increasing their share of the deposits of the population. However, due
to their importance in the rural economy and the potential risks associated with lack an adequate regulation,
this project will support preparation of the necessary environment to work with at least some of these
cooperatives under the second phase.
- 22 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.'Lawte 8up.on
Sector Issue            |Pr_je_                                 R) Ratingspl
. ________________________ ,__t            __.___________                   anced  p oj ct s  a
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Rural development (promote rural    Rural Development Project
income growth directed at poor      under preparation
communities and households)
Private sector development (privatize   Private Sector Adjustment Loan  S             S
state-owned enterprises, enforce hard   (PSAL)
budget constraints on remaining SOEs,
streamline the business environment,
strengthen the banking system,
restructure and privatize state banks,
ensure adoption of regulations by
National Bank of Romania to improve
the banking system, develop the
government securities market, create
income support programs for displaced
workers, improve employment services
for displaced workers, strengthen social
assistance programs for the long-term
unemployed and poor)
Private sector development          Private Sector Adjustment Loan
II (PSAL II) under preparation
Agriculture sector development (reform Agricultural Sector Adjustment  S              S
agricultural incentives, support creation Loan (ASAL)
of a competitive private rural and
agricultural financial network, develop
a competitive land market, develop an
active private cereals market, privatize
state owned agricultural enterprises,
revise the role of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Food and Forestry to one
consistent with market oriented
agriculture)
-23 -



Land market development (establish an General Cadastre Project              S               S
efficient system for securing real estate
titles, create a general cadastre system
which provides clear and current
definition of real estate parcels which
form the basis for real estate
registration, set up a simple, safe and
cost effective procedure for real estate
transactions)
Agriculture sector development        Agricultural Support Services         S               S
(increase agricultural productivity,  Project
sustainability, and income by providing
technology, information, and training
for private farmers and
agro-processors; improve efficiency,
cost effectiveness and client relevance
in the management of research and
extension)
Private sector development (enhance    Private Sector Institution           S               S
private sector's role in the economy  Building Loan (PIBL)
through the transfer of state-owned
assets, placing state owned banks on a
sound financial footing, and creating an
enabling environment conducive to
private sector growth and development)
Private sector development (accelerate  Finance and Enterprise Sector       U               U
privatization of state-owned          Adjustment Loan (FESAL)
enterprises, enforce hard budget
constraints and discipline on remaining
state-owned enterprises, eliminate
constraints to private sector
development, restructure and privatize
state-owned banks, strengthen the
supervisory and surveillance capacity
of the National Bank of Romania,
develop capital markets)
Structural adjustment (support         Structural Adjustment Loan I          S              S
stabilization efforts while promoting  (SAL I)
price liberalization and the opening of
the economy, promote enterprise reform
and financial discipline, support
privatization, support an affordable and
effective social safety net)
- 24 -



Private sector development in rural  Private Farmer and Enterprise    S             S
areas (raise agricultural output, increase Development Project
efficiency of production, generate
employment, improve living standards)
Private sector development (promote   Industrial Development Project  S             S
private sector growth and create
conditions for an effective supply
response from viable private industrial
enterprises, provide credit access to
micro, small, and medium-size
enterprises for export, import, and
investment opportunities, increase
competition in credit markets, facilitate
introduction of safe and sound banking
practices)
Other development agencies
EU - PHARE                         Agricultural and Rural
Development Programme
EU - PHARE                         SMEs Small Credit Scheme
EU - PHARE                         Programme on Enterprise
Restructuring and Employment
Conversion
EU - PHARE                         Programme for Small and
Medium-Sized Enterprises and
Regional Development
EBRD                               Agribusiness Development
Project
EBRD                               Banca Agricola - Credit Line II
EBRD                               Romanian Development Bank
Project
EBRD                               Bankcoop Project
IMF                                Stand-By Credit
EU                                 Special Accession Program for
Agriculture and Rural
Development (SAPARD)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
To be successful, rural financial intermediaries must operate within a conducive policy, institutional, and
legal framework because lending to agriculture and rural entrepreneurs is costly and risky. Unless these
costs and risks are reduced, allocation of rural credit will entail significant losses. The project aims
precisely at reducing these costs and risks.
There has been significant progress in three dimensions: (a) the Banca Agricola restructuring program
under implementation which will remove from the market a poorly run government institution lending
directed credit at low rates; (b) the new framework for financial transactions secured with movable
- 25 -



property will afford the possibility to effectively use movable rural assets as collateral for loans; and (c) the
Government's initial agreement to dissolve all subsidized directed credit lines to agriculture will allow the
supply of competitively priced and untargeted credit services from private formal financial intermediaries to
flourish.
The effective provision of financial services in rural areas must follow sensible business practices if these
services are to be self-sustainable. That is, services offered and the technologies used must be appropriate,
and the intermediaries involved must act on a proper set of incentives within a conducive policy and
institutional framework. Component B focuses exclusively on developing these practices for private banks
and financial NGOs.
Government or donor-funded projects restricted to financing investments in agriculture might hinder a
balanced development of rural areas which normally entails non-agriculture activities. In addition, the
flngibility of credit makes it difficult to target credit and the supervision costs to enforce targeting makes
the provision of loans to small farmers and entrepreneurs expensive. Under the credit facility, all
investments to expand eligible rural enterprises will be eligible sub-projects. The only exceptions will be
investments in land, existing buildings, other assets previously used within the rural sector (except livestock
breeding), and tobacco production and processing.
Rural finance is a complex multi-sector subject with multiple influences on the economy ranging from
macroeconomic stability to impact on rural poverty. This is especially the case in Romania. A consistent
set of policies towards rural financial markets is a vital concern, therefore. The project will be managed
under the general guidance of a Steering Committee which would consist of representatives from the main
government agencies involved in the sector, including the the Ministry of Public Finance, Ministry of
Agriculture, Food, and Forestry, and the National Bank of Romania. The members of the committee will be
the Ministers of Agriculture and Food and of Finance and the Governor of the National Bank of Romania
or their representatives.
The World Bank's experience with similar projects highlights the need for frequent monitoring of key
performance indicators and rigorous supervision offering high level technical advice. The monitoring and
evaluation activities for the proposed project will be highly intensive on the part of the SMU and
implementing agencies. The World Bank will also supervise the project more frequently than normal.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The principal indication of borrower commitment lies in the policy commitments made by the Government
aimed at reducing its role in financing the agricultural sector; namely the divestiture of Banca Agricola and
the dissolution of all subsidized credit lines directed to agriculture. The Government demonstrated a strong
resolution in the process of reforming secured transactions. There has been significant coordination among
the three government agencies charged with implementing the project. This coordination has resulted from
their realization of the importance of the program supported by the project as an urgent alternative to
Banca Agricola and the subsidized directed credit programs through which the Government tried in the past
to address its long standing preoccupation with providing financing for rural areas.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The proposed project results directly from the long-standing policy dialogue between the Government and
the World Bank. The Bank's sector work in the rural sector (Financial Markets, Credit Constraints, and
Investment in Rural Romania, Report No. 19412-RO) suggested very specific mechanisms and reforms to
increase private sector participation in these markets - currently almost the exclusive realm of state banks
- 26 -



allocating funds targeted by the state.
This project is consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the Bank is able to offer
several advantages when compared to other potential development agencies: (a) updated information
regarding the sector's performance and the country's institutional landscape; (b) close familiarity with the
successful improvement of rural financial markets in other countries such as Thailand and Indonesia; (c)
neutral and credible advice not influenced by the organized interest groups involved in the sector; and (d) a
successful dialogue with the authorities that has already resulted in significant progress, especially in the
areas of secured transactions and subsidized agricultural credit lines.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The basic economic justification for the entire project is given by the investment opportunities in rural areas
that are forgone because of lack of access to financial markets on the part of households and enterprises.
The value and incidence of these forgone investment opportunities have been rigorously measured in recent
economic and sector work conducted by the Bank. The study found strong empirical evidence that credit
constraints influenced negatively the investment behavior of households and enterprises. In particular, such
constraints reduced the number of agents that invested and the amounts they invested. Thus, profitable
investment opportunities were not pursued as a result of limited access to credit markets. In numbers, the
aggregate amount invested by households in the absence of credit constraints would have been 10 percent
above the amount actually invested. Lack of financing represented a more significant impediment for rural
enterprises to take advantage of the investment opportunities available in that a considerably larger number
of them would have made investments should credit constraints not have been present. In particular, the
aggregate amount invested in the absence of credit constraints would have been about 57 percent greater
than the amount actually invested.
It is not feasible, however, to calculate an overall economic/financial rate of return for the project as a
whoje because it is impossible to determine what specific productive activities will be financed under the
project's rural credit facility. Nonetheless, an economic/financial evaluation of each of the individual
components was conducted. The methodology used to evaluate each component was the most amicable to
measuring the specific economic costs of the resources expected to be used during implementation and the
benefits generated under each such component, as summarized below.
Component A: Rural Credit and Leasing Facility. It is not possible to predict the specific sub-projects
or sub-leases which will be financed under the Facility because of the demand driven nature of such
Facility. It is impossible, therefore, to estimate the financial and economic rates of return of the overall
component. Actions were taken to (a) carry-out a rigorous economic analysis of a sample of activities
likely to be financed under the component and (b) ensure that all investments actually financed under the
project have acceptable FRRs and ERRs. FRRs do not deviate significantly from estimated economic rates
of return (ERRs) because all the resources used in the process will be imputed at their market costs, and
there are no major distortions in those markets (e.g., labor, rentals). First, during appraisal, economic and
financial analyses of selected on-farm and off-farm investments that are likely to be financed were
conducted. The analyses compared "with and without project" situations to illustrate possible changes
induced by the project on costs and productivity. The analysis demonstrated that there is a wide range of
viable business activities in rural areas and that a sufficient number of them are likely to remain profitable
- 27 -



when adverse changes in key parameters were simulated in the analysis. The detailed results of this
analysis are maintained in the project file. Key results include the following.
*   Availability of additional investment capital is very important for horticultural and small livestock
activities because investments in these activities have high marginal FRR and ERRs, specially at
the verg small scales of operation at which they are being typically carried-out in Romania. Larger
scales of operation would significantly increase mean economic and financial rates of return.
*   Investments in non-agricultural activities, currently very underdeveloped in rural areas, offer
potentially large FRRs and ERRs. For instance the ERRS for investments in (a) drying and
storage of agricultural products range between 135-269 percent, (b) downstream processing range
between 24-38 percent, and (c) non-farm enterprise activities range between 24-600 percent.
*   The FRRs and ERRs for investments in all activities are highly sensitive to variables such as
agro-ecological region, local availability of inputs, and distance to output markets. Nonetheless,
there are sufficient numbers of small and medium-sized investment projects (between USD 5,000
to 500,000) with large enough retums to insure rural growth and significant outreach to a large
cross section of rural households and enterprises.
*   As expected, some activities were found to have negative ERRs at any scale of operation for
reasonable discount rates. Examples include small scale production of sugar beets and some fruit
orchards. In contrast, there are other activities that are highly profitable such as perishables (ERRs
between 184-200 percent), investments in vineyards (up to 200 ERRs).
In order to insure that all investments actually financed under the component have acceptable rates of
return, the lending guidelines for PIBs and SPs require that (a) sub-loans approved must have rates of
return above on-lending rates of interest and (b) the repayment capacity (based on investment cash flows)
of the sub-borrower or lessee be clearly proven.
Component B: Rural Retail Banking and Micro-Finance. A computerized financial projection model
(CFPM) was used to assess the financial viability of the retail bank branches and SPs that will be
supported under the component. The model provided pro-forma balance sheets, income statements, and 40
financial ratios for a retail bank branch and a microcredit program for the five years following their
creation. These results were based on conservative and realistic assumptions about design variables (e.g.,
financial products, incentive schemes for personnel, initial investments, and operational costs) and the
economic environrnent in which they will operate (e.g., size of population served, outreach to potential
clients, market interest rates, macroeconomic parameters). The validity of these assumptions was
confirmed with potential participating banks and service providers during project appraisal. The model
predicted the FRRs on the investments needed to initiate the operations of a typical bank branch or a SP
point of sale. These estimated FRRs do not deviate significantly from estimated economic rates of return
(ERRs) because all the resources used in the process will be imputed at their market costs, and there are no
major distortions in those markets (e.g., labor, rentals). The bottom line conclusion of the analysis is that
retail bank branches and SP points of service would be sustainable and could achieve subsidy independence
in a reasonably short period. The model results and its assumptions are presented in Annex 5.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR   %  (see Annex 4)
See "Component B: Rural Retail Banking and Micro-Finance" in section El above.
Fiscal Impact:
The proposed project is expected to have a positive impact on the state budget as it will indirectly
- 28 -






4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The project will be executed jointly by the Ministries of Public Finance and of Agriculture, Food, and
Forestry in formal consultation with the National Bank of Romania. A joint ministerial ordinance issued
by the Ministries of Public Finance and of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry will create a Project Steering
Committee composed of the Ministers of Public Finance and of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry or their
delegates and in which the Governor of the National Bank or his delegate will participate in a consultative
capacity. The Steering Committee will establish a Project Management Unit (PMU) to implement the
project.
4.2 Project management:
The proposed implementation arrangements are specifically designed to: (a) remove all discretionary
decisions by government ministries on credit allocation decisions by involving only private parties as PIBs,
PRBs, PLCs, SPs, and sub-borrowers; and (b) insure coordination among the key government agencies
involved in the sector (the Ministries of Public Finance and of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry, and the
National Bank of Romania). These two features of the institutional prerogatives and arrangements are
innovative in the Romanian context. Special attention should be given to the dialogue with the authorities
about the usefulness of the proposed arrangements.
In addition, the project's OM pays special attention to (a) delineating clearly the roles, attributions, and
responsibilities of the institutions involved in project implementation, namely the Government, Steering
Committee, PMU, TB, PIBs, PRBs, PLCs, and SPs; (b) insuring that the implementation arrangements
provide a governance structure that will permit the institutions involved to make decisions consistent with
market incentives, with particular attention to possible political interference in credit allocation decisions.
The eligibility of PIBs, PLCs, PRBs, and SPs to participate in project implementation will depend
specifically on their ability to demonstrate their ability capacity to carry out the tasks assigned, adequacy of
their operational rules and procedures, availability of human and financial resources, quality of staff, and
the incentives given to staff for good performance. Specific indicators of these competencies have been
included in the corresponding eligibility criteria for the participation of each of these entities in the project.
The project's OM provides a detailed list of the documents that will be submitted by the entities requesting
to be declared eligible in project implementation. These documents include evidence of the competencies
listed above.
During the appraisal of the project, a pre-screen of potential participating intermnediaries (TB, PIBs, PRBs.
PLCs, and SPs) was conducted. This pre-screen was made, as applicable to each type of intermediary, on
the basis of (a) examination of audited financial statements, (b) on-site visitation to candidate participants,
(c) discussion with supervisory authorities. The pre-screen confirmed that there is a sufficient number of
potential intermediaries that have the necessary financial strength and management skills to meet the
eligibility criteria for their participation under the project, which warranted moving forward with the
project. The assessment of managerial capabilities also indicated that a pool of candidates has the internal
management information capacity to create financial statements of sufficient quality to permit auditing
based on IAS standards.
- 30 -



4.3 Procurement issues:
The PMU will undergo an assessment, conducted by a World Bank procurement specialist, to determine its
capacity to procure goods, works, and services, and to supervise and monitor procurement carried out by
other actors in the project that will be involved in procurement, in accordance with World Bank policies
and procedures. Other actors in the project with procurement responsibilities (PIBs, PLCs, PRBs, and
SPs) will undergo a similar assessment. The PIBs, PLCs, PRBs, and SPs will be assessed as they are
appraised and selected to participate in the project. Any training and/or consultant services necessary to
ensure compliance with World Bank procurement policies and procedures will be provided.
4.4 Financial management issues:
During negotiations it was agreed with the Borrower that the existing PMU for the PIBL Project, that was
certified by a Bank FMS in 1999, will be responsible initially for all financial management aspects of the
Romania Rural Finance Project. When the project's own PMU is established, and before a commercial
bank is engaged to be the project's Treasury Bank, these entities will undergo a review and certification
process conducted by a World Bank Financial Management Specialist (FMS) to ensure that the project's
financial management system satisfies the World Bank's minimum financial management requirements as
stated in OP/BP 10.02.
Agreement will be reached with the Borrower on the remaining steps that are needed, if any, to strengthen
the financial management system as mentioned in the project's financial management action plan.
Participating private banks, leasing companies, and micro-credit service providers will undergo a financial
management review and certification process before the awarding of any contract or signature of any
agreement required f6r their participation in the project.
A Special Account will be opened at the TB. The Government's contribution (co-financing) to the project
will be channeled through the TB. Financing from other sources (micro-credit service providers, which will
finance 25% of each micro-loan allocated under the project) will be received in different project accounts.
In respect of the project funds to be received in the future from other development partners, if any, a
decision will be made on a case by case basis in respect of whether the PMU will manage these funds, or
various other agencies as requested by these development partners.
The PMU will have the project accounts audited (including all special and project accounts and all
statements of expenditures) in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, by auditors acceptable
to the World Bank.
The TB will designate sufficient staff to ensure that the financial management of the project is carried out
effectively and in a timely manner.
A financial management and accounting firm may be hired to develop the financial management system,
including cost accounting, for the TB, if necessary. The accounting firm would adapt the TB's specific
charts of accounts, detailed financial statements, reporting formats and methods, internal control
procedures, and disbursement and flow of funds arrangements. The accounting firm would also provide full
training to the TB financial-accounting staff in the use of the financial management system.
The TB will maintain the project accounts in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS).
The PMU will be responsible for ensuring the production of Project Management Reports (PMRs) and
- 31 -



Statements of Expenses (SOEs) on the basis of accounts kept by the TB, and submitting them to the World
Bank.
The PMU, on the basis of data provided by the TB, will prepare reports showing detailed budgeted and
actual expenditures, uses of funds by source, summary of withdrawals and forecasts, statements of
progress achieved and the objectives for the forthcoming quarter and semester.
A detailed description of the financial management system for the project is presented in Annex 16.
The project faces three major risks in the financial management area.
One risk is the PMU assuming the authority and responsibility for every aspect of the project, thereby
exposing it to possible risks of collusion and corruption. To address this risk: (a) a Treasury Bank will be
engaged to effect the project's financial transactions; (b) all payment orders will be signed by the PMU
director, and designated TB staff will verify; and (c) the beneficiaries' representatives will certify the works
done, goods delivered and services rendered before the payments are made by the TB. In addition, these
representatives will also be invited to the offers' evaluation commissions and be involved in the
development of the technical specifications. The duties of PMU staff members will be completely
segregated.
The second risk is that the project is exposed to delays in payments to suppliers and participating financial
intermediaries: (a) due to the signatures required on both Bank Loan funds and Government contributions
and (b) inadequate counterpart funds in the Government project accounts. The experience on existing
projects indicate that this risk to a large extent is contained by adequate supervision by the Bank and has
not been a problem so far.
The third risk is given by the overall systemic risk of the Romanian banking system. It is envisaged that by
a careful selection of participating banks and other entities that will be involved in the project, this risk can
be minimized.
5. Environmental:                   Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is not expected to produce any major environmental impacts. Sub-projects financed with
project funds, on-lent through participating financial intermediaries under Component A of the project, may
involve minor environmental issues related to (a) the use and storage of agricultural chemicals, (b) waste
management at farms and processing facilities, (c) natural resources management in rural areas, including
forest, biodiversity, soil and water, and (d) location or site preparation for facilities or agricultural
techniques. Some of these sub-projects may, therefore, require an environmental assessment (EA) in
accordance with World Bank environmental safeguard policies. There are no adverse environmental
impacts associated with the remaining components of the project.
An environmental review (see Rural Finance Project: Environmental Review, dated April 2000, in project
files) was conducted by an international and a local consultant to examine and assess: (a) existing
environmental legislation - with a focus on laws and regulations relevant to the types of sub-projects that
will likely be financed by the project's credit line - and the existing capacity to enforce this legislation; and
(b) the types of sub-projects likely to be financed by the project's credit line, the potential enviromnental
impacts of these sub-projects, the institutional capacity to assess these impacts, and any possible
impact-mitigating measures. The environmental review has been included in the project files.
- 32 -



Under Romanian law, any activity or facility put forth by a proponent requires an environmental
agreement (construction permit) and/or an environmental permit (operating permit) issued by the Local
Enviromnental Protection Agency (LEPA) or the Central Environmental Protection Agency (CEPA),
depending on the type and size of the proposed activitiy or facility. Romanian laws and regulations clearly
indicate when activities and facilities require environmental agreements and permits from the LEPA, and
when from the CEPA. Specifically, all new activities, facilities, and modifications to existing facilities
listed in Appendix II of the Environmental Protection Law (EPL) - activities likely to have significant
environmental impacts - require an environmental agreement before construction is begun. Proposed
activities or facilities that do not entail "construction and erection", and improvement of existing activities
or facilities, are generally exempt from this requirement. In addition, all activities and facilities - new and
existing - require application for an environmental permit. For EPL Appendix II activities, or any other
activity likely to have a significant environmental impact due to its nature, size, or location, the application
for an environmental permit must be accompanied by a full environmental impact study (EIS). With or
without an EIS, activities or facilities found to be out of compliance with existing environmental laws may
be required to submit to an environmental audit and/or compliance schedule as a condition of receiving an
environmental permit.
Environmental impact studies are required for any proposed activity or facility likely to have a significant
environmental impact due to its nature, size, or location. An EIS is carried out by applying a set of criteria
to determine whether or not the activity or facility will have significant environmental impact. These
criteria include the characteristics of the activity or facility, its location, and the characteristics of its
potential environmental impact. An environmental agreement will not be issued if none of the activity or
facility alternatives provides for removal of environmental impacts that the activity or facility will
introduce.
Environmental impact studies are the responsibility of the proponent of a given activity or facility. The
proponent must engage a certified individual or institution, of which there were over 1000 in Romania at
the time of the environmental review, to conduct the EIS on his/her behalf.
The environmental review found that the existing Romanian environmental legal and regulatory framework
is adequate overall and that the Ministry of Forest, Water, and Environmental Protection (MFWEP) is
staffed with competent and well-trained professionals. However, environmental regulatory agencies,
including their field operations, are understaffed and under-equipped, resulting in weak enforcement of
environmental laws and regulations.
Participating PIB and SP loan officers will verify appropriate review of the potential environmental
impacts of proposed sub-projects to ensure their compliance with World Bank environmental safeguard
policies and with applicable national and local environmental laws and regulations. These loan officers will
not be environmental specialists, but with the assistance of an environmental guidelines manual they will be
able to pass some judgement on whether or not a particular sub-project would be in compliance with
national and local environmental laws and regulations. Indications that compliance is not being met will
lead to consultation with the LEPA, which will pursue the necessary action or, depending on the size and
type of sub-project, recomrnend consultation with the CEPA. The effectiveness of environmental oversight
of sub-projects will depend on loan officers having sufficient experience to recognize environmental
non-compliance. In this respect, loan officers will rely on assistance from the LEPA. Due to the probable
large number of sub-projects that will be assigned to each loan officer, the latter should soon acquire
experience in identifying the potential environmental risks of sub-projects. From an environmental
viewpoint, types of sub-projects which have the potential to create the most serious environmental impacts
- 33 -



should be given individual attention, initially in collaboration with the LEPA.
To assist loan officers in this regard and to address, to the extent possible under the project, the
enforcement shortcomings of the Romanian environmental legal and regulatory framework, the project will
take the following steps:
*   Draft environmental screening guidelines, which were developed during project preparation,
will be finalized and disseminated in the form of an easy-to-read field manual during project
implementation to assist PIB and SP loan officers to: (a) gauge the potential environmental
impacts of sub-projects for which sub-borrowers are likely to request sub-loans; (b)
determine the environmental category of proposed sub-projects and thereby which, if any,
sub-projects would require environmental assessments (EAs) in accordance with World
Bank enviromnental safeguard policies; and (c) determine which sub-projects, if any, would
require EISs in accordance with national and local environmental laws and regulations in
Romania.
*  An environmental specialist will advise and provide training, as needed, for PMU staff and
PIB and SP loan officers as PIBs and SPs are selected to participate in the project, to ensure
that the environmental screening of proposed sub-projects is carried out effectively.
*   A World Bank environmental specialist will accompany a World Bank supervision mission
during the first year of project implementation to verify that the environmental screening of
proposed sub-projects is carried out satisfactorily.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
N/A
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
An environmental review was carried out on the basis of discussions with the Ministry of Waters, Forests,
and Environmental Protection (MWFEP) and with Romanian commercial banks, whose loan officers would
be responsible for evaluating the environmental impacts of sub-projects financed by the project's loan
proceeds should these banks participate in the project.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Draft environmental screening guidelines, which have been developed, will be finalized and disseminated in
the form of an easy-to-read field manual during project implementation to assist PIB and SP loan officers
to: (a) gauge the potential environmental impacts of sub-projects for which sub-borrowers are likely to
request sub-loans; (b) determine the World Bank environmental category of proposed sub-projects and
thereby which, if any, sub-projects would require environmental assessments (EAs) in accordance with
World Bank environmental safeguard policies; and (c) determine which sub-projects, if any, would require
EISs in accordance with national and local environmental laws and regulations in Romania.
- 34 -



An environmental specialist will advise and provide training, as needed, for PMU staff and PIB and SP
loan officers as PIBs and SPs are selected to participate in the project, to ensure that the environmental
screening of proposed sub-projects is carried out effectively.
A World Bank environmental specialist will accompany a World Bank supervision mission during the first
year of project implementation to verify that the environmental screening of proposed sub-projects is
carried out satisfactorily.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The rural finance review entitled Financial Markets, Credit Constraints, and Investment in Rural
Romania generated the primary social and economic data which informed project design. This study is
based on interviews with 2,420 rural households, most of which are poor, and with 900 legally registered
rural enterprises, most of which are small and medium-sized business. The sampling universe for these
surveys includes proportions of poor individuals and small businesses larger than their share in the
country's total population. The sample was designed to achieve statistical representatives for the entire
rural population and all legal entities domiciled in rural areas. The survey collected desegregated data on
gender and rural poverty.
The review revealed that the rural economy consists of about 80,000 incorporated enterprises and a large
informal sector consisting mainly of small-scale, subsistence-oriented, farm households. The majority of
the rural enterprises (62%) were engaged in trade and commerce, agriculture being the main activity for
only 6% of them. Private enterprises constituted 98% of the rural enterprises. The majority were small and
medium enterprises, with average assets of US$11,900 and employing less than 5 persons. The average
household exploits a farm which is (a) about 2.1 hectares in size, (b) divided into 3 or 4 plots, and (c)
mostly isolated from input and output markets.
Financial markets in rural areas are clearly segmented, rural households depending on friends, relatives and
the semi-formal sector while rural enterprises tended to obtain credit from the formal financial sector and
suppliers of inputs. Semi-formal credit institutions currently operating in rural Romania include 840 credit
cooperatives and some 1400 mutual help cooperatives (CAR). These intermediaries are not currently
regulated by banking authorities although they do provide savings and most of the lending services to rural
households. The analysis revealed that traditionally disadvantaged individuals and small and medium
enterprises had reduced access to financial transactions, and when they did have access, it tended to be
under less favorable conditions. Reaching out to poorer and more vulnerable groups requires structural
change in rural financial markets.
The project will include an explicit provision requiring private banks and SPs to ensure that loan
applications for sub-projects which may involve any adverse social impacts of resettlement or cultural
property will not be eligible for project financing.
The key social development outcomes expected from the project are: (a) improved access to reliable
financial services by rural enterprises and farm households; (b) increased integration of rural households
into the market economy; and (c) increased equity in access to credit through easing of collateral
requirements and reliance on character-based lending for micro-credits, leading to alleviation of rural
poverty by financing farm and off-farm investments for the poorer segments of the rural population who
currently have no access to credit.
- 35 -



6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The financing needs and concerns of project beneficiaries were measured through a rural finance survey of
2,400 rural households and 1,000 rural enterprises. Using the information collected as an input, direct
stakeholder consultations were conducted during appraisal. The primary form of this consultation was a
workshop where key stakeholders systematically reviewed the survey results and project design. This
workshop enabled the task team to validate or improve the logic of the design and reach agreement on the
assumptions and key performance indicators of the project. The workshop also served as a vehicle to
enhance client ownership for the project.
During appraisal, consultations were also held with existing micro-credit service providers in Romania to
appraise the feasibility of the proposed micro-credit scheme to obtain feedback on the design of Component
B and to seek advice on attractiveness of rural economic agents, lending modalities, repayment options and
proposed implementation arrangements based on experience in the sub-sector. These consultations enabled
the task team to validate and refine the design of the micro-credit component based on an assessment of the
prospects for viability of SPs in the context of prevailing economic conditions in Romania. In particular,
the consultations focussed on the measures needed to provide credit access to poor farming households.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs have been included in the consultations leading to project design and were involved in the
stakeholder consultation reviewing project design. NGOs are expected to act as service providers (SPs) for
Component B (Rural Retail Banking and Micro-Finance) of the project and are expected to be the major
vehicles for micro-credit provision to rural households. Credit cooperatives and CARs will also be eligible
to compete as service providers.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Project design and its preparation activities address existing barriers in access to formal credit of targeted
groups who have hitherto had less or unfavorable access to financial markets. In this sense, the project will
introduce structural changes that would make these clienteles more attractive to rural lenders.
In addition to the above targeting through market mechanisms, the following institutional arrangements
have been provided to ensure achievement of the project's social development outcomes. Private bank
branches and the NGOs which would be supported by Component B would employ individuals from the
community who would screen credit applicants based on the their credit-worthiness and local reputation.
The use of locally generated information would expand the potential net of clients across generations,
gender, and income levels. The access of vulnerable groups to financial services would be greatly increased
by (a) replacing traditionally complex credit eligibility criteria with character-based lending and the
possibility to use movable assets to secure loans; (b) allowing certain low income clientele to obtain credit
without furnishing physical collateral at all; (c) decreasing transaction costs by establishing local service
windows; and (e) providing services that are consistent with the needs of poor residents (e.g., deposits with
very low minimum balances).
Monitoring of social development outcomes and indicators has been integrated within the project
monitoring system as a key element (see below). The detailed monitoring of these outcomes will be useful
tool should there be a need to modify the design and/or implementation to achieve the desired project's
development outcomes.
- 36 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
As mentioned above the monitoring of social development outcomes and indicators has been integrated
within the project monitoring system as a key element. The rural finance review has provided a good base
of nationally representative data on rural credit and will be repeated as a nation wide survey towards the
end of the first phase of the APL. It would not be realistic to expect the survey to detect significant
movements in real time to influence inmplementation during the first phase. It is essential, therefore, to
obtain feedback on the adequacy of institutional mechanisms and financial instruments to serve different
segments of the rural population in time to affect implementation. Thus, other monitoring mechanisms will
be established to understand client segmentation, to enable better targeting by tailoring lending instruments
to particular client segments, to assess the effect of the project on the formality of financial, production,
and social relations within communities. These additional monitoring mechanisms, as discussed below, will
combine qualitative and quantitative methods of analysis to capture the project's impact on the beneficiary
households and on the communities at large. The study will include static controls, such as baseline
surveys, and dynamic controls, such as non-borrower control groups to be surveyed simultaneously to
credit recipients.
The social monitoring mechanisms will collect household data with statistical representativeness and, in as
much as possible, will entail re-sampling of households over time (panel data) to capture time dependent
effects of the project. Activities to collect the data required for the in-depth social analysis will include the
following.
a.     The questionnaire of the nationally representative survey will contain questions detailing
official/unofficial interactions of credit recipients and other groups of the economy. These questions will
capture spillover effects associated with the project including information on channels of acquisition of
inputs and credits desegregated by type provider (e. g. formal/informal, personal networks/official
inputlcredit providers) and relationships with the government (taxation and services provided by the
government).
b.      A sample of credit recipients will be asked to complete an additional questionnaire on, inter alia,
(a) sources of credit and inputs, (b) safety networks and sources of assistance in cases of emergency, and
(c) interactions with the state. To minimize self-censoring, credit recipients will fill out the questionnaire
after credit has been granted.
c.     Comparisons between borrowers and non-borrowers will be required. Thus, some localities in
which the project will be implemented will be selected at random (weighted by number of inhabitants).
Households in selected villages will be further stratified into credit recipients and non-credit recipients. A
random selection of households within each group will be carried out.
d.     The above quantitative data will be complemented by qualitative information such as those
obtained through focus group discussions in selected localities, structured interviews with local officials,
and interviews with other market agents (e.g., input and output dealers) who normally interact with the
targeted beneficiaries.
Data analysis will focus on evaluating the effects of the increased formality of lending and on measuring
the overall effect of the project on the Romanian rural community. It will also help assess the contribution
of the project to its goals of poverty reduction, including increased social inclusion and empowerment To
capture these effects, the data will be used to study the impact of increased access to credit on interactions
such as the following.
- 37 -



a.     Polarization within the community. Specific questions will include (a) whether the SPs will make
an effort to attract new borrowers or whether they will provide new credits to the traditionally served
clienteles; (b) whether informal links continue to be important for emergency or consumption borrowing;
(c) whether informal ties become weakened so that poorer members of the community experience a decline
in access to informal lending that is not substituted by the access to formal channels; and (d) whether joint
liability groups used to secure credit establish trust in other economic and social activities.
b.    Interactions with the local government. Specific questions will include (a) whether increased
financial independence/dependence from directed government sources of financing improves/worses
interactions with the local officials and (b) to what extent the ability to repay loans depends on the stability
of government policies and communal oversight over the actions of local officials.
c.    Interactions with other market agents. Here the focus will be on whether an increased availability
of credit improves interactions with input suppliers and output dealers (e.g., prices and conditions).
To insure effective implementation of the proposed monitoring of project performance in terms of social
development outcomes, the PMU will have on its staff at least one M&E specialist who will be well versed
in techniques of social research and project monitoring, including use of quantitative and qualitative
methods. The M&E specialist(s) will coordinate project monitoring by each participating PIB/SP and will
compile and analyze the data received from the PIBs/SPs into progress reports which shall be made
available to the public. The costs of this specialist will be financed by the World Bank Loan.
The M&E specialist will oversee the production of the social impact studies by local and/or intemational
consultants (as required) and will ensure that the results of these studies are fed back to project
management and to the Borrower. During supervision missions, the results of these assessments will be
discussed during an open session with the PIBs/SPs, in order to improve project performance and to learn
from each other.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the roject?
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Sub-projects which may involve any land acquisition or cultural property issues will not be eligible for
project financing.
- 38 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the whole intervention will depend on the sustainability of its parts, as follows:
Component A. The aggregate sustainability of sub-projects and of the on-lending resources available to
the Rural Credit and Leasing Facility will be ensured by the self-interest of sub-borrowers and participating
PIBs and by preserving the real value of the resources under the facility. Specifically, sustainability will be
achieved by limiting eligibility to private sub-borrowers and to private sector intermediary banks and by
requiring, as already agreed with the authorities, that all lending, sub-lending, and leasing financed under
the component be on market terms and conditions, including that the pricing of credit and leasing should
reflect the costs and risks involved. This set of conditions implies that the typical sub-borrowers will have
the incentive to borrow in order to finance only sub-projects with a high enough expected return to cover
the costs involved because sub-borrowers will be the residual claimants of profits or losses generated by
their sub-projects. Since PIBs will take the entire credit risk on sub-loans, they will have the ex-ante
incentive to appraise these sub-loans in order to ensure the sustainability of sub-projects, and the ex-post
incentive to enforce sub-loan and leasing agreements. Project funds on-lent by the Government will not be
eroded by defaults or inflation and will, thus, be available to the Government to fund continued involvement
in rural finance or any other development activity as the real value of these funds will be maintained
throughout the life of the project.
Components B and C. The development of sustainable rural financial markets depends largely on the
increased presence of private intermediaries (banks and NGOs) in rural areas and on the relative
profitability that they achieve in serving these markets. Component B will assist in developing and inducing
private intermediaries to adopt technologies of rural financial intermediation to allow the sustainable
provision of financial services to rural households and SMEs in rural areas as has been the case elsewhere
(e.g., Indonesia and Thailand). The sustainability of these benefits will be assured at the end of the project
because the business practices that promoted will continue to be used in the future. Component C will
support the Government in reforming the legal and regulatory framework and developing modem systems
for sustainable rural finance. The benefits of this component are expected to continue beyond the end of
the project, because it is expected that these reforms and systems will be permanently incorporated into the
country's legal system.
Finally, there is a clear understanding with the authorities about the policy conditions required for World
Bank financing of the project, namely that the Government will continue the process of privatization or
divestiture of Banca Agricola and that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry will prepare and
submit to the Government an Ordinance on Agricultural Credit, which must be agreed by the World Bank,
aimed at dissolving all directed credit programs and all government funds financing rural areas and
agriculture. The proposed project will, therefore, contribute to sustainability by reversing the negative
effects of current government participation in financial markets in rural areas, which has crowded out
private lenders.
In addition, the World Bank has required, as a dated convenant (October 15, 2001) and a condition for
disbursement of component A (the Rural Credit and Leasing Facility), the elimination of VAT on the
interests accrued (as opposed to eamed) by non-bank lenders on their loans. Banking institutions are
excepted from this tax. The effect is a very large reduction of the risk adjusted effective rates for non-bank
lenders the tax is above the bottom line. This reduction is so significant that some NGOs pay fees to
commercial banks of up to 10 percent of principal amounts outstanding as "rental" payment on the bank's
name simply to avoid the tax as these NGOs process these loans and book the risks through
- 39 -



counter-guarantee deposits made in the "lending bank." This discriminatory tax regime has had a negative
effect on the development of micro-finance in Romania. Thus, its removal and would aid the sustainability
of micro-lending.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk:Rating    X         Risk*Mi ntg0t'Measure
From Outputs to Objective
A sufficient number of Romanian private       M         While this variable may not be influenced
banks will not be able to meet eligibility              directly by project design, the govermnent is
criteria as PIBs and PRBs.                              making efforts with the assistance of the IMF
and the World Bank to improve the performance
and regulation of the banking sector. The
increased participation of international banks in
Romanian markets also reduces this risk.
Private banks and NGOs not sufficiently       M         Full feasibility study was conducted and will be
interested in the rural market niche to                 shared, together with a computer program that
become PIBs and SPs, respectively, under                will allow risk simulation, with eligible banks
the project.                                            and NGOs. Private banks and NGOs have
expressed significant interest already.
Terms and conditions on credit facility       M         Technologies will be designed to deliver credit
resources not attractive to PIBs and                    with low transaction costs for borrowers.
potential beneficiaries, relative to                    Government has agreed not to allocate
alternative sources.                                    subsidized credit which will be in direct
competition with project funds.
Political interference in credit allocation   S         Only private lenders and private borrowers will
decisions.                                              be eligible to participate in the project.
No sufficient demand for investment and       M         While this variable may not be influenced
credit at market conditions by rural                    directly by project design, efforts under the
households and enterprises.                             ASAL and current policy initiatives (e.g., Lupu
Law) are aimed at providing a conducive
environment for rural investment. Also, the
SAPARD program will cause a "step" increase
in the demand for rural private investrnent as
financial rates of return on private investments
will increase because of the grants involved in
the program.
The NBR will not permit expansion of the      M         The Governor of the NBR or his representative
branch networks of private banks.                       will be a member of the Steering Committee for
the Project.
- 40 -



No active involvement of Steering          M         Members of the Steering Committee represent
Committee in discussing policy                       the authorities with the strongest interest in
recommendations, promoting implied                   reforming the sector.
reforms, and in disseminating results and
proposals from TA.
From Components to Outputs
NBR does not take active role in            S        The Governor of the NBR or his representative
certifying eligibility of PIBs.                      will be an advisory member of the Steering
Committee for the project.
PMU unable to recruit personnel with       M         Sufficient amount of project proceeds will be
appropriate qualifications and experience,           made available so that the PMU could offer a
including the ability to prepare TORs and            competitive remuneration to qualified
assess technical proposals from                      professionals.
consultants.
Steering Committee appointed by the         S        Appointment of Steering Committee is a
Government and its members does not                  condition for Board presentation of the project.
take active role in guiding and overseeing           Significant policy dialogue has taken place to
the activities of the PMU.                           convince members of the importance of the
project.
Appointment of a PMU Director who          N         Qualifications, experience and terms and
does not have sufficient operational                 conditions of employment of Director should be
autonomy.                                            satisfactory to the World Bank.
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
It is unlikely that project factors might become controversial.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
* Signing of a Resource Management Agreement between the Government and an eligible Treasury Bank
which will manage disbursement of the project funds.
*  Recruitment by and for the PMU of a procurement specialist with adequate experience in
Bank-financed procurement.
- 41 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agrecments.]
Board Conditions:
* Dissolution of all directed credit programs and all government funds financing rural and agricultural
credit, including Ordinance 36/99 (Support for Farm Equipment Purchases) and Ordinance 165/98
(Ordinance for Providing Finance for Crop Planting).
* Appointment of the Steering Committee for the project.
* All actions required to provide the project's PMU with the legal authority to function taken.
* Physical location of the PMU decided.
* Appointment of PMU Director with experience and qualifications acceptable to the World Bank.
* Financial management and internal control systems acceptable to the World Bank in place.
*   Bank no objection to Terms of Reference for recruitment of independent auditors, acceptable to the
Bank, on a yearly renewable contract (subject to satisfactory performance) for the PMU.
The Government has met or will have met the above conditions as follows:
Dissolution of all directed credit programs and all Government funds financing rural and agricultural
credit. The Cabinet will have issued an emergency ordinance on March 8, 2001, which will eliminate all
directed credit programs and all Government funds financing rural and agricultural credit.
Appointment of the Steering Committee for the Project. A joint ministerial order appointing the
members of the Project's Steering Committee will have been issued on March 5, 2001 by the Ministry of
Public Finance (MOPF) and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry (MOAFF). The members of
the Steering Committee will be the Minister of Public Finance and the Minister of Agriculture, Food, and
Forestry, or their representatives and, in an advisory capacity, a representative of the National Bank of
Romania.
Bank no objection to Terms of Reference for recruitment of independent auditors. During
negotiations, the Borrower proposed and the Bank agreed on Terms of Reference for independent auditors,
acceptable to the Bank, on a yearly renewable contract (subject to satisfactory performance) for the project.
These Terms of Reference are attached to the project's Operational Manual.
All other conditions for Board presentation. The Ministry of Public Finance will have issued a
ministerial order on March 8, 2001, which will: (a) provide legal authority for the PMU to function; (b)
establish the physical location of the PMU in the MOPF; and (c) appoint the PMU Director. This
ministerial order will also instruct the PMU of the World Bank-financed Private Institution Building Loan
(PIBL) to carry out the Project's initial financial management.
Disbursement Condition and Dated Covenant:
* End collection of VAT, by October 15, 2001, on the interest income accrued on loans made by
non-bank lenders. Ending this VAT is a condition for disbursement of the Project's component A, the
Rural Credit and Leasing Facility.
-42 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Z 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Rodrig A. C  yes                  K    In  . Cleaver               nN. Vorkink
Team 4er                    V~ Sector Director                      Country Director
- 43 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Key Peform%ance~
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:          Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
*  Improve the efficiency   *  Incidence of rural credit   *  Sundry periodic reports    *  Continued government
of financial                constraints and their      issued by the National       commitment to
intermediation to meet      impact on private rural     Bank of Romania.            financial market reform,
the needs of the private   investments.              *  Thompson's Bank             including phasing out of
(rural) sector.         *  Reduction in the share       Watch reports.              directed credit and
*  Reduce the share of the     of state banks in the    *  Project preparation base    privatization of the
state in the banking        aggregate assets,          line survey and follow       banking sector.
sector.                     deposits, equity, and       up survey (M&E).         *  Stability, recovery, and
points of sale of the                                   growth of the banking
banking sector.                                         sector.
*  Eliminate (rural) SOE    *  Reduction in real terms    *  Periodic reports issued  *  Continued government
losses and restore          in the amount of credit     by the National             commitment to
financial discipline.       obtained by rural and       Commission for              reforming the rural
*  Increase private sector     agricultural SOEs with      Statistics on, inter alia,  economy including the
role in agriculture.        respect to 1999 amounts.    trade, industrial and       privatization of SOEs.
*  Raise the efficiency and    *  Percentage of aggregate  agricultural outputs.    *  Relief of rural credit
competitiveness of          value of assets and     *  Public Sector Budget.        cnreief orul credit
.        ~~~constraints will Increase
agriculture.                revenues of rural        *  Project preparation base    investment outlays by
enterprises controlled by   line survey and follow      rural households and
SOEs.                       up survey (M&E).            enterprises.
* Increase in agricultural
gross value added.
*  Improve income earning   *  Increased participation  *  World Bank AAA           *  Reforms in the rural
opportunities and raise     of rural households in      reports especially on the   economy will cause
living standards in rural   input, output, financial,   analysis of the LSMS        better market integration
areas.                      and labor markets.          data set collected          and investment
*  Reduce rural poverty.    *  Off-farn employment         periodically by the         opportunities.
levels.                     National Commission of   a  Market participation and
*  Incidence of poverty in     Statistics.                 off-farm employment
rural areas.            *  Project preparation base     opportunities will
line survey and follow      produce higher incomes
up survey (M&E).            for more rural
households than the
current situation of
extreme reliance on
subsistence farming.
-44 -



Key Pmfcwmance
Hwchy of Owectives               Indicators          Monitorng & Evaluation    Critcal Assumptions
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program Indicators:  Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
*  Support developed and    *  Rural gross value added.  * World Bank Supervision  *  Govemment
intemationally                                       and disbursement           commitment to rural
competitive rural areas                              reports.                   financial market reform
with significantly less                           *  Reports and audited
incidence of poverty                                  financial statements of
TB, PlBs, PRBs, and
SPs. PMU project
reports.
* Project preparation base
line survey and follow
up survey (M&E).
-45 -



Project Development         Outcome / Impact             Project reports:             (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                  Indicators:
*  Increased availability of   *  Amounts of long term   *  World Bank Supervision   *  Conducive investment
financial services in       financing granted to         and disbursement             environment in rural
rural areas which could     private agriculture, rural   reports.                     areas.
be used by private          households, and small     *  Reports and audited          Rural private sector
agents in the process of    and medium rural             financial statements of      growth.
transforming the rural      non-farm enterprises.        TB, PlBs, PRBs, and
economy which requires   *  Amount of credit and         SPs.                      *  There will be macro
significant investment      value of leasing          *  PMU project reports.         stability and no external
and working capital,        contracts allocated by    *  Project preparation base     shocks.
especially for rural        financial sector to rural    line survey and follow
households and private      retail and                   up survey (M&E).
enterprises.                microenterprise clients.
*  Value of aggregate rural
investments to
agricultural gross value
added.
- 46 -



Key P'rfrmance
Hirsrchy of Obje-tlw      -       1atos          -     onitorhng & Evaluao       Critical Asnumptlons
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
]. Rural Credit and Leasing
Facility
*  Sub-loans and          * Number and amount of   *  World Bank Supervision  *  Reasonable demand for
micro-loans to finance    sub-loans disbursed to     and disbursement           investment and credit at
eligible rural productive  rural households and      reports.                   market conditions by
activities (farm and      enterprises.            *  Audit reports of TB,       rural households and
non-farm), including the   *  Number and amount of   PIBs, and SPs.             enterprises.
provision of counterpart  micro-loans to rural    *  PMU project reports.    *  Private banks
funding for the           households.             *  European Union             sufficiently interest in
investments that will be   * Number and amount of    Reports.                   the rural market niche to
financed by grants from   lease contracts on      *  Records and reports by     become PIBs under the
the European Union's      depreciable capital        PIBs, PRBs, SPs and        project.
(EU) Special Accession    assets.                    TB.                     *  Allocation of SAPARD
Program for Agriculture   * Number of rural       *  Follow up survey           funding is carried out in
and Rural Development     households and             (M&E).                     a transparent manner
enterprises which                                    with no political
*  Leasing of depreciable    accessed SAPARD                                       interference and in a
capital assets.           grants with counterpart                               way in which projects
funding provided by the                              with the highest
financial sector.                                    expected returns are
*  Amount of SAPARD                                     supported.
funding to rural private                          *  A significant portion of
sector leveraged with                                SAPARD funding is
project funding.                                     targeted to support
investments by the rural
private sector, as
opposed to public
investments.
-47 -



2. Rural Retail Banking and
Micro-Finance
*  A network of sustainable   *  Number of rural         *  Consultant reports.       *  Eligible private banks
pilot private banking       localities with branches    *  Records, audited           will be convinced that a
offices in rural localities  of private banks and        statements, and reports      network of rural retail
testing suitable            financial sustainability     by PIBs, PRBs, and SPs.      branches may be
technologies to provide     of rural branches.        *  World Bank Supervision       profitable and will, thus,
retail financial services    *  Number of points of sale  reports.                    bid to become PBRs
to small and                of NGOs allocating                                        under the component.
micro-entrepreneurs in      micro-loans and                                        *  Private banks interested
small rural localities.     agro-regions covered.                                     in developing the retail
*  Service providers        *  Technical documents                                       portion of the market.
allocating rural            on: (a) feasibility study                                 Further, they adopt new
micro-loans on behalf of    and proforma projected                                    technologies and
the Governmentand on        financial statements for                                  implement them
their own behalf using      a branch or cluster of                                    appropriately.
international best          branches established by                                *  National or intemational
micro-finance practices.    a private bank; (b)                                       NGOs with the means,
*  Training and technical       design of product mix;                                   experience, and
assistance in retail        (c) credit, accounting,                                   willingness to take
banking and                 and internal control                                      credit risk become SPs
micro-lending to private    manuals; (d) pricing                                      under the project.
banks and                   strategies; (e) personnel                              *  The NBR will permit
non-governmental            incentives; (f)                                           expansion of the branch
organizations.              management                                                networks of private
information systems,                                     banks.
(g) appraisal of retail
loans, and (h) collateral
procedures.
*  Series of seminars,
workshops, and training
for NGO and private
bank staff on the basis of
standard training
materials.
-48 -



3. Project Management and
Technical Assistance to
government
*  Management of project.   *  Timely adoption of the    *  Official Gazette.       *  PMU will be able to
*  Improved legal and          policy recommendations   *  PMU workplans.              recruit and monitor the
institutional              in consultant reports and   *  ICR.                     work of consultants who
environment for rural       policy notes on         *  Consultant reports.          are internationally
financial intermediaries    developing a (a)                                        recognized experts in
and transactions.           warehousing receipts                                   the diverse fields of
system, (b) accounting                                  expertise required to
and fiscal treatment of                                 deliver the technical
depreciable assets and                                  assistance.
leasing, (c) credit rating                          *  Active involvement of
agencies, centrally                                     Steering Committee in
managed databases for                                   discussing policy
banks, (d) private                                      recommendations,
insurance services in                                   promoting implied
rural areas, and (e)                                   reforms, and in
regulation and                                          disseminating results
supervision of rural                                    and proposals from TA.
mutual financial                                    *  Possible change in the
intermediaries.                                         members of Steering
Committee following
elections scheduled for
late 2000 will not
disrupt project activities
and drive for reform.
The executive branch of
Government and
possibly Parliament will
support reform and pass
regulations, ordinances,
or legislation as
required.
*  Public agencies
involved will carry out
new regulations
effectively.
-49 -



Hierarchy of NObectivis           lnd it; Moitoring    vafluation    Critica Assium
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1. Rural Credit and Leasing US$ 114.9 million.         *  Bidding package for     *  NBR takes active role in
Facility.                                                 selection of TB.           certifying eligibility of
*  Detailed eligibility       PIBs.
criteria for PIBs.
*  Drafts Subsidiary Loan
Agreements.
2. Rural Retail Banking and US$ 25.9 million.          *  TORs for consultants.   *  PMU able to recruit
Micro-Finance.                                         *  Bidding packages for       personnel with
selection PRBs and SPs.   appropriate
*  Selection of eligible     qualifications and
localities to establish   experience, including
branches.                 the ability to prepare
TORs and assess
technical proposals from
consultants.
3. Project Management and  US$ 6.0 million.            *  TORs and Consulting     *  Steering Committee
Technical Assistance to the                               contract for PMU           appointed by
Government.                                               Director.                  government and its
*  TORs for long term        members take active role
consultants staffing the  in guiding and
PMU.                      overseeing the activities
*  TORs for technical        of the PMU.
experts.               *  Appointment of
qualified PMU Director
who will have
operational autonomy.
- 50 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$114.94 million
Component A: Rural Credit and Leasing Facility (RCLF). The component will finance (a) sub-loans
on-lent through selected participating Private Intermediary Banks (PlBs) to eligible private sector
borrowers to finance rural productive activities (farm and non-farm), (b) micro-loans disbursed through
participating non-governmental and/or private Service Providers (SPs) to rural entrepreneurs, and (c)
leasing of depreciable capital assets (e.g., machinery, tools, vehicles, equipment) by PIBs and leasing
companies to final beneficiaries.
There is agreement with the Romanian authorities that (a) eligible sub-borrowers and lessees will be limited
to private sector legal entities and physical persons, (b) eligible sub-projects and sub-leases will include all
productive investments in all sub-sectors of the rural economy (agriculture, services, and industry), and (c)
eligible intermediaries will be limited to private banks, private leasing companies, and non-governmental
and/or private entities meeting minimum financial performance standards and in compliance with all
relevant financial market regulations. Detailed eligibility criteria for the Facility, are laid out in Annex 13.
It is further agreed with the Government that all lending, sub-lending, and leasing under the project will be
on market terms and conditions. In particular, the pricing of the credit line and leasing will reflect all costs
and risks involved. Detailed terms and conditions for component-financed financial transactions (loans,
sub-loans, micro-loans, and lease contracts) consistent with these principles are presented in Annex 14 to
this PAD.
Participating Private Intermediary Banks (PIBs). These banks will use the project's Rural Credit and
Leasing Facility to extend sub-loans to eligible sub-borrowers and to finance leasing contracts with eligible
leasing companies and lessees. PlBs will assume all of the credit risk implicit in such sub-loans and lease
contracts. Eligibility criteria for PIBs will include, but will not be limited to, being (a) a fully private bank
and (b) in compliance with all laws and regulations issued by Romania's banking authorities. Full
eligibility criteria for PIBs are presented in Annex 13. The number of PIBs under the project will remain
undefined as any interested bank in compliance with each and every eligibility criterion may become a PIB
under the project. Compliance with all eligibility criteria throughout project implementation will be a
necessary condition for PIBs' continued participation in the project.
Participating Private Leasing Companies (PLCs). To finance the capital required for eligible
sub-projects, potential sub-borrowers (lessees) from the RCLF could apply to eligible leasing companies
for financial leases rather than to PIBs for sub-loans.
Leasing companies could participate as PLCs in the project in two ways. First, those leasing companies
which meet the eligibility criteria established for PLCs, as well as for sub-borrowers and sub-projects (see
Annex 13), will be eligible sub-borrowers that could borrow RCLF funds from PIBs to purchase
productive assets for leasing to other eligible beneficiaries. This leasing of productive assets to other
beneficiaries would effectively be an eligible sub-project for leasing companies, and only for leasing
companies. Under this option, leasing companies would not be subject to the same maximum sub-loan
amount limits for sub-projects. The maximum allowable amount of credit on-lent by a PIB to a single PLC
will either be US$4 million equivalent or will be determined by the relevant banking regulations in Romania
- 51 -



dealing with credit risk limit for a single borrower, whichever amount is lower.
The second option for the participation of leasing companies in the project as PLCs will be for them to act
in the manner of PIBs by accessing RCLF funds directly from the Treasury Bank, instead of borrowing
from PIBs. To act in this capacity, interested leasing companies must meet established eligibility criteria
for PLCs (see Annex 13) and obtain an enforceable unconditional guarantee issued by a local or
internationally reputed bank. This guarantee would be in an amount sufficient to cover the total exposure of
the Governnent in terms of principal amount and interest payments.
In order to issue the required guarantee, (a) a local bank must meet the eligibility criteria established for
PIBs, and (b) an international bank must be chartered in a country with a stable and well-developed
banking industry, and must be in compliance with all regulations in that country, as satisfactorily
determined by the World Bank.
In no case will project funds be available to final beneficiaries (lessees) to finance repayments on a lease
contract obtained under the project.
Most lease contracts under the project will be "full pay-out" leases (i.e., no residual value for the lessor) on
eligible investments activities. The market value of the leased asset will constitute the main collateral for
the lessor. For this purpose, the self contribution (first lease payment by a lessee) must be large enough to
reduce the outstanding balance to below the market value of the leased asset. Leasing companies could opt
to use additional collateral (e.g., moveable or real assets) instead of sizable down payments on a
contract-by-contract basis.
Eligibility criteria for PLCs are set forth in detail in Annex 13 and include being majority privately owned,
having a sound organizational structure suited to managing a large number of relatively small-value leases,
being in compliance with all existing, and agreed compliance with all future, NBR prudential regulations
applicable to leasing companies, and meeting specific debt to equity and debt service coverage ratios.
Procurement of goods by eligible leasing companies will be carried out in accordance with the procurement
methods and thresholds established for Component A of the project (see Annex 6), with due consideration
for other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability thereof, and availability of
maintenance and spare parts therefor.
The pricing of lease contracts will reflect the costs and risks involved. Eligible leasing companies will
assume the credit risk of leasing to final beneficiaries, and will be responsible for establishing, monitoring,
and enforcing contractual conditions on issues such as proper insurance and asset maintenance so that
leased assets do not lose value beyond normal depreciation. Leasing companies will also ensure that
borrowers will be able to generate the required cash flow to service the leasing contract.
Lease contracts under the project could be priced in two ways. First, contracts could have a floating
interest rate, reflecting the variable cost of project funds. Under a floating rate leasing contract, the interest
component of a payment installment would be calculated separately based on and tied to the actual interest
rate on project funds. The leasing contract would specify repayments on "principal" plus an "interest"
element which would be calculated separately for each payment.
The second and riskier pricing option is fixed interest rate lease contracts. Under this option, a leasing
company would access project funds (on variable interest rate terms) and would carry the interest rate risk,
covering it with higher interest margins. Initial installments (self contributions) paid by the lessee would
- 52 -



likely have to be higher to cover the additional default risks.
Disbursements to refinance contracts granted by eligible leasing companies that access project funds
directly through the Treasury Bank will be regulated by terms equivalent to those set forth in the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements between the Ministry of Public Finance (MOPF) and PIBs (see Annex 14). Equivalent
Subsidiary Loan Agreements will be entered into between the MOPF and PLCs.
Project Component 2 - US$25.89 million
Component B: Rural Retail Banking and Micro-Finance. The component will finance incremental
expenditures incurred, inter alia, in: (a) the development of technologies that will reduce the costs and
risks of lending to medium, small, and micro enterprises and entrepreneurs in rural localities through
participating private retail banks (PRBs) and microcredit service providers (SPs); (b) establishment and
operation, by PRBs, of a network of pilot retail banking offices; (c) operation, by SPs, of a network of
microcredit retail points; and (d) training and technical assistance in retail banking and micro-lending to
PRBs and SPs so as to permit them to employ such technologies in a manner that makes small and micro
credit sustainable.
Participating Private Retail Banks (PRBs). The component will support up to four private commercial
banks that will participate in the project as PRBs (a) to develop the capacity to provide rural retail banking
services profitably, especially retail credit, and (b) to explore the market opportunities in small rural
localities with no branches of other private banks. The selected four PRBs will establish a combined
number of up to 120 pilot branches. The project will provide long-term financing to cover (a) a portion of
the start-up investments required to establish the experimental branches, (b) a portion of the cost of
incorporating the experimental branches into the participating banks' existing accounting and intemal
control systems, and (c) a declining portion of the fixed costs of operating and monitoring the branches over
four years. Reasonable estimates and the specific percentages to be financed with project resources of the
items in (a), (b), and (c) are included in the project cost tables. Training and technical assistance in rural
retail banking best practices will also be provided to PRBs under the component. To assist the project's
final beneficiaries in gaining access to EU-SAPARD grant funds, PRBs will provide assistance, as part of
their normal operations, to interested beneficiaries on SAPARD grant application documentation and
procedures. To participate in the proposed project, PRBs must also be PIBs and, therefore, must meet the
eligiblity criteria established for PIBs (see Annex 13).
The procedures for allocation of the 120 branches that will be supported by the project is detailed in the
Project's Operational Manual (OM). The general guidelines for this allocation are as follows.
PRBs will be selected through competitive bidding. Pre-selected banks, having met the eligibility criteria
established for PIBs, will be invited to submit bids for the lowest amount of long-term financing they would
require to establish and operate 55 retail branches each. The four banks requesting the lowest amount of
long-term financing will be selected. If competing banks submit the same bid, the selection will be made on
the basis of their financial situation and their commitment to carry out the project. Each selected PRB will
receive the same amount of long-term financing given by the largest amount bid by any of the four winning
banks.
Participating Micro-credit Service Providers (SPs). Component proceeds will also finance: (a)
reasonable fees for up to 8 NGOs and/or private entities which will act as Service Providers (SPs) on a
consultant basis for the Government in allocating rural micro-loans using project credit line funds (see
section B4 for details); and (b) training and technical assistance to eligible SPs. Participating SPs will
co-finance at least 25 percent of each micro-loan provided to rural entrepreneurs and informal enterprises
- 53 -



under the component. The fees for SPs will, therefore, are intended to cover reasonable portions of the
initial investments and operating costs of managing the Government's share in the portfolio of micro-loans
generated under the component. To assist the project's Final beneficiaries in gaining access to EU-SAPARD
grant funds, SPs will raise awareness among their sub-borrowers of the availability of these funds and
promote the use of their own financial instruments as nieans to gain access to such funds.
Eligible SPs must be legally incorporated private entiti -s, satisfactory to the World Bank, which are able to
demonstrate (a) sufficient capacity to deliver microcrec it, (b) sound organization with competent
management, strong internal control, financial management, and operational capacity, (c) preferably an
established record of delivering services successfully ir rural areas, and (c) the willingness and ability to
share in the credit risk and to co-finance up to 25 perce nt of the micro-loans allocated under the
sub-component. The risk-sharing mechanism has been designed to provide incentives to the selected SPs for
the careful screening of micro-loan sub-borrowers and X o recover the micro-loans financed under the
component. Full eligibility criteria for SPs are presented in Annex 13.
Service Providers will be selected through competitive bidding (through Quality-and-Cost-Based-Selection
procedures) according to the Guidelines for Selection acnd Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999, published by the World Bank.
Interested SPs which meet all established eligibility critzria (see Annex 13) will submit a technical proposal
and an economic offer to become an SP in a region in which the project will be implemented. The SPs
selected for a given region will be the contestants which submit the economic offer for the lowest amount of
service fees among those which meet the eligibility criteria and whose technical proposals are deemed
satisfactory. If competing potential SPs submit bids for the same amount, the selection will be made on the
basis of their financial situation and their commitment to carry out the project.
Technical assistance and training to SPs will be aimed a adapting to Romania successful micro-finance
methodologies based on: (a) low fixed-cost structures; l b) screening borrowers on the basis of their
character and reputation; (c) conducive incentive schemlzs for employees making credit decisions; (d)
adequate internal control mechanisms, and (e) innovative collateral and collateral substitutes such as
movable assets and group liability. Consultants eligible for these assignments will be intemationally
recognized firms and individual experts.
Project Component 3 - US$ 5.98 million
Component C: Project Management and Technical Aissistance on Rural Financial Market
Development. The component will finance the: (a) inc ^emental expenses incurred by the Govermrnent in
implementing and monitoring the project; (b) technical assistance to the Government in (i) developing a
warehousing receipts system, (ii) examining options to reform the accounting and fiscal treatment of
depreciable assets and leasing, (iii) studying the possibilities for establishing instruments for lenders to
share the credit history of borrowers in rural areas (e.g., credit rating agencies, centrally managed
databases for banks), and (iv) examining options to redu ce the general risk of rural credit transactions by
improving the supply and quality of private insurance services in rural areas (especially index-based
agricultural insurance); (c) activities to promote public awareness in rural areas of the Project's Rural
Credit and Leasing Facility, and (d) technical assistance to final beneficiaries under the project on how to
use the Project's Rural Credit and Leasing Facility to ottain and pre-finance grants under SAPARD.
The component will be carried out with the assistance of intemational consultants. Selection of these
consultants will be carried out by the PMU and in accorlance with the Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999, published by the World Bank. Consultan:s eligible for these assignments will be (a)
- 54 -



internationally recognized individual experts and (b) internationally recognized (i) consulting firms and (ii)
financial or micro-finance institutions.
- 55 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
_r.totyo~o~tUS$ilo                                        S$ilo        US_ '$milon 
Component A: Rural Credit and Leasing Facility              93.19         21.75        114.94
Component B: Rural Banking and Micro-Finance                17.40          7.13        24.53
Component C: Project Management Technical Assistance in      3.09          2.64          5.73
Rural Financial Market Development
Total Baseline Cost                                        113.68         31.52        145.20
Physical Contingencies                                      0.07         0.00          0.07
Price Contingencies                                         1.02         0.52           1.54
Total Project Costs             114.77         32.04        146.81
Front-end fee                     0.80          0.80
Total Financing Required              114.77         32.84        147.61
Local   ~~~Fbreign,     jotiil
Goods                                                        67.24          25.34         92.58
Works                                                        28.50           0.00         28.50
Services                                                      3.74           5.95          9.69
Training                                                      0.05           0.75          0.80
Incremental Operating Costs                                  15.24           0.00         15.24
Total Project Costs    114.77          32.04        146.81
Front-end fee                     0.80          0.80_
Total Financing Required     114.77          32.84        147.61
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes. is 147.61 (USSm). Therefore, the project cost sharinig ratio is 54.2% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 56 -



Annex 4
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Selected Investment Activities in Rural Areas
It is not possible to predict the specific sub-projects or sub-leases that will be financed under the project's
Rural Credit and Leasing facility (RCLF) because of the demand driven nature of such Facility. Neither is
it possible, therefore, to estimate overall financial and economic rates of return for Component A of the
Project.
This annex summarizes the economic analysis of a sample of activities likely to be financed under the
component. The purpose is to ascertain that in fact there are investments in rural Romania that could be
financed under the project and which will have acceptable ERRs. In this sense, economic and financial
analyses of 29 selected on-farm and off-farm investments that might be financed under Component A were
conducted. The analysis of each of these activities (see table below) compared "with and without sub-loan"
situations to illustrate the possible changes induced by the investments financed by the sub-loans under the
component on relevant variables such as production costs, factor productivity, technology, and operational
income.
The investments selected for the analysis are mostly small and medium-scale (see table below for the range
of sub-loan amounts). Small and medium scale investments were selected to accommodate the empirical
findings of a survey of 2,400 rural households and 900 rural enterprises conducted in the process of
preparing the project. The survey revealed the prevalence in rural areas of individual farming households
with an average of 2.1 hectares and small and medium enterprises (SMEs) with average assets of US$
11,500. Consequently, outreach to rural agents will imply that the investments to be financed under the
project's RCLF will likely include numerous small and medium-scale investments. While larger
investments will also be eligible for financing under the Component (the maximum sub-loan amount is USS
1 million), these investments will naturally be much more scrutinized by PIBs and the World Bank
(free-limit sub-loans will be US$250,000) to insure that they will have acceptable ERRs. The lending
guidelines for PIBs require that (a) sub-loans approved must have rates of return above on-lending rates of
interest and (b) the repayment capacity (based on investment cash flows) of the sub-borrower or lessee be
clearly proven.
The detailed results of the economic analysis of these 29 investments are maintained in the project file. The
analysis indicates that there is a range of viable small and medium business activities in rural areas and that
a sufficient number of them remained profitable when adverse changes in key parameters were simulated in
the analysis. The key results include the following:
*   Availability of additional investment capital is very important for horticultural and small livestock
activities because investments in these activities have high marginal FRR and ERRs, specially at
the very small scales of operation at which they are being typically carried-out in Romania. Larger
scales of operation would, therefore, significantly increase mean economic and financial rates of
return.
*   Investments in non-agricultural activities, currently very underdeveloped in rural areas, offer
potentially large FRRs and ERRs. For instance the ERRS for investments in (a) drying and
storage of agricultural products range between 135-269 percent, (b) downstream processing range
between 24-38 percent, and (c) non-farm enterprise activities range between 24-600 percent.
- 57 -



* The FRRs and ERRs for investments in all activities are highly sensitive to variables such as
agro-ecological region, local availability of inputs, and distance to output markets. Nonetheless,
there are sufficient numbers of small and medium-sized investment projects (between USD 5,000
to 500,000) with large enough returns to insure rural growth and significant outreach to a large
cross section of rural households and enterprises.
* As expected, some activities were found to have negative ERRs at any scale of operation for
reasonable discount rates. Examples include small scale production of sugar beets and some fruit
orchards. In contrast, there are other activities that are highly profitable such as perishables (ERRs
between 184-200 percent), investments in vineyards (up to 200 ERRs).
- 58 -



Selecte Rural Invesment Projects
Loan
.          .                     ~~~~~~~~~       ~     ~~Investment  (USD)
Annual Crops and Pereunials                                           I A_ount
Wheat                         Small farm (10 has.) -                    1,900
Medium sized farn - (100 has.)           17,000
Maize                         Small farm (10 has.)                      4,300
Medium sized farm -(100)                 40,000
Vegetables
Cucumbers                   Small family farm - (0.1 has.)            3,346
Cucumber-tomatoes           Small family farm - (0.1 has.)            3,456
Tomatoes                    Small family farm - (0.1 has.)            3,566
_ Fruit Growing               Small orchard (3 has.)                   370/ha
Vineyard            7         Small vineyard (3 has.)                  150/ha
Sugar Beet                    Small farm - (10 has.)                   340/ha
______________________________  Large farm - (500 has.)                 350/ha
Wvestock,,,,,_
Cattle Farrn                  30 head, producing milk                  15,500
Pig Farm                      80 head                                  15,500
Sheep Farm                    450 head                                 10 500
Poultry Farm                  2,000 head                              [12,500
A;_ eatwAl Se7  es_  _
Silo                        | Capacity 5,000 tones, 70% utilization ratio  60,000
Agricultural Inputs and Outputs   Inventories                           50,000
Grain elevator               l Capacity 10,000 tones, 70% utilization ration   550,000
Processna                         _     _     _    _     _     _    _    _    _
Mini Bakery                   Equipment purchase                       12,266
Mill                          Equipment purchase                       30,000
Milk Processing               Installation, capacity 800 lts/day       167,500
Canning                       Canning vegetables and fruits            167,500
Off-FM Bunesses
Transport Company             3 trucks of 15 tones, plus working capital  11,000
Video Entertainment           Equipment purchase                       20,575
Agro-Tourism                  Rehabilitation of premises               20,000
Handicraft                    Inn textiles manufacturing, 500 sqm. p.m.  50,000
Housing Building Company      Factory, 30-40 employees                 250,000
Spare Parts Production        Workshop, 10- 15 employees               24,000
Auto Mechanic Service         Service shop, 4-6 employees              35,000
Waste Processing/Management   Small factory                            55,000
Consumer Durable Goods Repair  Workshop, 4-5 employees                 20,000
- 59 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Analysis of the Profitability of Providing Financial Services in Rural Areas
A.    Summary
The sustainability and financial viability of the activities to be financed under Component B - namely retail
rural bank branches (RBBs) and microcredit service provider retail points (SPRPs) - will depend upon the
cost structure of their operations, the market-related interest rates at which they would receive and lend out
funds, the delinquency rates, and the size of the market they will serve in terms of potential clients and
intermediated amounts. More specifically, the degree to which they will achieve sustainable operations will
depend on: (a) the design and execution of their overall retail banking and microcredit schemes; (b) the
employment of appropriate business practices (e.g., adequate terms and conditions of microloans, screening
of potential borrowers, enforcement of loan contracts, reserves for loan losses); and (c) the characteristics
of the particular market in which the SPRP will operate (e.g., macroeconomic indicators, prevailing interest
rates, size and makeup of the market, tax regime).
This annex presents the results of a in-depth study of the potential profitability of providing retailUmicro
financial services in rural areas of Romania through the introduction of new rural bank branches and
microcredit service provider retail points. The study confirms that it is possible for such entities to operate
profitably if they adopt international best practices in rural finance. Some of these best practices include
providing simple financial products that are financially viable and meet clients' needs, using local
information to screen potential borrowers and monitor outstanding loans, introducing incentives to induce
due diligence on the part of employees, reducing fixed costs, and maintaining adequate systems of internal
control.
The study is based in the results of a computerized financial projection model. The model results are based
on a set of conservative assumptions and parameters derived from official survey and other data on the
lending and saving behavior of individuals, households, and enterprises in rural Romania, the
macroeconomic environment, size and make-up of the market area to be covered by a new rural bank
branch or microcredit service provider retail point in terms of potential clients, interest rates at which a new
branch or service provider retail point will mobilize and lend funds, types and characteristics of financial
products to be offered, loan portfolio performance, existing banking regulation, start-up costs, and
operating expenses.
A.    The Model
The computerized financial projection model is designed to show the relationship between design variables
(e.g., types of financial products, incentive schemes, initial investment costs) and the profitability of rural
retail financial services. The model generates pro forma balance sheets, income statements, and 40
financial ratios for a given financial intermediary based on the above-mentioned assumptions and
parameters. The model produces results for six-month periods over a duration of five years. Detailed
descriptions and justifications of each assumption and parameter used in the model for the Romania case
appear in section D (a new rural bank branch) and E (a new microcredit program) below. The summarized
model results and sensitivity analyses appear in Attachment I to this annex.
- 60 -



B.    The Data
The principal sources of data used in determining the assumptions and parameters for the model were three
surveys: (i) the 1998 survey of rural households and financial services (SRHFS); (ii) the 1998 survey of
rural enterprises an financial services (SREFS); and (iii) the 1998 survey of financial outlets (SFO). The
data from these surveys is supplemented with the 1997 National Commission for Statistics (NCS) locality
file, which contains information regarding economic activity and population demographics among other
variables. The surveys contain a complete inventory of financial services used by rural households and
rural enterprises.
C.    Model Assumptions and Parameters: A New Rural Bank Branch
The purpose of this section is to describe each assumption and parameter required by the model and to
justify the particular values used for these assumptions and parameters in the base case rural bank branch
projection.
Macroeconomic Parameters
Inflation. A 20% annual inflation rate is assumed for the five years covered by the model. Inflation in
Romania has been both volatile and unpredictable from 1992 to the 1999. However, it is projected to fall
from its 1998 level of 59% to approximately 32% in 1999 and 20% in 2000 based on the expectation that
the Government will, on the whole, implement key economic reform measures, including maintaining tight
monetary policy to control inflation.
GDP Growth. A 2% annual real GDP growth rate is assumed for the years covered by the model.
Romanian real GDP growth, like inflation, varied considerably from 1992 to 1999. The economy
contracted by 5% in 1998 and is expected to contract again by 1% in 1999. However, a real GDP growth
rate of 2% is projected for the following years based again on the expectation that the Government will
follow through, in large part, on economic reforms, which will begin to lead the country out of recession by
2000.
Tax on Profits. The 25% rate of tax on profits assumed in the model reflects the rate currently in effect in
Romania.
The Market
The market refers to the population in the area to be covered by a new rural bank branch. The model calls
for assumptions for the size and make-up of the market. The size of the market is calculated based on
assumptions for: (i) the initial size of the market (at the inception of the branch); and (ii) the annual
population growth rate of the market. The make-up of the market according to types of clients that will be
eligible to access the financial services offered by a new branch is derived from 1998 survey data.
- 61 -



Size and Growth of Population in Area Covered
Initial Population in the Area Covered by a Branch. It is assumed that a new rural bank branch would
initially cover an area containing approximately 10,000 individuals and enterprises. More specifically,
based on 1992 census data, which show that most (77%) Romanian towns/municipalities number between
5,000 and 50,000 inhabitants and most (85%) comunas number from 2,000 to 10,000 inhabitants, it was
estimated that a rural bank branch would serve from 0.2 to 2 towns/municipalities, 1 to 5 comunas, or any
combination thereof, the sum of whose populations equals approximately 10,000. While in 1998 there
were approximately 4,076 financial outlets in rural Romania serving about 5,596 inhabitants and areas of
58.5 km2 each, it is assumed that a new rural bank branch could cover a larger population and area if it
adopts intemational best practices in rural finance.
For the purposes of this study, it is assumed that a new branch would cover only an area in which it is the
sole formal sector financial outlet. A new branch would, thus, face no formal sector competition. This
assumption is reasonable given that the average comuna is, in most cases, served by either one bank branch
or none at all. It is expected that a new branch will compete successfully with the semi-formal sector by
providing affordable, reliable, and appropriately designed financial products best intemational best
practices in rural finance.
Population Growth Rate in the Area Covered by a Branch. The growth rate of the population in the
area covered by a new rural bank branch is assumed to be -0.3% per annum, which represents the projected
population growth rate for Romania in general from 2001 to 2005. The population of Romania has
decreased consistently during the 1990s and is expected to continue its decline into the 21st century.
Make-up of Population in the Area Covered
The model assumes that a new rural bank branch would render retail financial services to the following
client types: (i) workers, agricultural association members, and pensioners; (ii) individual rural
entrepreneurs (agricultural and non-agricultural); and (iii) rural enterprises (corporations, limited liability
enterprises, and other entities with a legal personality, both agricultural and non-agricultural). Each client
type as a percentage of the population in the area covered by a rural bank branch is assumed to parallel
that of the Romanian rural population in general. According to 1998 survey data, 29.1 % of the rural
population were workers, association members, and pensioners, 23.8% were entrepreneurs (22%
agricultural and 2% non-agricultural), and there were approximately 78 enterprises per 10,000 individuals
(4 agricultural and 74 non-agricultural). While Romania's transition to a market-oriented economy could
result in an increase in entrepreneurial activity in rural areas, the pace and precise impact of this transition
is difficult to predict. Thus, the distribution of the population by client type is assumed to remain constant
over the five years covered by the model.
-62-



Figure 1: Make-Up of Rural Population by Client Type
Workers & Association
Non-w orking                Members
12.10%                     18.35%
Non-w orking Age                                                Entrepreneurs
17.66%                                                      (agrcultural)
A9 ' b   ^   ^              21.72%
Entrepreneurs (non-
Non-paid Workers                                 ------           agrcultural)
16.96%          Pensioners                                       1.88%
16.96%      ~10.51%                            Enterprises  1.8
En.1terprises (non-  (agricultural)
agricultural)       0.77%
0.04%
Source: Rural Household and Enterprise Surveys, 1998
Deposits
The model calls for a series of assumptions relating to the deposit services to be provided by a new rural
bank branch, including: (i) estimated demand for deposit services; (ii) types of accounts and average initial
deposit account balances; (iii) interest rates on deposits; and (iv) elasticity of deposit account balances with
respect to inflation and real GDP growth.
Estimated Demandfor Deposits
Estimation of the demand for deposit services has two elements: (i) the percentage of eligible depositors
(workers, association members, pensioners, entrepreneurs, and enterprises) in the area covered by a new
rural bank branch that might have an effective demand for deposit services (i.e., are both willing and able
to deposit funds); and (ii) coverage (percentage of these eligible depositors that might demand deposits that
actually deposit funds with the branch).
Eligible Depositors that Might Demand Deposits. The percentage of eligible depositors that might
demand deposit services is assumed in the model at 60% for workers, association members, and pensioners,
65% for entrepreneurs, and 95% for enterprises. The following paragraphs explain the basis on which
these assumptions were made.
About 21% of workers, association members, and pensioners in rural areas had financial savings in 1998.
Further, a highly conservative inference based on household-level (not individual-level) survey data
suggests that 13% of these client types had a demand for deposit services but were constrained from
actually depositing funds for several reasons, including high initial deposit requirements and lack of trust in
financial institutions. The percentage of constrained but potentially active depositors combined with the
percentage of those who actually had financial savings suggests that a total of 35% of workers, association
members, and pensioners had a potential demand for deposits.
Similarly, about 21% of individual entrepreneurs in rural areas had financial savings in 1998, and 17% had
a demand for deposit services but were constrained. These data suggest that 38% of entrepreneurs had a
potential demand for deposits.
- 63 -



The model assumptions for workers, association members, pensioners, and entrepreneurs who might
demand deposits are higher than what the survey data reflect, but they are reasonable because: (i) the
above-mentioned inference made from households to individuals regarding constraints on potential
depositors is highly conservative; and (ii) deposit services offered by a new branch will be more accessible
than those offered by existing more distant branches due to (a) reduced transaction costs for depositors with
the new branch as a result of the immediate physical presence of the branch in the area which it covers, and
(b) the enhanced quality and more efficient delivery of deposit services offered by the branch as a result of
its incorporation of intemational best practices in rural finance.
Enterprises are required under Romanian law to maintain deposit accounts. About 96% of enterprises
actually had financial savings in 1998, and only 4% were constrained. These data suggest that 100% of
rural enterprises had a potential demand for demand deposits.
Figure 2: Existing Deposit Coverage of Client Types vs. Projected Coverage by New Branch by Year 5
-120)%      ..                    _g         i     i
100%
80%
60%
40%/
20%
0%
Workers,   Ag       Non-Ag  Ag Enterprises  Non-Ag
Assoc Mem, Entrpreneurs Entrepreneurs   Enterprises
Pensioners
| Existing Coverage * Projected Coverage by New Branch|
Source: Rural Household and Enterprise Surveys, 1998
Coverage of Eligible Depositors that Might Demand Deposits. It is assumed that deposit coverage (the
percentage of those eligible depositors that might demand deposits that actually open deposit accounts with
a new branch) will, by the end of year five of the branch's operations, increase from (i) 5% to 55% for
workers, association members, and pensioners, (ii) 5% to 60% for entrepreneurs, and (iii) 5% to 95% for
enterprises.
Under these assumptions, a new branch would initially mobilize deposits from about 3% of all workers,
association members, and pensioners in the area that it covers, increasing to about 33% by the fifth year of
operations, thereby surpassing the existing deposit mobilization rate for these client types.
Similarly, a new branch would initially mobilize deposits from about 3% of all individual entrepreneurs in
the area that it covers, increasing to about 39% by the fifth year of operations, thereby surpassing the
existing deposit mobilization rate for these client types.
Finally, a new branch would initially mobilize deposits from about 5% of all enterprises in the area that it
covers, increasing to about 90% in the fifth year of operations.
Figure 2 shows existing deposit coverage by client type versus projected coverage by a new branch in its
fifth year of operations.
- 64 -



A new branch would eventually achieve rates of deposit mobilization which exceed existing rates because
deposit services offered by the branch would be more accessible than those offered by existing more distant
branches due to: (i) reduced transaction costs for depositors with the new branch as a result of the
immediate physical presence of the branch in the area which it covers; and (ii) the enhanced quality and
more efficient delivery of deposit services offered by the branch as a result of its incorporation of
intemational best practices in rural finance.
Average Initial Deposit Account Balance by Account Type and Client Type
Based on 1998 survey data, it is assumed that a new branch would offer two types of deposit accounts: (i)
passbook accounts; and (ii) time accounts with a six month term to maturity. It is further assumed that
new individual depositors with the branch would have one passbook and one time account, while
enterprises would have only a passbook account. Figure 3 shows the assumptions for average initial deposit
account balances for each client group. The assumed deposit account balances reflect directly existing
balances at the time of the survey.
Finally, the model makes the following assumptions regarding deposit accounts: (i) time deposits are rolled
over upon maturity; (ii) the interest rate on time deposits is also adjusted upon renewal; (iii) the interest
rates and average balances of passbook deposits are adjusted periodically in the same way; and (iv) interest
on deposits in general is paid as it accrues.
Figure 3: Assumed Average Initial Deposit Account Balance (US$ equivalent)
2,500 
2,000L_                               
Workers, Assoc Ag Entrpreneurs   Non-Ag   Ag Enterprises   Non-Ag
Mem,               Entrepreneurs          Enterprises
Pensioners
|IePassbook ST!m 
Source: Rural Household and Enterprise Surveys, 1998
- 65 -



Interest Cost of Mobilizing Deposits
The annual nominal interest rates on deposits assumed in the model are 25% for passbook accounts and
26% for time accounts, and are expected to remain constant, along with inflation, during the five years
covered by the model. It is expected that the interest rate on time accounts will be higher than that on
passbook accounts given the added risk to depositors posed by the term to maturity on time accounts. The
assumed interest rates on deposits are calculated based on an assumed 4% real interest rate plus the 20%
projected annual inflation rate. While these rates are lower than Romanian commercial deposit interest
rates of recent years (38%, 56%, and 37% from 1996 to 1998), it should be noted that the annual inflation
rate in these years (39%, 155%, and 59%) was significantly higher than the inflation rate assumed in the
model. Under a lower inflation scenario, it is expected that the Romanian commercial deposit interest rate
would have been lower, rendering the deposit interest rates assumed in the model competitive. Figure 4
compares Romanian historical commercial deposit rates and inflation. Finally, it is important to note that a
high interest rate on deposits is not the primary factor inducing depositors to open accounts. Most
individuals (52%) who opened deposit accounts with a particular formal sector financial institution in 1998
chose the institution because of its convenient location. Only 27% chose an institution based solely on a
higher deposit interest rate.
Figure 4: Commercial Deposit Interest Rate vs Inflation
200
180
160
140
12D
e 100
80
60
40
20
1996            1997             1998            1999
Commercial Deposit Rate     -Irflation
Source: National Bank of Romania
Elasticity ofAverage Deposit Account Balance
The elasticity of the average deposit account balance considers: (i) elasticity with respect to inflation and
real GDP growth; and (ii) the time it takes (lag) for depositors to adjust their account balances with respect
to inflation and real GDP growth. While estimates for these elasticities are not available, it is reasonable to
assume that within three months of changes in inflation and real GDP growth, depositors would adjust their
average account balances to 90% of their desired levels.
Number of Depositors at the End of Each Period
The number of depositors with a new branch at the end of each period is determined by: (i) the initial
population in the area covered by the new branch; (ii) the growth (or decline) of this population; and (iii)
the increasing deposit coverage of this population. The model projects that a new branch will have 168
depositors by the end of the first semester of operations, increasing to 1,901 by the end of the tenth
semester. Most depositors would be workers, association members, pensioners, and agricultural
entrepreneurs.
- 66 -



Loans
The model calls for parameters and assumptions relating to the lending services to be provided by a new
branch, including: (i) estimated demand for loans; (ii) regulation of reserves for loan-losses and accrued
interest in arrears; (iii) elasticity of the average loan portfolio outstanding with respect to inflation and real
GDP growth; (iv) terms and conditions of loans; and (v) portfolio quality.
Estimated Demandfor Loans
The estimated demand for loans consists of two elements: (i) percentage of eligible borrowers (workers,
association members, pensioners, entrepreneurs, and enterprises) in the area served by a new rural bank
branch that might have an effective demand for loans (i.e., are both willing and able to borrow); and (ii)
coverage (percentage of these eligible borrowers that might demand loans that actually obtains loans from
the branch).
Eligible Borrowers that Might Demand Loans. The percentage of eligible borrowers that might demand
loans is assumed at 35% for workers, association members, and pensioners, 35% for entrepreneurs, and
95% for enterprises. The following paragraphs explain how these percentages were arrived at.
Approximately 9% of workers, association members, and pensioners in rural areas had loans from formal
and semi-formal sector financial institutions in 1998. At the same time, 11% were constrained from
borrowing for various reasons, including high transaction costs, high interest rates, and uncertain revenues.
In this way, the percentage of constrained but potentially active borrowers combined with the percentage of
those who actually had loans suggests that a total of 20% of workers, association members, and pensioners
had a potential demand for loans.
Similarly, 9% of individual entrepreneurs in rural areas had loans from formal and semi-formal sector
financial institutions, and 11% had a demand for loans but were constrained, citing high transaction costs,
high interest rates, and uncertain revenues. These data suggest that 20% of entrepreneurs had a potential
demand for loans.
The above percentages for workers, association members, pensioners, and for entrepreneurs, while higher
than what the existing survey data on potential loan demand in rural areas reflect, are reasonable based on
the expectation that lending services offered by a new branch will be more accessible than those offered by
existing more distant branches due to: (i) reduced transaction costs for borrowers from the new branch as a
result of the immediate physical presence of the branch in the area which it covers, and (ii) the enhanced
quality and more efficient delivery of lending services offered by the branch as a result of its incorporation
of intemational best practices in rural finance, including streamlined risk assessment and loan pricing
techniques.
Finally, about 20% of enterprises had loans, while 70% were constrained from borrowing for various
reasons, including the fear of being rejected, high lending rates, commissions and fees, and uncertain
revenues. These data suggest that about 90% of enterprises had a potential demand for loans.
- 67 -



Figure 5: Existing Loan Coverage vs. Projected Coverage by New Branch by Year 5
70%
0 %                                                   -is
20%   | _          1      1      _    
Workers,    Ag      Non-Ag   Ag Enterprises   Non-Ag
Assoc Mem,  Entrpreneurs Entrepreneurs   Enterprises
Pensioners
| 1Existing Coverage * Projected Coverage by New Branch
Source: Rural Household and Enterprise Surveys, 1998
Coverage of Eligible Borrowers that Might Demand Loans. It is assumed that loan coverage (the
percentage of those eligible borrowers that might demand loans that actually obtain loans from a new
branch) will, by the end of year five of the branch's operations, increase from (i) 5% to 55% for workers,
association members, and pensioners, (ii) 5% to 55% for entrepreneurs, and (iii) 5% to 65% for
enterprises.
Under these assumptions, about 2% of all workers, association members, and pensioners in the area
covered by a new branch would initially receive loans from the branch, increasing to 19% by the fifth year
of operations, thereby surpassing the existing loan coverage rate for these client types.
Similarly, about 2% of all individual entrepreneurs in the area covered by a new branch would initially
receive loans from the branch, increasing to 19% by the fifth year of operations, thereby surpassing the
existing loan coverage rate for these client types.
Finally, about 5% of all enterprises in the area covered by a new branch would initially receive loans from
the branch, increasing to 62% by year five, and thereby surpassing the existing loan coverage rate for these
client types.
Figure 5 shows existing loan coverage by client type versus projected coverage by a new branch in its fifth
year of operations.
A new branch would eventually reach loan coverage rates which surpass existing coverage rates because
lending services offered by the branch would be more accessible than those offered by existing more distant
branches due to: (i) reduced transaction costs for borrowers as a result of the immediate physical presence
of the new branch in the area which it covers; and (ii) the enhanced quality and more efficient delivery of
lending services offered by the branch as a result of its incorporation of international best practices in rural
finance.
- 68 -



Regulation of Reservesfor Loan Losses and Assumptionsfor Accrued Interest in Arrears
The model calls for assumptions and parameters regarding: (i) regulation of reserves for loan-losses and
accrued interest in arrears (i.e., reserves per portfolio risk category as required by the National Bank of
Romania (NBR) and estimated accrued interest in arrears for each category); (ii) write-offs as a
percentage of the loan portfolio; (iii) lag on accrued interest in arrears; (iv) interest penalty for arrears; and
(v) percentage of accrued interest on reserves for loan losses that is eventually collected.
Regulation of Reserves for Loan Losses. New rural bank branches will be required uider the regulatory
norms of the National Bank of Romania to classify the loans in their portfolios in five risk categories ("A"
through "E", from lowest to highest risk). Each category calls for a percentage of the loan portfolio
outstanding to be reserved for loan losses. The percentages corresponding to categories "A" through "E"
are 0%, 5%, 20%, 50%, and 100% respectively.
Accrued Interest in Arrears. Accrued interest in arrears is defined as interest past due but still unpaid.
The percentage of accrued interest in arrears for each risk category ("A" through "E" as indicated above) is
calculated as the product of: (i) the sum of the principal outstanding on loans in a given risk category; and
(ii) a percentage of the outstanding loan portfolio, where the percentage used increases with the risk
category. Based on international experience and data from existing Romanian banks serving rural areas,
the accrued interest in arrears for risk categories "A" through "E" is assumed at 0%, 1%, 2%, 5%, and
10% respectively.
Write-offs from the Loan Portfolio. Based on data collected from existing Romanian banks serving rural
areas, it is estimated that 5% of the loan portfolio outstanding of a new rural bank branch will be written
off on an annual basis. This estimate is corroborated by 1998 survey data which show that 95% of rural
households with loans from formal lenders had no problems paying back their loans on time. While the
assumed write-off rate is lower than the existing rate for rural enterprises, it is expected that the assumed
rate would be achieved through the adoption of international best practices in rural finance, including more
efficient and effective borrower selection and monitoring techniques. Write-offs reduce the reserve for
loan-losses and the gross loan portfolio by equal amounts. Write-offs also affect profits by the difference
between the amount written-off and the expense for provisions for loan-losses that had been required before
the loan was stricken from the books.
Interest Penalties for Arrears. It is assumed that new rural bank branches will increase the interest rate
charged on accrued interest in arrears by 25% of the original interest rate.
Accrued Interest in Arrears that is Collected. Based on data collected from existing Romanian banks
serving rural areas, it is estimated that 80% of the accrued interest in arrears of a new rural bank branch
will be collected.
Elasticity of the Average Loan Portfolio Outstanding Relative to Real GDP Growth and
Inflation
The elasticity of the average loan balance outstanding considers: (i) elasticity of the average loan balance
outstanding with respect to inflation and real GDP growth; and (ii) the time it takes for clients to adjust
their loan balances with respect to inflation and real GDP growth. While precise estimates for these
elasticities are not available, it is reasonable to assume that within three months of changes in inflation and
real GDP growth, borrowers would adjust their average loan balances outstanding to 90% of their desired
levels.
- 69 -



Terms and Conditions of Loans
Assumptions for the terms and conditions of loans include: (i) types of loans offered (short- and
long-term); (i) terms to maturity; (iii) average initial loan size; (iv) lending interest rates; (v) commissions;
and (vi) compensating balances.
Average Initial Loan Size and Terms to Maturity. Figure 6 and Figure 7 show the assumed average
initial loan sizes (short-term and long-term) for individuals and enterprises, respectively, and how these
loan sizes were calculated. For individuals, assumed loan sizes were calculated based on a percentage of
clients' existing monthly income. For example, according to 1998 survey data, the average monthly income
of workers, association members, and pensioners with loans was US $68 equivalent, and average loan size
outstanding per month was 26% of monthly income, or US$17 equivalent. Based on these data, an average
short-term loan (9 month maturity) to a worker, association member, or pensioner would be US$155
equivalent paid back in 9 monthly installments (US SI 7 equivalent) of principal and 4% monthly interest.
Figure 6: Estimated Initial Loan Size for Individuals Based on % of Monthly Income (US$ equivalent)
Workers,
Assoc Mem,       Ag         Non- Ag
Pensioners  Entrepreneurs Entrepreneurs
Existing Avg. Monthly Income                      68           47          135
Existing Loan Size as % of Monthly Income       26%           4%            5%
Existing Loan Size per Month                     21            2             8
Estimated Short-term Loan
Term (months)                                    9            9            9
Assumed Interest Rate (monthly)                 4%           4%           4%
Size                                           153           16           61
% of GDP per Capita                            1%            0%           0%
Estimated Long-term Loan
Term (months)                                   18           18           18
Monthly Interest Rate                           4%           4%           4%
Size                                           267           28          107
% of GDP per Capita                             2%           0%/0         1%
Source: Rural Household Survey, 1998
- 70 -



For enterprises, assumed loan sizes were based on loan size as a percentage of clients' existing assets.
Average loan size for both agricultural and non-agricultural enterprises represented approximately 15% of
assets for short-term loans and 20% of assets for long-term loans, in 1998.
Figure 7: Estimated Initial Loan Size for Enterprises Based on % of Assets (US$ equivalent)
Non-Ag
Ag Enterprises  Enterprises
Existing Avg. Assets                          247,281        11,503
Actual and Estimated Short-term Loan
Size                                         35,880         1,614
% of Assets                                    16%           14%
% of GDP per Capita                           231%           10%
Actual and Estimated Long-term Loan
Size                                         45,536         2,133
% of Assets                                    20%           19%
% of GDP per Capita                           293%           14%
Source: Rural Enterprise Survey, 1998
Regarding loan terms to maturity, it is assumed that short- and long-term loans to all client types would
have maturities of 9 and 18 months respectively. These assumptions are based on existing loan terms in
rural areas in 1998.
Repayment Schedule. It is assumed that borrowers will repay their loans, whether short-term or
long-term, in monthly installments of principal and interest.
Nominal Average Interest Rate on Loans. The lending interest rates charged by a new rural bank branch
are estimated at 50% on short-term loans and 45% on long-term loans. These rates are calculated based on
the' assumed interest rate on deposits plus a fixed spread of 25% for short-term loans and 20% for long
term loans. Long-term loans would carry a lower interest rate due to their larger size. These rates, by
virtue of their being indexed to the rates on deposits, are also indexed to inflation, and are assumed to
remain constant during the five years covered by the model. These rates are lower than Romanian
commercial lending rates in recent years (56%, 64%, and 58% for 1996 to 1998) with inflation rates (39%,
155%, and 59%) higher than the inflation rate assumed in the model. It is important to note that a low
interest rate is not the primary factor inducing Romanian borrowers to obtain loans from a particular
financial institution. In 1998, most individuals who borrowed chose to do so from a particular formal
sector financial institution because of the convenient location of the institution (42%) and prompt service
(53%), while only 30% chose an institution based solely on a lower interest rate offered. Similarly, most
enterprises that borrowed chose to do so from a particular institution because of the convenient location of
the institution (54%) and prompt service (48%), while only 27% chose an institution based solely on a
lower interest rate offered.
- 71 -



Figure 8: Commercial Lending Interest Rate vs. Inflation
200
1996             1997             1998             1 99
Commerdal Lending Rate  -    Inflation
Source: National Bank of Romania
Commissions. The commissions charged on loans are assumed at 2% for long-term loans and 1% on
short-term loans. A lower commission is assumed for long-term loans because of their larger size.
Therefore, the effective interest rate on long-term loans would be less than that on short-term loans.
Compensating Balances. Based on international best practice, it is assumed that recipients of loans issued
by a new rural bank branch would be required to deposit a percentage of the loan amount (10% in this
case) with the branch as a compensating balance. Compensating balances would eam interest like any
passbook deposit, but the deposit and accumulated interest would be frozen until loan repayment. A policy
of compensating balances reduces arrears and delinquency and increases the effective rate of interest earned
on the loan portfolio.
Quality of the Portfolio
Classification of the Portfolio at the End of Each Period. As mentioned above, new rural bank branches
will be required by the National Bank of Romania to classify their loans outstanding in five risk categories
("A" through "E", from lowest to highest risk) according to borrowers' repayment capacity and experience.
It is assumed that categories "A" through "E" will contain 55%, 25%, 10%, 5%, and 5%, respectively, of
the loan portfolio outstanding. This distribution of the loan portfolio by risk categories is based on present
and past average aggregate portfolio classification data for all Romanian banks, but assumes that the
quality of the portfolio of a new branch will exceed this average based on its adoption of international best
practices in rural finance, including advanced risk assessment, loan pricing, and loan recovery techniques.
Number of Borrowers at the end of Each Period.
The number of borrowers at the end of each period is determined by: (i) the initial population in the area
covered by a new branch; (ii) the growth (or decline) of this population; and (ii) the increasing loan
coverage of this population. The model projects that a branch will have 96 borrowers by the end of the
first semester of operations, increasing to 1,035 by the end of the tenth semester. Most borrowers are
workers, association members, pensioners, and agricultural entrepreneurs.
- 72 -



Transfer Interest Rate, Financial Investments, and Equity
Transfer Interest Rate. The interest rate on transfers between a branch and its headquarters is assumed at
41.5%. In order to induce new rural bank branches to mobilize deposits from the public, the interest rate
on inter-branch transfers is assumed to exceed the rural bank branch's costs of mobilizing deposits. At the
same time, to encourage lending to final borrowers over inter-branch lending, the inter-branch transfer rate
is set below the on-lending rate to final borrowers.
Equity and Retained Earnings. It is assumed that a new branch will not receive any paid-in capital, and
that any operational surpluses generated will be transferred to headquarters.
Financial Investments. It is assumed that any excess cash held by a new branch will be transferred to
branch headquarters.
Cash-on-hand. The cash-on-hand of a new branch is assumed to be 10% of deposits outstanding in order
to manage daily cash flows.
Initial Investment
The initial cash outlay for establishing a new rural bank branch is estimated at US $24,531 equivalent, and
includes equipment (US $13,859 equivalent), furniture (US $7,657 equivalent), organizational costs (US
$1,840 equivalent), and other investments (US $1,175 equivalent). To minimize initial investment costs, it
is assumed that the bank branch premises are rented. The largest single expenditures are a teller
window/counter (US $5,236 equivalent), a safe (US $3,916 equivalent), computer hardware and software
(US $3,760 equivalent), an alarm system and security (US $2,977 equivalent), remodeling of premises (US
$1,175 equivalent), and staff training (US $1,175 equivalent). The initial investment is recognized as an
expense over time as the assets acquired are depreciated and the organization cost is amortized. These
estimates are based on data collected from Romanian banks with operations in rural areas.
Administrative Expenses
The monthly administrative expenses of a new rural bank branch are estimated at US $1,880 equivalent,
and include primarily rent and maintenance of premises (US $963 equivalent), utilities (US $352
equivalent), and telecommunications and postage (US $276 equivalent). Miscellaneous expenses are
estimated at 5% of total administrative expenses. These expenses adjust monthly for inflation with an
elasticity of 75%. These estimates are based on data collected from Romanian banks with operations in
rural areas.
Personnel Expenses and the Productivity of Employees
It is assumed that the employees of a new rural bank branch will earn a base salary and performance bonus
based on the profits generated by the branch. These estimates are based on data collected from Romanian
banks with operations in rural areas.
Personnel Expenses (except Salaries)
It is assumed that employees will receive performance bonuses equal to 5% of the profits of the new
branch. The salaries of employees include fringe benefits as a fixed percentage of the base monthly salary.
The cost of recruiting and training additional staff is estimated at US $587 equivalent per new employee.
- 73 -



Salaries and Number of Employees
It is assumed that a new rural bank branch will open with three full-time employees (one manager who is
also a loan officer, one loan officer, and one teller) and one part-time employee (an accountant). The total
monthly salary expense for these employees is estimated at US $2,080 equivalent.
Growth of Salaries
Nominal employee salaries are assumed to adjust with respect to inflation every three months with an
elasticity of 80%.
Employee Productivity
The need to hire additional staff is determined by the productivity of employees. It is assumed that a loan
officer (including the manager) and a teller could each handle an average of 300 loan and deposit accounts,
respectively.
Discount Rate for Future Cash Flows
The model calculates future cash flows under three different discount rate scenarios. These discount rates
are assumed at 25%, 50%, and 99%.
E.    Model Assumptions and Parameters: A New Microcredit Program
The main model assumptions and parameters for projecting the financial viability of providing rural retail
financial services through a new microcredit program are similar to those for a new rural bank branch, with
the following differences: (a) microcredit service providers will not mobilize deposits from the public; (b)
will not be regulated by banking authorities, (c) will lend only to individuals (entrepreneurs, workers,
association members, and pensioners) and micro-enterprises, (d) will charge higher interest rates to
compensate for smaller average loans, (iv) will pay lower salaries to employees who will manage larger
numbers of loans. The detailed model assumptions, their justification, and the model results are kept in the
project file.
- 74 -



Attachment 1
Summary of Model Results: A New Rural Bank Branch (US$ equivalent)
INCOME STATEMENT                                  Year 1      Year 2     Year 3     Year 4      Year 5
I. Interest Revenue                                 77.639    307,193    627,232   1,049,035   1,621,889
1. Interest revenue from inter-branch deposits with HO  59,124    252,913    521,102    873,846   1,357,215
2. Interest and commission revenue from lending    18,515     54,280    106,130    175,189    264,674
Short-term loans                                6,997     22,783     44,366      74,009    113,307
Long-term loans                                11,518     31,497     61,764     101,180    151,367
II. Interest Expense                                 54.348    200,264    403,997    679,012   1.045,220
1. Interest expense for deposits mobilized        54,328    200,264    403,997    679.012   1,045.220
Passbook accounts                                12,854     48.617     98,646    166,192    256,156
Medium-term Uime deposits                       40,229    146,886    295,687    496,504    763,880
Compensating balances                             1,245      4,761      9,664      16,315     25,184
2. Interest expense for inter-branch loans from HQ    20          0           0          0          0
Ill. Expense for Provision for Loan Losses           10,592     15,912     23,895      39,684     52,384
tV. Operating Expenses                              64,933      87,464    120,809    165,298    222,691
1. Personnel expenses                            32,433     51,258     80,353     117,424    169,227
2. Administrative expenses                       24,040     27,569      31,617     36,260     41,584
3. Expenses for depreciation and amortization     7.258      7,258       7,258      9,801      9.801
4. Miscellaneous expenses                         1,202      1,378       1.581      1,813       2,079
V. Performance Bonuses for Personnel                     0        447       3.927       8,252     15.080
VI. Tax Imposed on Profits                               0       2,304     18,651      39,197     71,629
VII. Net Income (Loss)                             8-52,23.        803     5          117592    214886
BALANCE SHEET                                     Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Year 5
Assets
I. Cash and banks                                  377,828    988,816   1,827,494   2.891,237   4,358,678
1. Cash-on-hand                                   36,881     91,317    165.429    264,741    396,276
2. Inter-branch deposits at headquarters         340,947    897,499   1,662,065   2.626,496   3,962,401
II. Net loan portfolio                              65,915    142,632    237,609    399,800    586,354
1. Short-term loans                               26,086     59,789    103,330    170,550    252,217
2. Long-term loans                                47,768    100,022    162,898    277,404    404,763
3. Interest in arrears                              639       1,595      2,943       4,782      7,132
4. less: Reserve for loan losses                  -8,579    -18,774    -31,562    -52,937    -77,757
Ill. Financial Investments                               0          0          0           0          0
IV. Fixed assets, net of accumulated depreciation    16,046      9,402      2,757     18,224       8,423
V. Other assets (org. costs net of accum. amortization)  1.227    613           0          0          0
Total Assets                                       461,016   1,141,463   2,067.860   3,309,261   4,953,455
Liabilities
I. Deposits mobilized                              461,016   1,141,463   2,067,860   3,309,261   4,953,455
1. Passbook accounts                             114,596    286,525    520.611     834,455   1.250,137
2. Short-term time deposits                            0          0          0           0          0
3. Medium-lerm time deposits                     335,140    826,638   1,495.543   2,392.062   3.579,176
4. Long-term time deposits                             0          0          0           0          0
5. Compensating balances                          11,281     28,300     51,705      82,744    124,141
II. Inter-branch ioans from headquarters                 0          0           0          0          0
Itl. Other Liabilities                                   0          0           0          0          0
Total Liabilities                                  461,016   1,141,463   2,067,860   3,309,261   4,953,455
Equity
Paid-in capital                                          0          0           0          0          0
Retained eamings                                         0          0           0          0          0
Profit (loss) in period                                  0          0           0          0          0
Total Equity                                             0          0           0          0          0
Total Liabilities and Equity v                     4610161 11414631  2           067861  3.3092611 4953.45
FINANCIAL RATIOS                                  Year 1      Year 2     Year 3  |  Year 4      Year 5
Profitability Indicators                                  I
Retum on assets/a                                 -11.9%        1.3%       3.9%       4.5%        5.2%
Asset ublization/b                                 35.4%       38.1%      38.8%      38.8%       39.0%
Profitmarginic                                    -33.5%        3.4%      10.1%       11.7%      13.4%
Gross financial margin/d                           13 0%       14.5%      14.8%       14.7%      14.9%
a. Net income (loss)/Annual average total assets
b. Annual operating income/Annual average total assets
c. Net income (ioss)lOperating revenue
d. Annual gross financial margin/Annual average eaming assets
- 75 -



Sensitivity Analyses: A New Rural Bank Branch (US$ equivalent)
Net Operating Margin                  Return on Assets
SENSITIVITY ANALYSES                   Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year5 NPV/1  IRRt2
Initial Population
5,000                                -19%    -3%     1%     2%     3%   -31%    -6%      1%     3%      4%  -73,415    -6%
10,000  (base case)                    -7%     1%     3%     3%     4%   -12%      1%     4%     5%      5%   -3,593    48%
20,000                                 -1%     3%     4%     4%     4%    -2%      3%     5%     6%      6%  122,153   102%
Nominal Annual Lending Interest Rate
42%                                 -9%    -1%     1%     2%      2%   -15%    -1%     2%      2%     3%  -53,078    14%
47%  (base case)                    -7%     1%     3%     3%      4%   -12%     1%     4%      5%     5%   -3,593    48%
52%                                 -5%     3%     5%     5%      5%    -9%     4%     6%      7%     8%   44,315    72%
Nominal Annual Deposit Interest Rate
20%                                 -6%     1%     3%     4%      4%   -11%     2%     4%      5%     5%   28,075    51%
25%  (base case)                    -7%     1%     3%     3%     4%   -12%      1%     4%      5%     5%   -3,593    48%
30%                                 -7%     1%     3%     3%      4%   -12%     1%     4%     4%      5%  -21,966    44%
Loan Write-Offs as % of Loan Portfolo
2.5%                                -7%      1%     3%     3%     4%   -11%    2%       4%     5%     5%    1,694    51%
5%  (base case)                    -7%     1%     3%     3%     4%   -12%      1%     4%     5%      5%   -3,593    48%
10%                                -7%      1%     2%     3%     3%   -13%      1%     3%     4%      5%  -13,969    42%
Administrative Expense
50%                                 -5%     2%     3%     4%      4%    -8%     2%     5%      5%     6%   18,540    61%
100%  (base case)                    -7%     1%     3%     3%      4%   -12%     1%     4%      5%     5%   -3,593    48%
150%                                 _9%     0%     2%     3%      4%   -16%     0%     3%     4%      5%  -26,594    35%
Personnel Expense
50%                                -4%      2%     4%     4%      5%    -7%     3%     6%     6%      7%   39,396    72%
100%  (base case)                    -7%     1%     3%     3%     4%   -12%      1%     4%      5%     5%   -3,593    48%
150%                               -10%    -1%      2%     2%      3%   -17%    -1%     2%      3%     4%  -47,982    22%
Initial Investment
50%                                 -5%     1%     3%     3%      4%   -10%     2%     4%      5%     5%   22,063    65%
100%  (base case)                    -7%     1%     3%     3%      4%   -12%     1%     4%      5%     5%   -3,593    48%
150%                                 -8%     1%     3%     3%      4%   -14%     1%     4%      4%     5%  -29,366    35%
Notes:
1/ Net Present Value of future cash flows (net profit) after five years with 50% discount rate
21 Internal Rate of Retum on initial investment after five years
- 76 -



Summary of Model Results: A Service Provider Microcredit Program (US$ equivalent)
iNCOME STATEMENT                                  Year 1     Year 2     Year 3      Year 4     Year 5
I. Interest Revenue                                 38,395    154,523    291,675    437,949    593,422
1. Interest revenue from inter-branch deposits with HQ  0         0          0          0           0
2. Interest and commission revenue from lending   38,395    154,523    291,675    437,949    593,422
Short-term loans                               16,900     71,305    134,669    202,736    275,515
Long-term loans                                21,495     83,218    157,006    235,213    317,907
II. Interest Expense                                14,408      54,088    100,157    151,857    205,494
1. Interest expense for deposits mobilized             0          0          0           0          0
Passbook accounts                                    0          0          0           0          0
Medium-term time deposits                            0          0          0           0          0
Compensating balances                                0          0          0           0          0
2. Interest expense for inter-branch loans from HQ  14,408    54,088    100,157    151,857    205,494
III. Expense for Provision for Loan Losses          25,003      55,423     80,547    107,241     135,538
IV. Operating Expenses                              64,365      65,493     69,931     77,709     86,312
1. Personnel expenses                            22,355     22,846     26,633      34,437     42,360
2. Administrative expenses                       27,579     28,198     28,830      29.477     30,138
3. Expenses for depreciation and amortization    13,603     13,603     13,603      12,911     12,911
4. Miscellaneous expenses                          827         846        865        884         904
V. Performance Bonuses for Personnel                     0          0         821      2,023       3,322
VI. Tax Imposed on Profits                               0        165      10,055     24,780      40,689
VIl. Net Income (Loss)                             -65,381     -20,645     30,164     74,339    122,067
BALANCE SHEET                                     Year 1     Year 2     Year 3      Year 4     Year 5
Assets
I. Cash and banks                                        0          0          0           0          0
1. Cash-on-hand                                       0          0           0          0          0
2. Inter-branch deposits at headquarters              0          0           0          0          0
II. Net loan portfolio                             457,160   1,143,787   1,891,304   2,696,993   3,553,656
1. Short-term loans                             226,552    569,952    941,388   1,341,374   1,769,475
2. Long-term loans                               247,926    617,165   1,021,564   1,457,788   1,918,803
3. Interest in arrears                             1,568      5,226      9,182      13,431     17,998
4. less: Reserve for loan losses                 -18,886    -48,555    -80,829    -115,600   -152,620
Itl. Financial Investments                               0          0          0           0          0
IV. Fixed assets, net of accumulated depreciation   30,140      18,070      6,000     22,822      9,911
V. Other assets (org. costs net of accum. amortization)  3,067   1,533         0           0          0
Total Assets                                       490,367   1,163,390   1,897,304   2,719,815   3,563,567
LIabilitIes
I. Deposits mobilized                               47,989    120,761    199,681    284,683    375,456
1. Passbook accounts                                  0          0           0          0          0
2. Short-term time deposits                           0           0          0          0          0
3. Medium-term time deposits                          0           0          0          0          0
4. Long-term lime deposits                            0           0          0          0          0
5. Compensating balances                          47,989    120,761    199,681    284,683    375,456
II. Inter-branch loans from headquarters           442,378   1,042,629   1,697,624   2,435,131   3,188,111
III. Other Liabilities                                   0          0          0           0          0
Total Liabilities                                  490,367   1,163,390   1,897,304   2,719,815   3,563,567
Equity
Paid-in capital                                          0          0          0           0          0
Retained eamings                                         0          0          0           0          0
Profit (loss) in period                                  0          0          0           0          0
Total Equity                                             0          0          0           0          0
Total Liabilities and Equity                       490,367   1,163,390   1,897,304   2,719,815   3,563,567
FINANCIAL RATIOS                                  Year 1     Year 2      Year 3     Year 4     Year S
Profitability Indicators
Retum on assets/a                                 -17.5%       -0.5%       2.3%       3.4%       4.0%
Asset utilizationib                                17.4%|      18.4%      18.7%      18.7%       18.7%
Profit margin/c                                  -100.3%       -2.9%      12.3%      18.3%      21.2%
Grossfinancial margin/d                            12.1%       11.7%      11.8%      11.9%       11.8%
a. Net income (lossyAnnual average total assets
b. Annual operating income/Annual average total assets
c. Net income (loss)/Operating revenue
d. Annual gross financial margin/Annual average earning assets
- 77 -



Sensitivity Analyses: A Service Provider Microcredit Program (US$ equivalent)
Net oerating Marn          I         Return on Assets
SENSITIVITY ANALYSES                   Year I Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5Y Year I YearY2eYear3FYer4jYear5  NPV/1   IRR/2
Initial Population
200,000                                -12%    -1%     1%     2%     2%   -21%    -2%      2%     3%     4%   -48,205       1%
240,000  (basecase)                    -10%     0%     2%     2%     3%   -17%    -1%      2%     3%     4%    -8,056      12%
280,000                                -8%      0%     2%     2%     3%   -15%     0%      3%     4%     4%    31,021      21%
Nominal Annual Lending Interest Rats
12%                               -12%    -3%    -1%      0%     0%   -22%    -5%    -2%      0%     0%  -210,558  #NUM!
17%  (base case)                  -10%     0%      2%     2%     3%   -17%    -1%     2%      3%     4%    -8,056      12%
22%                                -7%      2%     4%     5%     5%   -13%     3%      6%     7%     8%   180,028      49%
Loan Write-Oft as % of Loan Portfolio
1%                                 -9%     1%    3%      3%    4%   -16%      1%     4%      5%     6%    72,636      30%
3%  (bass case)                  -10%     0%     2%      2%    3%   -17%    -1%      2%      3%     4%    -8,056      12%
5%                               -11%    -1%      1%     1%     2%   -19%    -3%      1%     2%     2%   -88,885    -11%
Administrative Expense
N0%                                -7%      0%     2%     3%    3%   -13%       1%     3%     4%     4%    35.377      23%
100%  (basecase)                    -10%     0%     2%     2%     3%   -17%    -1%      2%     3%     4%    -8,056      12%
150%                               -12%    -1%      1%     2%     2%   -22%    -2%      2%     3%     4%   -52,265       2%
Personnel Expense
50%                                 -8%    0%      2%     3%     3%   -14%     0%      3%     4%     4%    32,452      22%
100%  (basecase)                    -10%     0%     2%     2%     3%   -17%    -1%      2%     3%     4%    -8,056      12%
150%                                -12%    -1%     1%     2%    2%   -21%    -2%       2%     3%     3%   -49,042       2%
Initlal Investment
50%                                 -8%    0%     2%      2%    3%   -16%      0%     3  1   4%      4%    44,870      28%
100%  (basecase)                   -10%      0%     2%     2%     3%   -17%    -1%      2%     3%     4%    -8,056      12%
150%                        _       -11%    -1%     1%     2%     3%   -19%    -1%      2%     3%     4%   -61,192        1%
Notes:
11 Net Present Value of future cash flows (net profit) after five years with 50% discount rate
21 Intemal Rate of Retum on initial investment after five years
- 78 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Procurement
Goods and works will be procured in accordance with the latest edition of the World Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits. Consulting services and training will be procured
following the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January
1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's standard and sample bidding documents,
evaluation reports and contract formats will be used. A General Procurement Notice will be published in
the UN's Development Business in March, 2001. The proposed loan will provide funds to private financial
intermediaries (private banks, NGO or private micro-credit service providers, and private leasing
companies) to be on-lent to private sector enterprises and individual beneficiaries for farm and non-farm
activities in rural areas. Private banks will also be provided with credit for initial capital investments and
incremental operating costs for establishing and maintaining retail banking networks in rural areas. The
maximum sub-loan size to a sub-borrower will be US$1 million (US$4 million for leasing companies). The
procurement of goods and works under the credit line components will be the responsibility of the
sub-borrowers as beneficiaries, PRBs for initial investment expenditures, and leasing companies for the
purchase of agricultural equipment, tools, etc.
The Bank conducted a Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) in August 1999, which assessed
the procurement risk for Romania as medium to high. According to the CPAR, purchasers and employers
in the private sector generally use direct negotiations and comparison of at least three price quotations. A
sample survey of the purchasing practices of prospective beneficiaries and private financial institutions
(private banks, microcredit service providers, and leasing companies) conducted by the Bank during
appraisal confirmed the use of the above practices in the private sector. These commercial practices are
acceptable to the Bank for the procurement of goods and equipment under the proposed project provided
the purchases are based on comparison of at least three written price quotations.
Project Implementation
The project will be managed by a PMU which will be responsible for carrying out procurement under
component C and for administration, supervision, and monitoring of procurement activities under
components A and B, in accordance with IBRD procurement guidelines and procedures. The procurement
of goods, works, and services, excluding the consultant services, under components A and B will be the
responsibility of the participating financial institutions (PFIs) for purchases relating to their start-up costs,
and the sub-borrowers as beneficiaries of the Bank's credit line. The participating financial institutions will
include private banks (intermediary banks and retail banks - PIBs and PRBs), microcredit service providers
(SPs), and private leasing companies (PLCs). The PMU will, however, provide procurement-related
technical assistance to the sub-borrowers of the credit line and to the PFIs to ensure compliance with
agreed procurement procedures and other IBRD procurement requirements. The PMU will collect and
record information regarding procurement administration and will send quarterly progress reports to the
Bank. These reports will indicate: (a) the status of procurement; (b) an updated procurement plan; and (c)
compliance with the agreed aggregate limits for specific procurement methods. The PMU will also be
responsible for procurement audits of each project component as part of annual audits of the project
accounts to ensure that procurement under the project is in compliance with IBRD procurement policies
and agreed procedures.
-79 -



Procurement Implementation Capacity
The PMU will be overseen by a steering committee consisting of representatives of the Ministries of
Agriculture and Finance, and the National Bank of Romania. A sample survey of the procurement practices
of some of the prospective participating financial institutions indicated the need for TA and guidance in
incorporating IBRD procurement requirements into the sub-loan approval and disbursement process and
monitoring of the IBRD procurement requirements. Since it will be a new PMU, the following action plan
is agreed to ensure adequate procurement-related capacity for procurement implementation:
(i) Procurement Specialist: Imrnmediate recruitment of a procurement specialist with adequate
experience in Bank-financed procurement. The TORs shall include training of other PMU staff
including its Director as a critical part of the procurement specialist's assignment. The selection of this
specialist will be satisfactory to IBRD and will be a condition of Loan Effectiveness.
(ii) Capacity Review: Review by the IBRD of the PMU's procurement capacity and of the TA
requirements for PFIs and credit line sub-borrowers. This review would be completed immnediately
after appointment of the procurement expert but before Loan Effectiveness.
(iii) Operational Manual: Preparation of an Operational Manual is in process. The manual will be
subject to approval by the IBRD and will incorporate the procurement procedures agreed for the
project and related bidding documents, sample evaluation formats, standard RFP and contract formats.
The Manual should be completed before the Project Launch Workshop.
(iv) Project Launch Workshop: Project Launch Workshop for the PMU and PFI staff, including the
Treasury Bank, and for credit line sub-borrowers. The Workshop should focus on the procurement
process under procurement procedures agreed for this project. The Project Launch Workshop will be
conducted within one month of Loan Effectiveness.
(v) Procurement related TA for PFIs and Sub-borrowers: Hiring of additional procurement
consultants, as needed, for technical assistance to PFIs and credit line beneficiaries. This will be
completed as soon as the implementation capacity review is carried out for the PMU and the PFIs (see
item (ii) above).
(vi) Procurement Training: The PMU should draw up a training program, preferably before Loan
Effectiveness, for procurement training, as needed, for PFI staff as well as for the procurement staff at
the PMU.
- 80 -



Procurement Arrangements
Components A and B
Since the nature of goods and works that will be actually procured by sub-borrowers under components A
and B is unknown at this time, it is not possible to draw up a procurement plan for these components. A
broad description of goods and works to be procured, and the procurement procedures proposed under the
components are as follows:
(a) Component A (Rural Credit and Leasing Facility) is a credit line that will finance the
procurement of (i) goods and works by sub-borrowers, and (ii) goods by participating leasing
companies that will lease these goods to final beneficiaries. Though it is impossible to know beforehand
precisely those goods and works that sub-borrowers will procure, it is expected that (i) goods will
include, inter-alia, farm and non-farm inputs, equipment, and machinery, and (ii) works will include,
inter alia, construction of agricultural and non-agricultural production and storage facilities, and
agro-industrial processing and storage facilities.
(b) Component B (Rural Retail Banking and Micro-Finance) will finance goods and works for the
establishment and operation of PRB branches and microcedit SPs. Goods will include, inter alia,
banking technology (computer hardware and software, safes, automatic teller machines), equipment,
and furniture. Works will include the refurbishment of office space for new PRB branches. This
component will also finance, on a declining scale, the incremental operating and maintenance costs
(staff salaries, utilities, supplies, and equipment repair and maintenance, etc.) of the private retail
banking networks.
Procurement Methods Under Components A & B
Goods and Equipment
ICB. Goods estimated to cost US$350,000 or more per contract will be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Commercial Practices. Goods estimated to cost less than US$350,000 per contract will be procured: (a)
in accordance with commercial practices which will require a minimum of three written price quotations
and the award of contract to the lowest evaluated bidder; or (b) through IAPSO.
LIB. Goods which are available from a limited number of suppliers because of their specialized nature
may be procured through Limited Intemational Bidding (LIB) in accordance with paragraph 3.2 of the
Procurement Guidelines. A detailed list of items and the names of all potential suppliers, as well as the
bidding documents, will be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank.
Direct Contracting. Direct contracting, without competition, may be used for items of a proprietary
nature or for additional purchases from the original supplier on grounds of compatibility. All direct
contracting shall be subject to prior approval of the World Bank.
Civil Works
ICB. Works estimated to cost US$1.0 million or more per contract will be procured through Intemational
- 81 -



Competitive Bidding (ICB).
NCB. Works estimated to cost less than US$1.0 million per contract will be procured through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) in accordance with paragraph 3.3 of the Bank Guidelines.
Minor Works. Civil works estimated to cost less than $100,000 each may be procured on the basis of
three written price quotations. The contract will be awarded to the lowest priced bidder that has the
necessary experience and financial resources to successfully complete the works.
IBRD's standard and sample bidding documents and contracts, etc. will be used for procurement of goods
and works by the sub-borrowers of the credit line.
Sub-projects will be financed jointly by the project's credit line through PFIs (PIBs and SPs, etc.) and by
final beneficiaries' own funds. Therefore, sub-project size may exceed sub-loan size. The above
procurement thresholds will apply to the total value of the contract for the sub-project.
In no case will the goods and works under components A and B be procured by sub-borrowers and
participating PFIs (PIBs, PRBs, SPs, and PLCs) from a source or a business entity in which that
sub-borrower or PFI has a financial or business interest. Participating PLCs and sub-borrowers that lease
equipment through these PLCs will not be eligible for loans from participating intermediary banks for the
same purpose.
Component C - Project Management and Technical Assistance for Rural Financial Market
Development
Goods and Works under Component C. Component C will finance, inter alia, consulting services to
support the Government in implementing and monitoring the project, and office equipment, furniture,
vehicles, and computers for the PMU. A detailed procurement plan is presented in Table B 1.
Goods and Equipment. Goods and equipment estimated to cost US$100,000 each or more may be
procured on the basis of ICB. Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 each may be procured
through international shopping on the basis of three written quotations from two different countries or
through IAPSO in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank. Small contracts for supplies and
minor equipment estimated to cost less than $50,000 each may be procured under national shopping on the
basis of three written price quotations from local suppliers.
Civil Works. Civil works estimated to cost US$1.0 million or more may be procured on the basis of ICB.
Contracts below US$ 1.0 million each may be procured on the basis of NCB. Minor works estimated to
cost less than US$100,000 each may be procured on the basis of three written price quotations. Contracts
will be awarded to the lowest-priced bidder that has the necessary experience and financial resources to
complete the works successfully.
Consultant Services and Training
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS). The following consultants services will be procured through
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS): (i) Microcredit Service Providers that will administer micro
sub-loans; (ii) back-office computer systems integration for PRBs and SPs; (iii) specialized project
management support on banking issues to PMU; (iv) a Treasury Bank to facilitate project implementation;
(v) support to Government in developing a legal and technical framework favorable to rural finance; (vi)
- 82 -



training for PRBs and SPs in retail banking; (vii) implementation of activities to promote public awareness
in rural areas of the Project's Rural Credit and Leasing Facility; and (viii) implementation of technical
assistance to final beneficiaries under the project on how to use the Project's Rural Credit and Leasing
Facility to obtain and pre-finance grants under SAPARD. In view of the complexities of the project
operations, services for annual audits, including procurement aspects, will be procured through QCBS
procedure. For contracts below US$200,000 the short list may comprise entirely qualified national
consultants in accordance with paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. These services will be
advertised in Development Business and in a national newspaper for expression of interest, from which a
short-list will be drawn.
Quality Based Selection (QBS). Given their high downstream impact on the project and on the entire
Romanian banking system, the following consultant services will be procured through Quality Based
Selection (QBS): Overall retail banking strategy; design of strategy for channels for delivery of banking
products; and design of strategies, models, and systems for recovery of collateral and valuation of assets.
Individual Consultants (IC). Consultant services that will be procured through individual consultant
procedures in accordance with Part V of the Consultant Guidelines will be: (i) preparation of the terms of
reference for the highly specialized technical assistance on retail banking to be provided to PRBs; (ii) a
procurement expert to assist the PMU in project implementation; (iii) design of micro-lending govemance
rules; (iv) procurement consultants, as needed, for assistance and training to PFIs in procurement matters;
(v) design of activities to promote public awareness in rural areas of the Project's Rural Credit and Leasing
Facility; (vi) design of technical assistance to final beneficiaries under the project on how to use the
Project's Rural Credit and Leasing Facility to obtain and pre-finance grants under SAPARD; and (vi) fees
for consultants that will assist the PMU to implement the project. The assignments for individual
consultants will be advertised when possible, and selection will be made on the basis of comparison of
qualifications and experience.
Training. For other training activities, a detailed training program will be prepared on a six-month basis
and submitted to the Bank for approval.
Incremental Operating Costs. The project will finance a portion of incremental operating costs incurred
under components B (of PRBs) and C (of the PMU). Incremental operating costs of PRBs means
incremental costs incurred by PRBs on account of establishing and operating a network of pilot retail
banking offices under Part B.2 of the Project, which shall include: (i) a portion of PRB branches' operating
costs consisting of administrative costs, including rental, utilities and staff salaries; and (ii) the staff
salaries' costs of central office staff for incorporating experimental branches into the accounting and
internal control systems of PRBs. Incremental operating costs of the PMU means incremental operating
costs incurred by the PMU on account of Project implementation, including, office supplies, repair and
maintenance of vehicles and office equipment and telecommunications and postage.
The project will finance approximately US$15.1 million for incremental operating costs of PRBs during
four years and US$ 162,500 for incremental operating costs of the PMU. The total IBRD financing will be
limited to approximately US$5.8 million (about US$5.6 million for incremental operating costs of PRBs
and US$130,000 for incremental operating costs of the PMU). Incremental operating costs will be
procured on the basis of annual budgets to be agreed with the World Bank.
- 83 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            0.00           0.00          28.49          0.00         28.49
____________________________  (0.00)     (0.00)        (15.05)        (0.00)       (15.05)
2. Goods                           0.90            0.00          91.69          0.00          92.59
(0.90)         (0.00)        (47.79)        (0.00)       (48.69)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          10.49          0.00          10.49
(including Training                (0.00)         (0.00)        (10.49)        (0.00)        (10.49)
4. Incremental Operating            0.00           0.00          15.24          0.00          15.24
Costs                              (0.00)         (0.00)        (5.77)         (0.00)        (5.77)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00           0.00          0.80           0.00          0.80
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                            0.90           0.00         146.71          0.00         147.61
1    (0.90)         (0.00)        (79.10)        (0.00)       (80.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
D Procurement methods to be used under the project include: (a) under components A and B (i) for goods,
ICB, Commercial Practices, LIB, and Direct Contracting, and (ii) for works, ICB, NCB, and Minor
Works; and under component C (i) for goods, ICB, IS, and NS, (ii) for works, ICB, NCB, and Minor
Works, and (iii) and for TA and Training, QCBS, QBS, and Individual Consultants. Incremental
operating costs will be procured on the basis of annual budgets to be approved by the World Bank.
Incremental operating costs include US$80,000 for PMU office rent to be financed wholly by the
Government.
The procurement details of goods and works under Components A and B of the project cannot be
determined precisely before project implementation because: (i) under Component A, the precise number
and size of goods and works contracts to be entered into under the rural credit and leasing facility cannot
be defined prior to implementation of the facility, since the number of sub-borrowers, and when these
sub-borrowers will borrow from the facility, cannot be knowni before they actually borrow; and (ii) under
Component B, the packaging of goods and works contracts will be determined by the scheduling of the
deployment of new bank branches which, in turn, will be decided by the PRBs themselves when they are
selected to participate in the project.
- 84 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                Selectio    Meftod
Services
ExpendIture    QCBS      QBS       SF8       LCS       CQ       other     NSF.  Total Cost
category
A. Firms           8.05     2.05      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      10.10
(8.05)    (2.05)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)   (10.10)
B. Individuals     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     0.39      0.00      0.39
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.39)    (0.00)    (0.39)
Total   8.05     2.05      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.39      0.00     10.49
(8.05)    (2.05)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.39)    (0.00)   (10.49)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines)
N.B.F. Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 85 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
With respect to goods and works, prior review by the Bank of procurement documentation will be carried
out for: (i) all ICB, LIB and Direct Contracting packages; (ii) in addition, under Components A and B, the
first two packages, including contracts cleared by each PIB, PLC, PRB, and SP under National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) Works, Minor Works, and Commercial Practices (CP); and (iii) under
Component C, the first IS, NCB Works, and Minor Works packages. Procurement documentation on all
sub-projects should remain in the project files in possession of the PFIs for eventual audits.
With respect to consultant services and training, prior Bank review will be required for all terms of
reference, irrespective of contract value; and (ii) for contracts with consulting firms estimated to cost
US$ 100,000 or more, short lists of finns, requests for proposals and draft contracts. For each contract
estimated to cost US$200,000 or more, after the technical proposal has been evaluated, the technical
evaluation report will be submitted to the World Bank for its review prior to the opening of the priced
proposals. For contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, the Bank will be notified of the results of
the technical proposals. For contracts with individual consultants estimated to cost US$50,000 or more,
the qualifications, experience, terms of reference, and terms of employment shall be furnished to the Bank
for its review and approval prior to contract signature. All other contracts will be subject to ex-post review
by the Bank.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
1. Works                     >/= 1,000 (/1)               ICB
< 1,000 (/I)               NCB
< 100 (/1)                 MW
2. Goods                      >/= 350 (/2)                ICB                      0.9
< 350 (/2)                 CP
>/= 100 (/3)                ICB
< 100 (/3)                  IS
< 50 (/3)                  NS
LIB (/4)
DC (/5)
3. Services(including          >/= 100              QCBS/ QBS (61)                 9.3
Training)                        > 50                     Ind                      0.4
4. Incremental                   N/A                 Annual Budgets                N/A
Operating Costs       I.I
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: The total value of prior
review contracts under
the credit line is not
available.
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
- 86 -



Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 4 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
1/ Applicable to Components A, B, and C.
2/ Applicable to Components A and B only.
3/ Applicable to Component C only.
4/ LIB would apply to specialized goods contracts under Components A and B where a limited number of suppliers
are available.
5/ DC will apply, under Components A and B, to items of a proprietary nature or to a single source of supplies, and
will require prior Bank approval.
6/ QBS would apply to highly specialized consultancies associated with risk management under Component B.
- 87 -



Table BI: Procurement Plan
1             2             3                4                5          6. Estimated
Dates
Description        Type       Number of        Estimated       Procuremen       Prequal/SL      BDIRFP           Bid             Contract         Contract
sticeel Items/    Cost (USS      t Method         11Invitatlon    1.               1.nvitation     signing          Complbtior
sub-package      000)                             GPNlSPNt        Preparation      GPNISPNI
s                                                 Local                            Local
2.Opening                        2.Opening
3.Eval &                        3.Eval &
Recom                            Ree. Awa
COMPONENT A
1.1 Goods
1.1 Credit and     G          See footnote     87,000          See footnote     Over life of    Over life of     Over life of    Over life of     Over life of
Leasing Facility              1                                2                project         project          project         project          project
2.1 Works
2.1 Credit and     CW         See footnote     27,942           See footnote    Over life of    Over life of     Over life of     Over life of    Over life of
Leasing Facility              1                                 2               project         project          project          project         proiect
COMPONENT B
1.2 Goods
Equipment and      G          See footnote     2,760           See footnote     Over life of    Over life of     Over life of    Over life of     Over life of
fumiture for                  3                                 3               project         project          project          project         project
PRBs
(computers,
desks, chairs.
safes, etc.)
ATMs for PR8s      G          See footnote     1,800            See footnote    Over life of    Over life of     Over life of     Over life of    Over life of
3                                3                project         project          project         project          project
2.2 Works
2.2                 CW        See footnote     660              See footnote    Over life of    Over life of     Over life of     Over life of    Over life of
Ref urtbishment of            4                                4                project         project          project          project         project
office facilites
for use by PRBs
- branches and
central offices
3.1 and 3.2
Consultant
Services
3.1 Annual fees    CS         8                2,040            OCBS            311512001       8/112001         8t15/2001        111/2002        713112005
for participating                                                                                                1011/2001
microcredit SPs                                                                                                  121112001
5.2 Incremental
Operating Costs
Incremental staff             See footnote     8,002           Annual
costs of PRBs                 5                                 Budgets
(salaries for 120
branches and
central office
support)
Incrremental                  See footnote     5,771           Annual
administrative                S                                 Budgets
costs of PRBs
(rent, utilibes,
office supplies,
etc. for 120
branches)
COMPONENT C
13 Goods
1.3 Goods for
PMU
- 88 -



Equipment for      G         1                35              NS                              3/1512001       4115/2001        6/15/2001       8/15/2001
PMU                                                                                                           5/7/2001
6/1/2001
Operational        G         1                10              NS              -3/15/2001                      4115/2001        6/1512001       8/15/2001
software for                                                                                                   5/7/2001
PMU                                                                                                            6/1/2001
Financial          G         1                40              NS                              5/15/01          6/15/2001       8/15/01         8/15103
software and                                                                                                   7/7/2001
consultancy for                                                                                               8/1/2001
PMU
Office Fumiur      0         1                15              NS                              3/15/2001        4/1512001       6/15/2001       8/15/2001
for PMU                                                                                                        5/712001
6/1t2001
Vehicles for       G         1                30              NS                               3/15/2001       4/15/2001       6115/2001       8/15/2001
PMU                                                                                                            5/f7/2001
6/1/2001
Development of     G         1                900             ICs             3/1512001       81/12001        8/`152001        12/15/2001      5/15/2002
customized                                                                                                     10/1/2001
credit scoring                                                                                                 12/1 /2001
and loan pricing
software
2.3 Works
2.3 Works for
PMU
Refurbishment of    Cw       1                5               See footnote
PM U office                                                   6
space
3.3 and 3.4
Consultant
Services
3.3 Consultant
services for the
Govemment for
project
management
support, for
financial sector
policy
formulaton and
legal framework
reform, and for
public
awareness of the
Rural Credit and
Leaning Facility
Development of     CS        1                100             QCBS            3/1512001        10115/2001      11/1/2001       2/1512002       5/15/2002
warehouse                                                                                                      11/15/2001
receipts system                                                                                                1/15/2002
Development of     CS        1                100             QCBS            3/15/2001        11/1/2001       11/15/2001      411/2002        6/1/2002
improved                                                                                                       1/1/2002
framework for                                                                                                  3/1/2002
treatment of
depreciation of
assets
Development of     CS        1                600             QCBS            3/15/2001        11/15/2001      12/112001       4115/2002       7/15/2002
methodology for                                                                                                1/15/2002
banks to share                                                                                                 3/15/2002
borrowers' credit
history (e.g., a
credit bureau)
Development of     CS        1                200             QCBS            3/1512001        12/112001       12/15/2001      511/2002        8/1/2002
ptivate insurance                                                                                              21112002
services for rural                                                                                            411/2002
areas
Regulation &       CS        1                300             QCBS            3/15/2001        12/1512001      111/2002        5/152002        8/15/2002
supervision of                                                                                                 2/152002
Mutual Financial                                                                                               4/15/2002
Intermediaries
Treasury Bank to    CS       1                150             QCBS            3/15/2001       4/15/2001        5/1/2001        8/1/2001        7/31/2005
effect                                                                                                         6/15/2001
project-financed                                                                                               7/15/2001
financial
transactions on
behalf of PMU
- 89 -



Banking            CS        1                640             QCBS            3/15/2001       5/15/2001        6/1/2001        10/1512001      7131/2005
consultant to                                                                                                  7/15/2001
support PMU in                                                                                                 9/15/20011
proect9
imrplementation
Procurement        CS        1                160             Individual                       4/15/2001       5/112001        8/112001        7/31/2005
specialist to                                                                                                  6/15/2001
support PMU in                                                                                                 7/15/2001
project
implementation
Procurement        CS        1                60              Individual                      8/1/2001         8/15/2001       11/15/2001      7/31/2005
consultants, as                                                                                                10/1/2001
needed to                                                                                                      11/1/2001
support
procurement by
PFIs
M&E consulting     CS        1                600             QCBS            3/15/2001       8/1/2001         8/1512001       1/1/2002        7/31/2005
firm to design                                                                                                 10/1/2001
and implement                                                                                                  12/1/2001
surveys and
interviews, and
analyze data
Audit of project   CS        1                200             QCBS            3/15/2001        8/15/2001       9/1/2001        1/1/2002        7/31/2005
accounts                                                                                                       10/15/2001
12/15/2001
3.4 Consultant
services for
PRBs and SPs
Preparabon of      CS        1                50              Individual      -               6/1/2001         6/15/2001       8/15/2001       9/15/2001
terms of                                                                                                       711/2001
reference for                                                                                                  8/1/2001
specialized retail
banking TA
Design of overall    CS      1                2,050           QBS             3/15/2001        9/15/2001       10/1/2001       2/15/2002       10/15/2002
retail bankIng                                                                                                 11/15/2001
strategy: strategy                                                                                             1/15/2002
for banking
product delivery
channels; and
strategies,
models, and
systems for
recovry of
collateral and
valuation of
assets
Back-office        CS        1                1,000           QCBS            3/15/2001        10/15/2001      11/1/2001       3/1152002       11/15/2002
computer                                                                                                       12/15/2001
systems                                                                                                        2/15/2002
integrahon
Design of          CS        1                70              Individual      .                9/1/2001        9/15/2001       12/15/2001      6/15/2002
micro-lending                                                                                                  11/1/2001
govemance rules                                                                                                12/1/2001
Consultants to     CS        9                900             Individual                       5/15/2001       6/1/01          7/31/01         7/31/05
assist the PMU                                                                                                 6/15/01
to imiplement the                                                                                              7/15/0 1
Project
Design of public   Cs        1                60              Individual      .                8/15/01         9//01           12/15/01        12/15/02
awareness                                                                                                      10/15/01
rampaign for                                                                                                   11/15/01
Rural Credit and
Leasing Facility
Implementabon      CS        1                400             QCBS            3115/101         9/1/01          9/15/01         2/1/02          8/1/03
of pubtic                                                                                                      11/1/01
awareness                                                                                                      1/15/02
campaign for
Rural Credit and
Leasing Facility
Design of          CS        1                50              Individual                       9/15/01         10/1/01         1/11/02         1/1/03
technical                                                                                                      11/15/01
assistance for                                                                                                 12/15/01
final
beneficiaries of
Rural Credit and
Leasing Facility
to aemss
SAPARD grants
- 90 -



Implementation     CS        3                850             QCBS            3/15/01         9115/01          10/1t01        2115/02         7/31/05
of technical                                                                                                   11/15101
assistance for                                                                                                 1115/02
final
beneficiares of
Rural Credit and
Leasing Fadliy
to acoess
SAPARD grants
4.1 Training
Training for       CS        1                740             QCBS            3/15/2001       8/15/2001        9/1/2001        1/15/2002       7/1512002
PRBslSPs in                                                                                                    10/1512001
risk-adjusted                                                                                                  1211512001
banking, risk
management,
project
evaluation,
depredation
accountng,
micro-finance
risk
management,
and delivery
Training for PMU   CS        1                50              Individual                      9/15/2001        10/1/2001       1/1/2002        7/31/2005
staff and PIB and                                                                                              11/15/2001
SP loan officers                                                                                               12/15/2001
in environmental
review of
sub-projects
Training in World    Traini  1                10              see footnote
Bank financial     ng                                         7
management for
PMU staff
51 Incremnntal
Operating Costs
PMU                                           79              Annual
incremental                                                   Budgets
operabing
expenses (office
supplies,
postage, etc.)
Incremental                                   180             See footnote
costs to PMU of                                               6
renting office
space
Front-end fee on                              800             -
World Bank
Loan
TOTAL                                         147,609
CW = Civil Works; G  Goods; CS = Consultant Services; MW = Minor Works; QCBS  Quality and Cost Based
Selection; LC  = Least Cost Selection; CQ  = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications; Ind = Individual
consultant; SS    Sole Source; ICB  = Intemational Competitive Bidding; NCB  = National Competitive Bidding;
LIB = Limited International Bidding; IS = International Shopping; NS = National Shopping; DC = Direct
Contracting; CP = Commercial Practices.
Notes:
I/ The goods expected to be procured by sub-borrowers include: (i) agricultural and livestock inputs (seeds,
fertilizers, feed); (ii) farm equipment (tractors, combines); and (iii) non-agricultural business items (equipment,
furniture, computers). The civil works expected to be procured by sub-borrowers include: (i) construction of
agricultural storage and livestock housing facilities (silos, barns); (ii) construction of agro-industrial processing
and storage facilities (canning plants, food warehouses); and (iii) construction of non-agricultural production and
storage facilities (carpentry shops, inventory warehouses).
2/ The precise number, size, and processing schedule of goods and works contracts to be entered into under the
Rural Credit and Leasing Facility cannot be defined prior to implementation of the Facility, since the number of
sub-borrowers, and when these sub-borrowers will borrow from the Facility, cannot be known before they actually
borrow.
- 91 -



3/ CP/ICB/LIB/DC. The method(s), number of contracts, and schedule for procurement of goods for PRBs will be
determined by the packaging of the goods contracts. This packaging will be contingent on the scheduling of the
deployment of new bank branches, which will be decided by the PRBs themselves when they are selected to
participate in the project.
4/ MW/NCB/ICB. The method(s), number of contracts, and schedule for procurement of works for PRBs will be
determined by the packaging of the works contracts. This packaging will be contingent on the scheduling of the
deployment of new bank branches, which will be decided by the PRBs themselves when they are selected to
participate in the project.
5/ The World Bank will finance PRB branch (and limited central office) incremental operating costs on a
declining basis for 4 years as follows: 80% until July 31, 2003; 65% until July 31, 2004; and 25% thereafter.
6/ 100% financed by the Govemment (not World Bank Loan)
7/ Training in Turin, Italy for two PMU financial management staff in World Bank financial management
procedures and requirements.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 92 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The allocation of loan proceeds is given in Table C, which also indicates Bank financing by expenditure
category. The project will be executed over a period of four years during which the full loan amount of
US$80.0 million will be disbursed. The expected closing date for the project will be January 31, 2006.
Disbursement in the early project period is expected to be based on the Bank's existing Statement of
Expenditure (SOE) method. The Borrower does not currently use Project Management Report
(PMR)-based disbursement procedures, but will have the option to request from the World Bank transition
to PMR-based disbursements by August 1, 2002 (approximately one year after effectiveness). Retroactive
financing will be available for eligible expenditures up to US$200,000 from the Consultant's Services and
Training category, and up to US$50,000 from the Incremental Operating Costs (of the PMU) category, in
Table C below.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Ex.ndItu Catego             Arnount In US$nillion        Financing Percentge
Sub-loans and Financing Leases under       44.00                        100%
Parts A. l and A.2 of the Project
Micro-loans under Part A.3 of the          4.00                         75%
Project
Goods:
(a) under Part B of the Project           5.09          100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
(b) under Part C of the Project           0.10          100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
Works under Part B of the Project          0.53                          80%
Consultants' Services and Training,        10.49                        100%
including services under Part C. I of the
Project
Incremental Operating Costs:
(a) of PRBs                               5.66          80% until July 31, 2003; 65% until July
31, 2004; 25% thereafter
(b) of the PMU                            0.13                         80%
Unallocated                                10.00
Total Project Costs                        80.00
Front-end fee
Total                                      80.00
- 93 -



Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Statements of Expenditure (SOE) will be used for (a) all sub-loans under Component A, (b) goods
contracts under Components B estimated to cost less than US$350,000 each, and under Component C
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 each, (c) civil works under Components B and C estimated to cost
less than US$1.0 million each, (d) consultant services and training contracts with firms costing less than
US$100,000 each, (e) individual consultant contracts costing less than US$50,000 each, and (f)
incremental operating costs. Full documentation in support of the SOE will be retained by the PMU for at
least two years after the closing date of the World Bank loan. This information would be made available
for review by World Bank missions during project supervision and by auditors.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements, the Borrower will open a special account before Loan effectiveness and
maintain this account until project completion. The special account will be drawn upon to meet payments
to contractors, suppliers and consultants under the project. The special account will be established in the
Treasury Bank (a selected local commercial bank that meets the eligibility criteria specified in Annex 13
and agrees to terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank).
The initial allocation to the special account will be limited to US$1.0 million. The initial allocation may be
increased up to the authorized allocation of US$4.0 million once aggregate disbursements of US$4.0
million are reached by submitting the relevant withdrawal applications. Replenishment applications should
be submitted at least every three months and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other
appropriate supporting documents. The special account will be audited annually by independent auditors
and the audit report submitted to the Bank for review and approval within six months after the end of the
Government's fiscal year. Project accounts will be operated for discrete activities and funded from the
special account based on disbursements applications signed by the authorized officials. If and when the
Borrower adopts a PMR-based disbursement system, the authorized allocation for the Special Account will
be increased to US$6.0 million.
Financial Management
Project Accounting
The PMU will be responsible for the project's overall financial management system, but will engage the
services of a commercial bank - a Treasury Bank (TB) - to effect the project's financial transactions. A
financial management system, including accounting, reporting, planning, budgeting, auditing and proper
internal control systems, will have to be established prior to empowering the PMU and the TB to take over
the financial management functions from the existing PIBL Project Management Unit.
The Borrower and the Bank have agreed on a time-bound financial management action plan to specify the
steps necessary for further strengthening of financial management during project implementation, if
required. The development of the financial management system will be monitored by the Bank before
effectiveness, during the first supervision missions and throughout project implementation.
The PMU will have sufficient staff, and will ensure that the TB will have sufficient staff with the required
experience to ensure that project financial management is carried out in an effective and timely manner.
The PMU will, and will cause the TB to, maintain all documentation related to project expenditures and
keep financial records in accordance with sound accounting practices. The PMU will be responsible for
ensuring that the accounting records of the project are kept, that all payments are made properly, and that
- 94 -



the Special Account (SA) and the Project Account (PA - Government contributions) are managed properly.
In addition, the PMU will prepare all bidding documents, reporting to the Bank and the Government,
planning, budgeting, disbursement, and auditing.
The TB will handle all financial accounting records, and ensure that these records are kept up to date. The
PMU director will supervise the TB and will be responsible for the planning, budgeting, consolidation, and
reporting aspects. S/he will also establish permanent contacts with the TB, beneficiaries, the Bank,
accounting departments of the relevant ministries, auditors, and the Ministry of Public Finance.
The PMU staff will be responsible for: preparing the bidding documents; receiving the offers and
evaluating them in accordance with the Bank regulations; submitting the evaluations to the Bank for no
objection; signing contracts in an acceptable format; supervising the works performed by the contractors;
and certifying (jointly with the beneficiaries' representatives) the acceptance of the goods, works and
services provided in accordance with the terms of reference and the relevant technical specifications. The
payrnent documents will be prepared by the TB only after the fulfillment of the above steps. No project
funds may be passed over directly to beneficiaries or any other parties. The TB will be the only entity to
disburse project funds, and will do so only under authorization by the PMU.
Flow of Funds
The TB will hold the SA, as well as an additional separate Project Account for the Government's
contribution to the project. More details on flow of funds are presented in Annex 12.
Internal Controls
Project implementation will have to adhere to sound internal control procedures and practices. This
implementation will take place within the framework of the internal system of the TB. The internal auditor
of the TB will be responsible for supervising project implementation on a routine basis and whenever
requested by the PMU director or TB management.
The PMU director will continuously supervise PMU and TB activity and will be fully informed about
project implementation. In addition, the participating intermediaries will nominate liaison officers to
interact on their behalf with the PMU.
All PMU and TB staff assigned to the project will have to become familiar with the project's Operational
Manual and the Bank's regulations applicable to their relevant area. If required, the financial management
consultant would prepare a project financial management manual that would document the steps for each
type of financial transaction, approval and authorization procedures, the flow of documents between the
PMU, TB, and all participating intermediaries and final beneficiaries, staff responsibilities, and internal
control procedures.
In addition, the PMU and TB staff will document the internal norms that will be used. These norms will
detail day-to-day internal procedures (such as correspondence handling, contracting and payment
procedures, operation of bank accounts, petty cash procedures, authorization mechanism, reporting, and
filing).
In the recent past, some concems have been raised concerning fraud, waste and abuse of donor funds in the
region. Perceived corruption as reported in the press is principally in the area of procurement. The risk that
the Bank's funds will not be used as intended for financing the defined investment program is judged as
- 95 -



acceptable by introducing several measures, such as the separation of the PMU and the TB, the
'ring-fencing' of the project through the establishment and joint operation of the PMU and the TB,
segregation of duties within the PMU, requiring beneficiaries' representatives to certify the works done
before payments are made by the TB, and an independent yearly audit of project funds by a reputable audit
firm, acceptable to the Bank.
Auditing
Annual financial statements of the project will be prepared in accordance with International Accounting
Standards (IAS). The project financial statements will be audited in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (ISA) and the Bank guidelines on auditing and financial reporting such as the World
Bank Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook and the World Bank Project Financial
Management Manual.
All participating banks and all other entities involved in the project will have to submit to the Bank annual
audited financial statements in accordance with ISA.
Financial Management Action Plan
During project negotiations, the Borrower and the World Bank agreed on a financial management action
plan. This action plan forms an integral part of the financial management assessment of the project.
- 96 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Pro St cheduie                                      Planed                       ActI__
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       8                             8
First Bank mission (identification)              02/04/98                      02/04/98
Appraisal mission departure                      05/29/2000                    05/29/2000
Negotiations                                     02/23/2001                    02/23/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/31/2001
Prepared by:
Rodrigo Chaves, Lead Financial Economist, ECSSD
Saul Schor, Operations Analyst, ECSSD
Preparation assistance:
Koshie Michel, Team Assistant, ECSSD
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Rodrigo Chaves                     Lead Financial Economist, ECSSD: Team Leader
Emil Tesliuc                       Economist, ECSPE: Economic analysis
Saul Schor                         Operations Analyst, ECSSD: Financial analysis / operational processing
Anis Dani                          Sr. Social Scientist, ECSSD: Social assessment
Maria Amelina                      Young Professional, ECSSD: Social assessment
Naushad Khan                       Sr. Procurement Analyst, ECSSD: Procurement issues
Ranjan Ganguli                     Sr. Financial Management Specialist: Quality assurance
Sunil Bhattacharya                 Regional Procurement Advisor, ECSCS: Clearance of procurement
Bogdan Constantinescu              Financial Management Specialist, ECCRO: Financial management
Laura Tuck                         Sector Manager, ECSSD: Quality assurance
Doina Rachita                      Sr. Operations Officer, ECSSD: Policy dialogue with the Govt.
Alexandra Livia Onofrei            Team Assistant, ECSSD: Administrative support at Resident Mission
Koshie Michel                      Team Assistant, ECSSD: Administrative support
Femando Montes-Negret              Sector Manager, LCSFF: Peer Reviewer
Khaled Sherif                      Principal Country Economist, ECSPF: Peer Reviewer
Fred Levy                          Adviser, FSD: Peer Reviewer
Gottfried Ablasser                 Portfolio Manager, ECSSD: Quality assurance
John Kendall                       Consultant, ECSES: Quality assurance
Kenneth Miller                     Sr. Disbursement Officer, LOAG 1: Clearance of disbursement
Nicholay Chistykov                 Sr. Disbursement Officer, LOAG2: Clearance of disbursement
Elly Gudmundsdottir                Counsel, LEGOP: Drafting of Loan Agreement
Irina Kichingina                   Sr. Counsel, LEGOP: Drafting of Loan Agreement (secondary)
John Hegarty                       Regional Financial Management Advisor: Quality assurance
- 97 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan (May, 2000)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Project Concept Document (January 19, 2000)
Environmental Data Sheet (January 11, 2000)
Back-to-Office Report: Preparation Mission ( November 29, 1999)
Back-to-Office Report: Identification Mission (February 4, 1998)
FMS Financial Management Assessment (August 3, 2000)
Procurement Capacity Assessment (June, 2000)
C. Other
Operational Manual (2001)
Financial Markets, Credit Constraints & Investment in Rural Romania, Report No. 19412 (January 2000)
Loan disbursement schedule (2000)
Distribution Network of Financial Services in Romania (1999)
The Romanian Rural Economy (1999)
Characteristics of Financial Services in Rural Romania (1999)
How Problems in the Framework for Secured Transactions Limit Access to Credit (October, 1999)
Creating a Legal and Institutional Framework to Promote Access to Credit by the Poor (March 1999)
The Electronic Archive for Security Interests in Moveable Property: Discussion and Options (March
1999)
The Profitability of Providing Retail Financial Services in Rural Areas of Romania: A Rural Bank Branch
(May 2000)
The Profitability of Providing Retail Financial Services in Rural Areas of Romania: A Micro-credit Service
Provider Retail Point (May 2000)
Enviromnental Review of the Romania Rural Finance Development Project (April 2000)
Environmental Guidelines for the Romania Rural Finance Development Project (April 2000)
Ordinance on Micro-Credit (January 28, 2000)
Draft Law on Framework on Secured Transactions (March 1999)
Draft Law on Commercial Pledge (November 1998)
Draft Law on Security Interests in Personal Property (July 1998)
Draft Guarantee Law
Survey of Rural Enterprises and Financial Services - Working Paper
Survey of Rural Households and Financial Services - Working Paper
Survey of Rural Enterprises and Financial Services - Cross Tabulations
Survey of Rural Households and Financial Services - Cross Tabulations
Survey of Financial Outlets - Cross Tabulations
Rural Financial Services Survey: Survey Design Report (July 1998)
Economic Analysis of Selected Investment Opportunities in Rural Areas (June 2000)
Romanian Bank Analysis (June, 2000)
*Induding electronic files
-98 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Mar-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                              disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm ReyVd
P043882       2000 AGR SUPPORT SERVICES                              11.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      10.93      0.43       0.00
P056337       2000 MINE CLOSURE                                      44.50       0.00                  0.00      0.00      43.52      12.05      0.00
P00B797       2000 HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                              40.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      40.00       3.07      0.00
P065041       2000 TRADE & TRANS FACIL IN SE EUR                     17.10       0.00                 0.00       0.00      17.10      0.00       0.00
P039251       1999 PIBL                                              25.00       0.00                  0.00      1.10      17.35      4.45       0.00
P044176       1999 BIODtVERSITY                                       0.00       0.00                  5.50      0.00       4.40       1.02      0.00
P058284       1999 CULTURAL HERITAGE                                  5.0o       0.00                  0.00      0.00       4.39       3.49      0.00
PD49200       1999 SOCDEVFUND                                         10.00      0.00                  0.00      0.00       4.59       4.59      5.04
P044614       1998 SCHOOLS REHABILITATION                            70.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      59.30      34.40     -8.00
P055495       1908 CHILD WELFARE REFORM                               5.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00       3.64       2.74      0.00
P034213       1998 GENLCADASTRE                                      25.50       0.00                  0.00      0.00      23.77       7.11      0.00
P008788       1998 TELECOMMUNICATION                                 30.00       0.00                  0.00      7.00      17.46     21.37       3.32
P039250       1997 SECOND ROADS                                     150.00       0.00                  o.00      0.00      32.44     -30.06      0.00
P008793       1997 HIGHER EDUCATION                                  50.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      30.10      30.10     11.70
P008778       1997 BUCHAREST WATER SUPP                              25.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      10.18      10.05      0.00
P036013       1996 RAILWAY                                          120.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      44.53      43.20      0.00
P008794       1996 POWER SECTOR REHABS.                             110.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      93.60      93.60     12.45
P008776       1995 (ESPP) EMPLOY. & SOC. PROTECTION                  55.40       0.00                  0.00      0.00      36.21      35.81      0.00
P008777       1994 PETROL SECT REH                                   175.60      0.00                  0.00      0.00      79.45      79.45    -76.00
P008784       1994 EDUCATION REFORM                                  50.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00      20.83      20.83     34.96
Total:    1019.10        0.00               5.50         8.10     593.80     377.71     *16.52
-99 -



ROMANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Mar-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999               Ambro                          7.66    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.11    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Banc Post                      0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00
1998               Bilstein Compa                 1.74    0.00    0.00     1.74    1.74    0.00     0.00    1.74
1996               Danube Fund                    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Demir Romania                  5.00    3.20    0.00    0.00    5.00    2.55      0.00    0.00
1997               Efes Brewery                   7.63    0.00    0.00     6.00    7.63    0.00     0.00    6.00
1998               FCR Fund                       0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Garanta                        0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20      0.00    0.00
1998               Krupp Compa                    6.09    0.00    0.00    2.61    5.03    0.00      0.00    2.15
1997/00            Mobil Rom                     15.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               Rambox                         1.35    2.00    0.00    0.00    1.35    2.00      0.00    0.00
1994/98            Romlease                       0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30      0.00    0.00
1998               Small Bus. Loan                3.00    0.02    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.02    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        47.47    17.72   10.00    30.35    28.86   17.07    10.00    9.89
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2001              Romlease Restr.                 4000.00     0.00       0.00     0.00
2001              Banca Romaneasca                3000.00   3000.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      7000.00   3000.00      0.00     0.00
- 100-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
EWop &    Low.-
POVERTY And SO3CAL                                            Cantal tiddl-                                      -
Romanla       Asia  Ineom         Development dlamond'
t999
PoouiWalon mid.VWarniJllkns                            22.5       475     2.094                  Ldfe expectancy
GNPperck(A metlfs thoo. US$)                          1520      2.150     1.200
GNP  4       7MOWd ,tS$ b0ons)                         34.1     1,022     2,513
Avwa. anuwal growfh 1993-99
Population (                                           -0.2       0.1        1.1
Laborforre (6                                          05        0,6        1.2     GNP                              Gross
per                   ,        pnimary
Most reet sa at QMye  4 bia. v93,                                                    capita                       enrollment
Povty N   oeMafion belown ..&ooveeYlfnet                22
Urban populaton ( of fof poplatn)                       56         67        43
Lif #xeWrya bOM fYt                                     69         69        69
Iiast MNWo a*r 1.000 #h0 w1s)                           21         22        33
Ctild nakwmn  (% dfchttn th) Sl8                                             is                Access to safe water
Aoom to kmy   wawe so"w f% ofooutfon1                   62                   86
tensYv f% dofpq*G'n a9tr 0S1                             2         3        t6Roai
Gioss prkawy erner (1 of-hod-spe poxu. )n              104        100       114        -     omania
Moao                                                 104        101       114        -     Lower-middle-income group
Femalo                                               103         99       116
KEfY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      199      9
Economic ratios
GOPruSS4bob")                                          41,5      41,5      340
GrossdomesflctrwenU GOP                      396       268       21.4       199                      Trade
Exvorts of goods and servicsVGOP                       20.9      23.7       30.1
cGroasdomesa  saviolGDP                                29.5      13,3       15,7
Gros national sAr,GOP                                  29,7      14.0       16.3                       T
Curranta   So tWbalt ncWGOP                             61        -72        38      Domestic        nfte
bntml  t0amesntsiOP                                     0.2       1.1        14                                   Investment
TotdebVGDP                                              2.6      243       27.1      Savng
TOtl debtaavlas%xports                         1.4     169       23.6      28. 
P_.satvoas e d d46bGOP                                           23.2       27.1
Prent value ofebaerpoxts                                         98.5       92.0
Indebtedness
1S79489  1980-9      1996       1990  19943
f-r annua Wowth)
GOP                                  1.       -1.5     -4.9      -32                    -Romania
GNper capIta                          . 2     -1.4      5A1       2.8                         Lower-middle-incorm  group
Export of qoods and services                  4.8       5 8       8.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
f% of GOP)                                   1979     1989       1998      19S9      Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
Ariculture                                             15.7       15.0      15.5     10
Indusr"                                                56.4      36.6      31.0
Manufacturina                                                   27.3      22.2
Services                                               27.9      48.3      53.5       5\
Private consumption                                    58.9      72.2      69.6    ,is
General Govemment consumotion                          11.6      14.5       14.7              -G     01       0'GDP
Imports of goods and services                          18.2      31.8      34.3
(avee annualgrowth)                       1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999     Growth of exports and imports (%/)
A,riculture                                             0.6       4.8        4.7    20
Industry                                               -1.9      -5.6       -4.0
Manufacturin                                                    4 6.4     -3.1     1 0
Servces                                                -2.4      -0.1      -8.4       4
Private consumption                                    -0.1      -6.5       -6.8            94   95   96
General aovemment consumpbon                            2.3      12.0       0.4
Gross domestic Investment                              -5.7      -8.6       -3.7   -10
Imports of moods and services                           4.4      14.1      -4.8             -     Epots   -*Imports
Gross national product                         1.7     -1.7      -5.3       -3.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates,
The diamonds show four kef indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be hionmlete.
- 101 -



Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     199      Inflation ()
(% change)                                                                      300
Consurierprkes                               ..      1.A      59.1      45.8    200
Impicit GDP deflator                         3.2    -0.9      55.0      46.4
Govwnment finance                                                                l                            t.
of GDP, indludes current qrnts) 
Currentrevenue                                ..    51.0      30.1      33.3            94   95   99   97  9D    9
Current budet balance                        ..    31.1        -5.0     -3.5            -GDPdefator    1  CPI
Overatl suls/deflcidt                         ..    13.5       -5.0     -3.4
TRADE
(USS millions)                             1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                           ..  10,487     8.302    8,505    12.000
Textiles                                    ..       ..    1,583    1,310
Metals                                      ..       ..      508       502     9,000
Manufactures                                 ..   7,056     5,238    5,654
Total imports (cif)                           ..   8,437    11.838   10,392      *.0.                     _
Food                                        ..    124        523       417     3,000  _   fiffiff
Fuel and enerw                              ..   4.728      1,687    1,251            _
Catal oods                                   ..   2,148     3.206    2,689        o M     M                         o
Export Prke kidex (1995=100)                   -      93        95       97
tmpotpriceindex(1995=100)                     ..      99        98      101                 *Exports     *ltport
Termsoftrade(19958100)                        ..      93        97       95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ mIllions)                             1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Export of oodsandservices                 10.133   11.321    9.519    9.862      0
Importsofqoodsandservices                 11,428    8,887    12,798   11,358
Resource balance                          -1,295    2.434    -3,279   -1.496    .2
Net income                                 -358  80  -442  -375   IuI1i,III
Net current transfers                        ..        0       753      568      4
Cuffe account balance                     -1.653    2,514    -2.968   -1.303     -*
Financing items (net)                      1,791   -1,160    2,125    1,471
Chanes in net reserves                     -138   -1.354       843      -168    4.9
Resorves incudIn gold (USS mlNlons)          ..       ..    3,789    3,657
Converson rate (DEC. ocsMUSS)                 ..    19.3   8,875.8  15,332.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1999
(USS milions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       3.583    1.087    10.074    9.213
IBRO                                      590        0     1.469    1.703                   G.883
IDA                                         0        0         0        0                               A: 1.703
Total debt service                          142    i,941     2,310    2,876
IBRD                                       54      756       152      171
IDA                                         0        0         0        0                                    C: 459
Composition of net resource flows
Offlkialgrants                              0        0       131        0                              _     D: 1,021
OMdCa craditors                           151   -1,188      -123       -65
Pdivate crediors                         1,680    -432       344      -351         F 458                   E:379
Foreign diw Irwestment                      0        0     2,040      949                        ...         3
Porftno equitv                              0        0       130      -706
Wotid Banr program
Cotments                                  340        0       130      340      A - IRD                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             142        0       122      323      8 - IDA    D- Other mustateral  F - Prsate
Pdncbal repaymrents                         7      727        70       85      C - IMF                    G - Shortterm
Net ilws                                  135    -727         51      238
Intest paynents                            47       29        82       87
Net tansters                               88    -756        -30      152
Dewvlopment Economics                                                                                           91512000
- 102 -



Additional
Annex 11
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Letter of Development Program
Government of Rornania
February2 2001
Johannes Linn
Vice President
Europe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank
Dear Mr. Linn:
Re: Proposed Rural Finance Development Program
Letter of Developmenr Program
The Government of Romania attaches higb priority to reform of the rural economy, and to help effect
such reform, is committed to implementing a Rural Finance Development Program with the assistance of the
World Bank. This program would support the Govemment's long term view of developed and internationally
competitive rural areas with significantly less incidence of poverty by establishing effcctive private financial
markets and intermediaries which would provide access to investment capital and safe deposit services to au
segments of the rural population. especially to individual farmers, rural micro-entrepreneurs. and small and
medium businesses.
The Romanian rural economy is an important cross-section of all other sub-sectors of the economy in
itself. More than half of total employment is located in rural areas (52 percent in 1997) as well as roughly a
fifth of all incorporated business are headquartered there. These businesses are active in industry,
construction, trade, services, and agriculture.
In addition. the rural economy as the aggregate of these sub-sectors is different from the urban
economy. In particular, there are important differences in terms of the size and geographical dispersion of
economic agents. importance of agriculture, and incidence of rural poverty, which is far greater and deeper
than urban poverty. These differences imply that rural areas are more prone to capital market failure.
The Government and the World Bank have conducted significant analysis and policy dialogue on the
rural sector. These activities have ascertained that the performance of rural financial markets is very poor in
the following dimensions: (a) the degree of access to credit services by rural agents is very low, (b) this
constrained access to credit markets negatively influenced thc invcstment behavior of households and
enterprises, and (c) financial markets failed to allocate credit to the best altemative uses within the rural
economy.
This poor perfoRmance of rural financial markets has had a negative impact on rural growth and
poverty. In the absence of sufficient investment capital, the rural economy has experienced difficulty in
adjusting to the major policy reforms of recent years, the aftermath of the exchange rate crisis of early 1997,
and the strong devaluation. which has occurred since early 1999. These events require rural enterprises to
adjust factor proportions, modify output mixes, change their scale of operations, and invest in new
technologies. Their success in this endeavor, which depends on the performance of all factor markets, has
been hindered by the observed performance of financial markets.
- 103 -



One aggravating factor is that a significant share of the investments needed to allow the rural economy
to adjust requires long term financing. The banking sector is not in a position to provide such financing
because it does not have access to long termn funding.
Finally, Romanian rural agents have been and will continue to be at a disadvantage when competing
with counterparts in European Union countries and the United States where rural enterprises and households
have much better access to far superior financial services, including long term debt.
Romania was a major agricultural producer before the era of forced industrialization under
communism. In 1989, the country embarked on the road to a market economy, and employment in agriculture
began to grow again in 1995, now accounting for one-fifth of GDP and around 35% of total employment.
However, agricultural output remains below its potential.
During the past decade, the Govemment has made efforts to reform agriculture and the rural economy.
Beginning in 1991, land reform on a massive scale created the largest class of entrepreneurs existing today in
Romania farm entrepreneurs, by restituting up to 10 hcctares of collective-owned agricultural land to over 4
million Romanians. Out of 14.7 million hectares of agricultural land, 9.25 million hectares were returned to
private hands, representing 73% of the arable and 63% of the agricultural area of the country. The reform
increased the total share of privately owned land from 12% in 1989 to 70% in 1992. Before the reform, a
small number of state and cooperative farmns (8,000) dominated primary production. After the reform,
peasant farms and farm associations replaced cooperatives, and the number of farms dramatically increased to
15.875 farm associations, and 3.7 million small farms. By the end of 1998, more than 84% of arable land and
72% of total agricultural land was in private hands, and 78% of landowners had received titles of ownership.
However, after the reform, nearly 80% of Romnanian farm assets were owned and operated by small farmers
without access to credit. Thus, while the reform created a large class of rural entrepreneurs with significant
potential to catalyze the economic growth and development of the rural sector, the production capacity of
their assets was significantly constrained.
In 1997, the Government adopted a comprehensive agricultural reform strategy, supported by the
World Bank ASAL, which aimed to address: (a) agricultural incentives and credit; (b) operation of land and
grain markets; (c) privatization of state-owned farms and storage operators; and (d) adoption of a new
mandate for agricultural administration.
Reformn of directed agricultural credit programs involved termination of the refinancing of preferential
credit for agriculture by the National Bank of Romania (NBR). Agricultural credit was integrated into the
budget, and thus forced to compete with other uses of scarce budgetary resources. The State ceased to
guarantee agricultural loans, and banks were provided incentives to select clients based on repayment
capacity.
Nonetheless, the large class of farm entrepreneurs created by the 1991 land reforn remains
economically dormant. While a significant number of these entrepreneurs have significant
development potential. appropriate amounts of rural credit are necessary to catalyze such
development. Further, a dynamic non-agricultural rural sector exists, the development of which
could stimulate the rural economy as a whole.
The Government has also made advances in reforming the Romanian financial sector. including
strengthening the supervisory capacity and powers of the NBR, reforming the legal and regulatory framework
for finance, and restructuring and privatizing state-owned banks.
2
- 104 -



Since 1990, the banking sector and banking regulatory and supervisory framework have developed
rapidly. Following the conversion of the National Bank of Romania into a central bank, a comprehensive set
of prudential regulations and a bank supervisory function wvere put in place.
In 1996, the Govemment adopted a financial and enterprise sector reform program supported by the
World Bank FESAL. A key objective of the prograin was to strengthen the banking sector through improved
banking supervision, recognition of loan losses, and the progressive recapitalization of large banks from
retained earnings.
In 1998, the Government implemented the following reforms: (a) the collateralization of NBR
refinancing credits. (b) mandatory extemal auditing of banks, (c) reform of the payments system, and (d)
creation of deposit insurance, a banks' chart of accounts conformiing to International Accounting Standards
(LAS), and a credit risk information bureau. Legal regulations to strengthen the prudential, supervisory, and
enforcement capabilities of the NBR were promulgated. New prudential regulations governing loan
classification and provisioning, minimum solvency ratio, connected lending, licensing, risk exposure limits,
and foreign exposure limits were issued by the NBR.
Further, major pieces of banking legislation developed with IMF assistance were passed, including a
bankruptcy law, a revised banking law, a revised NBR law, a bank privatization law, and a bank insolvency
law. These new laws: (a) strengthen the overall supervisory powers of the NBR (including its powers to carry
out special supervision an administration of troubled banks); (b) require banks to be audited by an
independenL external auditor; (c) establish the principle that credit contracts and associated collateral are
executive titles; and (d) explicitly provide mninimum qualifications for bank managers.
Also during 1998, progress was made in restructuring and privatizing state-owned banks. Two state-
owned banks - the Romanian Development Bank (RDB) and Banc Post (BP) - were privatized. Moreover,
Banca Agricola is striving to improve its financial position following a change in top management and the
creation of a broadly based Restructuring Committee to oversee its rehabilitation. Banca Agricola has
reduced staff numbers closed over numerous outlets, and conunenced a vigorous debt recovery.
The Government is committed to building on reforms achieved under the FESAL as evidenced by its
decision to embark on a program, beginning in 1999 and supported by the World Bank PSAL. to promote
further financial sector reform combined with meaningful measures aimed at corporate restructuring in the
enterprise sector. The PSAL is expected to support reforms that will enlarge market opportunities for
Romranian banks that are being restructured and privatized. as well as strengthen their financial condition,
product array, and management capacity.
Under the PSAL. the Government modified the Law on Bank Privatization to render the privatization
process quicker and more transparent. The creation of an Asset Resolution Agency (ARA) will support bank
restructuring by providing an outlet to dispose of non-viable assets. To facilitate quick and smooth bank
restructuring, the NBR has tightened and simplify loan classification requirements, mandated realistic
valuations of collateral, and increased the provisioning of bad loans. Liquidity and solvency requirements
have been tightened by increasing risk-adjusted capital adequacy requirements to strengten the NBR's
capacity to identify problem banks, to provide the banks themselves with cushion against unforeseen losses,
and to prevent depositor losses. The powers of the NBR to withdraw licenses of insolvent banks without
court approval have been increased under new legislation.
The Government with the assistance of the World Bank is preparing a second PSAL to follow through
on reforms undertaken under the first PSAL.
3
- 105-



A new Law on Secured Transactions in Personal Property, drafted with the assistance of the World
Bank, has been in effect since 1999. This Law provides for the use of moveable assets (ehattel paper,
accounts receivable, fixtures, inventory) to be pledged as collateral for loans. Moveable assets are important
sources of collateral for rural inhabitants, since many of the inhabitants have limited or no access to real
assets. Further, to realize the benefits of the new Law, an Intemet-based, state-of-the-ant electronic archive
for registering transactions secured by personal property was developed and has been operational since
December 2000. This archive allows lenders to instantly verify wbether or not a given asset proposed by a
potential borrower as collateral has already been pledged to a different lender, effectvely reducing credit risk
for lenders.
The Government considers a strong financial sector, including an appropriate legal and regulatory
framework, an NBR with sufficient supervisory capacity and authority, and an intermediation system as
essential to economic development, urban and rural. In this sense, the Government is commnitted to a new
rural financial sector strategy based on the following three pillars.
(a) Reform of curren7 government sector policies and institntions. Government policies and participation
in the sector had been characterized by (i) unsustainable costs and delinquency within the main public
development bank operating in the rural sector (BancaAgricola); (ii) widespread strategic default
promoted by weak creditor rights and credit programs and institutions with weak incentives to collect
loans; and (iii) worsening income distribution, efficiency distortions, and inflationary pressures resulting
from unsustainable credit policies and interest rates subsidies.
(b) Legal and instinitional environmentforfinancial transactions in rural areas. The Government's new
strategy is based on the recognition that its primary responsibility is to provide an environment in which
property rights. contracts, and financial services can prosper. Such an environment entails the new
improved legal framework for enforcing contracts and making use of collateral.
(c ) Managentent of the transition. A rural financial services distribution netvork. This third strategic
pillar would be aimned at assisting the country's private banks to acquire the capacity to provide
sustainable retail financial services to rural households and enterprises and to make available well-
targeted and appropriately priced long-term investment capital to the private sector in rural areas.
The strategy will be implemented in part through the proposed Rural Finance Development Program
and will address the issues of (a) lack of access to credit and long term investment capital on the part of rural
households and private enterprises, (b) inefficiency of rural financial markets in allocating credit to users with
profitable investment opportunities, and (c) the likely reduction of the network of bank branches in rural
areas.
First, in 1997, tLe Govemment sought the advisory services of the World Bank to devise a strategy
aimed at solving the structural causes of severe constraints and distortions affecting the rural and financial
sectors and laying the groundwork for a Rural Finance Development Program. In particular. the Bank assisted
the Government in undertaking the analytical work necessary to develop its strategy.
Second, the Government opted to include in the proposed Rural Finance Development Program a
credit and leasing facility targeted exclusively to the rural sector. The importance of the rural economy. its
fundamental economic characteristics, and the high incidence of rural poverty all combined with the need to
absorb EU-SAPARD grants which require countcrpart funding, were considered to be good reasons to target
the program's credit and leasing facility exclusively to ruial areas.
Third, the Government opted for an exclusive private sector focus for the program's credit and leasing
facility. Eligible sub-borrowers and participating intermediaries will be linuted to private entities.
4
-106-



Fourth, the Government believes that the program should support private commercial banks and non-
governmental or privaten micro-credit service providers with long term funding, and technical assistance
aimed at assisting these intermediaries in (a) developing suitable technologies and methods to provide retail
financial services to small and micro-entrepreneurs in small rural localities; (b) establishing and operation of
a network of pilot private banking offices; and (c) training their staff in retail banking and mnicro-lending.
We believe there is a compelling policyjustificaton for the Government to give incentives to private
intermediaries to increase their presenice and replace the disappearing state banks in the retail portion of the
market, especially in rural areas. A financial sector presence will be required to provide safe deposit services
to the large portions of the rural population, which have bank deposits. The presence of a network of retail
finance will also be required for the efficient functioning of the payments system and especially for lending to
small and medium businesses and farmers, which are the large majority of the rural population.
In addition, the Government agrees that all lending, sub-lending, and leasing financed under the
program will be on market terms and conditions. In particular, the pricing of the credit lines and leasing needs
to reflect all costs and risks involved. In this sense, the Government is taking actions to dissolve all directed
programs and all funds financing rural and agricultural credit. The Government will re-allocate the budget
resources previously available to subsidized agricultural credit to finance other better-targeted and more
transparent programs to support the agricultural sector.
The objective of the proposed Rural Finance Development Program is to support the Government's
long term view of developed and internationally competitive rural areas with significantly less incidence of
poverty by establishing effctive private financial markets and intermediaries which will provide access to
investment capital and safe deposit services to all segments of the rural population, especially to individual
farmers, tural rnicro-cntreprencurs, and snall and medium businesses.
The program will include two phases. The first phase of about four years will focus on designing and
establishing a distribution network for financial services adequate to serve the large majority of rural
enterprises and population which are retail and micro-clients. This first phase would also provide some of the
long-term investment capital urgently required by the rural sector to meet the challenges of (a) adjusting to
the major policy reforms of recent years and (b) financing the structural transformation of the rural economy
required by Romania's accession to the European Union.
The second phase will be triggered when an evaluation demonstrates that: (a) credit is (i) being
demanded in sufficient amounts; (ii) allocated effectively to representative segments of the rural population;
and (iii) repaid and (b) that the retail distnibution network is being used effectively and is achieving
sustainability.
The objectives of the proposed Rural Finance Development Project are to: (a) accelerate the economic
transformation of the rural economy by increasing the flow of investment capital to the sector, (b) increase
the role of the private sector in the rural economy by (i) increasing access, on The part of rural households
with entrepreneurial activities and private enterprises. to financial services and by (ii) assisting regulated
private financial intermediaries to augment their presence in rural localiics; (c) facilitate accession to the
European Union (EU) by increasing the ability of the rural economy to absorb the grants that will be
allocated under the EU's Special Accession Program for Agriculture and Rural Developmenjt (SAPARD) by
making available counterpart funding for the private investments that will bt financed by this program, and
(d) alleviate rural poverty by financing farm and off-farm investments for the poorer segments of the rural
populaton which currently have no access to credit. The project also seeks to improve the legal and
institutional environment for financial transactions and intermedianes in rural areas in four key dimensions
which need reform.
5
- 107 -



Ihe proposed project includes three components. Component A (Rural Credit and Leasing Facility)
would be a credit line to finance (a) sub-loans to eligible private sector borrowers to finance rural productive
activities (farm and non-farm), (b) micro sub-loans to rural households and micro-enterprises, and (c) leasing
of depreciable capital assets such as machinery, tools, vehicles, and equipment.
Component B (Rural Retail Banking and Micro-Finance) would fmnance (a) incremental expenditures
incurred, inter alia, in the (i) development of suitable technologies to provide retail ftnancial services to small
and micro-entrepreneurs in small rural localities; and (ii) establishment and operation of a network of pilot
private banking offices; (b) training and technical assistance in retail banking and micro-lending to private
banks and non-governmental organizations.
Component C (Project Management and Technical Assistance on Rural Financial Market
Development) would finance the (a) incremental expenses incunred by the Government in implementing and
monitoring the project and (b) technical assistance to the Government to formnulate future policy for the sector
and improve the its legal environment.
The proposed project would be managed under the general guidance of a Steering Committee, which
would consist of representatives from the main government agencies involved in the sector, including the
Mlinistry of Agriculture and Food, the Ministry of Finance, and the National Bank of Romania.
The total cost of the proposed Rural Finance Development Program is estimated at US5277 million
equivalent. The cost of the first phase of the program, the proposed Rural Finance Development Project, is
estimated at US$148 million. To support implementation of the program, the Government requests the
World Bank to provide total financing in the amount of US$150 million. Within this amount, the
Government requests a loan of US$80 million equivalent to implement the proposed Rural Finance
Development Project.
The Government of Romania hopes to continue the close collaboration achieved with the World Bank
in conceiving and preparing this very important program for the Romanian rural economy.
Sincerely,
Mihai icolae TanTasescu                                      Hie S: 7b
Minis  of P                   '                 Minister of Agriculture, Food and Fore   rs '
8.Y
6
- 108 -



Additional
Annex 12
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Implementation Arrangements
Component A: Rural Credit and Leasing Facility
Loan Agreement    Govemment of Romnania
The World Bank                         repesented by Ministry of
Public Finance (MOPP)
Steering Committee        1    l
0,                     - MOPF               fl    I
.6   .0:             ~~~~~- MOAFF 
2!    <'j                    -NBR
weZ     '   z     ~Sup7er ision           1      , 
E~
Project Maagement |             J2i
-- -- *     Unit (PMU)     |             IO
----------- -------~4--- ]                    1
E j         'l          Pavinent AIf il(orizatiji.
, , ~~~_ ________                                      I, ~ 
.                   - i  _  Treasury Bank (APEX for                   >
Comp. A I Paying Agency for     ,
r-- -                        Comp.B and C)
Special Account       _
Repayment Account
I' 0           F           t_    _t    __R' I I
Pariipating Priate lntenmediary Banks (PIBs),   Microcredit Service
Private Retail Banks (PRBs), and Private Leasing  Providers (SPs)
Companies (PLCs)
Final Beneficiaies (sub-borrowers, lessees, micro-borrowers)
Flow of Loan Funds Legal Arrangements Flow of Decision-Making Flow of Documentation
- 109 -



4 _1  -  -  -  -  -  -  - Consultant Services Contract
X         Vi4t                                   Participation Agreement                  |                                        a,
SOEs                                                            0
C       !          XJ0D 00 Resource Maagement Agreemeadvanc4t 
m_-                                                                                        ,- - so 
U  aAiRenaments                                                  o
Q 0
~~~pn Elo                                                                                                                  i
o_
r                                                                 <I
V              0.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:3               >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r.



Component C: Project Management and Technical Assistance
in Rural Financial Market Development
Implementation and Institutional Arrangements
Loan Ameeent_    Government of Romania
The World Ban)k    _ _ _     __       rpresented by Ministy of
Public Finance (MOPF)
C              Stecring Committee
E U'                 *MOPF
- MOAFF
- NBR
SUPCI'v.ks1on
Project Mnagement            - - - - - -
Unit (PMU)            k
Paymenit Autihonizatioi       I
Tresury Bank (APEX for 
Comp. A / Paying Agency for 
Comp. B and C)
Special Account                          10
Repaymnent Account                    0   '
a, I
Consulting  res
for implmentation of
Component C
Flow of Loan Funds Legal Arrangements Flow of Decision-Making  Flow of Documentation
-   -   -   _- _ -  ...........- .............   -------



Additional
Annex 13
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Eligibility Criteria and Selection Procedures for Participating Financial Institutions,
and Eligibility Criteria for Sub-Projects and Sub-Borrowers
To participate in the project as Private Intermediary Banks (PIBs), Private Retail Banks (PRBs), Private
Leasing Companies (PLCs), microcredit Service Providers (SPs), or the Treasury Bank (TB), interested
banks, leasing companies, and microcredit service providers must comply with specific eligibility criteria
and undergo established selection processes. The selection of SPs and the TB will follow the World Bank
procurement guidelines for the hiring of consultants, since they will be compensated as such. In the case of
PIBs and PRBs, their selection process does not involve procurement directly because they are not acting
on a consulting basis, rather as participating financial intermediaries and recipients of technical assistance.
A.    Eligibility Criteria for PIBs and PRBs
Banks that seek to participate in the project as PIBs or PRBs must be majority privately owned and
managed commercial banks registered in Romania. These banks will be in sound financial condition,
demonstrate satisfactory performance based on healthy loan and investment portfolios, and adhere to sound
operating policies and procedures. Further, these banks will comply with the following specific eligibility
criteria:
Capital Adequacy
   A minimum capital to loan ratio of 16%.
*   A minimum risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio of 8%, as defined by the IAS, of which 4%
must primary capital.
*   A minimum capital to fixed asset ratio of 16%.
Asset Quality
*   Maximum 20% exposure to a single borrower in accordance with existing Romanian
regulations. Exposure to a single borrower exceeding 10% of equity requires the reporting of
all assets to the National Bank of Romania (NBR).
*   Compliance with all existing Romanian laws and regulations conceming ceilings and
limitations on loans to insiders (directors, officers, shareholders, and related interests).
*  A maximum 10% ratio of total past due loans to total loan portfolio outstanding. Failure to
meet this criterion would not preclude participation in the project if unimpaired capital and
reserves meet minimum capital requirements.
Reserves
* A minimum 15% ratio of loan loss reserves to loans, or a capital base exceeding minimum
- 112 -



requirements such that excess capital plus loan loss reserves equal 15% of gross loans.
*   Loan loss provisions equal to or greater than the sum of aged delinquent loan balances
weighted as follows:
(i) 1-3 months: 10%
(ii) 4-6 months: 25%
(iii) 7-9 months: 50%
(iv) 10-12 months: 75%
(v) 12 months or more: 100%
Management
*   Satisfactory financial policies, procedures, and internal controls, especially regarding credit
appraisal and administration and loan classification and provisioning on an asset-by-asset
basis.
*   Organization, management, and staff with the requisite expertise and incentive to effectively
identify, appraise, and supervise the utilization of loans.
v   A business strategy acceptable to the World Bank.
Liquidity
=   Minimum net liquid asset to capital ratio of -500%, where net liquid assets = liquid assets -
liquid liabilities.
*   Minimum liquid asset to liquid liability ratio of 40%.
Earnings
*   Profitable operations for at least one year imnmediately preceding the date of application for
participation in the project as demonstrated by an audit report prepared by an internationally
recognized auditing firm in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS).
Operating Costs
*   Maximum 20% ratio of operating costs to average total assets.
- 113-



Accounting and Auditing
*   Capacity to prepare financial statements in accordance with IAS.
*   An audit report, including a portfolio review, covering the year immediately preceding the date
of application for participation in the project and prepared by an internationally recognized
auditing firm in accordance with IAS.
Years in Existence
*   Minimum of at least two years in existence.
B.    Additional Eligibility Criterion for PRBs
Those banks seeking to participate in the project as PRBs must also agree to participate in an institutional
development program, designed in cooperation with the PMU and under the supervision of the World Bank
and implemented with the assistance of internationally experienced banking experts, to incorporate
intemational best practices in rural finance, including strategy building, internal organization, credit
procedures, asset/liability and portfolio management, and internal controls and auditing.
C.    Eligibility Criteria for the TB
The following eligibility criteria will apply to those banks seeking to act as the project's Treasury Bank:
i   Maintenance of records and account which would be adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, the operation of the funds committed by the Government to the project.
*   Capacity and experience in issuing letters of credit and for making direct foreign payments and
other international transactions.
*   Capacity to perform a wide range of banking services at the local level, including cash payments,
transfers to other banks, issuance of debit notes, and application of conversion rated from foreign
currencies.
*   Willingness to issue a Comfort Letter to ensure that project resources deposited will not be set
aside or otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts due to any other creditor by the
Government of the Borrower.
* Compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to its operations.
* Organization, management, staff and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of its
operations.
*   Capacity to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Accounting Standards
(IAS), independent auditing acceptable to the World Bank by auditors acceptable to the World
Bank, and an audit report, including a portfolio review, covering the fiscal year immediately
- 114 -



preceding the date of application for participation in the project, prepared by a firm acceptable to
the Bank.
D.    Eligibility Criteria for PLCs
In order for applicant leasing companies to act as financial intermediaries by accessing project funds
directly from the RCLF to purchase depreciable capital assets, leasing companies must obtain an
enforceable unconditional guarantee issued by a local or intemationally reputed bank in an amount
sufficient to cover the total exposure of the Govemment in terms of principal amount and interest
payments. In addition, they will have to meet the following specific eligibility criteria.
*   Unqualified financial statements - for the year immediately preceding application for participation
in the project - audited by extemal auditors in accordance with IAS.
*   Compliance with all existing regulations applicable to leasing companies.
*   Maximum debt to equity ratio of 70:30 and maximum debt service coverage ratio of 1.3:1 as
calculated from unqualified audited financial statements for the year immediately preceding.
*   Majority private ownership.
-   Profitable operations for at least one year immediately preceding the date of application for
participation in the project as demonstrated by an audit report prepared by an intemationally
recognized auditing firm in accordance with IAS.
E.    Eligibility Criteria for SPs
Non-governmental organizations that seek to participate in the Project as microcredit Service Providers
must be legally incorporated private entities, satisfactory to the World Bank, which are able to demonstrate
(a) sufficient capacity to deliver microcredit, (b) sound organization with competent management, (c)
strong internal control, financial management, and operational capacity, (d) preferably an established
record of delivering microcredit services successfully in rural areas, and (e) the willingness and ability to
share in the credit risk and co-finance up to 25% of the microloans allocated under the project. These
microcredit Service Providers must be in sound financial condition, demonstrate satisfactory performance,
and adhere to sound operating policies and procedures, which will be judged based on the following
elements:
Management and Staff. Existing number of managers and staff, their qualifications, and previous
work experience and training.
Financial Position. Confu-mation of existing and future funding sources. Evaluation of financial
position, including analysis of internally generated income if the organization is already a
microcredit service provider, in which case, the performance of potential SPs'existing microcredit
program will be based on (a) Projected Portfolio at Risk (PAR) = outstanding loans in arrears /
outstanding loan portfolio below 20 percent and (b) a Subsidy Dependence Index of less than 100
percent.
Management Information Systems (MIS). Timeliness and accuracy of information on the
operations of the organization provided by its MIS.
- 115 -



F.     Initial Non-compliance with Eligibility Criteria
Potential participating PIBs and PLCs that do not initially meet the eligibility criteria related to levels of
liquidity can still become participants in the project provided that they fumish a satisfactory guarantee to
the Government issued by an internationally reputed banking institution, as detailed below. Such additional
guarantees must be agreed by the World Bank on a case by case basis. PIBs and PLCs declared eligible in
this manner will be notified that:
* They have a maximum of six months to comply with all of the above-specified eligibility criteria.
* They will enter a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (SLA) with the Government when they furnish a
guarantee letter, with the MOF as beneficiary, issued by an intemationally reputed financial
institution. The guarantee letter would represent an option that may be called by the Government
should the guaranteed bank fail to perforn on the SLA, and will pay to the Government the
outstanding principal and accrued interests drawn from the RCLF.
Potential PIBs or PLCs which have been operating for less than two years in Romania will be required to
submit the guarantee presented in the previous paragraph, as well as a detailed business and capital plan
for the following two years. These plans will have to be satisfactory to the World Bank.
G.    Continuing Eligibility of all Participating Financial Institutions
All participating financial institutions (PIBs, PRBs, SPs, PLCs, and the TB) must maintain their
compliance with the above-specified eligibility criteria. Failure of any participating financial institution to
continue to meet the above-specified eligibility criteria may result its suspension from participation in the
Project. Continuing eligibility will be monitored by the PMU and supervised by the World Bank.
H.    Selection Procedures for PIBs and PLCs
Application for Accreditation. Private banks that seek to participate in the project as PIBs and PRBs,
and leasing companies that seek to participate as PLCs, will file an application to be accredited with the
PMU. The application will include: (a) all the documents and information listed in Attachment 1 to this
annex, including an outline of operational policies and guidelines and a brief corporate strategy outline.
Further, the application will include a statement, signed by the bank's or leasing company's authorized
representative, that the financial institution agrees to be subject to the PMU and World Bank appraisal and
selection process.
Screening. The PMU will review the application and supporting documentation and, according to the
eligibility criteria, determine whether the applicant bank or leasing company qualifies for a full appraisal.
If the bank or leasing company does qualify, the World Bank and the applicant institution will be notified in
writing. A bank or leasing company which, in the opinion of the PMU in consultation with the NBR does
not meet the eligibility criteria, will be informed in writing, with: (a) the option to furnish a guarantee letter
satisfactory to the Government and the World Bank, as specified above, if the eligibility criteria related to
levels of liquidity are not met; or (b) specific reasons for rejection and indication of improvements
necessary before re-application can be made. A copy of the application and the rejection letter will be
forwarded to the World Bank.
Appraisal. The PMU will appraise potential participating banks and leasing companies in consultation
- 116 -



with the NBR and the MOF and under the supervision of the World Bank. Upon satisfactory appraisal, the
banks and leasing companies will be advised to submit the below-specified documentation necessary for
accreditation. Otherwise, the bank will be informed in writing of the reasons for rejection.
Accreditation. After satisfactory appraisal, accreditation of potential participating banks and leasing
companies will be effected upon presentation of the following documentation:
Board Resolution - a copy of a furm resolution of the Board of Directors of a potential participating
bank or leasing company authorizing the bank or leasing company to sign a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with the Government and designating two authorized signatories (at least one signatory
shall have the rank of vice-president or officer of equivalent rank to sign on behalf of the participating
bank all documents pertaining to the loans);
Signature of SLA. The SLA will be signed and will specify, inter alia, that project-financed
sub-projects and transactions will: (a) adhere to the Rural Credit and Leasing Facility operating policy
guidelines; (b) establish a unit or an identifiable group to be responsible for approval and supervision
of project-financed sub-projects and a Loan/Lease Review Committee; and (c) provide training for the
unit or group staff as advised by the World Bank. The SLA will also state that project-financed
sub-projects and transactions will (a) adhere to procurement and disbursement procedures of the World
Bank; (b) maintain loan accounts and documentation; and (c) submit annually externally audited
financial statements concerning the project-related portfolio for as long as the bank or leasing continues
to participate in the project.
1.     Selection Procedures for PRBs
Potential participating private retail banks (PRBs) that pass the above accreditation process will be selected
on a competitive basis. The review of retail banking issues presented in the project's Operational Manual
will serve, along with the Investment Package (IP) which will be be sent to all potential participating
financial intermediaries, as the source of detailed criteria for selecting the PRBs.
Distribution of Investment Packages. The PMU will organize a presentation for all eligible banks during
which the IPs will be distributed and their main points highlighted. Among other information, the IP will
specify the eligibility criteria, the technical assistance to be provided to the banks, the minimum number of
branches to be developed and services to be provided at those branches and the estimated cost to each bank
of these activities. The IPs will also specify that PRBs will also commit to participate in the Project as
PIBs under Component A. The project's OM contains a draft IP.
The proposals received from interested banks should contain all the documentation specified in the IPs,
including:
* Documentation, including audited financial statements, verifying their compliance with the
eligibility criteria as presented in Table 10, as well as any additional eligibility criteria established
in the IP;
*   Review of their current lending processes, including technical and human capital ability to absorb
the TAs under the Project, as well as capacity to hire additional retail staff and procure the goods
and services under the Project following World Bank guidelines. In the case that these processes
and capacities are not on par with those required for Project participation, interested banks should
- 117-



clearly specify the measures to be taken to remedy these deficiencies;
*   Business plan covering the years of Project implementation, including expected impact from the
TA and pilot retail branches, as well as measures to be taken to ensure the M&E targets for PRB,
as specified in the M&E docunent finalized during Appraisal, are fulfilled; and
*   In a closed envelope, the number of branches to be rolled-out under the Project and amount of
financing requested. Banks will be able to bid for no more than 55 branches and no fewer than 10.
The PMU, following authorization of the Steering Committee and the no objection of the World Bank, will
appoint a Selection Committee for PRBs (SCP) that will evaluate the proposals. This evaluation will
consist of reviewing the technical proposals and discarding those that do not meet the eligibility criteria and
which do not cover all the requirements specified in the IP. Furthermore, the ability of each bank to roll out
the number of branches requested will be tested by simulating an increase in their balance sheet
corresponding to that number of branches. Only banks that can absorb this growth and remain eligible
PIBs will be considered. After these eligibility criteria have been determined, the SCP will proceed to open
the envelopes with the number of branches and the amount of financing required. The eligible banks will
then be ranked starting with the one committing to the largest number of branches.
Branch Alocation Mechanism. The Project will finance the start-up and operating costs during three
years of up to 120 branches. The maximum amount of financing per branch will be US$90,000. If the
four banks requesting the largest number of branches jointly request 120 branches or less then each bank
will get the number it requested (Case I in Table I below). If two or more banks request the same number
of branches then the ones requesting the least amount of financing will be selected (Case 2). If the number
of branches requested exceeds 120, the number of branches (and more importantly the financing associated
with them) will be allocated proportionally to the number of branches requested by each bank (Case 3).
These cases can be better understood with the hypothetical example as presented in Table I below. In
Case 1, banks A, B, C, and D are selected and they receive funding to finance all the branches requested.
In Case 2, there is a tie between banks D and E with both of them requesting the same number of branches.
In that case, E is selected because it is requesting a lower level of financing per branch. Finally, Case 3
illustrates a case in which rationing is required. The first four banks request a total of 160 branches, thus
exceeding by 40 the limit of 120. Furthermnore, there is a tie between banks C, D, and E, all of which
request 30 branches. The tie is resolved by discarding bank D, the one requesting the highest level of
financing per branch of the three. The decrease in branches, which should add up to 40, is done
proportionally to the number of branches requested by the four banks. Thus, each of the selected banks has
its financing decreased based on their mean cost of branches. In the case of bank C, for example, its
number of branches is decreased by 8 and since its mean cost o branches is $50,000, its total financing is
decreased by $400,000.
-118-



Table 1. Example of Allocation of Branch Financing for PRBs
Bank       # Branches     Financing    $ Branch      Decrease in    Financing
Requested                   Branches      Received
Case I
A            20         1,000,000      50,000                     1,000,000
B            18          900,000       50,000                      900,000
C            16          900,000       56,250                      900,000
D            12          400,000       33,333                      400,000
E            10          450,000       45,000
F            10          400,000       40,000
G            10          500,000       50,000
Case 2
A            20         1,000,000      50,000                     1,000,000
B            18          900,000       50,000                      900,000
C            16          900,000       56,250                      900,000
D            12          400,000       33,333
E            12          350,000       29,166                      350,000
F            10          500,000       50,000
G            10          600,000       60,000
Case 3
A            50         3,000,000      60,000          12         2,280,000
B            50         2,800,000      56,000          12         2,128,000
C            30         1,500,000      50,000           8         1,100,000
D            30         1,700,000      56,666
E      1     30         1,300,000      43,333          8           954,000
F            10          500,000       50,000
G            10          600,000       60,000                         _
Upon public announcement of the selection, the PMU will sign Participation Agreements (PA) with each
one of the PRBs. The PAs will legally commit the PRBs to activities and terns of reference detailed in the
IP.
J.    Selection Procedures for SPs
The SPs will be procured according to the World Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers. In particular, the methodology for QCBS bidding will be used.
K.    Eligibility Criteria for Sub-Projects
- 119-



The project will finance productive investments in all sub-sectors of the rural economy, including
agriculture, services, and industry. The leasing of productive assets to eligible beneficiaries will be an
eligible sub-project only for eligible leasing companies. Sub-loans will not be granted to refinance existing
obligations of private enterprises to participating intermediary banks, to finance the purchase or leasing of
land or buildings, or to finance equity investments. Further, to be eligible for financing by the project,
proposed sub-projects must:
*   Be technically feasible and economically, financially, and commercially viable, and designed
according to all health, safety, and environmental standards, applicable in Romania.
*   Comply with environmental due diligence acceptable to the World Bank and be consistent with
applicable environmental laws and regulations of Romania.
*   Be carried out using procurement procedures in accordance with World Bank procurement policies
and guidelines to ensure that goods and services are purchased at fair market prices and capital
investment decisions are made in a cost-effective manner on an "arms-length" basis.
The following sub-projects are ineligible for financing by the project:
*   Purchase and leasing of land.
* Tobacco-related activities (production, processing, marketing).
* Sub-projects requiring the involuntary resettlement of people (e.g., construction of roads through
populated areas).
* Sub-projects that may have adverse impacts on cultural heritage structures (i.e., assets of historic,
cultural or archaeological significance).
L.     Eligibility Criteria for Sub-Borrowers
Sub-borrowers and lessees eligible to access project funds will be limited to: (a) majority privately owned
Romanian legal entities (i) domiciled in rural areas and (ii) domiciled in urban areas and engaged in
activities typically related to the rural economy (e.g., production and processing of agricultural inputs and
outputs); and (b) physical persons of Romanian nationality residing in rural areas.
- 120 -



Annex 13: Attachment 1
Documentation Required of Applicant PIBs and PLCs
Documentation
1. Financial statements for three years immediately preceding the date of application, including Balance
Sheet, Income Statement, Sources and Uses of Funds Statement, and the applicants own calculation of the
financial ratios required by the eligibility criteria.
2. Articles of Establishment and By-Laws.
3. Number and location of branches and/or subsidiaries.
4. List (including very short biography) of board members and senior management.
5. Manuals on different policies and procedures (see "Outline of Policy Statements" below), specifically
including income accrual, loan classification, provisioning, project appraisal, project supervision and risk
exposure.
6. Three samples of actual project/credit analysis.
7. Three samples of actual internal investment analysis.
8. Business plan including assumptions for financial market demand, a capital plan, loan and liquidity
growth projections, and a corporate strategy (see "Outline of Corporate Strategy" below).
9. List and exposure to 20 largest clients.
10. Data flow analysis, including analysis capacity, frequency, and flow between the central office,
branches, and business units.
Tables
Table 1: Organizational Chart, including number of professional staff.
Table 2: Highlights of Past Operations (Product Lines).
Table 3: Portfolio Risk (exposure and arrears).
Table 4: Funding Position
Table 5: Actual and Projected Income Statements
Table 6: Actual and Projected Balance Sheets
- 121 -



Table 7: Actual and Projected Cash Flow Statements
Outline of Policy Statements
1. Mission Statement
2. Policies to Maintain Institutional Strength and Soundness
2.1 Portfolio quality
2.2 Appraisal standards
2.3 Exposure limits: single enterprise, industry/subsector, business groups, affiliates
2.4 Relationship vis-a-vis directors, officers, shareholders and related interests
3. Asset-Liability Management Guidelines
3.1 Liquidity management
3.2 Currency matching
3.3 Maturity matching
3.4 Matching of variable vs. fixed rate assets and liabilities
4. Rate of Return Criterion
5. Borrower Restrictions
5.1 Minimum current ratio
5.2 Maximum debt/equity ratio
5.3 Minimum debt service coverage ratio
6. Financial Prudence Ratios/Guidelines
6.1 Capital adequacy
6.2 Adequacy of provisions
6.3 Minimum debt service coverage ratio
6.4 Minimum collection ratio
Outline of Corporate Strategy
1. Balance Sheet Strategies.
2.1 Portfolio quality
2.2 Capital adequacy
2.3 Balance sheet vs. off-balance-sheet growth
2.4 Diversification of asset mix and liability base
3. Business Strategies
3.1 Product line development/diversification, including time-bound targets
3.2 Relative importance of various asset/liability product lines
3.3 Marketing strategies
3.4 Target market shares
- 122-



4. Funding Strategies
4.1 Products offered or planned to increase the own funding base
4.2 Measures to manage the funding risk
5. Operational Strategies
5.1 Internal control
5.2 MIS development
5.3 Automation
5.4 Planning and budgeting
5.5 Financial management systems
5.6 Project finance: Appraisal and supervision standards and procedures
6. Operations, Profitability and Balance Sheet Projections
6.1 Profitability of product lines, relative growth and importance over time
6.2 Relative contribution to profit by product lines
6.3 Relative magnitude and composition of assets and liabilities on the balance sheet
- 123 -



Annex 13: Attachment 2
Documentation Required of Applicant PRBs
Proposals received frorn applicant PRBs must contain all the documentation specified in the Investment
Package which will have been distributed to them by the PMU, including:
*   Audited financial statements, verifying their compliance with the eligibility criteria as presented in
this Annex, as well as any additional eligibility criteria defined in the Investment Package.
*   A review of their current lending processes, including technical and human capital ability to absorb
the TAs under the Project, as well as capacity to hire additional retail staff and procure the goods
and services under the Project following World Bank guidelines. In the case that these processes
and capacities are not on par with those required for Project participation, interested banks should
clearly specify the measures to be taken to remedy these deficiencies.
*   A business plan covering the years of Project implementation, including expected impact from the
TA and pilot retail branches, as well as measures to be taken to ensure the M&E targets for PRB,
as specified in the M&E document finalized during Appraisal, are fulfilled.
*   In a closed envelope, the number of branches to be rolled-out under the Project and amount of
financing requested. Banks can bid for no more than 50 branches and no fewer than 10.
- 124 -



Annex 13: Attachment 3
Documentation Required of Applicant SPs
Proposals received from applicant SPs must contain all the documentation specified in the Investment
Package which will have been distributed to them by the PMU, including: (a) basic documentation on the
organization of the applicant (statute, by-laws, annual report and financial statements for the last 3 years,
and list of board members and executive staff); and (b) a business plan specifying the following elements:
*   Analysis of the market environment, including economic elements (inflation rate, population
characteristics and trends), accessibility (infrastructure, population density), government policies
(small business regulation, legal structures, and financial sector regulation), and other potential
opportunities or constraints to program implementation.
*   Marketing plan, including geographic target area, program duration, proposed financial products,
credit delivery methodology, and collateral requirements.
*   Program financial projections, including projected microloan portfolio size and growth, expected
budget and funding sources, and projected cash flows indicating anticipated program revenues and
costs.
*   Detailed program implementation schedule.
- 125-



Additional
Annex 14
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loans, Sub-loans, Lease Contracts, and Micro-loans
Terms and conditions of subsidiary loans between the Government and participating Private
Intermediary Banks (PIBs), Private Retail Banks (PRBs), and Private Leasing Companies (PLCs).
The terms and conditions of subsidiary loans from the Government to PIBs for on-lending to
sub-borrowers, to PRBs for bank branch development, and to PLCs for the purchase of leasing assets will
be as follows:
*   Currency. Subsidiary loans will be denominated in US dollars.
*   Interest rates. Subsidiary loans will be made at the rates detailed below, which are based on the
6-month LIBOR plus spreads. Subsidiary loan rates will be reviewed and modified, if necessary,
biannually to adjust for changes in the 6-month LIBOR. The spreads will be reviewed from time
to time during project implementation to account for cost and risk considerations. Changes in the
spread will require the World Bank's no-objection.
The total cost of funding for PIBs, PRBs, and PLCs under the project will be calculated as follows:
Currency              USD
Reference Rate        6-month LIBOR
World Bank Spread/I   75 bps
Government Spread     30 bps
Rate                  6-month LIBOR +
80 bps.
Other Charges
Stand-by Fee          75 bps
Front-end fee         100 bps
Notes:
I/ This figure does not assume an interest rate waiver of 0.25%, which will be effective if all the
country's World Bank loans have been serviced within 30 calendar days of the due date for all
payments due in the preceding six months. If the country meets these requirements, the Rural
Credit and Leasing Facility (RCLF) rate will decrease by 0.25%.
* Maximum subsidiary loan amount outstanding. The maximum allowable subsidiary loan
amount outstanding with a participating intermediary will be determined on a case-by-case basis
for each intermediary through a simulation on the applicants financial data. Specifically, this
simulation will incorporate the amount of credit line funds requested by the applicant into its
- 126 -



financial statements to determine its compliance with the eligibility criteria set forth in Annex 13 as
if it had already been granted the subsidiary loan.
*   Repayment term. The repayment term for subsidiary loans will be 12 years, with a maximum
grace peiod on principal and interest of 18 months. Any amounts of sub-loan principal or interests
repaid by sub-borrowers to PIBs or PLCs, which are not immediately needed for repayment of the
subsidiary loan to the Govemment, will be kept in separate rollover accounts. Such accounts will
be maintained by each PIB or PLC independently, and not necessarily in the TB. Funds from these
accounts could only be utilized by PIBs and PLCs to finance additional sub-projects aimed at
pursuing the objectives of the project, and which conform to the agreed terms, conditions, and
eligibility criteria of the project.
*   Stand-by fees. Participating Private Intermediary Banks, PRBs, and PLCs will be required to pay
stand-by fees in the amount of 0.75% of the undisbursed amount of the subsidiary loans allocated
to them.
Terms and conditions of sub-loans and leasing contracts. The terms and conditions of sub-loans from
PIBs (and PRBs, which must also be PIBs) and of leasing contracts from PLCs to lessees will be as
follows:
*   Currency. Sub-loans and leasing contracts will be made available in US dollars and Romanian
lei, as determined by the participating intermediaries and each sub-borrower on the basis of, inter
alia, foreign exchange cash flows and access to instruments to hedge forex risk.
Exchange rate risk on US dollar denominated sub-loans. Sub-borrowers and lessees will
ultimately bear the exchange rate risk of borrowing and leasing in hard currency.
Exchange rate risk on Romanian Lei denominated sub-loans. PIBs and PLCs will
ultimately bear the foreign exchange risk of lending on local currency-denominated sub-loans
and lease contracts. This risk will be incorporated into the pricing of the sub-loans and leasing
contracts.
*   Pricing. The interest rates and other fees on sub-loans and leasing contracts will be determined by
individual PIBs and PLCs based on their cost of funding, perceived risks, and operational costs.
Interest rates will be adjustable at least biannualy to adjust for changes in an observable and
market determined interest rate.
*   Maximum sub-loan or leasing contract amount outstanding. The maximum allowable amount
of sub-loans or leasing contracts outstanding to a single sub-borrower or lessee will be USS 1
million equivalent ($4 million if the sub-borrower is a leasing company). This amount will be
periodically reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, over the life of the project, provided that the
World Bank issue its formal no-objection to any proposed changes.
*   Review of sub-loans and leasing contracts by the World Bank. The following conditions
pertaining to review by the World Bank of sub-loans and leasing contracts will apply:
* The first two sub-loans extended by each PIB (or leasing contract by each PLC) will be
subject to prior review by the World Bank.
- 127 -



*   For those sub-loans or leasing contracts subject to prior review for procurement purposes
as specified in Annex 6 of this PAD, the World Bank will review the complete sub-loan
file and issue a "no objection" for the purposes of procurement. The World Bank may
choose to issue an objection to any such proposed sub-loan on grounds related to the
technical dimensions of credit analysis.
*   A sub-loan extended by a PIB (or leasing contract by a PLC) in an amount less than
US$250,000 - or other threshold which the World Bank may establish from time to time -
will be afree limit sub-loan or leasing contract. Free limit sub-loans or leasing contracts
will not be subject to prior review by the Bank, unless any of the above-mentioned review
conditions apply to them.
*  All sub-loans and leasing contracts will be subject to ex-post review by the World Bank,
the PMU, and/or their designated consultants and auditors.
*   Repayment terms. Repayment schedules of sub-loans issued by PIBs, and leasing contracts
issued by PLCs, will have maximum terms of 8 years, with a maximum grace peiod of 12 months
on principal and interest. Within these limits, sub-loan and leasing contract repayment schedules
will be determined by individual PIBs and PLCs based on the cash flow profiles of the sub-projects
financed and other risk-adjusted considerations.
*   Collateral. Collateral requirements will be determined by individual PIBs based on the perceived
credit risk of specific sub-borrowers and sub-projects. Acceptable security will typically include:
(a) co-signers with fiduciary liability for the micro-loans and (b) real estate and moveable assets
pledged as collateral. For lease contracts, the leased assets themselves will serve as collateral in
the event of non-repayment on the part of lessees. Leasors will be able to request additional
collateral or guarantees.
Terms and conditions of micro-loans. Micro-loans to final beneficiaries will be financed jointly by the
Govemment (through the project's Rural Credit and Leasing Facility) and by the microcredit SPs selected
to participate in project. The termns and conditions of micro-loans will be as follows:
-   Currency. The 75 percent portion of each micro-loan under the project that will be financed by
the Government will be denominated in Romanian lei. The Government will, thus, bear the foreign
exchange risk on its corresponding share of micro-loans. This exchange rate risk to the
Government will be compensated by the interest rate differential between the World Bank's
standard rate and the rates paid on project funds by micro-borrowers. Should it become necessary
(e.g., because of lack of demand for Leu denominated micro-loans), the PMU may request the
World Bank's no-objection to allowing the Government-financed portion of micro-loans to be
denominated in US dollars. Service providers may chose to denominate their portion of
micro-loans in forex or local currency.
*   Maximum micro-loan amount outstanding. The maximum allowable amount of micro-credit
outstanding to a single sub-borrower will be US$7,500 equivalent.
*   Pricing. The interest rates on micro-loans will be the weighted average of: (a) the interest rate
charged by the Government on its 75 percent share of each micro-loan disbursed; and (b) the
interest rate charged by SPs on the remaining 25 percent of each micro-loan disbursed. The interest
rate charged by the Government on its share of each local currency-denominated micro-loan will be
based on the lei-denominated six month T-Bill rate plus 2%. This rate will be reviewed
- 128 -



semi-annually. The rate charged by SPs on their share of each micro-loan will be determined by
SPs themselves on the basis of the cash flow profiles of the sub-projects financed and other
risk-adjusted considerations. Should the World Bank issue its no-objection to denomination of the
Government's share of each microloan in US dollars, the rate on these resources will be the
USD-denominated six month T-Bill rate plus 1%. This rate will also be determined and set
semi-annually.
*   Repayment terms. Repayment schedules of micro-loans will have maximum terms of 3 years
and, within this limit, will be determined by individual SPs based on the cash flow profiles of the
sub-projects financed and other risk-adjusted considerations. The Government will accrue interest
and principal payments on its 75 percent share of each micro-loan on the same terms and
conditions (back-to-back) as the micro-loans allocated to eligible borrowers.
*   Collateral. Collateral requirements will be determined by individual SPs based on the basis of
perceived credit risk of specific micro-borrowers and sub-projects. Acceptable security will
typically include (a) co-signers with fiduciary liability for the micro-loans and (b) real estate and
moveable assets pledged as collateral.
- 129 -



Additional
Annex 15
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation of project implementation will be the primary responsibility of the Steering
Committee and the PMU. The PMU will implement the monitoring and evaluation system (M&E)
summarized in the template presented below. The template indicates the sources from which the data
required to implement the M&E system will be obtained and the frequency at which the observations of the
performance indicators should be recorded.
The M&E system is made of three modules. The first module (see template below) contains the key
indicators that will be used to judge the performance of (a) the rural financial sector, (b) the long term
program supported by the project, and (c) the project itself in terms of its (i) desired outcomes and (ii)
expected outputs. This first module will be highly dependent on the data produced by the monitoring of
social development outcomes activities described in the Annex (see below) to monitor the sector and
program performance. Project performance will be monitored using data generated by the PMU and
participating intermediaries. The second module will also use these project data and will be devoted to
monitoring progress in achieving the performance triggers required to move into the program's second
phase. The third module consists of the Project Implementation Plan (PIS) which was designed to monitor
the project implementation process. This module focuses, thus, on (a) implementation milestones (e.g.,
effectiveness), (b) tasks (e. ., issuance of RFPs, selection of PFIs), and (c) extemal tasks (e.g., issuance of
decrees by the Government).
The World Bank will adopt exactly the same M&E and its template to supervise the project in the pertinent
dimensions. The consistency afforded by using the M&E as the basis of supervision should facilitate
coordination and dialogue vith the Borrower on project implementation and its impact.
- 130-



Romania
Rural Finance Project
Monitoring and Evaluation System
Module 1: Key Performance Indicators
g ~~~~~~'.   ,,;-                                                                  g                     -
1.e,''':'''    '".B _   t_  .S__    _      ___ ___  __,    __   ___  _  _ _
] .   Credit Constraints    *    Rural Household
CrdtCnsrit                 and Enterprise          a.            a.           a.         a.        a.          a,         a.
a.   Enterprise Level             and Enberprise          a
b.   Household Level              Survey                  b             b           b           b                    b          b
2.   Share of State banks in:    .    Annual NBR
a    Aggregate assets             Report                  a.            a.           a.         a.        a.         a.          a.
b    Deposits               *    Thompson Bank            b.            b.           b.         b.        b.         b.          b.
c.   Equity                       Watch                   c.            c.          C.          C.        C.         C.         C.
d.   Points of Sale                                       d.            d.                      d.                   d.         d.
3.   Rural SOEs' impact on        .    Rural Household
rural economy                    and Enterprise
a.   Rural SOE                    Survey                  a.            a.           a.         a.        a.         a.          a.
Aggregate Losses      *    National
b.   Amount of credit             Commission for          b.            b.           b.         b.        b.         b.          b.
obtained by rural           Statistics reports
and agricultural
SOEs (1999=100)
c.   SOE share of                                         c.            c.           c.         c.        c.         c.          c.
aggregate value of
assets and
revenues of rural
enterprises
d.   SOE share of                                         d.            d.           d.         d.        d.         d.          d.
Agricultural Gross
Value Added
4.   Income eaming                *    Rural Household
opportunities                     and Enterprise
a.   Percentage of                Survey                  a.            a.           a.         a.        a.         a.          a.
rural households      *    Living Standards
participating in:           Measure Survey
(i)  input              *    Living Standards         (i)           (i)          (i)        (i)       (i)        (i)         (i)
(ii) output                   Measurement             (ii)          (ii)         (ii)       (ii)      (ii)       (ii)        (ii)
(iii) financial               Survey                  (iii)         (iii)        (iii)      (iii)     (iii)      (iii)       (iii)
(iv) labor markets                                    (iv)          (iv)         (iv)       (iv)      (iv)       (iv)        (iv)
b.   Percentage of rural                                  b.            b.          b.          b.        b.         b.         b.
labor force in non-
farming activities
c.   Incidence of                                         c.            c.           c.         c.                   c.          c.
poverty in rural
areas. (Head
Count)
- 131 -



S c.   Non-farming small                                   c.
Rural Gross Valued i              Summary of
Added                            national accounts
issued by NationaB
Commission for
Statistics.                                                                                       _
I. Amount of long-term        *     Rural Household
financing (Real termns           and Enterprise
1949=100)                        Survey
a.   Private agriculture                                  a.            a.          a.         a.          a.       a.        a.
b.   Rural households                                     b.            b.          b.         b.         b.        b.        b.
c.   Non-farming small                                    c.            c.          c.         c.         c.        c.        c.
and medium
enterprises
3.   Number of sub-         *    Reports from
loans disbursed to:        TB, PlBs,
a.   Rural                  PRBs, SPs       a.       a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.
households            and PMU
|  b    Rtural                                 b.      |b      |b      |b.       b.    |b.    |b.   |b.       b.     b.   |b.   |b.   |b. |
enterprises|                                               |
2.   Amount of sub-        *    Reports from
loans disbursed to:        TB, PlBs,
a.   Rural                 PRBs, SPs       a.        a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.
|   households        and PMU         ____|
|  b.   Rural                                  b.     |b.   |b.   |b.   |b.   |b.     b.   |b.   |b.   |b.   |b.                         b.   |b. |
.    enterprises                                                                                                      _      
3.   Number of micro       *    Reports from
loans disbursed to        TB, PIBs, a
derural households         PRBs, SPs
6.   assets                          PMUissued                          l and PMU
4.   Amount of micro        *    Reports from
loans disbursed to            TB, SPs,
rural households              PlBs, PRBs|                                                    i
|           .            ~~~~~and PMU
5.   NumbeT of lease       *    Reports from                                                                            i
contracts on               TB, PIB and
depreciable capital        PLCs
assets issued
6.   Amount of lease       *    Report from
contracts on               TB, PIB and                                                                     j
depreciable capital           PLCs                   j                                                                                        j
assets issued       _                                                       
.    Rural House-
7.   Number of                   hold and
beneficiaries of            Enterprise
SAPARD grants               Survey
with counterpart      *    Audits and
funding provided by        reports of
the financial sector        SAPARD
a.   Households             Paying          a.       a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.      a.
b.   Enterprises            Agency          b.       b.      b.      b.      b.      b.      b.      b.      b.      b.      b. b.            .
- 132 -



I.   Amount of                *    Rural House-
SAPARD funding                hold and
to rural private              Enterprise
sector leveraged              Survey
with project funding   *    Supervision
Missions
*    Records and
reports from
PIBs, PLCs,
PRBs, SP
and TB
2.   PRB outreach:            *    Records,
a.   Number of                audited           a.        a.       a.       a.      a.       a.       a.       a.       a.      a.       a.       a.       a.
branches                statements
(i) Bank A              and reports                                       (i) (i)  (i)               (i)     (i)      (i)(i () () () ()     ()       ()
(ii) Bank B             by PRBs            (i        i)      (i        i)      (i       i)      (i        i)      (i       i)      (i        i)      (i
( iii) Bank C     *    Supervision         (iii)    (ii i)    (iii)    (iii)    (iii)    (iii)    (iii)    (iii)    ( iii)    (iii)    (ii i)    (iii)    (iii)
(iv) Bank D             missions           (iv)     (iv)     (iv)     (iv)    (iv)     (iv)     (iv)    (iv)      (iv)    (iv)    (iv)      (iv)    (iv)
b.   Percentage of
Branches bove                             b.        b.       b.       b.       b.      b.       b.       b.       b.       b.      b.       b.       b.
Break-evens
(i) Bank A
(ii) Bank B
(iii) Bank C
(iv) Bank D
c.   Consolidated                               c.        c.       c.       c.      c.       c.       c.       c.       c.       c.      c.       e.       C.
Net
Profit/Loss
3.   SP outreach:             *    Records,
a.   Number of                audited           a.        a.       a.       a.      a.       a.       a.       a.       a.       a.      a.       a.       a.
points of sale          statements
b.   Number of                and reports       b.        b.       b.       b.       b.      b.       b.       b.       b.       b.      b.       b.       b.
agro-regions            by SPs
covered            *    Supervision
missions
Objt*e  hwtct_tu                                                                           .-          v           -       ...  - * f  '+.6gRt< d ,r 4   tl- s><-, -~rsnss  *
1.   Completion of studies on:        *     Consultant                I'ORsfRFP Issued             Consultant Recruited                       Report Issued
reports
a.   Feasibility report and    *       PRB and SPs           a.                          a.                                  a.
proforma projected               reports
financial statements
for a branch or
cluster of branches
established by a
private bank
b.   Credit, accounting,                                     b.                         b.                                   b.
and internal control
manuals
C.   Pricing strategies                                      c.                          c.                                  c.
d.   Personnel incentives                                    d.                         d.                                   d.
e.   Management                                              e.                          e.                                  e.
information systems
f.    Appraisal of retail                                    f.                         f.                                   f.
loans
g.   Collateral procedures                                   g.                          g.                                  g.
-133-



tretmn |i#mt of  !iE t 
I .        dCompletion  of sem tars,  *    Consultant
workshops and training                Reports
sessions for staff ofn                 Supervision
a.   PRBs                             Missions              a.                         a.
seb.   SPs                                                  b.                         b.
I 1    Consultant reports and       ;                   TORs/RFP issued |          osultant            Report issued       Agency in Charge    Follow-up
policy  notes regarding:                                                    recruited                                  ofFollow up         Action
a.   Warehousing receipts                        a.                    a.                     a.                    a.
system                                                                                                                                   Ia.I
b.   Accounting and fisca                        b.                    b.                     b.                    b.
|treatnnent of                                                                                                     ||b.
depreciable assets
and leasing
|  c.   Credit rating            ||c.                                    |c.                    |c.                     c.
|agencies, centrally                                                                                               |                        c.
imanaged databases
|   for banks           l                l                     l                      l                      l                     l- 3
|  d.   Private insuTance                                                                                                                                         j
services in rural areas                     d.                    d.                    d.                     d.
e.   Regulation and                                                                                                                                 d.
|supervision of mutual |                           .|e.                  e.                     .                    e.
financial                                                                                                                          je.
|inteTmediaries
- 134 -



Romania
Rural Finance Project
Monitoring and Evaluation System
Module 2: Performance Triggers for APL Phase 2
Credit Allocation Triggers
1.     Disbursement of Rural Credit and Leasing Facility
a1    Cg IC        04    CB    CB    C7    CB1 1    0m    0Q    1                    3   0a  0  06
Pm Ac Pm Ad Pm Ac Pm Ad Pm Ad Pm Ad Pt Ac dn PAt Pm Ad PmA  PTm Ad Pm Ad Pm At Pm Ad PAd PA
Perqw    03    0.7   1.C  It   1.B   2.2   27    3.   3l            4      5 2    5.6   6(0   6.3   6q   6.
qame      023_    1( _    91    3.5 _   53 _   7.4  1a_  la"   17.2  21J   26!   325_ 3&   44.7  51_    5B._
Disbursement of Rural Credit & Leasing Facility
60                                                                          8
50    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ I7
40
C/)          a
6)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
30 -                                                                        4
I         ~~~36
E 20-
E                                                                              21
0 10                                                                              0 o
0                                                                          0
*I   N  C    U ,Lf  CD  r-.  0   0)  0)     C\   C'tI    L   CD
tilliilPer quarter (planned)        Quarter        APphs2trge
-Cumulative (planned)APphs2trge
- 135 -



2.     Extent of Outreach of Rural Credit and Leasing Facility
Qi   ce          CA   01   01            Ca 0    01 00 O         1    013 01   cm   016
Pm Ad Pmn  PPm Ad lPmAd Pm Ac Pm    Pd Pn Ad  m PAd PmAc lPd     Pd  APd P PAd Pm Pd Pm Pdt Pm Pd 
=    12~~8   12         1.    12          59         IM    1 ,7a  Z2   ZK                      6D75 L
Extent of Outreach of Rural Credit & Leasing Facility
7000-                                                               900
'D 6000 -                                            EIOO~~~800
6000                                                                   700 t
0 5000                                                               -
m                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~600 
0 4000-                                                                500 a
.2)3000 -400 
300
E                                                                      3000 - 
z 2000 31W          D0
1000                                                                100
0                                                                U 
-  C\J   N t  U ) (0  I-  co  d) 0       CJ co  't  v) (o
a           a0 a    a   a  a aa  a
Quarter
Per Quarter (planned)                         APL phase 2 trigger
- Cumulative (planned)
- 136-



3.       Depth of Outreach of Rural Credit and Leasing Facility
Q1                        CB C14    0b C                           10      ll            Q3 Q12014    Q1       a
P .I,         PNnIAd PmA PIn Ad Pt Ad PAPb A    i                   Pmn lAd I Pmk PA 1I Ad  Ph   P  IAd  Ad Pm t P
Ba32                291    274   24 I    19       l       123    la          9.91       8       7-     7       7.     7      6
Depth of Outreach of Rural Credit & Leasing Facility
35 
30 -
>CD)
25 
0)
0)z
04 CO    t   U.)  CD   N-   OD   0)   CD       iC\J                   o
Quarter
0 Planned                                                 ALphase 2 trigger
- 137 -



4. Arrears Level of Rural Credit and Leasing Facility
An upper limit of 7% of the loan portfolio (per principal amount of exposure) can be in arrears at any given
time. For purposes of arrears calculation, the entire amount of Service Provider micro-loans will be
considered - not only the 25% financed by the Government.
Arrears will be calculated based on principal past due 180 days when, for purposes of M&E of the Project,
the principal will be written-off and considered a loan loss. This evaluation metric is independent of any
regulatory guidelines issues by the National Bank of Romania for treatment of non-performing loans.
Those guidelines will apply for all regulatory purposes.
1    C    a3 _ C1     -T_                        O -    1   Q13   014  015
___    ~A- Pm Ad Pm Ad P Ad PIm A  mA  mA  mA  mA  mA  mA  mA  mA  mA  mA  m
alad _ b_    _  I                                  _ _ _  _ 7_n.0o, 7
bsms as t^n       _      _      _            7.0_   _  7   7  _._7._.t  7.0 _ 7^        0% 8 -
-1 38-



Distribution Network Triggers
1.     Breadth of Outreach of Distribution Network
01    C m  Cs   06   01   01)   C7   CB   co   01    1            12 03 04    1           1
linl_  d a  I_  A d 1    A - tAd     Fi.Act  4Aa  7 Ad  11 Ad IJ a  2IPW AC  I   A   1   d  A  _  I  7C 7C
Breadth of Outreach of Distribution Network
m     80
70~
_60-
cn ~    ~      Beat a) ourelc -iDsrbto    ew
40 -4
O0-0  30-
   20 -
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P phsl2tige
0    m   It  LO  <0  r--  co 0) 13  -
- F  J(3 0    C   Lt (30    -  (0    
Quarter
-Planned                                                APL phase 2 trigger
- 139 -



2.     Sustainability of Distribution Network
The Subsidy Dependence Index of the PRB branches developed under the project must reach 20%. The
risk-adjusted return on assets must reach 2.5% above the hurdle rate expected for private banks in
Romania. Quarterly targets for these parameters will be determined upon PRB selection once the final
structure of the proposed branch network is known.
_  Pbm 4t Fb !Ad PAn !A P1       TM PmIOP  AltPf    Pjlm  ![A i PfnAt PnlAd PnA  K  ePnItP  c  mIPn[
Rsk  4    s dnb ED_1D_T _T                     l  7ED I  TtD I  1E)  _P1d _ TMD|TD|1  i  i 
fft_~~rw  1M  I-                                            010   OI   012 I3IDTO5{016
-W =Toen
- 140-



Romania
Rural Finance Project
Monitoring and Evaluation System
Module 3: Project Implementation Schedule
2001       2002  1   2003         2004  1   2005         2006
ID Task Name                                     QIQ4QIQ4QlQ4Q4Q4QIQZQIQ4QQQ:Q4QIQIQ4QQ QQ
1 Board Conditions                               3318101
2     Dissolve Govemment directed credit and subsidi | 318101
3    Appoint Steering Committee                    3/8101
4    Assign PMU legal authority                     3/8/01
5     Determine PMU location                     p3/8/01
6    Appoint PMU Director                        t318101
7    Establish financial management system         3/8101
8    TORs for auditors                           * 318/01
9  Effectiveness Conditions                           -       -
10    Select TB and sign Resource Management A
11      Issue RFP                                    i    5115/01
12       SelectTB                                 |     7116/01
13       Sign Resource Management Agreement           * 7/31/01
14    Recruit Procurement Specialist for PMU      i           -         
15       Request qualifications                   114/16/01
16       Select consultant                            17/16101
17       Sign contract                            ;     7/31/01
18       Perform contract
19 Disbursement Condition and Dated Covenant             3 10/15/01
20    End VAT for non-bank lenders                       110/15/01
21 Project Implementation
22    Set up and operate PMU                               I.'
23       Set up PMU office
24          Procure goods and works                 --
25             Request quotations                  14/16/01
26            Award contracts                     ;    6/1/01
27             Sign contracts                     ,    6/15/01
28             Perform contracts
29          Hire PMU staff
30             Request qualifications                  6/1/0    
- 141 -



2001        2002      2003       2004       2005       200E
ID Task Name                                  QQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQ QQ
31            Select consultants                   *7/16/01.
32            Sign contracts                        U 7131101
33            Perform contracts                            i
34    Recruit banking consultant for PMU                 I                                      . m
35      Issue RFP                                 15/15/01
36      Select consultant                              9114/01
37      Sign contract                                 U 10115101
38      Perform contract
39   Select PlBs and PLCs and on-lend project fu             m    i     mI       I
40      Request applications                        * 8/15/01
41      Receive applications                          * 10/1/01
42      Select PlBs and PLCs                           I 11/15/01
43      Sign SLAs                                       112/3/01
44      On-lend project funds                            I                     I
45    Select SPs and disburse microloans                 .  m
46      Issue RFP                                   *8/15/01
47      Select SPs                                     fl11/I/Ol
48      Sign Consultant Contracts and Agency and C          111151011
49      Disburse micro-loans                                        I
50   Recruit M&E consulting firm                        I                      i          | I
51      Issue RFP                                    8115/01
52      Select consultant                               * 1213/01
53      Sign contract                                   * 1/1/02
54      Perform contract                                   i    i    i              i
55    Recruit procurement consultants, as needec             mm  ,
56      Request qualifications                      U 8/15/01
57      Select consultants                               I  1111/01
58      Sign contracts                                 I 11/15/01
59      Perform contracts                                           I          I          I
60    Design and implement public awareness car
- 142 -



2001 1    2002  1   2003  [   2004  1 2005            2006
ID Task Name                                   QQQIQ'Q4QIQ$QQIQ Q4Q4QIQ
61      Issue RFP / Request qualifications          *9/3/01
62      Select consultants                              * 1/15102
63      Sign contracts                                   V211102
64      Perfom contracts
65   Recruit auditors
66      Issue RFP                                   *9/21/01
67      Select consultant                            311/1/01
68      Sign contract                                   11/15101
69      Perform contract
70   TA for accessing SAPARD grants                                .i
71      Issue RFPs and request qualifications        310/1101
72      Select consultants                               1/15/02
73      Sign contracts                                  -2/15102
74      Perform contracts
75   Select PRBs and roll out branches                 -
76      Issue investment packages                    10/15/01
77      Receive proposals                              312/3/01
78      Select PRBs                                      1/15/02
79      Sign Participation Agreements                      2 211/02
80      Roll out PRB branches                                                 lI     
81         Phase 1
82            Procure goods and works for branches.
83            Operate branches
84         Phase2 2____..___J_                                                I               ' _
85            Procure goods and works for branches
86            Operate branches
87   Carry out Specialized Technical Assistance                  -
88      Banking and microfinance (for PRBs and
89         Preparation of TORs
90            Request qualifications              36/15/01
- 143 -



2001  1   2002  1   2003  1   2004  1   2005            200E
ID Task Name                                    Q Q4QIQIQ1 Q IQ 4Ql Q4Q Q4Q  QIQ Q4Q Q4QTQtQ1QQQ
91            Select consultant                  i       8/1tO1
92            Sign contract                           *8/15/01
93            Perform contract                         3
94         Credit scoring and loan pricing
95            Issue invitation to bid            i       8115/01
96            Award contract                            311/1/01
97            Sign contract                              * 111/15/01
98            Perform contract
99         Microfinance governance               i
1oc           Request qualifications                   19/14/01
101           Select consultant                            111/3001
102           Sign contract                               U 12/14/01
1 01          Perform contract                               m
104         Banking strategy, delivery channels, p
10           Issue RFP                                 3 10/1/01
1 Of          Select consultant                             11/15/02
107           Sign contract                                 12115/02
10E           Perform contract
10    ~     Computer systems integration          |j
.         ...   ......                                             
1ic           Issue RFP                                  flhl//IOl
11i1          Select consultant                             12/15/02
112           Sign contract                                  *3/15/02
11l           Perform contract
114      Policy reform (for Govemment)            .-
11E         Warehouse receipts system
11e           Issue RFP                                  311/1/01
117           Select consultant                            j2/15/02
11E           Sign contract                                ,3/15/02                                      i
11C ~Perform contract
1 2C        Treatment of depreciation of assets
- 144 -



2001  |   2002  |   2003  |   2004  |   2005  |   2006
ID Task Name                                         0  Q    Q 0Q4Q      Q 0Q0Q000 Q Q0Q4Q0Q4Q0Q   0 Q  Q 0Q4Q QJQ
121           Issue RFP                                     11 15101
122           Select consultant                               3J11/02
122           Sign contract                                    4/11/02
124           Perform contract
125         Credit history sharing mechanism      ..
12E           Issue RFP                                  311/30/01
127           Select consultant                              3 3/15/02
12E           Sign contract                                   *4115102.
12S           Perform contract
13C         Private insurance                              - -
131           Issue RFP                                      12/14/01
132           Select consultant                            - 411/02
132           Sign contract                                      5/11/02
134           Perform contract
113         Regulation of Mutual Financial Intermi
13E           Issue RFP                                   31/11/02
137           Select consultant                                41115/02:
13E           Sign contract                                   35/15/02
13E             Perform contract
14C   Carry out Training
141      Financial management (for PMU)
142      Retail banking and microfinance (for PRB
14|         Issue RFP                             ;     8/31/01
144         Select consultant                             3 12/14101
145         Sign contract                                   11/15/02
14E         Perform contract
147      Environmental review (for P1Bs, SPs, and
14e         Request qualifications                  36/15/01
14E         Select consultant                             U12/14/01
15C         Sign contract                                     1/11/02
- 145 -



2001  1   2002         2003       2004        2005       200
ID Task Name                                     QQQQ Q IQ4QfQQQQQ4QIQIQ QJQQQQ a
151         Perform contract
_       .....                     . ....
152      Mid-term review                                    .
152 Project Completion                                                                                       _
154   ICR                                         i
-146 -



Monitoring of social development outcomes
Monitoring of social development outcomes and indicators is an integral element of monitoring and
evaluation. The main purpose will be to understand client segmentation, to enable better targeting by
tailoring lending instruments to particular client segments, to assess the effect of the project on the
formality of financial, production, and social relations within communities. These additional monitoring
activities will combine qualitative and quantitative methods of analysis to capture the project's impact on
the beneficiary households and on the communities at large. The study will include static controls, such as
baseline surveys, and dynamic controls, such as non-borrower control groups to be surveyed
simultaneously to credit recipients.
The social monitoring mechanism will collect household data with statistical representativeness and, in as
much as possible, will entail re-sampling of households over time (panel data) to capture time dependent
effects of the project. Activities to collect the data required for the in-depth social analysis will include:
a. The questionnaire of the nationally representative survey will contain questions detailing
official/unofficial interactions of credit recipients and other groups of the economy. These questions
will capture spillover effects associated with the project including information on channels of
acquisition of inputs and credits desegregated by type provider (e. g. formal/informal, personal
networks/official input/credit providers) and relationships with the government (taxation and services
provided by the government).
b. A sample of credit recipients will be asked to complete an additional questionnaire on, inter alia,
(a) sources of credit and inputs, (b) safety networks and sources of assistance in cases of emergency,
and (c) interactions with the state. To minimize self-censoring, credit recipients will fill out the
questionnaire after credit has been granted.
c. Comparisons between borrowers and non-borrowers will be required. Thus, some localities in
which the project will be implemented will be selected at random (weighted by number of inhabitants).
Households in selected villages will be further stratified into credit recipients and non-credit recipients.
A random selection of households within each group will be carried out.
d. The above quantitative data will be complemented by qualitative information such as that obtained
through focus group discussions in selected localities, structured interviews with local officials, and
interviews with other market agents (e.g., input and output dealers) who normally interact with the
targeted beneficiaries.
Data analysis will focus on evaluating the effects of the increased formality of lending and on measuring
the overall effect of the project on the Romanian rural community. It will also help assess the contribution
of the project to its goals of poverty reduction, including such aspects of poverty as social exclusion and
dis-empowerment To capture these effects, the data will be used to study the impact of increased access to
credit on interactions such as the following:
a. Polarization within the community. Specific issues will include (a) whether the SPs will make an
effort to attract new borrowers or whether they will provide new credits to the traditionally served
clienteles? (b) will informal links continue to be important for emergency or consumption borrowing?;
(c) will informal ties weakened so that poorer members of the community experience a decline in access
to informal lending that had not been substituted by the access to formal channels?; and (d) will joint
- 147 -



liability groups used to secure credit establish trust in other economic and social activities?
b. Interactions with the local government. Specific issues will include (a) whether increased financial
independence/dependence from directed government sources of financing improved/worsen interactions
with the local officials? and (b) to what extent the ability to repay loans depends on the stability of
government policies and communal oversight over the actions of local officials?
c. Interactions with other market agents such as whether an increased availability of credit improved
interactions with input suppliers and output dealers (e.g., prices and conditions).
To insure effective implementation of the proposed monitoring of project performance in terms of social
development outcomes, the PMU will have on its staff at least one M&E specialist who will be well versed
in techniques of social research and project monitoring, including use of quantitative and qualitative
methods. The M&E specialist(s) will coordinate project monitoring by each participating PIB/SP and will
compile and analyze the data received from the PIBs/SPs into progress reports which shall be made
available to the public.
The M&E specialist should oversee the production of the social impact studies by local and/or international
consultants (as required) and should ensure that the results of these studies are fed back to project
management and to the Borrower. During supervision missions, the results of these assessments will be
discussed during an open session with the PIBs/SPs, in order to improve project performance and to learn
from each other.
- 148 -



Additional
Annex 16
ROMANIA: RURAL FINANCE PROJECT
Financial Management
Financial Management System - Generic Issues
While the PMU will be responsible for the project's overall financial management system, it will engage the
services of a commercial bank - a Treasury Bank (TB) - to effect the project's financial transactions. All
other project implementing entities (participating private banks, leasing companies, and micro-credit
service providers) will be responsible for the financial management of the project resources to which they
will have access under the respective project components in which they will participate. All project
implementing entities will have financial management and accounting systems in place, acceptable to the
Bank, before they can use Bank loan funds. A World Bank-certified financial management specialist
(FMS) will verify that each of the implementing agencies will have an adequate financial system in place
(a) following its establishment in the case of the PMU, and (b) prior to the awarding of any contract or the
signing of any agreement required for participation in the project in the case of the TB, participating private
banks, leasing companies, and micro-credit service providers.
If required, the accounting and financial management system at the TB would be modified with the support
of a competent financial management and accounting consultant (firm), that would assist in adapting the
TB's (a) charts of accounts; (b) financial statements; and (c) reporting formats (PMRs) for consolidation of
project financial information. The details of this consultancy contract would be agreed after the selection
of the TB.
The project's accounting and financial management system will allow for cost accounting by project
components and sub-components and activities in order to keep track of contracts with the various entities
involved in the project.
Accounting and Reporting
All project implementing entities will maintain their accounts in accordance with Intemational Accounting
Standards (IAS) to reflect their operations and financial positions. The entities will report quarterly and
send to the PMU copies of all financial accounting documents. The project will thus have all financial and
accounting documents recorded in the accounting software system and filed accordingly at the PMU.
Each project implementing entity will submit quarterly reports and accounts to the PMU, showing detailed
budgeted and actual expenditures, uses of funds by source, summary of withdrawals and forecasts,
statements of progress achieved, and estimates for the forthcoming quarter and semester. The PMU will be
responsible for reconciling all implementing entities' reports and for issuing the project's consolidated
quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs).
Software
The features of the financial management software to be selected, if necessary, would include, inter alia,
customizable chart(s) of accounts, foreign and local currency, English and Romanian language, contract
- 149 -



management, Excel exporting, integrated PMRs.
To the extent possible, the PMU will use similar or compatible software solutions to the existing solutions
used by the TB and all other project implementing entities in order to facilitate the PMU's reporting and
consolidation.
All project financial and accounting documents will be properly recorded and filed separately by the PMU
and TB, keeping a clear linkage with the software records, as required.
The system should be able to respond to the project components and specifics and be able to produce usual
reports such as: trial balance, general ledger, balance sheet, income and expenditure statement by sources
of funds, cash flow, general journal, suppliers' ledger, various budgets, etc. Also, all Project Management
Reports (PMRs), mentioned in the Bank's "Project Financial Management Manual - Exposure Draft,
February 1999" would have to be produced by the system.
The accounting system would account separately for each financing source (Bank, Romanian Government
contribution and other donors as applicable) and by project sub-components.
A detailed manual of accounting procedures relevant to the project would be prepared by the financial
management consultant with the support of the TB staff. All accounting entries would be kept in the loan
currency as well as in the Romanian currency, lei.
PMU Financial Management Staffing and Training
During project negotiations, agreement was reached on the need to recruit a Treasury Bank which will
designate sufficient staff for the purposes of the project's financial management. Such positions may
include an accountant(s), disbursement specialist, internal auditor and financial controller. The training
needs of the TB financial and accounting staff will be assessed once the TB is engaged and this staff is
designated.
Auditing
The PMU, TB, and participating financial intermediaries will have their accounts audited (including special
accounts and statements of expenditures) in accordance with ISA, by independent auditors acceptable to
the World Bank. Recruitment of auditors to audit the project accounts will be done on a yearly renewable
contract (subject to satisfactory performance). The existing independent auditors of the TB could be
engaged for this purpose if they are acceptable to the World Bank.
Audit reports and management letters for all project implementing entities will be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the end of the Government's financial year. Suitable Terms of Reference, agreed by
the Borrower and the Bank during negotiations, for the auditing of the PMU and TB are presented in the
project's Operational Manual. The cost of the PMU audits will be financed by World Bank Loan proceeds.
Project Accounts and Cash Management
A separate special account will be opened for the project at the TB. A different account (in foreign
currency) will be used to account for the interest earned on the special account balances and the
commissions and fees imposed by the TB. An additional conversion account (in ROL) should be opened
adjacent to the special account, to account for the amounts converted in local currency. A comfort letter
- 150 -



will be issued by the bank holding this special account.
The co-financing from the Government will be channeled through the TB. Financing from other sources
(micro-credit service providers, which will finance 25% of each micro-loan allocated under the project) will
be received in different project accounts. All sources of financing for the project will be reflected separately
in the accounting software system.
The project implementing entities will open separate project accounts for the purpose of receiving Bank
loan funds from the TB (authorized by the PMU). Copies of all the relevant financial accounting
documents (invoices, contracts, payment orders, bank statements, etc.) will be provided by each project
implementing entity to the PMU.
Signing procedures are to be put in place, for example, allowing all payment orders to be signed by the
PMU director, while designated TB staff will verify.
With respect to cash management, the TB will develop sound cash forecasting and weekly / monthly
planning procedures. Amounts kept in ROL (both amounts held in banks and cash on hand) will be held at
a minimum level to avoid the risk of possible abrupt future devaluation.
Flow of Funds and Financing Arrangements
Due to the differing nature of the project components, a different flow of funds arrangement will be used
for each component. Detailed charts illustrating the flow of funds, documentation, and decision-making, as
well as the contractual relationships between the various project entities for each component are presented
in Annex 12.
Internal control procedures
Project implementation will have to adhere to sound intemal control procedures and practices. This
implementation will take place in the framework of the intemal system of the TB. The intemal auditor of
the TB will be responsible to supervise project implementation on a routine basis and whenever requested
by the PMU director or TB management.
The PMU director will continuously supervise PMU and TB activity and will be fully inforned about
project implementation. In addition, the participating intermediaries will nominate liaison officers to
interact on their behalf with the PMU.
All PMU and TB staff assigned to the project will have to become familiar with the project's Operational
Manual and the Bank's regulations applicable to their relevant area. If required, the financial management
consultant would prepare a project financial management manual that would document the steps for each
type of financial transaction, approval and authorization procedures, the flow of documents between the
PMU, TB, and all participating intermediaries and final beneficiaries, staff responsibilities, and intemal
control procedures.
In addition, the PMU and TB staff will document the intemal norms that will be used. These norms will
detail day-to-day intemal procedures (such as correspondence handling, contracting and payment
procedures, operation of bank accounts, petty cash procedures, authorization mechanism, reporting, and
filing).
- 151 -






MAP SECTION



I



IBRD 28710
S22'                                       24                                           20'       7                                  S
U K R A I N E    ToL'o                                                                  ROMANIA
'1                                        V                                                                                          4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          8'-
ELEVATIONS ABOVE 500 METERS
48' \                                                     jSr;Z > > * >< 8 O SELECTED CITIES
H U N  G         A R                                                                                                              T                                              COUNTY (JUDET) CENTERS
Solo       M~4A RAMI   E-S                              CEV                    B,so                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL
A         "-' ~~~EXPRESSWAY
c s   /uds pe s  f 4 [ \ ~ -'-                                                                                                   MAJOR ROADS
L                                                                                                           T~ Kish,              OTHER PORTS
oBudopyterm               omroshonnt  -             .                            .....     LOMiJT,  All 
Orod  N  olo,u~~~~~~~~~  J'>  ~~~~~N'  O55d rlQ                                     losi ~~~~~~~~~~COUNTY (JUDET) BOUNDARIES
-, S A  C     j          e                        '                                              ,                              _   -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDABIES
ony ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~       ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     T   t<HAsee      GHIT aceLa  of  \                                VAnieT .LU?
,  ~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~ I H                                                                                                                                                                                            A  9
K LOMETERS
O      25     5,0     7,5   104
T. S~~~~~~~~~~~~'q.d  ARA D                                                                                                              0   l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O 10 20  50  40  50  60
--A-4A                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
46'-
S I    U,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~tI                    ~                  lboi 
GALATI~SAC
40'  rh:, o roOs prouced by rh                                                                                                                                        COEATA   T                                   At AI     
ThoWorldlorsk C up, ooyjudqrrort4,                                                                                BUZA
or he lego/srocsol orprerorro or ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~RCIT.
coy endorseossotoroooopsoroe oh~PR4~OV
such SoorrdorMs   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~o               BULGAR~~~~~~~IA           T2'iB'                                                               ToVen
jr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                      ALOMITA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bISlB



