Report No. PID8638
Project Name                     Romania-Rural Finance Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Agricultural Credit
Project ID                       ROPE56891
Borrower(s)                      ROMANIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF PUBLIC FINANCE
17, Apolodor Str. Sector 5, Bucharest,
Romania
Contact Person: Mr. Stefan Petrescu,
Deputy General Director, General
Directorate for External Finances
Tel: (40 1) 337 49 63
Fax: (40 1) 337 49 63
Email: N/A
Environment Category             F
Date PID Prepared                March 8, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 25, 2000
Projected Board Date             March 29, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The Romanian authorities and the World Bank have conducted significant
analysis on the rural financial sector (see Financial Markets, Credit
Constraints, and Investment in Rural Romania, Report No. 19412-RO). The
analysis ascertained empirically that that rural financial markets perform
very poorly in the following dimensions: (a) the degree of access to
credit services by rural agents was very low because the supply of rural
credit was weak and the terms and conditions of the credit actually
offered were unattractive to most potential borrowers; (b) constrained
access to credit markets negatively influenced the investment behavior of
households and enterprises in that such constraints reduced the number of
agents that invested and the amounts they invested, (c) financial markets
failed to allocate credit to the best alternative uses within the rural
economy as lenders allocated significant portions of rural credit to
enterprises with low or negative value added. This poor performance of
rural financial markets is very relevant for public policy because of its
negative impact on rural growth and poverty. In the absence of sufficient
investment capital, the rural economy has experienced difficulty in
adjusting to the major policy reforms of recent years, the aftermath of
the exchange rate crisis of early 1997, and the strong devaluation which
has occurred since early 1999. These events require rural households and
enterprises to adjust factor proportions, modify output mixes, change
their scale of operations, and invest in new technologies. Their success
in this endeavor, which depends on the performance of all factor markets,
has been hindered by the observed performance of financial markets.
Obviously, Romanian rural agents have been and will continue to be at a
disadvantage when competing with counterparts in European Union countries
and the United States where rural households and enterprises have much



better access to far superior and more affordable financial services.The
overall access to credit of rural households and enterprises was limited.
In fact, the percentage of households and enterprises that used loans to
finance consumption, working capital, or investments was only 20 percent.
Lenders avoided rural credit not because of lack of liquidity but because
the returns to rural lending (adjusted by risk and transaction costs) were
unattractive relative to alternative investments available because of the
following reasons.(a) The Government crowded-out private lenders from
rural credit markets and hindered the private supply of rural credit as
private lenders were not in a position to compete with a poorly run
government bank which was not subject to a budget constraint (Banca
Agricola) and with numerous directed credit lines that financed rural
loans at subsidized rates and with a high probability of
debt-forgiveness;(b) The legal and institutional framework made rural
credit transactions riskier and more costly than necessary; diminishing,
therefore, the inclination of lenders to allocate rural credit, especially
small and medium businesses and informal entrepreneurs. In particular,
the majority of movable assets and real estate in the sector could not be
effectively pledged as collateral and other financing instruments such as
warehouse receipts and financial leasing were not available.(c) The
country's financial industry has not developed the operational methods to
serve micro and SME clients (rural and otherwise), which are the large
majority of potential clients. These clients are small in that the
average rural private enterprise and household had assets of US$11,900 and
US$1,564, respectively.(d) The banking sector cannot provide the long term
credit demanded by the rural economy because the average maturity of the
sector's liabilities is below six months.There are two additional "second
generation" sector issues. The first is the reduction of the network of
bank branches that is likely to result from the expected privatization or
divestiture of state banks. These banks own 87 percent of all bank
branches. A network of retail finance will be required to finance rural
entrepreneurs and SMEs which, as mentioned above are the large majority of
potential clients.    The second issue is that the estimated 1,400
independent mutual financial intermediaries registered under Law 109/1996,
a majority of which are domiciled in rural areas, are in urgent need of an
appropriate regulatory and supervisory framework. The reasons for concern
are that (a) the Government may have assumed important contingent
liabilities by chartering them and (b) that they may constitute a
regulatory hazard because they can be used to avoid the general regulation
of the banking sector profitably. Government strategy. In order to address
these issues, the Government has developed a strategy based on the premise
that instead of financing directly the sector through subsidized credit
lines or public banks, the Government should provide an environment in
which property rights, contracts, and financial services can prosper. Such
an environment entails, for example, a new improved legal framework for
enforcing contracts and making use of collateral (see below). In
addition, the Government intends to assist the financial sector in
acquiring the capacity to provide sustainable retail financial services to
rural households and enterprises and by making available well targeted and
appropriately priced long term investment capital to the private sector in
rural areas.
2. Objectives
The proposed project seeks to promote economic growth and reduce poverty
in rural Romania through the provision of financial services. In pursuing
-2 -



this objective, the project will assist in (a) accelerating the economic
transformation of the rural economy by increasing the flow of investment
capital to the sector, (b) augmenting the role of the private sector in
the rural economy by (i) improving access, on the part of rural households
with entrepreneurial activities and private enterprises, to financial
services and by (ii) helping regulated private financial intermediaries to
augment their presence in rural localities and in filling the vacuum that
may ensue after the privatization of state banks and the likely closing of
a significant portion of the existing network of rural branches; (c)
facilitating accession to the European Union (EU) by assisting the rural
economy to absorb the grants that will be allocated under the EU's Special
Accession Program for Agriculture and Rural Development (SAPARD) by making
available counterpart funding for the private investments that will be
financed by this program, and (d) alleviating rural poverty by financing
farm and off-farm investments for poor segments of the rural population
which currently have no access to credit. The project also seeks to
improve the legal and institutional environment for financial transactions
to reduce the costs and risks assumed by lenders when allocating rural
credit, specially to the relatively poorer segments of the population.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The proposed project results directly from the long-standing policy
dialogue between the Government and the World Bank. The Bank's sector work
in the rural sector (Romania: Financial Markets, Credit Constraints, and
Investment In Rural Areas, Report No. 19412-RO) suggested very specific
mechanisms and reforms to increase private sector participation in these
markets - currently almost the exclusive realm of state banks allocating
funds targeted by the state.This project is highly consistent with the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) and the Bank is able to offer
several advantages when compared to other potential development agencies:
(a) updated information regarding the sector's performance and the country'
s institutional landscape; (b) close familiarity with the successful
improvement of rural financial markets in other countries such as Thailand
and Indonesia; (c) neutral and credible advice not influenced by the
organized interest groups involved in the sector; and (d) a successful
dialogue with the authorities that has already resulted in significant
progress, especially in the areas of secured transactions and subsidized
agricultural credit lines.
4. Description
The proposed Rural Finance Project will have the following three
components:Component A: Rural Credit and Leasing Facility. The component
will finance (a) sub-loans on-lent through selected participating Private
Intermediary Banks (PIBs) to eligible private sector borrowers to finance
rural productive activities (farm and non-farm), (b) micro-loans disbursed
through participating non-governmental and/or private Service Providers
(SPs) to rural entrepreneurs, and (c) leasing of depreciable capital
assets (e.g., machinery, tools, vehicles, equipment) by PIBs and leasing
companies to final beneficiaries.There is agreement with the Romanian
authorities that (a) eligible sub-borrowers and lessees will be limited to
private sector legal entities and physical persons, (b) eligible
sub-projects and sub-leases will include all productive investments in all
sub-sectors of the rural economy (agriculture, services, and industry),
and (c) eligible intermediaries will be limited to private banks, private
leasing companies, and non-governmental and/or private entities meeting
-3 -



minimum financial performance standards and in compliance with all
relevant financial market regulations. Detailed eligibility for the
Facility that are consistent with these principles are laid out in Annex
13 to this PAD.It has further been agreed with the Government that all
lending, sub-lending, and leasing under the project will be on market
terms and conditions. In particular, the pricing of the credit line and
leasing will reflect all costs and risks involved. Detailed terms and
conditions for component-financed financial transactions (loans,
sub-loans, micro-loans, and lease contracts) consistent with these
principles are detailed in Annex 14 to this PAD.Component B: Rural Retail
Banking and Micro-Finance. The component will finance incremental
expenditures incurred, inter alia, in: (a) the development of suitable
technologies to provide retail financial services to medium, small, and
micro enterprises and entrepreneurs in rural localities through
participating Private Retail Banks (PRBs) and microcredit Service
Providers (SPs); (b) establishment and operation, by PRBs, of a network of
pilot retail banking offices; (c) operation, by SPs, of a network of
microcredit retail points; and (d) training and technical assistance in
retail banking and micro-lending to PRBs and SPs, respectively.The
component will support up to four private commercial banks that will
participate in the project as PRBs to (a) develop the capacity to provide
rural retail banking services profitably, especially retail credit, and
(b) explore the market opportunities in small rural localities with no
branches of other private banks. The selected PRBs will establish a
combined number of up to 120 pilot rural retail branches. The project will
provide long-term financing to cover (a) a portion of the start-up
investments required to establish the experimental branches; (b) a portion
of the cost of incorporating the experimental branches into the PRBs'
existing accounting and internal control systems; and (c) a declining
portion of the fixed costs of operating and monitoring the branches over
four years. Reasonable cost estimates of these items are presented in the
project's cost tables. The specific percentages to be financed under the
project will be determined in the process of selecting PRBs. One of the
variables that will be used to select these PRBs will be the share of the
costs that eligible applicants will be willing to finance out of their own
resources. The project's Operational Manual (OM) contains a detailed
description of the competitive process that will be followed to select
PRBs.To assist the project's final beneficiaries in gaining access to
EU-SAPARD grant funds, PRBs will provide assistance, as part of their
normal business operations, to interested beneficiaries on SAPARD grant
application documentation and procedures. To participate in the proposed
project, PRBs must meet the same eligibility criteria established for PIBs
under Component A (see Annex 13). Finally, PRBs will participate in the
project's Rural Credit and Leasing Facility (RCLF) as PIBs.Component
proceeds will also finance: (a) reasonable fees for up to eight NGOs
and/or private entities which will act as Service Providers (SPs) on a
consultant basis for the Government in allocating rural micro-loans using
project credit line funds (see section B4 for details); and (b) training
and technical assistance to eligible SPs. Participating SPs will
co-finance at least 25 percent of each micro-loan provided to rural
entrepreneurs and informal enterprises under the component. The fees for
SPs are, therefore, intended to cover reasonable portions of the initial
investments and operating costs of managing the Government's share in the
portfolio of micro-loans generated under the component. To assist the
project's final beneficiaries in gaining access to EU-SAPARD grant funds,
-4 -



SPs will raise awareness among their sub-borrowers of the availability of
these funds and promote the use of their own financial instruments as
means to gain access to such funds.Component C: Project Management and
Technical Assistance on Rural Financial Market Development. The component
will finance the: (a) incremental expenses incurred by the Government in
implementing and monitoring the project; (b) technical assistance to the
Government in (i) developing a warehousing receipts system, (ii) examining
options to reform the accounting and fiscal treatment of depreciable
assets and leasing, (iii) studying the possibilities for establishing
instruments for lenders to share the credit history of borrowers in rural
areas (e.g., credit rating agencies, centrally managed databases for
banks), and (iv) examining options to reduce the general risk of rural
credit transactions by improving the supply and quality of private
insurance services in rural areas (especially index-based agricultural
insurance); (c) activities to promote public awareness in rural areas of
the Project's Rural Credit and Leasing Facility, and (d) technical
assistance to final beneficiaries under the project on how to use the
Project's Rural Credit and Leasing Facility to obtain and pre-finance
grants under SAPARD.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Borrower                 0.99
IBRD                     80.00
IDA -
BENEFICIARIES            66.62
Total Project Cost       147.61
6. Implementation
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the whole intervention will depend on the
sustainability of its parts, as follows:Component A. The aggregate
sustainability of sub-projects and of the on-lending resources available
to the Rural Credit and Leasing Facility will be ensured by the
self-interest of sub-borrowers and participating PIBs and by preserving
the real value of the resources under the facility. Specifically,
sustainability will be achieved by limiting eligibility to private
sub-borrowers and to private sector intermediary banks and by requiring,
as already agreed with the authorities, that all lending, sub-lending, and
leasing financed under the component be on market terms and conditions,
including that the pricing of credit and leasing should reflect the costs
and risks involved. This set of conditions implies that the typical
sub-borrowers will have the incentive to borrow in order to finance only
sub-projects with a high enough expected return to cover the costs
involved because sub-borrowers will be the residual claimants of profits
or losses generated by their sub-projects. Since PIBs will take the
entire credit risk on sub-loans, they will have the ex-ante incentive to
appraise these sub-loans in order to ensure the sustainability of
sub-projects, and the ex-post incentive to enforce sub-loan and leasing
agreements. Project funds on-lent by the Government will not be eroded by
defaults or inflation and will, thus, be available to the Government to
fund continued involvement in rural finance or any other development
activity as the real value of these funds will be maintained throughout
- 5 -



the life of the project.Components B and C. The development of
sustainable rural financial markets depends largely on the increased
presence of private intermediaries (banks and NGOs) in rural areas and on
the relative profitability that they achieve in serving these markets.
Component B will assist in developing and inducing private intermediaries
to adopt technologies of rural financial intermediation to allow the
sustainable provision of financial services to rural households and SMEs
in rural areas as has been the case elsewhere (e.g., Indonesia and
Thailand). The sustainability of these benefits will be assured at the end
of the project because the business practices that promoted will continue
to be used in the future. Component C will support the Government in
reforming the legal and regulatory framework and developing modern systems
for sustainable rural finance. The benefits of this component are
expected to continue beyond the end of the project, because it is expected
that these reforms and systems will be permanently incorporated into the
country's legal system.Finally, there is a clear understanding with the
authorities about the policy conditions required for World Bank financing
of the project, namely that the Government will continue the process of
privatization or divestiture of Banca Agricola and that the Ministry of
Agriculture, Food, and Forestry will prepare and submit to the Government
an Ordinance on Agricultural Credit, which must be agreed by the World
Bank, aimed at dissolving all directed credit programs and all government
funds financing rural areas and agriculture. The proposed project will,
therefore, contribute to sustainability by reversing the negative effects
of current government participation in financial markets in rural areas,
which has crowded out private lenders.In addition, the World Bank has
required, as a dated convenant (October 15, 2001) and a condition for
disbursement of component A (the Rural Credit and Leasing Facility), the
elimination of VAT on the interests accrued (as opposed to earned) by
non-bank lenders on their loans. Banking institutions are excepted from
this tax. The effect is a very large reduction of the risk adjusted
effective rates for non-bank lenders the tax is above the bottom line.
This reduction is so significant that some NGOs pay fees to commercial
banks of up to 10 percent of principal amounts outstanding as "rental"
payment on the bank's name simply to avoid the tax as these NGOs process
these loans and book the risks through counter-guarantee deposits made in
the "lending bank." This discriminatory tax regime has had a negative
effect on the development of micro-finance in Romania. Thus, its removal
and would aid the sustainability of micro-lending.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
o be successful, rural financial intermediaries must operate within a
conducive policy, institutional, and legal framework because lending to
agriculture and rural entrepreneurs is costly and risky. Unless these
costs and risks are reduced, allocation of rural credit will entail
significant losses. The project aims precisely at reducing these costs
and risks.There has been significant progress in three dimensions: (a)
the Banca Agricola restructuring program under implementation which will
remove from the market a poorly run government institution lending
directed credit at low rates ; (b) the new framework for financial
transactions secured with movable property will afford the possibility to
effectively use movable rural assets as collateral for loans; and (c) the
Government's initial agreement to dissolve all subsidized directed credit
lines to agriculture will allow the supply of competitively priced and
untargeted credit services from private formal financial intermediaries to
- 6 -



flourish.The effective provision of financial services in rural areas must
follow sensible business practices if these services are to be
self-sustainable. That is, services offered and the technologies used must
be appropriate, and the intermediaries involved must act on a proper set
of incentives within a conducive policy and institutional framework.
Component B focuses exclusively on developing these practices for private
banks and financial NGOs.Government or donor-funded projects restricted to
financing investments in agriculture might hinder a balanced development
of rural areas which normally entails non-agriculture activities. In
addition, the fungibility of credit makes it difficult to target credit
and the supervision costs to enforce targeting makes the provision of
loans to small farmers and entrepreneurs expensive. Under the credit
facility, all investments to expand eligible rural enterprises will be
eligible sub-projects. The only exceptions will be investments in land,
existing buildings, other assets previously used within the rural sector
(except livestock breeding), and tobacco production and processing.Rural
finance is a complex multi-sector subject with multiple influences on the
economy ranging from macroeconomic stability to impact on rural poverty.
This is especially the case in Romania. A consistent set of policies
towards rural financial markets is a vital concern, therefore. The project
will be managed under the general guidance of a Steering Committee which
would consist of representatives from the main government agencies
involved in the sector, including the the Ministry of Public Finance,
Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry, and the National Bank of
Romania. The members of the committee will be the Ministers of Agriculture
and Food and of Finance and the Governor of the National Bank of Romania
or their representatives.The World Bank's experience with similar projects
highlights the need for frequent monitoring of key performance indicators
and rigorous supervision offering high level technical advice. The
monitoring and evaluation activities for the proposed project will be
highly intensive on the part of the SMU and implementing agencies. The
World Bank will also supervise the project more frequently than normal.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project is not expected to produce any major
environmental impacts. Sub-projects financed with project funds, on-lent
through participating financial intermediaries under Component A of the
project, may involve minor environmental issues related to (a) the use and
storage of agricultural chemicals, (b) waste management at farms and
processing facilities, (c) natural resources management in rural areas,
including forest, biodiversity, soil and water, and (d) location or site
preparation for facilities or agricultural techniques. Some of these
sub-projects may, therefore, require an environmental assessment (EA) in
accordance with World Bank environmental safeguard policies. There are no
adverse environmental impacts associated with the remaining components of
the project.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Rodrigo A. Chaves
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
-7-



Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-7422
Fax: 202-614-0698
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 4, 2001.
- 8 -



