Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4602 RO
Loan Agreement
(Rural Finance Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 30, 2001
LOAN NUMBER 4602 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 30, 2001, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated February 28, 2001, from the 
Borrower describing a two-phased program of policies and actions (the Program) 
designed to promote economic growth and reduce poverty in the Borrower’s rural areas 
through the provision of financial services;
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Bank to support the execution of the two 
phases of the Program through extension to the Borrower of Loans up to the equivalent 
of one hundred fifty million Dollars ($150,000,000) over a period of seven (7) years;
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), which forms 
the first phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) with the modification set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the 
Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Agency and Co-financing Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and a Service Provider (hereinafter defined) pursuant to 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(b)
"Beneficiary" means an entity or an individual eligible, in accordance 
with the criteria set forth in paragraph 1 of Part B of Annex A to Schedule 5 of this 
Agreement, to obtain a Sub-Loan (hereinafter defined), Financing Lease (hereinafter 
defined) or a Micro-Loan (hereinafter defined);
(c)
"Eligible Categories" means categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works, services 
and incremental operating costs and amounts paid on account of withdrawals made by a 
Beneficiary under a Sub-loan, a Financing Lease or a Micro-Loan under the Project 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(e)
"Financing Lease" means any transfer of possession of goods by a Leasing 
Company (hereinafter defined) to a Beneficiary on the basis of a lease agreement for 
the temporary use of the goods by the Beneficiary for carrying out a Sub-project 
(hereinafter defined);
(f)
"IAPSO" means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services office of the United 
Nations Development Programme (UNDP);
(g)
"Leasing Company" means a company duly established under the laws of the 
Borrower and engaged in the business of leasing of commercial assets in the territory 
of the Borrower;
(h)
"Lei" means the currency of the Borrower;
(i)
"Micro-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a Service 
Provider to a Beneficiary for the carrying out of a Sub-project;
(j)
"Micro-loan Agreement" means an agreement to be entered into between a 
Page  3
Service Provider and a Beneficiary for the purposes of Part A.3 of the Project;
(k)
"Operational Manual" means the manual to be adopted by the Borrower, 
setting forth the operational and administrative procedures of the credit and leasing 
facility under Part A of the Project, in respect of the preparation, approval, 
processing, financing, implementation and supervision of Sub-projects, as well as 
procedures for the implementation of Parts B and C of the Project;
(l)
"Participation Agreement" means an agreement to be entered between the 
Borrower and a PRB (hereinafter defined) pursuant to paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 of this 
Agreement;
(m)
"Participating Intermediary Bank" or "PIB" means a bank eligible, in 
accordance with the provisions of Part A of Schedule 6 to this agreement, to engage in 
provision of Sub-Loans and Financing Leases to Beneficiaries under Parts A.1 and A.2 
of the Project;
(n)
"Participating Retail Bank" or "PRB" means a commercial bank eligible for 
participating in Part B of the Project in accordance with the criteria set forth in 
paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(o)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit established under the Ministry of 
Public Finance pursuant to the Ministerial Order 376, 8.03.2001, dated March 8, 2001;
(p)
"PRB Subsidiary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by the 
Borrower to a PRB under a Participation Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and each PRB;
(q)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(r)
"Resource Management Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and the Treasury Bank (hereinafter defined), as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Resource Management Agreement;
(s)
"Service Providers" means an entity eligible, in accordance with the 
criteria set forth in Part A of Annex B to Schedule 5 to this Agreement, to provide 
Micro-loans to Beneficiaries under Part A.3 of the Project;
(t)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
(u)
"Steering Committee" means the committee established by the Borrower 
pursuant to Joint Ministerial Order No. 319,5.03.2001 dated March 5, 2001;
(v)
"Sub-Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a PIB to a 
Beneficiary for the purposes of financing a Sub-project;
(w)
"Sub-Project" means a specific project or investment under Part A of the 
Project, which is proposed to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing a Sub-Loan, a 
Financing Lease or a Micro-Loan;
(x)
"Subsidiary Loan" means the loan made pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement (hereinafter defined); 
(y)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means an agreement entered into between the 
Borrower and a PIB or a Leasing Company pursuant to paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; and
(z)
"Treasury Bank" means a commercial bank selected in accordance with the 
criteria satisfactory to the Bank to manage, on behalf of the Borrower, the 
Page  4
disbursement of funds under the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to eighty 
million Dollars ($80,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals 
made by a Beneficiary under a Sub-loan, a Financing Lease or a Micro-Loan to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Sub-project in respect 
of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works, services and incremental operation costs required for Parts B and C of 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2006, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall pay to 
the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in U.S. dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Page  5
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Sub-loans, Financing Leases and Micro-loans will be made in accordance with the 
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Annexes A and B 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project in 
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply 
with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the 
Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial 
Page  6
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project and each Sub-project (including its cost and the 
benefits to be derived from it).
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than August 1, 
2002, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report, and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
Page  7
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii) sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower, shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The charter or similar document for any PIB, Leasing Company, Service 
Provider or the Treasury Bank shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the operations or the financial 
condition of such PIB, Leasing Company, Service Provider or the Treasury Bank or its 
respective ability to carry out its activities under the Project or to perform any of 
its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, Participation 
Agreement, Agency and Co-financing Agreement, or Resource Management Agreement as the 
case may be; and
(b)
The Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived without prior approval of the Bank.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, any event specified in Section 5.01 
of this Agreement shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
The Resource Management Agreement, with terms and conditions acceptable 
to the Bank, has been signed.
(b)
The PMU has recruited a procurement specialist with adequate experience 
in Bank financed procurement.
Section 6.02. The date 120 days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Public Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  8
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Public Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania
Telex:
Facsimile:
11239
401 312 6792
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ROMANIA
By /s/ Mihai Nicolae Tanasescu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink
Country Director
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-loans and Financing    44,000,000
100%
Leases under Parts A.1 and 
A.2 of the Project
(2)
Micro-loans under Part A.3  4,000,000
75%
of the Project
Page  9
(3)
Goods
100% of foreign
(a) under Part B of 
    5,088,000
expenditures,
the Project
100% of local
(b) under Part C of 
104,000
expenditures
the Project
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(4)
Works under Part B 
528,000
80%
of the Project
(5)
Consultants’ Services
   10,488,000
100%
 
and Training, including
services under Part C.1 
of the Project
(6)
Incremental Operating
Costs
(a) of PRBs
    5,661,000
80% until July 31
2003; 65% until 
July 31, 2004; 
25% thereafter
(b) of the PMU
131,000
80%
(7)
Unallocated 
   10,000,000
TOTAL
   80,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs of PRBs" means incremental costs 
incurred by PRBs on account of establishing and operating a network of pilot retail 
banking offices under Part B.2 of the Project, which shall include:  (i) a portion of 
PRB branches’ operating costs consisting of administrative costs, including rental, 
utilities and staff salaries; and (ii) the staff salaries’ costs of central office 
staff for incorporating experimental branches into the accounting and internal control 
systems of PRBs; and
(d)
the term "incremental operating costs of the PMU" means incremental 
operating costs incurred by the PMU on account of Project implementation, including, 
office supplies, repair and maintenance of vehicles and office equipment and 
telecommunications and postage.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made: (a) for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except: (i) withdrawals in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
US$200,000 may be made under Category (5) of the table shown in paragraph 1 hereof; 
and (ii) withdrawals in an amount not exceeding the equivalent of US$50,000 may be 
made under Category (6)(b) of the table shown in paragraph 1 hereof, both for 
expenditures incurred prior to that date but after March 1, 2001; (b) in respect of a 
Sub-loan or a Financing Lease under Category (1) of the table shown in paragraph 1 
hereof unless: (i) the Sub-loan has been made in accordance with the procedures and on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in Annex A to Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; (ii) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
executed on behalf of the Borrower and the PIB or Leasing Company respectively in 
respect of which the Borrower has requested a withdrawal; and (iii) the Borrower has 
issued Ordinance referred to in paragraph 9 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (c) in 
respect of a Micro-loan under Category (2) of the table shown in paragraph 1 hereof 
Page  10
unless: (i) the Micro-loan has been made in accordance with the procedures, terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Annex B to Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (ii) 
an Agency and Co-financing Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower and the Service Provider in respect of which the Borrower has 
requested a withdrawal; and (iii) the Borrower has issued Ordinance referred to in 
paragraph 9 of Schedule 5.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) Sub-loans, Financing Leases and 
Micro-loans under Part A of the Project; (b) goods under contracts costing less than 
$350,000 equivalent each under Part B of the Project, and less than $100,000 each 
under Part C of the Project; (c) civil works under contracts costing less than 
$1,000,000 each under Parts B and C of the Project; (d) consultants’ services and 
training under contracts with consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent 
each; (e) consultants’ services and training under contracts with individual 
consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (f) incremental operating 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
Page  11
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $4,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $1,000,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
Page  12
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $6,000,000. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is to support the first phase of the Borrower’s Program and the 
Project aims at: (i) accelerating the economic transformation of the rural economy by 
increasing the flow of investment capital to the sector; (ii) strengthening the role 
of the private sector in the rural economy;  (iii) strengthening the Borrower’s 
capacity to receive funding from the European Union Special Accession Program for 
Agriculture and Rural Development; and (iv) alleviating rural poverty through 
financing of farm and off-farm investments for poor segments of the rural population.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Rural Credit and Leasing Facility
(1)
Provision of Sub-loans to eligible Beneficiaries to finance rural productive 
activities. 
(2)
Provision of leases of depreciable capital assets (e.g. machinery, tools, 
vehicles, equipment) by PIBs and Leasing Companies to Beneficiaries.
(3)
Provision of Micro-loans to Beneficiaries.
Part B: 
Rural Retail Banking and Micro-Finance
(1)
Support for the development of suitable technologies for PRBs and Service 
Providers to provide retail financial services to entrepreneurs residing in rural 
areas and enterprises located in, or with activities related to, rural areas.
(2)
Operation by PRBs, of a network of pilot retail banking offices.
(3)
Establishment and operation by Service Providers of a network of micro-credit 
Page  13
retail points.
(4)
Provision of training and technical assistance in retail banking and 
micro-lending to PRBs and Service Providers, respectively.
Part C:
Project Management and Technical Assistance on Rural Financial Market 
Development
(1)
Support for implementation and monitoring of the Project, including remuneration 
for consultants hired for this purpose.
(2)
Provision of technical assistance and funds for: (a) development of a 
warehousing receipts system; (b) examining options to reform the accounting and fiscal 
treatment of depreciable assets and leasing; (c) analysis of possible instruments for 
lenders to share the credit history of borrowers in rural areas; (d) examining options 
to reduce the general risk of rural credit transactions; (e) improvement of regulatory 
framework for rural mutual financial intermediaries; (f) campaign to increase public 
awareness of new financial options under the Project; and (g) provision of information 
to eligible beneficiaries on how to access financial resources available to the rural 
areas.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by July 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
August 15, 2006
3,335,000
February 15, 2007
3,335,000
August 15, 2007
3,335,000
February 15, 2008
3,335,000
August 15, 2008
3,335,000
February 15, 2009
3,335,000
August 15, 2009
3,335,000
February 15, 2010
3,335,000
August 15, 2010
3,335,000
February 15, 2011
3,335,000
August 15, 2011
3,335,000
February 15, 2012
3,335,000
August 15, 2012
3,335,000
February 15, 2013
3,335,000
August 15, 2013
3,335,000
February 15, 2014
3,335,000
August 15, 2014
3,335,000
February 15, 2015
3,335,000
August 15, 2015
3,335,000
February 15, 2016
3,335,000
August 15, 2016
3,335,000
February 15, 2017
3,335,000
August 15, 2017
3,335,000
February 15, 2018
3,295,000
_______________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Page  14
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods: (a) under Parts A and B of the 
Project shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or more 
each; and (b) under Part C of the Project shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
Limited International Bidding
Goods under Parts A and B of the Project which the Bank agrees can only be 
purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
International Shopping
Goods under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
National Shopping
Goods under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  15
5.
Direct Contracting
Goods under Parts A and B of the Project which are of a proprietary nature, may, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
6.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of works, including 
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, 
and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
7.
Commercial Practices
Goods required for carrying out Sub-projects under Part A of the Project, for 
developing PRB branches under Part B of the Project, and estimated to cost less than 
$350,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured in accordance with commercial 
practices acceptable to the Bank which will require a minimum of three (3) written 
price quotations and the award of contract to the lowest evaluated bidder.
8.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods under Parts A and B of the Project to be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Part C.7 of this Section, and goods under Part C of the Project, to be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Part C.3 of this Section, may be 
procured through IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works procured under 
each Part A, B and C of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Parts B, C.2  
and C.5 of this Section; and (ii) the first two contracts for works procured under 
each Part A, B and C of the Project, including the first two contracts cleared by each 
PIB and Leasing Company, in accordance with the provisions of Part C.1 of this 
Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for goods and works procured 
under each Part A and B of the Project, including the first two contracts cleared by 
each PIB, Leasing Company, PRB, and SP, in accordance with the provisions of Parts C.6 
and C.7 of this Section; and (ii) the first contract for goods and works procured 
under Part C of the Project in accordance with the provisions of Parts C.3 and C.6 to 
this Section, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
Page  16
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely of national consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
 1.
Quality-Based Selection
Services for designing: overall retail banking strategy; strategy for channels 
for delivery of banking products; and strategies, models and systems for recovery of 
collateral and valuation of assets under Part B.1 of the Project shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 
3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
Page  17
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall and shall cause PIBs, Leasing Companies and Service Providers 
to carry out Part A of the Project in accordance with the Operational Manual and the 
provisions of this Schedule, Annexes A, B and C thereto and Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement. The Borrower shall not amend, suspend, abrogate, repeal or waive the 
Operational Manual without the Bank’s prior consent.
2.
For the purposes of carrying out Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
select PIBs and Leasing Companies, in accordance with the eligibility 
criteria set forth or referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement, to participate in 
financial intermediation of the credit and leasing facility to be established under 
Part A of the Project through provision of Sub-loans and Financing Leases to 
Beneficiaries on terms and conditions set forth in Annex A to this Schedule;
(b)
relend to PIBs and Leasing Companies the equivalent of the proceeds of 
the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the Table set forth in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under Subsidiary Loan Agreements to be 
entered into between the Borrower and each PIB or Leasing Company respectively, under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and which shall 
include, without limitation, those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(c)
monitor the overall execution of Parts A.1 and A.2 of the Project and 
carrying out by PIBs and Leasing Companies of their respective Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
(d)
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part 
to enable PIBs and Leasing Companies to perform in accordance with the provisions of 
their respective Subsidiary Loan Agreements all their obligations therein set forth, 
and not to take or permit to be taken any action which would interfere with such 
performance; and
(e)
exercise its rights under the Resource Management Agreement and the 
Page  18
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and 
the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
3.
For the purposes of carrying out Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
select Service Providers, in accordance with the eligibility criteria set 
forth in Annex B to this Schedule 5 to this Agreement to participate in financial 
intermediation of the credit and leasing facility to be established under Part A.3 of 
the Project and procure their services in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
enter into an Agency and Cofinancing Agreement with each Service 
Provider, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
whereby:
(i)
the Service Provider shall relend to Beneficiaries, on behalf of 
the Borrower for a reasonable fee, the equivalent of the proceeds 
of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2) of the 
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
under a Micro-loan Agreement to be entered into between the 
Service Provider and a Beneficiary for the purposes of Part A.3 of 
the Project, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank and 
which shall include without limitation those set forth in Part B 
of Annex B to Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(ii)
the Service Provider shall provide at least twenty-five percent 
(25%) and the Borrower shall provide, from the proceeds of the 
Loan allocated from time to time to Category (2) of the table set 
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, up to 
seventy-five percent (75%) of the amount of a Micro-loan to the 
Beneficiary, under terms and conditions approved by the Bank and 
which shall include without limitation those set forth in Part B 
of Annex B to Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(iii)
in respect of payment of interest or other charges on, or 
repayment of principal, made to a Service Provider by a 
Beneficiary, under the Micro-loan, upon receipt of each such 
repayment, the Service Provider shall credit the Borrower’s 
corresponding portion to an account of the Borrower maintained for 
the purposes of the Project. 
(c)
monitor the overall execution of Part A.3 of the Project and carrying out 
by Service Providers of their respective Agency and Co-financing Agreements in 
accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
(d)
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part 
to enable Service Providers to perform in accordance with the provisions of their 
respective Agency and Co-financing Agreements all the obligations therein set forth, 
and not to take or permit to be taken any action which would interfere with such 
performance; and
(e)
exercise its rights under the Agency and Co-financing Agreements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any such Agency and Co-financing Agreement or any provision thereof.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about January 31, 2003, a report integrating the results of the 
Page  19
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by April 30, 2003, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
5.
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the PMU with 
such staff and resources as shall be required for the PMU to perform its duties in 
respect of the overall management and implementation of the Project and shall be 
acceptable to the Bank.
6.
During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain a Steering 
Committee comprising the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of 
Agriculture and Food, and the National Bank of Romania, which shall oversee the 
implementation of the Project, and shall inter alia ensure that the PMU has sufficient 
staff with the required experience and qualifications for the implementation of the 
Project.
7.
For the purposes of carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) 
select up to four (4) PRBs which shall qualify as PIBs under criteria set forth in 
Annex C of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and agree to participate in an institutional 
development program for the purposes of Part B.2 of the Project; and (b) relend to 
PRBs the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to 
Categories (3)(a) and (4) of the Table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement under a Participation Agreement to be entered between the Borrower and each 
PRB, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank and shall 
include, without limitation, those set forth in Parts B and C of Annex C to Schedule 5 
to this Agreement.
8.
The Borrower shall assign, under the Resource Management Agreement, the right to 
manage disbursement of the proceeds of the Loan, to the Treasury Bank, selected in 
accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank; and shall not amend, suspend, 
abrogate or waive the provisions of the Resource Management Agreement without prior 
approval of the Bank.
9.
By October 15, 2001, the Borrower shall issue an Ordinance which will terminate 
the collection of value added tax on interest income accrued by non-bank lenders on 
loans made by non-bank lenders.
Annex A to  SCHEDULE 5
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans and Financing Leases
The provisions of this Annex shall apply for the purposes of paragraph 2 (a) of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
A.
Terms and Conditions
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan or a Financing Lease shall: (a) be 
denominated in the currency (Dollars or Lei) agreed to by the PIB or Leasing Company, 
respectively, and the Beneficiary; and (b) be the equivalent in such currency  
(determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods and services financed out of 
such proceeds for the Sub-project.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate determined by the respective 
PIB or Leasing Company, respectively, in accordance with its investment and lending 
policies and practices; and (b) made for a period of up to eight (8) years, including 
up to twelve (12) months grace period.
Page  20
3.
The total amount of all Sub-loans and Financing Leases made to a single 
Beneficiary shall not exceed: (a) an equivalent of one million Dollars ($1,000,000) 
for Beneficiaries other than a Leasing Company; and (b) an equivalent of four million 
Dollars ($4,000,000) for Leasing Companies which qualify as Beneficiaries for 
obtaining Sub-loans from PIBs, or such other amount as the Bank shall establish and 
promptly notify the Borrower of.
B.
Eligibility Criteria
1.
Sub-loans and Financing Leases shall be made to Beneficiaries which each shall 
be qualified, to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank, as:
(a)
a duly established enterprise under the laws of the Borrower, with at 
least fifty-one percent (51%) private shareholding (i.e. shares held by persons or 
entities other than those owned or controlled by the Borrower, local authorities or 
any sub-division thereof) which is: (i) domiciled in rural areas; or (ii) domiciled in 
urban areas and engaged in activities related to the rural economy; or
(b)
an individual entrepreneur of Romanian nationality and residing in rural 
areas.
2.
Sub-loans and Financing Leases shall be made for Sub-projects which are each 
determined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines 
satisfactory to the Bank, to be:
(a)
technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially 
viable; and
(b)
designed in accordance with appropriate health, safety and environmental 
standards consistent with the Borrower’s laws and regulations.
3.
Sub-loans or Financing Leases shall not be made for Sub-projects which are each 
determined:
(a)
to finance purchase and leasing of land, or purchase of existing 
buildings;
(b)
to finance tobacco-related activities;
(c)
to require involuntary resettlement of people; and
(d)
to have adverse impact on cultural heritage structures.
C.
Other Conditions
1.
No expenditures for goods, works or services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan or Financing Lease for such Sub-project shall have been 
approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than 180 
days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and 
information required under paragraph 4 (a) of this Annex in respect of such Sub-loan, 
or
(b)
the Sub-loan or Financing Lease for such Sub-project shall have been a 
free-limit Sub-loan or Financing Lease (as hereinafter defined) for which the Bank 
shall have authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall 
have been made not earlier than 180 days prior to the date on which the Bank shall 
have received the request and information required under paragraph 2 (b) of this Annex 
in respect of such free-limit Sub-loan or Financing Lease. For the purposes hereof, a 
free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan or a Financing Lease for a Sub-project to be 
made by a PIB or a Leasing Company, respectively, in an amount to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed, when added to all other free-limit 
Sub-loans financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and 
which have been or are being used for financing goods, works and services directly and 
materially related to such Sub-project, the sum determined from time to time by the 
Bank and notified to the Borrower and each such respective PIB or Leasing Company.
2.
(a)
When presenting a Sub-loan, other than a free-limit Sub-loan, to the Bank 
for approval, the respective PIB shall furnish to the Bank, through the Treasury Bank, 
an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of 
Page  21
the Beneficiary; (ii) the appraisal of the Sub-project, including a description of the 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (iii) the 
proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization 
therefor; and (iv) any such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan Account 
in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the 
Beneficiary and the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of 
the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions of 
subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to the Bank prior to 
September 30, 2005, or such later date as may be agreed upon by the Bank.
3.
Sub-loans and Financing Leases shall be made on terms whereby the PIB or Leasing 
Companies respectively making the Sub-loan or Financing Lease shall obtain, by written 
contract or other appropriate means, rights adequate to protect its interest and those 
of the Borrower and the Bank, including the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, economical, financial, 
environmental and commercial practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide, 
promptly as needed, funds, facilities and other resources required for the 
Sub-Project;
(b)
require that the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Sub-loan to be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 
4 to this Agreement, and use such goods, works and services exclusively in the 
carrying out of the Sub-project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank and the 
Borrower if the Bank or the Borrower shall so request, the goods and the sites, works, 
plans and construction included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents;
(d)
require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice, including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan or 
obtained through a Financing Lease to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to 
replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank, or the Borrower, shall 
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and 
financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the 
Sub-project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the proceeds of the 
Sub-loans or the use of goods financed through a Financing Lease, upon failure by such 
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its contract with a PIB or a Leasing 
Company.
Annex B to  SCHEDULE 5
Eligibility Criteria for Service Providers and 
Terms and Conditions of Micro-loans
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Annex shall apply for the 
purposes of paragraph 3 (a)  and (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
A.
Eligibility Criteria for Service Providers
An Agency and Co-financing Agreement may be entered into with a Service 
Provider, an entity duly established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, 
which the Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed, that such 
Service Provider:
(a)
is a private entity which is not owned or controlled by the Borrower, 
local authorities or any sub-division thereof;
Page  22
(b)
has sufficient capacity and experience in delivering microcredit 
services;
(c)
has the organization, management, staff and other resources required for 
the efficient carrying out of its operations, including its activities to be 
undertaken under Part A.3 of the Project;
(d)
has sound financial condition and adheres to sound operating policies and 
procedures determined on the basis if the criteria agreed upon with the Bank; and
(e)
has agreed to provide at least twenty-five percent (25%) co-financing to 
each Micro-loan on terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual and Part B 
of this Annex B to Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
B.
Terms and Conditions of Micro-loans
1.
The principal amount of each Micro-loan shall: (a) be such that the Service 
Provider’s portion of the principal amount of a Micro-loan shall be denominated in 
currency agreed to by the Service Provider and the Beneficiary and the Borrower’s 
portion of the principal amount of a Micro-loan shall be denominated in Lei, unless 
otherwise agreed by the Bank; and (b) be the equivalent in such currency or currencies 
(determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so 
withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods, works and services financed out 
of such proceeds for the Sub-project.
2.
The maximum amount of outstanding Micro-loan or Micro-loans to a single 
Beneficiary shall not exceed $7,500 equivalent, or such other amount as the Bank shall 
establish and promptly notify the Borrower of.
3.
Each Micro-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate which shall be calculated on 
the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and (b) made for a period of up to 
three (3) years.
4.
Micro-loans shall be made: (a) to Beneficiaries which each shall qualify in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in Part B.1(b) of Annex A to Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement; and (b) for Sub-projects selected in accordance with the provisions of 
Parts B.2 and B.3 of Annex A to Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
5. 
Micro-loans shall each be made on terms whereby the Service Provider making the 
Micro-loan shall enter into a Micro-loan agreement with a Beneficiary to obtain rights 
adequate to protect its interests and those of the Borrower and the Bank, including 
the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, environmental, 
economical, financial and commercial practices, to maintain adequate records, and to 
provide, promptly as needed, the fund facilities and other resources required for this 
purpose;
(b)
require that the goods, works, and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Micro-loan to be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and use such goods, works and services exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Sub-project; 
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank, if the 
Bank shall so request, the goods and the sites, works, plans and construction included 
in the Sub-projects, the operation thereof, any relevant records and documents;
(d)
require the Beneficiary to maintain accounts and records relating to 
expenditures under the Sub-projects, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practices;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank and the Borrower shall reasonably 
request, relating to the administration, operations and financial conditions of the 
Sub-projects; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to use of the proceeds 
of the Micro-loan on account of failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations 
under its Micro-loan Agreement.
Page  23
Annex C to SCHEDULE 5
Principal Terms and Conditions of Participation Agreements
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall apply for 
the purposes of paragraph 7 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
A.
Eligibility Criteria for PRBs
A Participation Agreement may be entered into with a banking institution, which 
the Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed, that such banking 
institution: (a) complies with the eligibility criteria specified in Part A of 
Schedule 6 of this Agreement; and (b) agrees to participate in an institutional 
development program for the purposes of Part B.2 of the Project.
B.
Terms of the PRB Subsidiary Loans
1.
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Loan to a PRB under 
the Participation Agreements shall be: (a) denominated in Dollars; and (b) the 
equivalent of the aggregate amount of the principal of all PRB Subsidiary Loans made 
out of the proceeds thereof.
2.
The PRB Subsidiary Loan shall be charged: (a) on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest, during each six-month period 
commencing on June 30 and December 31 of each calendar year, at a rate equal to LIBOR 
plus a margin, as shall be calculated on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank; and (b) a stand-by fee at the rate of 0.75% per annum on the principal amount of 
the PRB Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
3.
The PRB Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid in twelve (12) years, including a grace 
period of up to eighteen (18) months.
4.
The right of a PRB to the use of the proceeds of its PRB Subsidiary Loan shall 
be: (a) suspended upon failure of such PRB to perform any of its obligations under its 
Participation Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with all legal and 
regulatory requirements applicable to its operations; and (b) terminated if such right 
shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous period 
of 60 days.
C.
Conditions
Each respective Participation Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to 
which each respective PRB shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out its activities under Part B of the Project and conduct its 
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and 
practices, with qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, and to provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the purpose.
(b)
(i) exchange views with, and furnish all such information to the Bank, as 
may be reasonably requested by the Bank, and the Borrower, with regard to the progress 
of its activities under Part B of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under its respective Participation Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of Part B of the Project; and (ii) promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower 
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
activities under its respective Participation Agreement; and
(c) 
(i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition; (ii) have its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iii) 
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, certified copies of said financial statements and 
accounts for such year as so audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors in 
such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to 
the Bank such other information concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
Page  24
SCHEDULE 6
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall apply for 
the purposes of paragraph 2 (a) and (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
A.
Eligibility Criteria for PIBs
A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a banking institution, duly 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower for at least two (2) years, 
which the Borrower shall have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed, that such 
banking institution:
(a)
has at least fifty-one percent (51%) of its shares held by persons or 
entities other than those owned or controlled by the Borrower, local authorities or 
any sub-division thereof;
(b)
is in compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to 
its operations;
(c)
is operating pursuant to investment and lending policies and procedures 
acceptable to the Bank, and has undertaken to maintain said policies and procedures;
(d)
has a financial structure and performance satisfactory to the Bank, 
determined, inter alia, on the basis of capital adequacy, asset quality, reserves, 
liquidity, earnings and operating costs criteria agreed upon with the Bank;
(e)
has the organization, management, staff and other resources required for 
the efficient carrying out of its operations, including its activities to be 
undertaken under Part A of the Project; and
(f)
is capable of preparing financial statements in accordance with 
International Accounting Standards (IAS) and has an audit report, including a 
portfolio review, covering the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of 
application for participation in the Project, prepared by a firm acceptable to the 
Bank.
B.
Eligibility Criteria for Leasing Companies
A Subsidiary Loan Agreement may be entered into with a Leasing Company, duly 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, which the Borrower shall 
have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed, that such Leasing Company:
(a)
has unqualified financial statements prepared for the year immediately 
preceding application for participation in the Project and audited by external 
auditors in accordance with IAS;
(b)
is in compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to 
its operations;
(c)
has at least fifty-one percent (51%) of its shares held by persons or 
entities other than those owned or controlled by the Borrower, local authorities or 
any sub-division thereof;
(d)
has performance satisfactory to the Bank, determined, inter alia, on the 
basis of maximum debt to equity and maximum debt service coverage ratios and level of 
earnings during the year immediately preceding to its application for participation in 
the Project, as such ratios have been agreed upon with the Bank; and
(e)
has obtained an unconditional guarantee issued by a commercial bank 
acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
C.
Terms
1.
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the loan to a PIB or a 
Leasing Company (a Subsidiary Loan) under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
shall be: (a) denominated in Dollars; and (b) the equivalent of the aggregate amount 
of the principal of all Sub-loans made out of the proceeds thereof.
Page  25
2.
The Subsidiary Loan shall be charged: (a) on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest, during each six-month period 
commencing on June 30 and December 31 of each calendar year, at a rate equal to LIBOR 
plus a margin, as shall be calculated on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Bank; and (b) a stand-by fee at the rate of 0.75% per annum on the principal amount of 
the Subsidiary Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
3.
The Subsidiary Loan shall be repaid in twelve (12) years, including  a grace 
period of up to eighteen (18) months.
4.
The right of a PIB or a Leasing Company to the use of the proceeds of its 
respective Subsidiary Loan shall be: (a) suspended upon failure of such PIB or Leasing 
Company to perform any of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with all legal and regulatory 
requirements applicable to its operations; and (b) terminated if such right shall have 
been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous period of 60 days.
D.
Conditions
Each respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to 
which each respective PIB or Leasing Company shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out its activities under Part A of the Project and conduct its 
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and 
practices, with qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, and in conformity 
with the investment and lending policies and procedures referred to in paragraph 1 (b) 
hereof, and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the purpose;
(b)
(i) make Sub-loans or Financing Leases to Beneficiaries on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Annex A to Schedule 5 to this Agreement; (ii) exercise its 
rights in relation to each such Sub-loan in such manner as to protect its interests 
and the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, comply with its obligations under its 
respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement and achieve the purposes of Part A of the 
Project; (iii) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing 
for Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without prior approval of the Borrower; and 
(iv) appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out by 
Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank 
and the Borrower;
(c)
(i) exchange views with, and furnish all such information to the Bank, as 
may be reasonably requested by the Bank, and the Borrower, with regard to the progress 
of its activities under Part A of the Project, the performance of its obligations 
under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the 
purposes of Part A of the Project; and (ii) promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower 
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its 
activities under its respective Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(d) 
(i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
sound accounting practices, its operations and financial condition; (ii) have its 
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (iii) 
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months 
after the end of each such year, certified copies of said financial statements and 
accounts for such year as so audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors in 
such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to 
the Bank such other information concerning said records, accounts and financial 
statements, as well as the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
