                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR0000514




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-46020)




                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                                   ROMANIA

                                     FOR A

                           RURAL FINANCE PROJECT




                                   May 22, 2008




Sustainable Development Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

        (Exchange Rate Effective August 31, 2007)

        Currency Unit = New Romanian Lei (RON)
                  RON 1.00 = US$0.42
                  US$1.00 = RON 2.39

                     FISCAL YEAR
                January 1 ­ December 31


         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL       Adaptable Program Loan
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EC        European Commission
EU        European Union
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FI        Financial Institution
FM        Financial Management
FMS       Financial Management Specialist
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
IFI       International Financial Institution
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
LA        Loan Agreement
MARD      Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MFI       Microfinance Institution
MOPF      Ministry of Public Finance
NBR       National Bank of Romania
NGO       Non Governmental Organization
NRDP      National Rural Development Programme
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PFI       Participating Financial Institution
PIB       Private Intermediary Bank
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PMU       Program Management Unit
PRB       Participating Retail Bank
QAG       Quality Assessment Group

RCLF                    Rural Credit and Leasing Facility
RFP                     Rural Finance Project
ROA                     Return on Assets
ROE                     Return on Equity
ROI                     Return on Investment
ROL                     Romanian Lei
RON                     New Romanian Lei
SAPARD                  Special Accession Programme for Agriculture and Rural
                        Development
SME                     Small and Medium Size Enterprise
SOE                     State Owed Enterprise / Statement of Expenditure
SP                      Service Provider
TA                      Technical Assistance
TOR                     Terms of Reference
TTL                     Task Team Leader
USAID                   United States Agency for International Development




         Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
       Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
        Sector Manager: Holger A. Kray
    Project Team Leader: Pierre Olivier Colleye
      ICR Team Leader: Pierre Olivier Colleye

                                            ROMANIA
                           RURAL FINANCE PROJECT




                                           CONTENTS



1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.............................................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................. 6
3. Assessment of Outcomes......................................................................................... 11
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................ 16
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................... 18
6. Lessons Learned ...................................................................................................... 20
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ......... 21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing......................................................................... 22
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 36
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results.......................................................................... 38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results.......................................................................... 38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results.................................................. 40
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................... 41
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 51
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents (from IRIS) ................................................. 52
MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Rural Finance Project
Country:                Romania                 Project Name:
                                                                       (APL #1)
Project ID:             P056891                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-46020
ICR Date:               05/30/2008              ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:              ROMANIA
Original Total
                        USD 80.0M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 73.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Public Finance
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        01/19/2000    Effectiveness:          02/15/2002         02/15/2002
                                                                                05/16/2003
Appraisal:             05/30/2000    Restructuring(s):
                                                                                03/29/2004
Approval:              03/29/2001    Mid-term Review:                           11/19/2004
                                     Closing:                01/31/2006         11/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                 Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:        Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:            Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry     Satisfactory


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           Yes                                        Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 4                   4
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                 75                 75
Micro- and SME finance                                           21                 21


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Improving labor markets                                         Primary          Primary
Infrastructure services for private sector development         Secondary         Secondary
Rural markets                                                   Primary          Primary
Rural non-farm income generation                               Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                       At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                       Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos             Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:            Holger A. Kray                     Kevin M. Cleaver
Project Team Leader:       Pierre Olivier Colleye             Rodrigo A. Chaves
ICR Team Leader:           Pierre Olivier Colleye
ICR Primary Author:        Pierre Olivier Colleye



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The proposed project seeks to promote economic growth and reduce poverty in rural
Romania through the provision of financial services. In pursuing this objective, the
project will assist in (a) accelerating the economic transformation of the rural economy
by increasing the flow of investment capital to the sector, (b) augmenting the role of the
private sector in the rural economy by (i) improving access, on the part of rural
households with entrepreneurial activities and private enterprises, to financial services
and by (ii) helping regulated private financial intermediaries to augment their presence in
rural localities and in filling the vacuum that may ensue after the privatization of state
banks and the likely closing of a significant portion of the existing network of rural


                                                 ii

branches; (c) facilitating accession to the European Union (EU) by assisting the rural
economy to absorb the grants that will be allocated under the EU's Special Accession
Program for Agriculture and Rural Development (SAPARD) by making available
counterpart funding for the private investments that will be financed by this program, and
(d) alleviating rural poverty by financing farm and off-farm investments for poor
segments of the rural population which currently have no access to credit. The project
also seeks to improve the legal and institutional environment for financial transactions to
reduce the costs and risks assumed by lenders when allocating rural credit, especially to
the relatively poorer segments of the population.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value            Values (from         Revised      Achieved at
                                                 approval           Target      Completion or
                                                documents)          Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Amount (USD) of credit allocated to private rural enterprises
Value
quantitative or USD 184 million             USD 213 million                  USD 967 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                    07/31/2007                       10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The target value was overachieved in October 2006 and reached over 450% of

achievement)    the target value, hence no further measurements were made.

Indicator 2 :   Amount (USD) of credit allocated to rural households
Value
quantitative or USD 174 million             USD 201 million                  USD 323 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                    07/31/2007                       12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        The latest available data (December 2005) indicates that the original target value

achievement)    was achieved by 160%.

Indicator 3 :   Aggregate private agricultural investment as % of agricultural gross value added
                (GVA)
Value
quantitative or 8.31%                       9.55%                            9.38%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                    07/31/2007                       12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %        98% of the target value was achieved on December 31, 2004, which is the latest

achievement)    available data.

Indicator 4 :   Total credit to agriculture, forestry, and fisheries
Value           ROL 4,243 billion (USD ROL 10,000                            RON 3.402 billion
quantitative or 164.5 million at            billion (USD 387.6               (ROL 34,020


                                                 iii

Qualitative)   12/31/2000 exchange         million at                         billion or USD
               rate)                       12/31/2000                         1,318 million at
                                           exchange rate)                     12/31/2000
                                                                              exchange rate)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                   07/31/2007                         07/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The target value was overachieved as of July 2007 by over USD 900 million or

achievement)   240%.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised       Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Sub-loans disbursed to private rural enterprises (amount, USD)
Value
(quantitative  0                           USD 28 million                     USD 39.87 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                   07/31/2007                         08/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       As of the end of the Project, 142% of the original target value was achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Leases disbursed (amount, USD)
Value
(quantitative  0                           USD 700,000                        USD 14.9 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                   07/31/2007                         08/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       At the end of the project, the total amount of leases disbursed exceeded the target

achievement)   value 21 times.

Indicator 3 :  Micro-loans disbursed to rural households (amount, USD)
Value
(quantitative  0                           USD 1.7 million                    USD 9.73 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                   07/31/2007                         08/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       As of the end of the Project, 572% of the original target value was achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Amount (USD) of SAPARD funding to private rural enterprises leveraged with
               project funding
Value
(quantitative  0                           USD 17 million                     USD 11.4 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                   07/31/2007                         08/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       67% of the target value was achieved as of August, 2007 due to a very slow start

achievement)   of SAPARD programme in Romania.



                                                iv

Indicator 5 :  Number of rural localities with participating retail bank (PRB) branches /
               microcredit service provider (SP) retail points
                                                                            A total of 109 PRB

                                          A total of 65                     branches and
Value                                                                       agencies opened in
(quantitative  0                          localities with                   rural areas and 25
or Qualitative)                           branches and retail
                                          points                            SP retail points, of
                                                                            which 15 in rural
                                                                            localities.
Date achieved 04/30/2001                  07/31/2007                        08/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Adoption of TA policy recommendations on warehouse receipts
Value
(quantitative  No                         Yes                               Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                  07/31/2007                        03/03/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     04/25/2001          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     10/25/2001          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     12/13/2001          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                     0.00
  4     06/19/2002         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  5     06/26/2002         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  6     12/12/2002         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    0.00
  7     01/16/2003         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    0.20
  8     04/29/2003         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    0.20
  9     05/21/2003         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    0.20
  10    12/15/2003         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    2.54
  11    02/18/2004         Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory                    3.92
  12    06/23/2004          Satisfactory               Unsatisfactory                    4.82
  13    12/23/2004          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    15.33
  14    06/02/2005          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    27.65
  15    03/20/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    52.07
  16    10/18/2006          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    65.15
  17    05/09/2007          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    69.95
  18    11/01/2007          Satisfactory                Satisfactory                    73.75




                                               v

H. Restructuring (if any)

                          ISR Ratings at  Amount

Restructuring    Board    Restructuring Disbursed at  Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved                 Restructuring
              PDO Change                                   Key Changes Made
                           DO     IP      in USD
                                          millions
                                                     The first restructuring took
                                                     place in May#03 due to very
  05/16/2003        N       U      U          0.20   slow disbursements. Changes
                                                     were made into procurement
                                                     and institutional arrangements .
                                                     The second amendment was
                                                     introduced to accelerate
                                                     disbursement of the project#s
                                                     credit line funds by increasing
                                                     the allocation of Loan funds for
  03/29/2004        N       U      U          3.92   disbursement of microloans,
                                                     increasing the maximum sub-
                                                     loan size to a single sub-
                                                     borrower and further
                                                     streamlining of procurement
                                                     process.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

A 2001 analysis of the rural financial sector conducted by Romanian authorities and the
World Bank (see:      Financial Markets, Credit Constraints and Investment in Rural
Romania, Report No. 19412-RO) ascertained the poor performance of rural financial
markets. The Rural Finance Project (RFP) was designed to address this issue and support
attempts of Romania's government to establish well developed and internationally
competitive rural areas free of poverty.

In the absence of sufficient investment capital, the Romanian rural economy had
experienced difficulties in adjusting to the major policy reforms that had been taking
place continuously since 1990. The rapid changes in macro-economic environment,
including the exchange rate crisis in 1997 and the strong currency devaluation which
preceded the project, on the one hand, forced rural households and businesses to adjust to
the new circumstances and, at the same time, left them without adequate sources of
financing and limited access to investment loans necessary to meet new market
conditions. In fact, only 20 percent of the households and rural enterprises used loans to
finance their consumption, working capital and/or investments.

The highly bipolar farm structure in Romania drags down the country's agricultural
performance. Some 40% of the agricultural land is concentrated into a few large and
competitive farms. An equal share is spread among a large number of (semi-) subsistence
holdings. Totaling 90% of the farms, these smaller units face considerable market
failures, including a non-functioning land market, limited rural finance, scarce advisory
services, and marketing of farm products at prohibitive costs for their size. In particular,
these holdings' access to rural finance remains difficult in large part because of the risks
and high transaction costs perceived by commercial banks, a weak collateral base, and
embryonic micro-finance institutions. A middle segment, of 5 to 50 hectare farms, is yet
to be developed.

Table 1: Distribution of farms and agricultural land by farm size clusters (%, 2005)

                   0-1 ha         1-5 ha        5-50 ha         50-100 ha       > 100 ha
Farms               44.9           45.7            9.0             0.1             0.2
Land                 5.0           31.7           23.3             2.4            37.6

As in many other transition economies, small private lenders operating in rural credit
markets were the ones who lost the most during the transition period by not being able to
keep up with the reforms and changes in the economic environment. Also, due to their
limited resources and only local outreach, private lenders were not in a position to
successfully compete with a government run Banca Agricola and its subsidized interest,
and, at the same time, the state-controlled banking sector was neither able to meet the
demand for long-term rural credit, having the average maturity of the sector's liabilities




                                            1

well below six months, nor in the possession of the technology to serve micro and Small
& Medium Size Enterprise (SME) clients.

In addition, two sector issues were likely to emerge that needed to be addressed at the
time. The first was the reduction of the bank branches network as a result of the expected
privatization or divestiture of state banks, which in year 2000 owned around 87% of all
bank branches. The second issue was the absence of an appropriate regulatory and
supervisory framework for over 1,400 independent mutual financial intermediaries
registered under Law 109/1996, a majority of which were operating in rural areas.

Also, at appraisal, the first announcements about the EC's upcoming Special Accession
Program for Agriculture and Rural Development (SAPARD) had been made. While no
details about actual provisions were known, it was expected that the RFP would have the
opportunity to provide pre- and co-financing of the investments of the EC-financed
program.

In order to address those issues, the Romanian government developed a strategy based on
the premise that instead of directly financing the sector through subsidized credit lines or
public banks, the government should provide an environment in which property rights,
contracts, and financial services can thrive. In addition, the Government intended to assist
the financial sector in acquiring the capacity to provide sustainable retail financial
services to rural households and enterprises and by making available well tailored and
appropriately priced long-term investment capital to the private sector in rural areas.

The project was originally conceived as the first phase of an Adaptable Program Loan
(APL) aimed at supporting the Government' s long term view of developed and
internationally competitive rural areas. It was designed, in line with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS), to support the Government's strategy by promoting economic
growth and reducing poverty through the prevalence of financial services in rural
populations.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The project's development objective, as defined in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD), was to promote economic growth and reduce poverty in rural Romania through
the provision of financial services. In pursuing this objective, the project was to assist in:
(a) accelerating the economic transformation of the rural economy by increasing the flow
of investment capital to the sector; (b) augmenting the role of the private sector in the
rural economy by: (i) improving access, on the part of rural households with
entrepreneurial activities and private enterprises, to financial services; and by (ii) helping
regulated private financial intermediaries to augment their presence in rural localities and
in filling the vacuum that may ensue after the privatization of state banks and the likely
closing of a significant portion of the existing network of rural branches; (c) facilitating
accession to the European Union (EU) by assisting the rural economy to absorb the grants
that were to be allocated under the EC-financed SAPARD by making available
counterpart funding for the private investments financed by this program; and (d)
alleviating rural poverty by financing farm and off-farm investments for poor segments of


                                              2

the rural population which had no access to credit. The project also sought to improve the
legal and institutional environment for financial transactions to reduce the costs and risks
assumed by lenders when allocating rural credit, especially to the relatively poorer
segments of the population.

Key performance indicators to measure the achievement of the objectives included
increases in the:

(a) amount of long-term financing granted to private agriculture, households, and small
    and medium rural not-farm enterprises;
(b) amount of credit and value of leasing contracts allocated by the financial sector to
    rural retail and micro-enterprise clients;
(c) value of aggregate rural investments and agricultural gross value added;
(d) number of rural localities with branches of private banks;
(e) financial sustainability of rural branches and micro-finance organizations, including
    loan repayment rates;
(f) number of rural households and enterprises which accessed SAPARD grants with
    counterpart funding provided by the financial sector;
(g) amount of SAPARD funding to the rural private sector leveraged with project
    funding; and
(h) outreach of the financial sector to poor rural households and the number of them
    which are able to take advantage of profitable investment opportunities.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Project objectives were not revised during the course of project implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project was designed to support the government's long-term view of developed and
competitive rural areas with a reduced level of poverty and easier access to financial
services for all segments of the rural population. The project contributed to the prosperity
of individual farmers and their families, rural micro-entrepreneurs, and micro, small
and medium businesses by financing over US$64 million of farm and off-farm
investments.

The project also benefited regulated private financial intermediaries (retail banks,
leasing companies and micro-credit service providers) by providing them with the means
to offer retail financial services to small and micro-entrepreneurs in rural localities, and
by assisting them in establishing and operating a network of private bank branches and
points of sale. The latter alone made financial services available by the participating
banks to an additional potential 700,000 rural inhabitants.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)




                                              3

The project had three components: (a) Rural Credit Line and Leasing Facility; (b) Rural
Retail Banking and Micro-Finance; and (c) Project Management and Technical
Assistance on Rural Financial Markets.

Component A. The Rural Credit and Leasing Facility (RCLF) Component provided
three types of financing to the private sector entities and physical persons: (a) sub-loans
to on-lend through selected participating Private Intermediary Banks (PIBs) to eligible
private sector borrowers for farm and non-farm investments in rural productive activities;
(b) micro-loans disbursed through participating non-governmental and/or private Service
Providers (SPs) to eligible rural entrepreneurs; and (c) leasing of depreciable capital
assets by PIBs and leasing companies to final beneficiaries.

Component B. The Rural Retail Banking and Micro-Finance Component financed
incremental expenditures incurred, inter alia, in (a) the development of suitable
technologies to provide retail financial services to medium, small, and micro enterprises
and entrepreneurs in rural localities through participating Private Retail Banks (PRBs)
and microcredit SPs; (b) the establishment and operation, by PRBs, of a network of pilot
retail banking offices; (c) the operation, by SPs, of a network of microcredit retail points;
and (d) training and technical assistance in retail banking and micro-lending to PRBs and
SPs, respectively.

The component also provided financial support to private commercial banks participating
in the project as PRBs to: (a) develop the capacity to provide rural retail banking services
profitably, especially retail credit; (b) explore market opportunities in small rural
localities with no branches of other private banks; and (c) assist the interested project's
beneficiaries in gaining access to EU-SAPARD grant funds.

Component C.        The Project Management and Technical Assistance on Rural
Financial Markets component was to finance: (a) incremental expenses incurred by the
Government in implementing and monitoring the project; (b) technical assistance to the
Government in: (i) developing a warehousing receipts system, and (ii) examining options
to reform the accounting and fiscal treatment of depreciable assets and leasing; (c)
activities to promote public awareness in rural areas of the Project's RCLF; and (d)
technical assistance to final beneficiaries under the project on how to use the Project's
RCLF to obtain and pre-finance grants under SAPARD.

1.6 Revised Components

Project components and key indicators were not revised during the course of project
implementation. However, as discussed in Section 1.7 below, in order to accommodate
the rapid improvements in the Romanian banking sector and adapt to the country
dynamics some modifications in project design, implementation and schedule
arrangements were introduced.

1.7 Other significant changes




                                              4

The project experienced a very slow start, in main part because of problems with
institutional and procurement arrangements. Several changes were therefore made to the
project, including through several amendments and funds reallocations which allowed
implementation to accelerate considerably and the project to reach its objectives.

Termination of the PIU and the Treasury Bank. Initially, the project management and
implementation responsibilities were divided between the Project Management Unit
(PMU) in the Ministry of Public Finance (MOPF) and the Project Implementation Unit
("PIU") in the Project's Treasury Bank. These arrangements proved to be ineffective due
to the lack of a clear segregation of the responsibilities between PMU and PIU.
Following the request of the World Bank (Bank), the Resource and Project Management
Agreement between MOPF and the private bank was finally terminated in February 2004
and all project procurement and financial management (FM) responsibilities reverted to
the PMU.

Procurement arrangements. In order to further improve project performance and
ensuring its timely implementation, several changes were introduced to the procurement
arrangement through two amendments to the Loan Agreement (LA) in May 2003 and
March 2004. These changes made the credit line more attractive to both financial
intermediaries and final beneficiaries by (a) allowing individuals of Romanian citizenship
and residents in rural areas to benefit from sub-loans and financing leases (and no longer
only legal entities); and (b) allowing, on a case-by-case basis, the maximum sub-loan size
to a single borrower to exceed US$1 million1. Furthermore, the initially low threshold for
use of commercial procurement practices for procuring goods under Part A and B of the
project were increased, which notably streamlined the procurement process. The
introduced changes helped better address the real financial needs of final beneficiaries
and facilitate the absorption of EU SAPARD funds by providing potential SAPARD
beneficiaries with necessary technical assistance and co-financing.

Funding reallocations. A number of reallocations of funds between categories were
made at the Borrower's request. The redistribution of resources between components was
prompted by the following changes in demand and the desire to increase the project's
impact on the smaller entrepreneurs and land holders:

 1) While on the one hand the Government and the Bank had agreed to increase the
      maximum size of subloans to US$1 million, they also agreed that more funding
      should be allocated for small beneficiaries which were served by microfinance
      institutions (component B) where demand was high (additional allocation of
      US$6.9 million to Microfinance Institution (MFIs);
 2) Banks expressed no interest in borrowing from the project's credit line for
      operational expenses of their new rural branches as the credit line was subject to (i)
      high interest rates and (ii) Bank procurement guidelines. The banks' own resources


1Eventually this latter change was unnecessary as all together only one US$1 million sub-loan
was made.



                                               5

      were much more competitive for this particular activity (cancellation of US$5
      million of Operating Costs for new branches under Component B). Although this
      financing was taken out of the project, banks participating in the project
      considerably expanded their presence in rural areas;
  3) The acquisition of Romanian commercial banks by foreign investors was typically
      followed by considerable technology transfers, and at lower costs than the project's
      credit line. While the project initially was planning on upgrading the participating
      banks' overall procedures and technologies, this activity was quickly deemed
      unnecessary as it was provided by the foreign investors (cancellation of US$6.9
      million of Technical Assistant (TA) to Commercial Banks); and
  4) The high demand for credit line, the rapid disbursement rate during the third quarter
      of the project implementation and the acceleration of the absorption of the EC-
      financed SAPARD private measures led the Government to request that an
      additional US$15.5 million of available funds be transferred to the credit lines.

These reallocations were not an indication of poor design as much as it was a reaction to
a fast-changing banking sector landscape in light of the EU accession, the ability of the
Government to react to shifts in demand and its desire to concentrate on the beneficiaries
facing the biggest market failures (small farmers and entrepreneurs). These reallocations
were also possible without a modification of either the project's objectives or its main
indicators.

Extensions of the Closing Date.           As mentioned above, the project experienced
considerable delays in effectiveness and implementation startup until the institutional
arrangements were streamlined, 18 months into implementation. This delay led to two
extensions of closing date:

  · A first extension by 18 months was approved in February 2005, taking into
      consideration (i) the Government's strong interest in the project and (ii) the fact that
      most bottlenecks to implementation were solved by the Government during the
      initial 18 months period, after which the project disbursed at a brisk pace; and
  · A second short extension of four months was granted only to allow the most active
      bank of the project, Banca Carpatica, headquartered closer to rural areas, to absorb
      some of the remaining credit line, and to allow for the PIU to finalize the transfer of
      all monitoring activities to the MOPF to continue the proper monitoring and
      collection of the various credit lines.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Key factors during the preparation stage that affected implementation and outcome are
summarized below.

The background analysis was sound. The rationale for the project interventions was
provided by an analysis jointly conducted by Romanian authorities and the Bank on
Financial Markets, Credit Constraints, and Investments in Rural Romania. This analysis



                                              6

revealed that the rural financial markets performed very poorly from the perspectives of
(i) low supply of credit and unattractive conditions; (ii) a negative impact of the lack of
credit on investment behavior; and (iii) inefficient allocation of credit to enterprises with
low or negative value-added.

The rationale for the Bank's involvement was sound. The Bank's distinct comparative
advantage was the longstanding policy dialogue with the Government at the time of
preparation on issues related to the rural sector development and financial sector reforms.
In addition, the Bank was very familiar with the successful improvement of rural
financial markets in other countries.

Project Preparation and Design. The project preparation and design took into account
all relevant experiences in the region and were based on an extensive research and
analysis, giving grounds for satisfactory rating by Quality Assessment Group (QAG) at
Entry. However, as also acknowledged in the QAG assessment, there were some weak
points in the project's original design that resulted in delays in effectiveness (11 months)
and implementation delays (during the first 18 months of the project) and took some time
to be corrected, including : (i) some up-front implementation arrangements which were
not fully in place at entry (e.g. lack of agreements with intermediary financial institutions
(IFIs), incomplete appraisal of some potential financial institutions (FIs), lack of ready
Terms of Reference (TOR) for consultants or clearly described responsibilities of
implementing agencies); and (ii) cumbersome procurement requirements which were
particularly cumbersome on the beneficiaries and inconsistent with the private sector
environment in Romania.

All necessary changes reflecting the recommendation of the QAG at Entry had to be
introduced to the project through an amendment to the LA (May 2003) and visibly
accelerated the pace of the implementation phase by allowing the use of Romanian
commercial procurement practices, including most importantly procuring of goods
needed for developing branches under Part B of the project with estimated costs less than
US$1 million equivalent per contract.

2.2 Implementation

The overall project implementation is considered satisfactory. There was no major project
restructuring and, although the project was initially at risk because of slow
implementation takeoff, it was eventually completed in a satisfactory manner, mainly due
to a constant Government commitment, effective PMU with good skill composition
(managerial, technical, fiduciary) and flexible management by the Government and the
Bank.

It is worth mentioning that the flexibility on the part of both the Government and of the
Bank's supervision team was a key factor in the project implementation as it allowed the
revisions to some of the project scope of activities, implementation and schedule
arrangements to be done in a relatively smooth manner. As mentioned above, the project
experienced delays both in making the project effective and during the first 18 months of
implementation. To address these problems, the Government and the Bank worked
jointly to find practical solutions to accelerate implementation and enhance impact on the


                                               7

target beneficiaries and prepare a number of amendments which eventually lead to a
more rapid disbursement and implementation of the project. Once the above-mentioned
changes (see section 1.7) were made to implementation arrangements, the project
disbursed relatively quickly.

The Government and the Bank agreed to leave the other aspects of the project unchanged
and test whether the changes that were made were sufficient to allow for a more rapid
implementation. Indeed, the implementation accelerated rapidly, with: (i) express
requests from seven participating institutions for the sub-loan/sublease credit line, (ii) two
banks headquartered in rural areas interested in expanding their rural network; and (iii)
the rapid disbursement by microfinance institutions.

External events affecting Project implementation:            The project faced a rapidly
changing financial sector environment. As Romania was preparing to enter the European
Union, the banking sector experienced considerable increases in liquidity, particularly
from new foreign shareholders. This was particularly true of banks headquartered in
Bucharest. These new partnerships with foreign banks also considerably increased the
modernization of banking technologies, reducing the need for the Technical Assistance
planned under the project. At the same time, the National Bank of Romania (NRB) was
making steadfast progress improving its regulatory and supervisory capacity. Funds were
therefore reallocated away from technical assistance, towards rural credit lines which,
during 2005 and 2006 disbursed at a brisk pace, helping the project reach its objectives.

As foreign investment flowed into banks and leasing companies, the demand for RFP
funds progressively diminished. By the end of 2006, all banks headquartered in Bucharest
had shifted to their own foreign and local resources, which were typically more
competitive than the Government's credit line. Two banks, headquartered in Sibiu and
Cluj, continued their partnership with the project, often serving smaller enterprises in
more remote areas.

Mid-Term Review: Because disbursements started only in 2003 and, by the time of the
Mid-Term review, less than 16% of the funds had been disbursed, very little impact could
be observed at the time of the review. However, project results, including the latest
available disbursement and commitment data and the forecasts for the following year
showed a positive trend. Targets agreed to with the Government in the spring of 2004 had
all been met and the action plan agreed upon had been largely implemented. The changes
made earlier in the project had positively influenced the implementation process and
brought visible results. The Government and the Bank therefore decided not to further
restructure the project. Due to all the significant improvements the rating was upgraded to
Satisfactory in December 2004, about 30 months after having been downgraded because
of its slow start.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

A very ambitious monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system was designed during project
preparation and included in the PAD. The reporting and data gathering tasks laid primary
within the responsibility of the PMU. The PMU set up a good implementation and output


                                               8

indicator monitoring system which allowed both the Government and the Bank to closely
monitor implementation progress, disbursement, procurement, implementation of
technical assistance and financial management.

However, the implementation of the evaluation system faced some difficulties mainly
due to the following reasons:

1) The PAD stipulated that a follow-up independent social assessment and enterprise
    survey would be undertaken by the Mid-Term Review. However, due to delays in
    project effectiveness and implementation, with only about 16% of the funds disbursed
    and therefore very little impact to observe, the social assessments and enterprise
    survey had to be postponed by 18 months, which corresponded to the delay in
    implementation of the project,
2) Impact on the performance of enterprises was not immediate. Understandably, when
    SMEs borrowed from the credit line to invest in new product lines, new technologies
    or entirely new activities, the return on their investments, their profitability, their
    access to markets or employment would not be immediately observable. The large
    enterprise and households surveys were conducted during the last year of the project
    and the results can be found below, although they underestimate the long-term impact
    of the credit line,
3) The survey instruments which had been designed during preparation, were
    particularly expensive and time-consuming, which made it impossible to implement
    them on a regular basis, limiting the Government's capacity to assess early on the
    project's capacity to meet its development objectives2; and,
4) The source of much of the outcome data came from official statistics provided by the
    NBR, and were published with some delays (up to two years).

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Financial management. Throughout the life of the project a satisfactory FM system
was maintained. The Borrower respected the relevant loan financial covenants, by
submitting to the Bank the quarterly financial monitoring reports and the annual audit
reports in a timely manner and in a format acceptable to the Bank. Audit opinions were
all unqualified and no internal control issues were mentioned, including for the final audit
of the project, covering the eleven months ending November 30, 2007, submitted in
January 2008. Counterpart financing, including funding received from the Romanian
Government was satisfactory during the life of the project.

The Bank's Financial Management System (FMS) regularly reviewed the FM
arrangements for the project, as part of the Bank's supervision missions and rated the FM
arrangements satisfactory. All participating banks, leasing companies and microcredit
service providers were assessed by the Bank's FMS prior to their acceptance in the
project and their FM arrangements deemed appropriate. The annual audited financial
statements for all participating banks, leasing companies and microcredit service


2These surveys did eventually confirm that the project reached its PDOs.



                                             9

providers were reviewed as part of the regular supervision arrangements to ensure their
continued eligibility.

Procurement compliance. Throughout implementation, the project had a satisfactory
performance in complying with procurement policies and procedures. The scope of the
traditional procurement activities was limited to 12 contracts with a total value 2.75
million USD equivalent. During the course of implementation the PMU worked in a close
collaboration with the Bank procurement staff assigned to the project.

As the major part of the project was implemented through credit lines and micro-credit
schemes, procurement compliance was verified through the inputs provided to the Bank
team during supervision. This approach was criticized by QAG supervision review which
pointed out that the mission should ensure post-review of contracts during supervision
awarded under commercial practices.

It would be desirable for similar projects implemented under Bank funding to develop
clear requirements related to the scope of post-review supervision activities (if any) for
contracts awarded under commercial practices.

Safeguard policies. The Bank's safeguards and fiduciary policies were adequately
addressed during project preparation and remained adhered to throughout the
implementation process. Overall safeguard compliance continued to be satisfactory, with
two applicable safeguards with the same satisfactory rating, namely environmental
assessment (OD 4.01) and pest management (OP 4.09).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

By meeting its objectives, the project contributed notably to the positive transformation
of rural areas in Romania and increased access to finance for its populations leading the
way for other private market players. During Phase I of the Adaptable Program Loan
(APL), the project successfully filled a niche for capital investments and provided FIs
with the appropriate long term funding and provided microfinance institutions with
needed funding to implement a strategy of expansion into rural areas. Meanwhile, the
Romanian economy has undergone dramatic economic reforms that opened doors for
new business opportunities. While access to rural finance remains proportionally limited,
the needs of the financial sector to expand have considerably shifted for the following
reasons:

  · an early EU accession already during the Phase I of the project (initially forecasted
      during Phase II of the APL);
  · the macroeconomic sector reforms required by the EU ­ resulted in an influx of
      liquidity from foreign banks and other IFIs (International Finance Corporation
      (IFC), European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD)) preempting
      the need for IBRD sovereign lending; and
  · no massive bank branch closures, which had been expected in the PAD, took place.




                                           10

Those externalities have superseded a vision of the project's Phase II of the APL which
was, among others, to facilitate Romania's EU accession and include additional rural
credit line and leasing facilities. A follow-up Phase II which included additional liquidity
into the Romanian banking industry and further technical assistance to the banking sector
is not justifiable. There is, however, considerably more that can be done by the
Government of Romania to enhance access to financial services in rural areas and the
issue remains a priority for the Government. Topics of importance that have been
recommended to the Government include: (i) risk-mitigation issues, such as weather-
related index-based insurance or continuing the effort to build an efficient warehouse
receipt system; (ii) strengthening the outreach, the efficiency and the sustainability of
Non-Bank Financial Institutions such as microfinance institutions, financial cooperatives
and savings houses; and (iii) helping micro-entrepreneurs and farmers with business
plans or loan applications. Were there to be a follow-up operation, it would therefore
concentrate on institutional capacity and technical assistance, rather than the credit lines
initially anticipated. However, the Government has decided not to pursue a second phase
of the APL at this stage.

All transition and post-completion arrangements, including Operation and Maintenance
tasks have been handed over to the MOPF during the last supervision & ICR mission that
took place in early September 2007. The mission met with the Ministry of Economy and
Finance and discussed the arrangements that had to be made to ensure a smooth transfer
of the activities from the PMU to the Ministry itself after project closing, including
monitoring of the credit lines as well as responding to any request from participating
institutions regarding repayments. All stakeholders have been informed about the
reassigning of responsibilities from the PMU to the Ministry prior to the closing date.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Increasing access to rural finance, the absorption of further EU funds and reducing rural
poverty remain priorities for the Government, and in particular for the Ministry of
Agriculture and Rural Development (MARD). The new Country Partnership Strategy
(CPS) for Romania adopted in May 2006 concentrates mainly on supporting the
Government's EU accession agenda by helping Romania meet EU requirements as well
as reducing poverty especially in poorer, rural communities. The project not only assisted
the rural economy to absorb the grants that were allocated under SAPARD, but also
contributed to the poverty alleviation by making access to financial services broadly
available in rural areas and providing financing for farm and off-farm investments. In this
context, the project's objective continues to be in line with the country priorities and the
Bank partnership strategy although today the focus would switch from liquidity issues to
more technical assistance-related projects to reduce risk.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Overall, the project achieved its development objective with only minor shortcomings
and its outcome can be rated satisfactory. All key Intermediary Outcome indicators were


                                             11

surpassed with considerable margins ­ in some cases several hundred percent more than
the target value well before the project closed. Only one Intermediary Outcome indicator
was not fully met, but that achieved 67% of its target value and it was delayed due to
exogenous factors. All PDO indicators were also surpassed (see data in Annex 2).

In pursuing its objective the project successfully contributed to the increased access to
financial services in rural Romania through:

1. Accelerating the economic transformation of the rural economy by increasing
   the flow of investment capital to the sector.

The project accomplished the following:
  · provided additional investment capital to selected PFIs for on-lending to rural sector,
      in the total amount of US$64.53 million;
  · provided 225 sub-loans, 510 leasing and over 12,000 microcredits to private sector
      entities and natural persons in rural localities; and
  · granted access to finance via PFIs to over 8,800 individuals (farmers and their
      families, rural micro-entrepreneurs) and SMEs in rural areas that had no prior
      access to the financial sector and, as of 31 August 2007, reached the outstanding
      portfolio of about US$40 million for sub-loans and, US$15 million and US$9.7
      million for leases and microloans, respectively.

2. Augmenting the role of the private sector in the rural economy by improving
access to financial services and helping private financial intermediaries to augment
their presence in rural localities.

This goal was achieved as shown by the following results:
  · as of November 2007, 109 new branches and service points have been
      opened/established in rural localities all over the country where the banking
      services were not broadly available, increasing access to services to a potential
      additional 700,000 inhabitants;
  · micro-credit services were made available to the rural economy by microfinance
      providers through their 25 service points reaching as many as 8,000 clients, of
      which 36% had no prior credit history;
  · by providing the PFIs with the necessary financing, the project contributed not only
      to the expansion of banking services network in less populated and poorer counties,
      but also to the improvement of the micro-lending technologies and the standard of
      their services; and
  · in some localities the participating banks led the way into the rural market for other
      FIs by being the first to open new branches in certain localities, which helped to
      attract other FIs and explore existing market opportunities in those localities.

Facilitating accession to the EU by assisting the rural economy to absorb the grants
that have been allocated under the EU's SAPARD for the private investments

This was achieved by:


                                              12

  · Assisting private, local, rural individuals and SMEs to absorb the grants allocated
      under SAPARD by co-financing 53 private investment projects to a total volume of
      USD 11.65 million.
  · Supporting (under the TA) 225 individual investors in writing successful business
      plans leading to investments in rural areas to be co-financed by SAPARD.

3. Alleviating rural poverty by financing farm and off-farm investments for poor
segments of the rural population which had no access to credit.

The following are the project's achievements:
  · Over 12,000 micro-loans disbursed to the rural sector.
  · 36% of micro-financing beneficiaries had not received any formal loans before they
      obtained RFP financing, which demonstrates the success of the program in terms of
      increased access of rural entrepreneurs to sources of financing.
  · Loan arrears from microfinance institutions, as measured by Portfolio at Risk/30
      days were kept very low, from 0.18% to 3.03% well under the target of 7%.
  · There were no arrears over 30 days for sub-loans from banks or leasing companies.

The project also sought to improve the legal and institutional environment for financial
transactions to reduce costs and risks assumed by lenders when allocating rural credits,
especially to the relatively poorer segments of the population. In this context, the project
contributed to the development of Romania's warehouse receipts system through the
completion of the design of an indemnity/insurance fund which will complement the
work undertaken by United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and
the EBRD. The fund was set up by the Ministry of Agriculture in 2006. In response to
Government interest and current priorities in setting up a new agriculture insurance
system, the project also co-organized the workshop on "Insurance methods in
agriculture against natural calamities" in Romania in November 2007 covering the best
European practices and new trends on the insurance market, including weather index
based insurance.

As indicated in Annex 2, one of the ten outcome indicators (co-financing of SAPARD
investments) fell short of its objective of US$17 million (actual US$11.65 million). Most
of this co-financing took place during the last 18 months of SAPARD. Indeed, SAPARD
also experienced startup problems of design and implementation, including a high
management turnover. During the first four years of RFP implementation, the EC-
financed program was unable to absorb many of the funds available, making co-financing
by the RFP impossible.

A number of things took place during the last 18 months of SAPARD which considerably
accelerated disbursement: (i) SAPARD procedures were simplified, making it easier for
smaller enterprises to access the funding; and (ii) the RFP scaled up an effort initially
designed by USAID to help potential candidates with business plans, SAPARD grant and
bank loan applications, with over 200 enterprises benefiting from this technical assistance.
Both initiatives considerably accelerated SAPARD implementation. By that time, the
banks that were still participating in the RFP made considerable effort in co-financing



                                             13

SAPARD investments which contributed to all SAPARD funding being committed on
time.

3.3 Efficiency

Given the demand-driven nature of the RCLF and the difficulty to predict in advance the
types of loans that would be financed, the PAD did not attempt to predict an Economic
Rate of Return (ERR) for the overall project, although the value and incidence of
investment opportunities forgone due to the lack of access to financial markets on the part
of households and enterprises has been documented.

From the Government's point of view, all costs related to the credit line were passed on
to the banks, leasing companies and microfinance institutions, including IBRD
commitment fees. Although future returns on the enterprises and household which
benefited from the credit line are also difficult to estimate, the early indications are
positive. Detailed analysis of a representative sample of investments provided assurance
that the returns on the investments financed in the RFP portfolio were very high as
indicated in annex 3. Thus, the beneficiary companies saw the following improvements:
(i) percentage increase in revenue of almost 400%; (ii) percentage increase in profit of
around 1,000%; (iii) similarly, the profit margins also increased by about 1,000%; (iv)
Return on Assets (ROA) grew by almost 800%; and (v) Return on Equity (ROE) by
about 20% . In order to ensure that all investments actually financed under the
                3

component had acceptable rates of return, the lending guidelines for the banks required
that (i) sub-loans approved had rates of returns above on-lending rates of interest and that
(b) the repayment capacity of the sub-borrower or lessee be clearly proven. The analysis
confirmed that the PFIs fulfilled their economic role of selecting borrowers with
investments that quickly yield positive returns, ensuring loan repayment and enterprise
growth.

Investments in new retail units were analyzed. The analysis confirms that the
achievement of profitability of the investment made in the new branches is well
underway. For example, in one of the banks, two-thirds of the 93 new units were already
profitable by the end of the project. Early returns therefore indicate that the banks'
strategies for expansion are working, helped at least in part by the access to the credit line
for loans and leases which encouraged the rural outreach expansion efforts.

Intangible benefits. In addition to the returns directly to the borrowers and the banks,
the project yielded a range of intangible benefits, namely: (i) increased presence/outreach
of the financial sector in the rural areas; (ii) growth in rural economy through the
businesses supported by the project, which resulted in generation of new jobs and



3 Such high levels of returns are mainly explained by the fact many of the firms were startups. Annex 3,
which provides more detailed analysis, by various types of enterprises, shows that impact on non-startups
was still satisfactory. For example, removing outliers (startups), 11 out of 23 sampled firms had increases
in sales of 0-75%, while 9 had sales increases over 100%.




                                                     14

incomes for rural population; (iii) contribution to the SAPARD project by preparing
business plans and grant/loan applications for SAPARD-eligible beneficiaries and pre-
financing and co-financing a number of SAPARD investments, allowing for the more
rapid absorption of the EU funding, particularly during its last years of the RFP
operation; and (iv) provision of financing at a critical time to the microfinance industry
allowing it to grow considerably and transform from informal NGO-type operations to a
profitable, regulated industry supervised by the NBR.

The Government and the Bank also made sure that the credit line would not displace
private sector sources of financing through excessive interest rate subsidies so as to
primarily concentrate on the smaller enterprises and land holders. They did this by
considerably increasing the allocation towards microfinance institutions and working
closely with the banks to lower the average size of sub-loans (by 40% between the mid-
term review and closing).

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: satisfactory.

The overall outcome rating is based on a combination of the achievement of objectives,
relevance and efficiency. The Development Objective was achieved as shown by the key
performance indicators. The project continues to be relevant, as access to rural finance
continues to be a key element of the Government's National Rural Development
Programme (NRDP). Furthermore, as indicated in the economic and financial analysis,
the enterprises and households, which benefited from the credit line, show positive
returns. Moreover, this rating reflects the project's success in bringing about a behavioral
change in the target population for a more active approach to markets and financing in
rural areas.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project supported access to financial services in rural areas, which have a population
with a risk of poverty 1.6 higher than the national average. Thus, by design, the project
was aimed at reaching the poorest Romanians. From a distributional perspective, the
project was rather neutral to poverty - about one fifth of the beneficiary communes
belonged to the poorest quartile of communes in Romania, with a poverty rate over 50%
(according to the 2003 poverty map data), while another 22 percent of the beneficiary
communes belonged to the second poorest quartile.Within the project communes the
distribution of the number of micro-credit beneficiaries was slightly pro-poor (as
expected, the average value of the credit was smaller in poorer communities).

According to the independent social assessment carried out after the project's mid-term,
no adverse impact on equality within communes (i.e., polarization) was observed. On the
contrary, the qualitative assessment (carried out in over 20 communes in 6 counties)
reported that the use of character-based lending, as opposed to the more rigid traditional
credit eligibility criteria, allowed access to credit for lower income groups and small


                                             15

farmers without permanent cash income. Moreover, the focus groups revealed that the
participation in joint liability groups led to increased communication and cooperation
between community members.

The project was also neutral with respect to gender. The distribution by gender of project
beneficiaries is close to the national distribution of the beneficiaries of financial services
(one third women and two thirds men).

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

During the transition period, private financial institutions operating in Romania lacked
both the capacity and long-term funding to meet financial needs of the country's
population. By addressing those issues, the Bank strengthened private financial
institutions' abilities to serve micro clients, helped them expand their networks into more
rural and remote areas, but also provided them with the initially needed funding to
increase the sustainability of their rural activities, as well as their overall creditworthiness
and attractiveness to foreign investors. As a result, new opportunities were opened for all
Romanian FIs to receive long-term funding on more competitive terms.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project, through its intensive discussions with SAPARD management in 2003 and
2004, and with the in-depth assessment it conducted of its application guidelines and
application appraisal procedures, contributed to an improvement/streamlining of the EC-
financed program.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

The context in which the project was implemented was favorable towards maintaining its
development outcomes. The risk to the project's development outcome was rated as
moderate based on the following:

The pre-accession of Romania to the EU on January 1, 2007 triggered major policy
reforms aimed at strengthening the financial sector in line with the EU directives and
improving the efficiency of financial intermediation to meet the needs of the private
sector. In this context, considerable work has been done on reducing the influence over,
and ownership of, the financial sector, the development of infrastructure support systems
(such as electronic payment system, automatic clearing house, government registration
and settlement system), strengthening of insurance sector supervision and pursuing
measures to develop the capital and equity market. The project, whose main objective
was to promote economic growth and reduce poverty in rural areas in Romania through
the provision of financial services, was very well aligned with this operating environment.

Another major event that affected the implementation of the project and will positively
impact the maintaining of the development outcomes is the rapid growth of the banking
sector and the influx of liquidity into the banking sector. The project played an important



                                               16

role in providing long-term resources to the banking sector during the transition to the
point where private resources were amply available.

At Project closing, liquidity in the banking sector is no longer the main constraint to
finance in the country. While access to finance in rural areas has not been fully solved, as
investment capital, especially for primary agriculture, remains difficult to obtain from the
banking sector, the problems that will need to be tackled relate primarily to risks (e.g.
through increasing the use of collateral such as warehouse receipts or improving the
affordability and efficiency of weather-related insurance, the availability and
acceptability of land titles as collateral), technology (developing new lending instruments
appropriate for agriculture) and the strengthening of non-bank financial institutions (such
as microfinance institutions or credit cooperatives).

The continued interest of the Government for issuing subsidized credit lines does remain
a risk to the Development Objectives. The PAD indicated a commitment from the
Government to refrain from issuing such credit lines. In 2005-2006 however, the MARD
issued the Farmer's Credit Line of US$280 million at subsidized rates for which the Bank
strongly expressed its concern as such an initiative was not conducive to enhancing
sustainable access to rural finance. However, considering that (i) the Government was
under considerable pressure to temporarily accelerate the commitment of the SAPARD
funding before the deadline, (ii) there was no legal covenant preventing the issuance of
such credit lines and (iii) the fact this project was managed by the Ministry of Public
Finance which had little capacity to prevent the program of the MARD, the Bank did not
consider it appropriate to suspend the project on this ground. The Farmer's Credit Line
was suspended in 2007. Should the MARD decide to re-initiate such a program, the Bank
should engage the Government in identifying more appropriate types of assistance to
farmers, such as the above-mentioned risk mitigating measures.

With regard to the strengthening of the non-banking financial institutions, the project was
very important in reinforcing the MFIs in Romania at a time when the microfinance
industry was still in its infancy. The participation in the project was a significant first step
in the development of MFIs as it helped them establish new offices, spread their outreach
in rural areas and increase credit awareness. In 2006, the NBR took over the supervision
of the non-banking financial institutions providing a legal framework for existing micro-
finance providers to transform into non-banking financial institutions, which put MFIs in
a better position to attract both local and foreign investors ready to provide them with
long term debt and equity funding.

Another important element that will positively influence the project's development
impact is the implementation of the recently approved NRDP, which will allow Romania
to access EU funds of nearly EUR8 billion by 2013. The measures included in the NRDP
are aimed at increasing the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, improving the rural
environment, and improving the quality of life and diversification of the rural economy.
The NRDP will thus further pursue the RFP's objective of accelerating the economic
transformation of the rural economy. The implementation of the NRDP requires
significant counterpart funds, which will be secured mainly from commercial bank loans.



                                               17

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: moderately satisfactory

Quality at Entry had been rated satisfactory by QAG, particularly because of a thorough
background analysis of the financial sector in Romania. The QAG did identify some
deficiencies in institutional and implementation arrangements, as mentioned above. But t
hese deficiencies proved to be very problematic during the first 18 months of
implementation, causing considerable delays and leading to a 30-month period of
unsatisfactory ratings for Implementation Progress and Development Objectives.          This
ICR is therefore rating Quality at Entry as Moderately Satisfactory..

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: moderately satisfactory

The Bank provided support to the implementing agency during the project's
implementation stage that can be assessed as satisfactory. Field supervision missions to
review Project results and discuss key issues with the borrower were carried out regularly
on average twice a year and more often during the initial implementation. In the course of
the implementation, the Bank conducted eleven supervision and a mid-term review
missions. The mid-term review did not result in the restructuring of the project.

In general, the composition of the Bank team in terms of appropriate skills mix and
expertise was assured, with consultants mobilized for specific areas when needed. The
Bank team tried to mitigate as much as possible the events adversely impacting the staff
continuity, such as the changes into the Project Team and the change of the Task Team
Leader in February 2004.

The project faced not only an evolving financial sector, but also changing Government
sector policies in light of the rapidly approaching deadline for EU accession as well as
ever-changing rules for SAPARD. Indeed, at the time the RFP was appraised, no details
about the actual provisions for SAPARD were known. With SAPARD programming and
implementation entirely decentralized (i.e., an accession country responsibility) those
provisions were still to be defined as part of the national programming process. In
Romania, this process started later than in neighboring accession candidates, and first
measures were only accredited in 2002 for eventual implementation in 2003. In
particular, at appraisal no or very restricted information was available on essential
program parameters such as targeted sub-sectors, geographic coverage and eligibility
criteria (type of investments, types of enterprises, project size, eligible cost, counterpart




                                            18

financing shares). The Bank team and Government recognized the flexibility required to
stay ahead of the curve in such a rapidly changing environment.

The Bank was supportive and responsive to the project management. For instance, in
February 2004, one Bank staff from Washington was relocated to Bucharest for about
four months to closely work with the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the PMU to
accelerate the implementation of the project.

However, the Bank could also have done more. Particularly, it failed to (i) develop a
more streamlined Monitoring and Evaluation system once it became clear that the
existing and cumbersome design would not allow for a timely impact assessment nor an
early evaluation of the project's capacity to meet its Development Objectives, (ii)
convince the Government, in light of the decreasing demand for liquidity by the financial
sector and the increased likelihood that the Government would not be willing to borrow
for the APL2, to bring some of the activities of the APL2 into the APL1, in particular the
strengthening of the NBFI sector.     These weaknesses lead this ICR to rate the Bank's
supervision performance as moderately satisfactory.

The team, however, was able to learn from the lessons of the QSA, in particular by better
reflecting the monitoring of the performance of the financial institutions and increasing
the post-review of the subloans.

Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: moderately satisfactory

Given that the performance of the Bank in ensuring quality at entry and the overall
Project outcome were satisfactory and that the quality of supervision was moderately
satisfactory, the overall rating of the Bank performance is rated as moderately
satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: satisfactory

With the difficulties the project was facing at the early implementation stage, the
Government worked closely with the Bank's Team to ensure that institutional and
procedural arrangement problems were correctly identified and addressed in a timely
manner.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: satisfactory

The implementing agency, once established, was supportive throughout the life of the
project and responsive in addressing emerging problems in an appropriate manner. The
Bank Task Team was kept well informed of occurring problems and Project results;




                                            19

hence all issues were addressed and resolved in an efficient way. Reporting to the Bank
carried out by the PMU has also been done in a timely and professional manner.

Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: satisfactory

The overall performance of the borrower is satisfactory, particularly during the second
half of implementation.

6. Lessons Learned

Key lessons learned from the project both project-specific and of wide general
application are presented below.

1) Project design and implementation arrangements.                   There were several
   shortcomings in the project design and implementation which, if avoided, could have
   made the implementation of the project more effective. The following are the most
   significant post-implementation lessons:

   · Clarify commercial procurement practices. A lack of specific bank-wide
        guidance on acceptable commercial practices and their supervision needs made it
        difficult for the Government and the Bank team to properly assess the
        procurement activities under the credit line if needed.

   · Streamline funding mechanisms. For projects that are operating in a rapidly
        changing environment and are demand-based, the funding mechanisms need to be
        kept as streamlined and flexible as possible. The Government and the Bank were
        able to be flexible to compensate for cumbersome arrangements, but flexible
        mechanisms should be included at the design stage. For example:

                Too many detailed project cost categories called for constant reallocations,
                slowing down the project implementation.
                The Government signed fixed commitments with each bank or leasing
                company, mainly in order to pass on to these banks the commitment fee
                paid by the Government to the IBRD based on the amount they intended
                to borrow. As the demand regularly shifted from institution to institution,
                subsidiary loan agreements had to be constantly amended, increasing
                considerably the transaction costs and slowing down implementation.
                Instead, simple credit lines with eligible financial institutions should be
                established, with a loan ceiling based on the strength of the institutions,
                and withdrawals based on a first-come first served basis.

   · Agency relationship with microfinance institutions has limited impact on
        sustainability. At the time of Project design, no legal framework existed that
        would allow for the Government to lend to MFIs. An unusual services contract
        between the Government and these MFIs was established, which gave an agency



                                            20

        role for the MFIs to manage the public funds. Although the MFIs were able to
        accomplish their work and the funds allowed the MFIs to expand their presence
        further in rural areas, it did not fully allow for the increase of the institutions'
        sustainability as all funds were to be reimbursed to the Government in the short-
        term, forcing the MFIs to quickly raise additional financing on their own.

2) Specifics needs of the Agriculture sector. Increasingly, as liquidity of the financial
    sector expands, more and more funds are potentially available for lending to
    agriculture. To take advantage of this situation, considerably more needs to be done
    to reduce the risks related to the sector's activities. The focus therefore, especially in
    light of evident climate change moving toward a more complex, agricultural finance
    and risk management instruments such as warehouse receipts, weather index-based
    crop insurance or partial risk guarantees. Although some of these issues were
    expected to be dealt with during the second phase of the APL, they could have been
    more effectively dealt with at the same time as the credit line, to make sure these risk-
    mitigating systems are in place by the time the credit line closes.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

A summary of the Borrower's ICR can be found in annex 7. They are mainly consistent
with the findings of this ICR.

(b) Cofinanciers

Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                             21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

    Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                            Actual/Latest
          Components              Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)         Estimate (USD
                                                              millions)          Appraisal

RURAL CREDIT AND
LEASING FACILITY                       114.94                  109.13             94.9%

RURAL RETAIL BANKING
AND MICROFINANCE                         25.89                  28.77             111.1%

PROJECT MANAGEMENT
AND TA IN RURAL
FINANCIAL MARKET                          5.98                    3.89            65.1%

DEVELOPMENT


            Total Baseline Cost         145.20                  141.79            97.7%
Physical Contingencies                    0.07                    0.00             0.00
Price Contingencies                       1.54                    0.00             0.00
             Total Project Costs        146.81                  141.79            96.6%
Project Preparation Fund                  0.00                    0.00             .00
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.80                    0.00             .00
     Total Financing Required           147.61                  141.79            96.1%




(b) Financing
                                                  Appraisal     Actual/Latest
        Source of Funds          Type of Co-                                   Percentage of
                                  financing       Estimate         Estimate
                                               (USD millions) (USD millions)     Appraisal

Borrower                                       0.99            0.864         86.3%
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development                 80.00           73.4          95.5%

Local Sources of Borrowing
Country*                                       65.82           67.4          101.2%

*including estimates of contributions to investments by beneficiaries




                                            22

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

(a) PDO Indicators

                                              Original Target        Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator      2001 Baseline Value          Values (from                          Achieved at
                          (USD)                   approval           Revised       Completion or
                                             documents) (USD)      Target ValuesTarget Years (USD)
Indicator 1 :   Amount (USD) of credit allocated to private rural enterprises
Value
quantitative or US$184 million              US$213 million         -            US$967 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                    07/31/2007            -             10/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        The target value was overachieved in October 2006 and reached over 450% of the

achievement)    target value, hence no further measurements were made.

Indicator 2 :   Amount (USD) of credit allocated to rural households
Value
quantitative or US$174 million              US$201 million         -            US$323 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                    07/31/2007            -             12/31/2005
Comments
(incl. %        The latest available data (December 2005) indicates that the original target value was

achievement)    achieved by 160%.

Indicator 3 :   Aggregate private agricultural investment as % of agricultural gross value added
                (GVA)
Value
quantitative or 8.31%                       9.55%                  -            9.38%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                    07/31/2007            -             12/31/2004
Comments
(incl. %        98% of the target value was achieved on December 31, 2004, which is the latest

achievement)    available data.

Indicator 4 :   Total credit to agriculture, forestry , and fisheries
                                                                                RON 3.402 billion

Value           ROL 4,243 billion           ROL 10,000 billion                  (equivalent to ROL

quantitative or (US$164.5 million at        (US$387.6 million      -            34,020 billion or

Qualitative)    12/31/2000 exchange         at 12/31/2000                       US$1,318 million at
                rate)                       exchange rate)                      12/31/2000 exchange
                                                                                rate)
Date achieved 12/31/2000                    07/31/2007            -             07/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The target value was overachieved as of July 2007 by over US$900 million or 240%.
achievement)




                                                 23

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                                Original Target       Formally      Actual Value
                                                                                     Achieved at
   Indicator      2001 Baseline Value            Values (from          Revised
                                                    approval           Target       Completion or

                                              documents) (USD)         Values       Target Years
                                                                                        (USD)
Indicator 1 :  Sub-loans disbursed to private rural enterprises (amount, USD)
Value
(quantitative  0                             US$28 million          -            US$39.87 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                     07/31/2007             -            08/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       As of the end of the project, 142% of the original target value was achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Leases disbursed (amount, USD)
Value
(quantitative  0                             US$0.7 million         -            US$14.9 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                     07/31/2007             -            08/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       At the end of the project, the total amount of leases disbursed exceeded the target

achievement)   value 21 times.

Indicator 3 :  Micro-loans disbursed to rural households (amount, USD)
Value
(quantitative  0                             US$1.7 million         -            US$9.73 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                     07/31/2007             -            08/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       As of the end of the project, 572% of the original target value was achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Amount (USD) of SAPARD funding to private rural enterprises leveraged with
               project funding
Value
(quantitative  0                             US$17 million          -            US$11.4 million
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                     07/31/2007             -            08/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       67% of the target value was achieved as of August, 2007 due to a very slow start of

achievement)   SAPARD programming in Romania.

Indicator 5 :  Number of rural localities with participating retail bank (PRB) branches / microcredit
               service provider (SP) retail points
                                                                                 A total of 109 PRB

Value                                        A total of 65                       branches and

(quantitative  0                             localities with        -            agencies opened in

or Qualitative)                              branches and retail                 rural areas and 25
                                             points                              SP retail points, of
                                                                                 which 15 in rural



                                               24

                                                                          localities.
Date achieved 04/30/2001                 07/31/2007         -             08/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 6 :  Adoption of TA policy recommendations on warehouse receipts
Value
(quantitative  No                        Yes                 -            Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 04/30/2001                 07/31/2007         -             12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                           25

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Component A: Rural Credit and Leasing Facility Component
At Appraisal, the project aimed, to, among other things, help regulated private financial
intermediaries to augment their presence in rural localities through the expansion of the
branch network, to build the outreach in rural areas; and to alleviate rural poverty by
financing farm and off-farm investments for poor segments of the rural population which
currently have no access to credit. The Economic and Financial analysis attempts to
assess the efficiency and profitability of the said investments. The Analysis only focuses
on the loans through commercial banks and leases, and excludes microloans, since
calculation of Internal Rate Return (IRR) for loans with the average size of US$800 was
deemed impractical.

Factors influencing the Profitability Calculation. The PAD did not attempt to predict
an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the overall component because it was deemed
impossible to predict the specific sub-project or sub-leases which would be financed
under the Facility because of the demand driven nature of such Facility4. Thus during the
project preparation, ERRs were forecast for "a sample of activities". At the closing, the
sub-projects are known, but calculation of their individual ERRs is still quite difficult,
mostly due to the specific nature of SME lending.

SME lending is not "project finance" in the pure sense where assets and cash-flows of the
investment are legally and practically segregated from the rest of the company's assets
and cash flows. The investment project will increase or replace assets, but the
incremental return attributable to the investment is buried in the company's overall return
on all assets. The increase in profit is a very crude indicator of the incremental "return"
because the net profit is affected by a range of other management decisions (acquisition
or sale of other assets, hiring, marketing, systems, etc.). Thus even if the RFP investment
were not undertaken, there would be a change in profit due to other decisions and actions.
In cases where the investment is a significant portion of the SME's total assets, as in the
case of major green-field construction loans or SAPARD loans (which tend to replace
assets), the overall profitability of an SME can be a close measure of the RFP project.
Unfortunately even in these cases, measuring the Return on Investment (ROI) is still
impossible for another reason: these loans are recent and the "return" is not yet realized.

At the time of ICR, most investments are only 1 ­ 3 years old, whereas the useful life of
most of the assets financed is five or more years, and above 10 years in cases of
restoration or construction of buildings. Therefore, at this time it is premature to calculate
the traditional Net Present Value and IRR measures. Additionally, with over 700
investments under the project, not all data can be analyzed with full cash flows,
profitability and returns. Thus, the project team opted to select a sample of 23 sub-loans,
all representing different business activities. In aggregate, the data obtained provide a


4The overall rate of return for the component in this case would be a weighted average of the ERRs of all
sub-projects.


                                                    26

fairly complete picture of the portfolio financed under RFP and the returns/profitability of
the activities financed.

Methodology Used. Key financial indicators (revenue, profit, assets, etc.) from the
borrower enterprises for the most recent year-end (2006) were contrasted against the
same indicators for the full-year-end before the loan was made, for a sample of borrowers.
Early borrowers were sampled to provide a one to three year span between application
and 2006 results. The following table summarizes the data for the entire sample of 23
SMEs:

    Table 1. Return on Investment - Aggregate of Sample of 23 SME sub-loans/leases
         Average of the sample sub-borrowers                      %

         Percentage increase in Revenue                           392%
         Percentage increase in Profit                            1,009%
         Average Profit margin at end-FY2006                      4.6%
         Percentage increase in profit margin                     1,052%
         Percentage increase in Assets                            373%
         Average Return on Assets at end-FY2006                   4.4%
         Percentage increase in ROA                               792%
         Average Return on Equity at end-FY2006                   12.6%
         Percentage increase in ROE                               20.2%
         Average Payback in years, per 2006 cash flow*            3.5
    Payback = loan amount / (2006 profit + depreciation)


The allocation of funds to the most productive investments is precisely the role of banks
and leasing companies in their capacity as financial intermediaries. Under the project, the
PFIs selected the most promising clients based not only on the borrowers' ability to repay,
but on their potential to grow as valued clients. Thus, the financial success of the
borrowers is a direct measure of the PFI's efficient allocation of funds. To measure the
financial success of the sub-borrowers, key financial indicators for the most recent year-
end (2006) were contrasted with the same indicators for the year-end before the loan was
made, for a random sample of sub-borrowers. The following results were obtained:

Revenue Growth. Twenty of the 23 SMEs sampled reported growth in revenues. Three
that did not increase revenue, nevertheless all had a positive growth in profitability,
reflecting more efficient operations.




                                                      27

                 Number of SMEs in a sample reporting Revenue Growth


                        7


                        6


                        5


                        4                                                7
             Number of                        6
             companies
                        3


                        2
                              3       3

                                                      2                           2
                        1

                                                                0
                        0
                             <0    0 - 24 25 - 50 50 - 75  75 - 100 100 - 999 > 1,000

                                            Revenue growth (%)




The growth rates in excess of 1,000 percent per annum were delivered by virtual start-ups
for at least two consecutive years. Eliminating these two outliers, the average growth rate
is 181%, but still oversimplifies a distinct bi-modal distribution. Eleven of the SMEs had
"normal to good" growth from 0%-75% p.a. Nine of the SMEs (including the two
startups) experienced "significant growth" exceeding 100% and in most cases enjoyed
growth in multiples rather than mere incremental increases. The more extensive
Beneficiary Survey (REMACO) corroborates this conclusion, reporting that companies
that borrowed or leased under RFP were more likely to realize increased revenue in 2006
in contrast with companies that had not borrowed under RFP. Equally notable is the
higher percentage of non-beneficiaries who reported a decrease in revenue.

        Table 3. Increase in Revenue ­ RFP Beneficiaries vs. Non-beneficiaries
   Change in revenue 2006:        Beneficiaries (loans / leases)        Non-beneficiaries
   Revenue Increased                        67% / 62%                             43%
   Remained constant                        19% / 27%                             24%
   Revenue Decreased                        13% / 9%                              27%
  Source: REMACO, March 22, 2007

Growth in Profitability. All but one SME in the sample generated a positive ROI, as
demonstrated by the fact that all but one reported net profit in 2006. Moreover, 19 of the
23 reported increases in profitability, confirming that the investment had a positive effect
even in the short-term. A bi-modal distribution (below) shows seven companies with a
moderate change in profit (plus or minus less than 50%), in contrast with a larger group
(more than two-thirds of the sample) that enjoyed significant increases in profit, mostly in
multiples of prior years' profit.




                                                 28

                   Number of SMEs in sample reporting growth in
                                          profits (%)


                          6


                          5


                          4

              Number of
                          3                                       6       6
              companies

                          2    4                                                 4


                          1                  2
                                     1

                          0                         0     0
                              <0  0 - 24 25 -     50 -   75 -  100 - 500 -      >
                                            50     75    100   499     999    1,000

                                               Profit Growth (%)


        <0% - One company (out of 4 in this category) reported a net loss; three others decreased but
        remained profitable
        >1,000% - One company (out of 4 in this category) became profitable after a loss (% increase is
        mathematically undefined)

Profit Margins & Return on Assets. The degree of profitability, as measured by profit
margins (profit/revenue), is also bi-modal in distribution. While five SMEs enjoyed
double digit profit margins, twelve (half the sample) were just barely profitable with
profit margins under 1.1%. Half of these borrowed to co-finance SAPARD grant projects.
In fact, all but one of the SAPARD-co-financed loans (6 of 7 in the sample) fall into the
low-profit group of loans. However, for SAPARD investments, short term profitability is
not the objective. Made to upgrade facilities to EU standards, these investments are a
matter of survival - without them the companies will have to close down. In the longer
term, future profitability will be enhanced when competitors who did not upgrade have to
struggle to stay competitive.




                                                 29

                                Profit margins for SMEs in a sample (2006)


                                  8


                                  7


                                  6


                                  5
                                              8
                                  4
                Number of SMEs

                                  3                                                     5

                                  2                                               3
                                                             3
                                                     2
                                  1
                                         1                                  1
                                                                     0
                                  0
                                       <0%  0-1%   > 1%  > 2%     > 3%    > 4% 5%-10% >10%

                                                        Profit Margin (%)




Whether comparing profit to revenues or to total assets, the same bi-modal distribution
emerges. Five companies enjoyed double-digit ROA in 2006, in sharp contrast to ten
companies with an ROA under 2% - including all seven of the SAPARD projects.



                                Return on Assets for SMEs in sample (2006)


                                 7


                                 6


                                 5


                                 4             7
                   Number of SMEs
                                 3                                                       5

                                 2
                                                           3
                                 1                   2               2       2

                                        1                                          1

                                 0
                                      <0%   0-1%   > 1%  > 2%     > 3%    > 4%  5%-   >10%
                                                                                10%

                                                      Return on Assets (%)




The low level of profit can be explained (and justified) by the fact that large investments
in fixed assets translate into high depreciation expense which in turn lowers profit in the
short-term. In addition, during the project period, a new law came into effect requiring
significant revaluations of fixed assets. SMEs were required to mark up their real estate
assets to current market values, which dramatically increased total assets and therefore
reduced the ROA.




                                                 30

Conclusions of the Analysis. Since future profits are yet unknown, the current period
profit can be considered a reasonable proxy for future profits because current period
profits tend to be conservative:
· The results obtained from the analysis of the representative sample of investments
    financed provide assurances that the returns on the investments financed in the RFP
    portfolio are indeed very high.
· Full revenue potential from the investment is often achieved gradually over time,
    while non-capitalized start-up costs add to the expenses in the early years.
    Consequently, profit in the early years tends to under-represent future returns.
· Closely-held SMEs worldwide strive to defer taxable profit to later periods.
    Successful SMEs quickly reinvest "returns" into additional projects, generating
    expenses that decrease profit in the near term in favor of more growth and greater
    returns in the future.
· Successful SMEs typically increase salaries, pay bonuses, or increase other fringe
    expenses (travel, company car, etc.) to owner-executives, all of which reduce the
    reported profit and understate the total "return to owner-investors."

However, the early financial results summarized above also indicate that the PFIs have
fulfilled their economic role as financial intermediaries by selecting borrowers with
investments that quickly yielded positive returns, ensuring loan repayment and enterprise
growth.

Component B: The Rural Retail Banking and Micro-Finance

Factors influencing the Profitability Calculation. Component B recovered from a
slow start to efficiently allocate funds to participating banks, which in turn efficiently
invested all of the funds into opening new branches. The last three years were especially
marked with exceptional efficiency in implementation. The PDOs were ultimately
achieved despite the facts that only two banks participated, the first disbursements were
more than two years late, and the total funds allocated for the component were reduced
by almost half, from US$11,277,000 to US$5,865,000. Attempting to measure the
efficiency at the level of the sub-projects, i.e. the new branches, is however challenging:

1)      Recent investments. Foremost, at the time of this ICR, the offices are all quite
new, many barely a year old. Calculation of a time-series IRR is impossible because
future profitability is yet unknown. The analysis conducted below is limited to the initial
financial results - the first three quarters of 2007. At this early stage, the new units were
beginning to build up a client base while simultaneously expensing the initial investment
as rapidly as allowed by tax law to intentionally minimize profit. Generally new units are
not expected to be profitable at this early stage. The banks estimate that it will take from
six months to one year for a new unit to break-even; hence the positive returns so early
after start-up are auspicious.

2)      Lack of segregated accounting and operations. The opening of so many small
agency and representative office units was advantageous for RFP because it produced a
larger number of units in more remote locations despite reduced funding. However, one



                                               31

of the cost-advantages of satellite offices is streamlined accounting. One of the two
participating banks does not generate individual income statements for satellite offices,
but rather rolls their performance into that of the parent branch. The other participating
bank does generate a rough "profit and loss" for individual units on a quarterly basis
which allows for some analysis.

3)      Integration of operations. Operating as satellites of their parent branches, the
smaller units are also integrated in operations. An employee might split their time
between the branch and a representative office, but the payroll expenses are not split
accordingly, charged wholly to one unit or the other. The deposit accounts of a major
client may be domiciled in the parent branch while the agency office, located near the
client, provides the day-to-day servicing of the accounts. Consequently, even if the
accounting of parents and satellites was segregated, it would not reflect the operational
integrations. Various calculations of ROI are similarly handicapped, e.g., accounts are
commonly transferred to a new office when it is opened, making it immediately
profitable. However, this profit, along with the account, was just moved from the parent
branch; there is no net increase of profit for the bank.

Methodology Used. The following table extracts key data from the third-quarter 2007
reports submitted by the two participating banks. Footnotes explain numbers that are not
well-segregated from parent branches.


        Table 2. New units ­ measures of efficiency (economic rate of return)
         Indicator                                              Bank 1              Bank 2

         Number of new units                                      93                   16
         Number of new units (*clusters) profitable               62                  16*
         Percentage of units (*clusters) profitable             66.7%               100%*
         ROI / ROA
         Total Investment into new offices  (1)               $ 6,584,438         $1,871,692
         Total RFP portion of investment                      $4,364,998          $1,500,000
         Total Profit from new units (*clusters)(2)            $703,938          $17,051,979*
         ROI (profit / total investment)(3)                     10.7%                   *
         Total Assets                                         $77,798,633       $586,036,756*
         ROA (profit / total assets)                             0.9%                2.9%
        Source reports (confidential) are in the Bank's archive
        Notes:
        * - indicates Bank 2 numbers that include total profit of cluster, not just of the new (satellite)
        office.
        (1) Bank #1:     Includes investments in ATMs and supporting network software for a more
        conservative presentation.
        (2) Profit for 3 quarters ending September 30, 2007 (Bank 1: $527,954; Bank 2: $12,788,984) is
        annualized.
        (3) ROI for Bank 2 is meaningless because profit is derived from total group assets, not just the
        small investment.

The cost of a banking unit is the critical starting point because it establishes the base
"investment" that must be exceeded before a unit can generate a positive ROI. Costs of



                                                   32

the new units are identifiable and well documented, and were discussed in the Section 3.3
of the ICR.

Two types of ROI are calculated: a return on the sub-project investment (referred to here
as ROI), and a return on the Bank unit's total assets (ROA), which includes pre-existing
assets or assets acquired outside the scope of the investment project. Both indicators (ROI,
ROA) can only be calculated for Bank 1 which produces an income statement for each
satellite office quarterly. As explained above, Bank 2 reports the profit and asset figures
for the "cluster," i.e., the parent branch and all of its satellites. Since most major branches
opened one or more satellites, the "profit" reported here captures most of the profit-to-
date bank-wide. Thus, while the ROA for Bank 2 does not shed light on the individual
returns for new offices, it does confirm that all "clusters" are profitable and able to repay
the investment in a short time. In fact, the total investment (US$1.9 million) can be repaid
with less than two months' of group's annualized profit of US$17 million.

The efficient allocation of funds to the two banks, and their efficient investment in rural
expansion can be explained by the following factors:

1)      Rural Commitment. The only two banks to participate are also the only two
banks in RFP that are regionally headquartered. Growth for these banks could not be
achieved in their respective towns alone, but required an aggressive strategy of regional
expansion. It is no coincidence that the two banks active in rural branch expansion were
also the two most active banks in rural lending. Together, they disbursed 62% of
Component A funds in sub-loans to their clients in rural areas.

2)      Prudent Investment. The PAD addressed the opening of rural branches only.
However, Romanian banking law allows for smaller "units" including agencies and
representative offices, smaller in size and activities. Both participating banks invested
mostly in these smaller units rather than full-size branches. This was highly desirable for
RFP because smaller units require smaller investments, making investment in smaller
localities feasible. The smaller units allowed Component B dollars to be extended over a
larger number of units and areas. Also, the two participating banks were able to disburse
more rapidly because smaller units can be built quickly, offsetting the initial delay in the
component's implementation.


· Bank #1, the most prolific user of Component B funds (and Component A funds),
    was also the most prudent. Beating its original cost estimates for a new unit, it also
    kept average costs down by opening mostly the lowest-cost representative offices,
    which are more suitable for expansion into rural areas.

                Table 4.
                             Bank #1                 Projected            Actual
                 Branches                                 10                8
                 Agencies                                 9                 22
                 Representative offices                   1                 63
                 Total                                    20                93



                                              33

    Funding one-third of the costs with its own funds, the bank leveraged RFP dollars to
    extend its rural network by a remarkable 93 units with an average RFP investment of
    only US$40,000 per unit.

· Bank #2 initially applied for US$5 million to finance 33 units but reduced this to
    US$1.5 million when it was given the option to shift US$3.5 million to Component A
    instead--a move also favored by the project supervision team. Though not as
    efficient as Bank 1, Bank #2 nevertheless efficiently contained investment costs.

· Bank #3, which had an excessive per-unit forecast, withdrew its application when it
    was purchased by a foreign bank. The unused commitment was re-allocated to Bank
    #1. (If it had not withdrawn, it would have been restricted to US$200,000 maximum
    per branch.)


  Table 5. Branch Expansion ­ Projected vs. Actual per unit costs
  Bank               Initial      Actual    Projected Average       Actual Average    Actual Average
                  Projected      # Units     Total Cost / Unit      Total Cost / Unit  RFP funded
                     # units                      (USD)                  (USD)         portion / unit
                                                                                           (USD)
  Bank #1              20           93           $143,250              $ 59,798 *        $ 40,124 *
  Bank #2              19           16           $ 86,787               $116,980          $ 93,750
  Bank #3              19          -0-           $407,440                  --                --
  Total                58          109          $211,298(2)           $68,191(1)(2)     $ 47,995(1)(2)
  Data source     (a)           (b,c)      (a, d)                  I                  (b,c)
Sources: (a) Participating Bank's initial applications for credit lines; (b) PMU Mission Report Sept 7,
2007; (c) Participating Banks' third quarter September 30, 2007 reports to PMU (d) Banking Advisor's
report Dec 2004, initial allocations
Notes:
(1)Excluded from the averages: US$633K spent by Bank 1 on stand-alone ATMS and network support
software. Allocating this amount over the 93 units would increase the actual average cost per unit to
US$70,800, still well below the average cost for Bank 2. Allocating the US$633K over the total 109 units
would increase the weighted average to US$58,807 (total disbursed under Component B--US$5,865,000--
divided by the total units--109).
(2)Weighted average results.

3)      Salubrious Economy. At appraisal, the PAD had significantly underestimated
the average cost per unit at US$24,531. However, the PAD also did not foresee the
dramatic positive changes in the economy. Predicated on the previous hyper-inflation and
stagnation of the economy, the PAD assumed inflation at 20%, a GDP growth rate of 2%,
and consequently, rates on long term loans at 45%. In sharp contrast, the actual inflation
was only 8.6 % in 2005 and 4.8 % in 2006, the economy grew more rapidly, at 4.1 % in
2005 and 7.7 % in 2006, and average interest rates on medium term loans were below
exceed 20% in local currency. The stable growing economy increased demand for loans
while simultaneously lowering the risk of non-repayment. Borrowers were more
confident in taking out long term loans necessary for major investments (evidenced by
the demand for Component A funds). Furthermore, the PAD proforma branch balance
sheet presumed long term loans to be 18 months, whereas most RFP loans were 3 to 5



                                                   34

years on average. The larger volume and longer tenor of loans resulted in a higher
volume of earning assets.

Conclusions of Analysis. The attempted calculation show preliminary early positive
results from the newly opened offices as they contribute to the rural outreach and
profitability of the PFIs. Three-quarters of Bank 1's new offices were financed in 2006,
so the third-quarter reports as of September 30, 2007 reflect young offices with one year
of operation. Nevertheless, two-thirds of the 93 new units were already profitable. The
data for Bank 2, viewed at the level of branch-satellite clusters, confirms that the clusters
are doing quite well--especially so early after expansion. The early returns therefore
indicate that the banks' strategies for expansion are working; explained at least in part by
the synergy of using Component A funds.

Intangible benefits generated by the project. In addition to the returns both to the
borrowers and banks in realizing the returns financed by the proceeds of the project, the
project yielded a range of intangible benefits, namely: (i) increased presence/outreach of
the financial sector in the rural areas; (ii) growth in rural economy through the businesses
supported by the project, which resulted in generation of new jobs and incomes for rural
population; (iii) assistance to the SAPARD project, allowing for the rapid absorption of
the EU funding, particular during its last year of the project operation; and (iv) provision
of financing at a critical time to the microfinance industry allowing it to grow
considerably and transform from informal NGO-type operations to a profitable, regulated
industry supervised by the NBR.




                                               35

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


    Task Team members

               Names                             Title                 Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                                    Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Nadia Badea                       Operations Analyst                  ECSSD
Sandra Broka                      Technical Specialist                ECSSD
Bogdan Constantin Constantinescu  Sr Financial Management Specialist  ECSPS
Ana Maria Ihora                   Program Assistant                  ECCRO
Vladislav Krasikov                Sr Procurement Spec.                ECSPS
Beatrice Koshie Michel            Program Assistant                   ECSSD
Doina Petrescu                    Sr Operations Off.                  ECSSD
Saul Schor                        Operations Analyst                  ECSSD
Ewa Sierzynska                    Junior Professional Associate       ECSSD
Valencia M. Copeland              Program Assistant                   ECSSD



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                               Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                          No. of staff weeks          USD Thousands (including
                                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                                         82.13
  FY99                                                                         18.83
  FY00                                         52                             148.65
  FY01                                         40                              95.11
  FY02                                                                          0.00
  FY03                                                                          0.00
  FY04                                                                          0.00
  FY05                                                                          0.00
  FY06                                                                          0.00
  FY07                                                                          0.00
                            Total:             92                             344.72
Supervision/ICR
  FY98                                                                          0.00
  FY99                                                                          0.00
  FY00                                                                          0.00
  FY01                                           9                             22.07
  FY02                                         24                              79.86
  FY03                                         33                             103.04
  FY04                                         39                             133.55


                                          36

FY05                39    143.24
FY06                16     60.84
FY07                14     93.41
        Total:     174    636.01




                 37

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The M&E system of the project included a very ambitious component for monitoring the
social development outcomes, through both quantitative and qualitative methods. By
design, this component was supposed to evaluate the impact of the project from a social
development perspective, by using a quasi-experimental approach (i.e., treatment and
control groups, interviewed at two different moments in time). In practice, the survey
suffered several shortcomings: first, the M&E consultant was hired with significant delay,
and the baseline survey was carried out only in August 2006, while the follow-up was
carried out in March 2007, after only 7 months from baseline; and second, the control
groups (households and firms), although selected using the best available information to
perform a matching with the treatments, proved to be pretty different on their main
characteristics when compared to the treatments. Thus, the quantitative survey failed to
produce reliable information with respect to the project impact, but provided useful
evidence regarding the profile of beneficiaries (both households and firms) and their
economic behavior, including agricultural and non-agricultural business practices, use of
credit, etc. The qualitative survey (interviews and focus-groups with beneficiaries and
key stakeholders) was carried out in over 20 communes belonging to 6 counties and
covered the following major themes: implementation mechanisms; barriers to access to
financial services in rural areas; perceived benefits of the project at household level; and
project impact on poverty. This annex is summarizing the main findings of the qualitative
survey.

A. Six categories of microcredit beneficiaries have been identified:
   · Beneficiaries who managed to cover rapidly certain urgent needs with this credit,
        and who, in general, do not intend to apply for other credits or to start their own
        business.
   · Beneficiaries who first obtained credits to cover certain urgent needs, and then
        they used the next credits to develop a small business that would bring them
        minimum profit.
   · Beneficiaries who carry out certain economic activities which bring them a profit
        that allows them to cover the basic needs for the household and to develop
        slowly.
   · Beneficiaries who run a large business and who contracted these credits to
        develop and to extend their activities.
   · Beneficiaries who had their own business when accessing the micro-credit and
        who, due to external or individual factors had to reduce the size of the business
        or to give up their business.
   · Beneficiaries carrying out an agricultural activity of medium size, and for whom
        micro-credits were a solution to the financial difficulties, maintaining them
        between wind and water.


B. Advantages of micro-credits component, as perceived by beneficiaries
        · it was not necessary for the beneficiaries to fill in a massive documentation
            for obtaining the credit;


                                             38

     · high accessibility for all types of beneficiaries (e.g., credits were also granted
         to those without secure salary incomes);
     · accessible location of credit offices, the travel costs for the monthly payment
         of debts being thus much reduced; and
     · transparency, good communication and trust relationships established with the
         service providers

C. Business and economic related effects of micro-credits
   · Changes in business practices usually occur in the case of clients who have
     obtained more than 4 credits. Thus, one may notice an increase in the working and
     fixed capital, and also an orientation towards increased productivity (by
     purchasing high quality seeds or pure-bred animals).
   · The micro-credits have resulted in little diversification of activities, due to the
     insufficient level of financing which is specific to this component. In order to
     diversify their activities, the beneficiaries have mentioned significant amounts of
     money necessary to make the initial investments.
   · The availability of certain amounts of money at the right moment has determined
     a decrease in production expenses. Thus, in agriculture, due to the advance
     payment of agricultural works, the beneficiaries have been able to avoid the
     payment of interest related to the works carried out with credit money or to avoid
     any non-profitable contracts.
   · At the community level, the most important benefit of the project is a better level
     of employment of seasonal work force in agricultural activities. Also, the credit
     granting procedures have contributed to a higher level of formality of income-
     generating activities, at least through the producer certificates requested.




                                           39

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

NOT APLICABLE




                                  40

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary of Borrower's ICR

1. Project's Objectives

The project's purpose was to support the government's long term view of developed and
internationally competitive rural areas with significantly less incidence of poverty by
establishing effective private financial markets and intermediaries which will provide
access to investment capital and safe deposit services to all segments of the rural
population; especially to individual farmers, rural micro-entrepreneurs, and small and
medium businesses. The project has sought to promote economic growth and reduce
poverty in rural Romania through the provision of financial services. In pursuing this
objective, the project, as defined by the Loan Agreement, assisted in:

    · Accelerating the economic transformation of the rural economy by increasing the
       flow of investment capital to the sector;
    · Strengthening the role of the private sector in the rural economy;
    · Strengthening the Borrower's capacity to receive funding from the EU Special
       Accession Program for Agriculture and Rural Development (SAPARD); and
    · Alleviating rural poverty through financing of farm and off-farm investments for
       poor segments of the rural population.

2. Key Performance Indicators

The context for credits in the rural area has improved in the last three years. Since RFP
has started, total credits to agriculture multiplied by almost 3 times. It should also be
considered that the RFP credits represent 0.6% of total credits to agriculture. At the
completion of the project, it outpaced its initial expectations: more money was disbursed
(+20%) and much more beneficiaries were served (+70%).

In our views, the project has met its development objectives. Key performance
indicators performed above expectations. However, it should be noted that those
expectations followed a linear model, with baseline year 2001, which was the first year of
growth after a recession in the late 90s. Therefore, the target values were modest, and
have been exceeded in some cases by a large margin.

This assessment is made based on the information provided by the monitoring and
evaluation survey of the project:

  a. The amount of credit allocated to agricultural enterprises (USD) increased by
     more than 4 times over the last 5 years, compared to the baseline study, and
     exceeded the target set for the project-end.
  b. The amount of credit allocated to rural households increased from
     US$174,377,000 (the baseline value) to US$323,000,000, and exceeded the final




                                             41

      target, as rural households (although to a lesser extent than the urban ones)
      benefited from increased credits through formal channels.
  c. The aggregate private agricultural investment as a percentage of agricultural
      gross value added increased from 8.31% to 9.38% (latest available data as of
      December 2004), the final target being of 9.55%.

3. Project's Design and Outputs

To achieve the objectives presented above, the project was structured in the following
parts:


A. Rural Credit and Leasing Facility for:
    -   Sub-loans to eligible Beneficiaries to finance productive investments, including
        investment and working capital, in all sub-sectors of the rural economy, including
        agriculture, services, and industry;
    -   Leases of depreciable capital assets (e.g. machinery, tools, vehicles, equipment)
        between Participating Intermediary Banks or Leasing companies and
        beneficiaries; and
    -   Micro-loans to Beneficiaries.

The performance and outputs of the Participating Financial Institutions (PFI) under this
component are considered fully satisfactory. Out of US$70.4 million allocated to this
sub-component, about US$39.9 million have been disbursed under sub-loans through
commercial banks (225 sub-projects financed), US$14.9 million have been disbursed
under sub-leases through leasing companies (510 sub-projects financed), and US$9.7
million have been disbursed under micro-loans (8,075 micro-loans financed). Out of the
funds disbursed through commercial banks, US$11.64 million represent SAPARD co-
financing (53 sub projects). Overall, for the entire project, SAPARD co-financing
accounted for 24.5% of the sub-loans and for 29.2% of the amount granted. The fact that
37% of all SAPARD co-financed projects from RFP accumulated in the last 3 quarters of
RFP (of a total of 16 quarters), indicates the increased absorption capacity for EU funds
in agriculture.

B. Rural Retail Banking and Micro-Finance for:
    -   Support for the development of suitable technologies for Participating Retail
        Banks;
    -   Operation of a network of pilot retail banking offices or branches; and
    -   Provision of training and technical assistance in retail banking.

Performance and outputs: This component has been completed with 100% of the funds
committed and disbursed. The project funds supported two private commercial banks,
Banca Carpatica and Banca Transilvania to develop their capacity to provide retail
banking services through the establishment, acquisition or upgrading branches or offices
in the project rural areas. With 109 rural units financed at the low average cost of only
US$53,807, the success of this component is attributable to the selection of the two
participating banks: both are regionally headquartered with rural-expansion central to




                                             42

their overall strategies. Break-even is reported to be about 10 months; shorter for some
offices.

The monitoring and evaluation survey revealed a positive evolution in terms of the
outreach of distribution networks and in the financial indicators for the newly created
rural branches, which gives an indication on the likely sustainability of the provision of
financial services in rural areas.

C. Project Management and Technical Assistance on Rural Financial Market
Development

In addition to financing costs incurred by the PMU, this Component financed technical
assistance geared to identifying and initiating the process of improving weaknesses in the
legal framework for credit activities in Romania and to support reaching of Project's
objectives.

4. The Impact of the Project Implementation

The data resulted from the two surveys on the financial services in the rural environment
and on the social outcomes of the project implementation lead to several conclusions on
key elements that the governmental policies related to the development of rural economy
should concentrate upon.
The crumbling of agricultural lands makes agriculture in most of the rural households, to
be a subsistence activity and not a profit generating activity. Approximately 21% of the
households are oriented towards trading the agricultural products obtained. Nonetheless,
the agricultural activities represent a source of income for only 12% of the households.
The main sources of cash incomes continue to be represented by pensions, salaries
and social benefits.

The non-agricultural activities carried out by households provide them with an average
monthly income almost 6 times higher than the one obtained from agriculture, yet only
about 4-5% from the households in the villages carry out such activities.

The small businesses of rural households have a much reduced influence on the
occupation of labor force outside the household, both the agricultural and the non-
agricultural ones being based on the labor force provided by the household members. The
access on the labor force market is relatively reduced, only approximately one
quarter of the population is hired, mainly in non-agricultural fields and having
occupations of "blue collars". Moreover, the regular disparities in the access on the
labor market register very high levels: approximately 65% from the occupied labor
force is represented by men, while 85% from the non-remunerated workers are women.

The development of non-agricultural entrepreneurship could be a solution both for
the degree of occupation of labor force and implicitly of household incomes, as well as it
regards the formalization of economic relations in the rural environment. As the majority
of non-agricultural entrepreneurs have started their business based on their own financial
resources or on informal loans, the availability of individuals to start a business referring
to formal credit instruments is relatively reduced, and the funding programs aimed at the


                                             43

development of income generating activities in the rural environment should put a special
emphasis on consulting services for potential entrepreneurs.

The access and participation of households from the rural environment on the
financial market is limited. Only approximately 13% of the households have taken or
had a loan in progress in the last 12 months, from which in 8% of the cases it was a bank
credit. Nonetheless 80% of the value of loans taken by rural households has come from
bank credits. Almost two thirds of the number of loans as well as of the total number of
household loans was used for consumption (house improvements, purchase of long use
goods, personal needs).Around 4 out of 10 firms have made investments in the last year
and from them only 17% have referred to credits in order to finance such investments.

The formal economic sector in the rural environment is present almost entirely in
private property:
   · 50% of the enterprises legally established being active in the trading field;
   · approximately 17% in the processing industry; and
   · 10% in agriculture.

Being based mainly on the local markets as sales markets and facing a relatively
high competition with effects of decrease of the profit rate, the potential of
investments and of company development in the rural environment is relatively low.
The constraints related to the access to credit are very high:
   · only approximately 25% of the rural enterprises apply to bank credits, and from
        them half are rejected by banks (especially due to the lack of collaterals);
   · just one third of those that succeed in obtaining a credit would need in fact a
        larger credit.
The data also reveals the fact that companies applying for credits are especially those
with high turnovers and those acting in the field of agriculture and constructions,
indicating a limited access on the financial market for small companies.

Benefits at household level

The households' beneficiaries of the RFP were selected through a decision-making
process involving both credit officers from the micro-crediting agencies, and some of the
members of the beneficiary communities. Depending on the social and demographic
profile and Program impact, 6 categories of beneficiaries have been identified:
   a. Beneficiaries who managed to cover rapidly certain urgent needs with this credit,
        and who, in general, do not intend to apply for other credits or to start their own
        business.
   b. Beneficiaries who first obtained credits to cover certain urgent needs, and then
        they used the next credits to develop a small business that would bring them
        minimum profit.
   c. Beneficiaries who carry out certain economic activities which bring them a profit
        that allows them to cover the basic needs for the household and to develop
        slowly.
   d. Beneficiaries who run a large business and who contracted these credits to
        develop and to extend their activities.
   e. Beneficiaries who had their own business when accessing the micro-credit and



                                             44

       who, due to external or individual factors had to reduce the size of the business
       or to give up their business.
    f. Beneficiaries carrying out an agricultural activity of medium size, and for whom
       micro-credits were a solution to the financial difficulties, maintaining them
       between wind and water.

The benefits of micro-crediting through RFP were identified at the level of income
generating activities, achieved by the beneficiary households, and to a smaller degree, at
community level.

Changes in business practices usually occur in the case of clients who have obtained
more than 4 credits. Thus, one may notice an increase in the working and fixed capital,
and also an orientation towards increased productivity (by purchasing high quality seeds
or pure-bred animals).

The micro-credits have resulted in little diversification of activities, due to the
insufficient level of financing which is specific to this component. In order to diversify
their activities, the beneficiaries have mentioned significant amounts of money necessary
to make the initial investments. Nevertheless, most beneficiaries with an income-
generating activity have manifested their interest in starting either a complementary
agricultural activity, or a non-agricultural activity to support them in case of agricultural
losses.

In general, the beneficiaries failed to make any significant savings, due to the fact that
the profit obtained from economic activities was reinvested. Saving considerable amounts
of money is regarded as a desideratum, however, taken into account that most households
are in course of development, reinvesting the profit is the only viable strategy at present.
In certain cases, the economic activities performed bring losses at the household level,
due to certain external factors.

The availability of certain amounts of money at the right moment has determined a
decrease in production expenses. Thus, in agriculture, due to the advance payment of
agricultural works, the beneficiaries have been able to avoid the payment of interest
related to the works carried out with credit money or to avoid any non-profitable
contracts. However, one may not talk about negotiation due to the inflexibility and poor
development of the agricultural market. The data from the two waves of research indicate
a general trend of reduction of the proportion of beneficiaries of RFP micro-credits that
adopted various profitable practices in the last six months compared to the period of one
year prior to the first measurement, while in case of non-beneficiaries these proportions
were maintained at approximately the same level. There are some significant differences
between the two groups, but the aggregate data do not support the tested hypothesis.

As it regards the expected effect on the formalization of relations in the rural economy,
the results of the inquiry do not support such hypothesis. The economy of rural
households, mostly agricultural, continues to be based on informal relations and
practices. Most acquisitions are made in the absence of justifying documents, and the



                                             45

participation of agricultural entrepreneurs to the fiscal system by paying taxes and fees is
reduced.
                1. Effects of RFP micro-credits on beneficiary households

          · The beneficiaries of RFP micro-credits have obtained significantly
               larger incomes in the last year than non-beneficiary households.
               Still, such differences are not maintained for a longer period of time,
               so that in the second stage of research, it is found a decrease of
               beneficiary households' incomes.

          · The beneficiaries of RFP micro-credits have referred to a larger
               degree to formal loan sources for the investments they made, which
               indicates a higher access of RFP clients on the financial market.
          · The beneficiaries of micro-credits having agricultural businesses
               have invested in the last year more than non-beneficiaries in
               constructions, arrangements, gears and equipment for their
               agricultural businesses. Still, except for investments for the raw
               materials necessary for agricultural businesses that had increased in
               the period between the two waves of research, the rest of investments
               had stagnation or even slight decreases.

          · Entrepreneurs that were beneficiaries of micro-credits have
               purchased more goods of long use in the last year than non-
               beneficiaries of micro-credits.

          · In general, micro-credits have significantly contributed to the increase of
               beneficiaries' welfare.

As it regards the companies that were beneficiaries of micro-crediting, they have reported
increased incomes to a larger degree than non-beneficiaries. It is found that business
practices associated to the increase of profitability ­ increase of the number of
clients/sales, extension of activity, and introduction of new products ­ are more frequent
within beneficiaries. Still, for the last 6 months, the beneficiaries of micro-credits and
non-beneficiaries have achieved fewer changes meant to bring a plus of profitability to
the business.

The beneficiaries have achieved more investments at business level, both at the moment
of the first stage of research, and at the moment of the second stage. In terms of evolution
in time, for all types of investments, except for the acquisition of raw materials, it is
found the reduction of expenses for investments. In case of beneficiaries, they have
referred to a larger degree to bank credits for achieving their investments.

                 2. Effects of RFP micro-credits on beneficiary companies

          · For more than half of the companies that were beneficiaries of
               credits by RFP the sums borrowed were the largest of this type in the
               last 5 years.




                                               46

          · The companies' beneficiaries of micro-credits have reported
              increased incomes to a larger degree than beneficiaries.

          · Business practices associated to the increase of profitability ­
              increase of the number of clients/sales, extension of activity,
              introduction of new products ­ are more frequent within
              beneficiaries, in both waves of research. Still, for the last 6 months,
              the beneficiaries of micro-credits and the non-beneficiaries have
              made lesser changes meant to bring a plus of profitability to the
              business.

          · The beneficiaries have made more investments both at the moment of
              the first stage of research, and at the moment of the second stage. In
              terms of evolution in time, for all types of investments, except for the
              purchase of raw materials, it is found the reduction of the frequency
              of expenses for investments. In case of beneficiaries, they applied to
              a larger degree to bank credits for achieving their investments.

For micro-crediting component were identified a series of recommendations which shall
be considered in the future projects development:
        Rising the maximum crediting threshold up to US$25,000
        Flexibility in redistributing the resources among various regions
        Including the purchase of buildings and lands within eligible activities
        Granting the credits in due time
        Creating a viable system for guaranteeing the credits, as the quality of collaterals
        is quite low in the rural environment. Supporting the cooperation with the Rural
        Credit Guarantee Fund
        Creating an exchange for agricultural products so that entrepreneurs can sell their
        products at the best price
        Better advertising through the national stations, even from the initiation of the
        project
        The launch of a future project should also be accompanied by technical assistance
        for financial institutions implementing the project for the following aspects:
        specificity of the product, administration of credits, marketing and sale of such
        specific products

Benefits at community level

At the community level, the most important benefit of the Rural Financing Program is a
better level of employment of seasonal work force in agricultural activities. Also, the
credit granting procedures have contributed to a higher level of formality of income-
generating activities, at least through the producer certificates requested. The
community involvement, such as donations or volunteer work is very much reduced. The
only donations are targeted to the church and seldom to the school, all these being
motivated by individual reasons or obtaining resources and not for the community well
being.




                                              47

Benefits at company level

At company level the surveys confirmed the fact that RFP beneficiaries, regardless of the
type of funding they were beneficiaries of, are different from non-beneficiaries by a
higher level of investments in fixed assets. In the same time RFP beneficiary companies
have a wider access on the financial markets, as they support their investments by credits
to a larger degree than non-beneficiary companies. Such companies also register a better
financial evolution from the incomes perspective and show a special investment appetite
for the purpose of diversification and extension on the market. This fact has another
important consequence on social level, which is the creation of new jobs, as the
companies' beneficiaries of leasing and of sub-loans hired during the last year new
employees to a larger degree than non-beneficiary companies.


                    3. Effects of RFP on the beneficiaries of leasing

          · In both waves, within beneficiaries several increases of incomes are
             reported, mainly due to the increase of the number of clients/sales.

          · As in the first stage of research, a significantly larger number of
             beneficiaries of leasing have made much larger expenses for
             investments compared to those that were not beneficiaries of such
             funds. In the total investments, most of the companies have allocated
             funds for buildings, constructions, arrangements, gears and
             equipment, purchases of raw materials or for means of
             transportation.

          · Although the average increases are in favour of beneficiaries
             (investments increased by 96% compared to 7.5%), the total average
             value of investments made by beneficiaries is situated at a
             significantly higher level than investments made by non-
             beneficiaries.

          · The companies' beneficiaries of leasing have concentrated mainly upon the
             extension of activities and the quality improvement and less on the
             extension on new markets or new types of activities.


                   4. Effects of RFP on the beneficiaries of sub-loans

          · Within beneficiaries increased incomes are more frequent than within non-
             beneficiaries. As evolution, within beneficiaries it is registered a reduction
             of the frequency of companies that had increased incomes, while within
             beneficiary companies the frequency of companies with decreased incomes
             is decreasing, in favour of companies with incomes that remained at the
             same level.

          · In case of companies' beneficiaries of sub-loans and of non-beneficiaries,
             the investments made in the last 6 months are situated at a lower level
             compared to the last 12 months before the first wave. In case of two types
             of investments it can be observed a more accentuated decrease of the


                                              48

              frequency of investments within beneficiaries: investments in gears and
              equipment and investments in raw materials. The largest differences
              between beneficiaries and non-beneficiaries are maintained at the chapter
              of investments in means of transportation.

           · In the first stage of the survey it was found that sub-loans obtained within
              the RFP allowed beneficiaries to extend the production/sale capacity,
              existing with regard to this aspect a significant difference between the two
              samples analysed. Still, these strategies can be adopted on short term, so
              that, in the second wave it is found a reduction of differences between
              beneficiary companies and non-beneficiary companies. The only aspect
              that is not marked by a significant decrease of the frequency is represented
              by the sale of products on new markets.


As it regards the impact of RFP funding on the rural communities, the survey data
achieved in localities with beneficiaries of micro-credits do not support the development
hypotheses we started from in the evaluation. Micro-credits, as the main crediting form in
RFP that reached the villages, seem that were not sufficient to lead to a significant
increase of remunerated jobs in the communities of beneficiaries, compared to the ones of
non-beneficiaries, the explanation consisting of the fact that small entrepreneurs use
mostly the labour force they have available at their household level. Also, no significant
effects were identified on the local budgets. And still, the surveys on the beneficiaries of
leasing and sub-loans have shown that they hired to a larger degree new employees in the
last year, than non-beneficiary companies.

From the perspective of surveys achieved we consider that this program has contributed
to an important degree to the increase of households and companies access on the
financial market, as well as to the development of economic activities in the rural
environment. Still, these benefits appear for a short period of time being strongly
influenced by the mechanisms generated through policies which have been adopted this
time in the economic field, respectively in the agricultural field.

5. The Borrower's Own Performance during Project Implementation

The Government worked closely with the Bank's Team during preparation and
supervision of the project; however greater timelier responding to current issues,
especially in regards to PMU and Treasury Bank during an early stage of the project,
could possibly have prevented several delays in its effectiveness and later implementation.

The implementing agency, Romania MOPF was supportive throughout the life of the
project, despite many subsequent changes in the institution. Reporting to the Bank carried
on by the PMU has been done in a timely and professional manner. The Bank Task Team
was kept well informed of occurring problems and project's results; hence all issues
could have been addressed and resolved in the most efficient way. In our opinion, the
Borrower's overall performance was satisfactory throughout project implementation,
although some delays during the start-up phase that could have been avoided.




                                                49

6. Evaluation of the performance of the World Bank

The project benefited from the close supervision of the Bank which proved to be very
effective in providing support and assistance. The Bank's project team has provided all
necessary advice and guidance in all punctual or general implementation matters. The
Bank has been very cooperative especially when accepting the extension of the project's
closing date twice, with the view to support beneficiaries in achieving the project's
objectives.




                                           50

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

All the participating SPs stressed the importance of the RFP in the process of reinforcing
the MFIs in Romanian market, especially at its beginning when the micro-finance
industry was still in infancy. The participation in the project was a significant step in the
development of MFIs as it helped them establish new offices; spread their outreach in
rural areas and increase credit awareness.

Comments received from CDE (Service Provider)

From an organizational point of view, the RFP helped CDE enlarge its client base and,
thus, building on sustainability. Moreover, during the first part of 2008, CDE is going to
convert into a non-banking financial institution, and the gradual transfer of the clients
towards the new institution can be considered as a continuation of the project.

As regards to the CDE clients, there is a certain degree of satisfaction of their clients
mostly related to the access to the micro-loans made available under the RFP. CDE
considers that the focus group (rural entrepreneurs) was 100% touched upon, as CDE
operated the program in rather small rural communities. However, during the last year of
operations the maxim size of the credit (US$7,500) was insufficient on one hand because
of the devaluation of the USD and, on the other hand, because of the increased demand.

CDE also appreciated the cooperation with the PMU. They had no major problems, either
administrative or operational and consider that the PMU provided its full support in
smoothing the operations and promptly resolving the issues raised during the project
implementation.




                                             51

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents (from IRIS)

    1. Project Appraisal Document, World Bank, March 2001
    2. Romania: Country Assistance Strategy, World Bank, May 2001
    3. Romania: Country Partnership Strategy, World Bank, May 2006
    4. Financial Markets, Credit Constrains and Investment in Rural Romania,
        World Bank, Report No. 19412-RO
    5. National Rural Development Programme, Ministry of Agriculture and
        Rural Development, February 2008
    6. Implementation Completion Report, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
        Development, October 2007
    7. Social and Economic Impact of Rural Finance Project ­ Qualitative and
        Quantitative Research Report, REMACO Consulting, October 2006
    8. Monitoring and Evaluation Report of the Rural Finance Project, Qarterly
        Reports, REMACO Consulting, 2006 ­ 2007
    9. Final report regarding the impact assessment methodology for the Rural
        Finance Project, REMACO Consulting, May 2006
    10. Pre-survey Report on Rural Financial Services Surveys, REMACO
        Consulting, July 2006
    11. Qualitative Assessment Report on the Impact of the Rural Financing
        Program - Micro-crediting Benefits, REMACO Consulting, December
        2006
    12. Monitoring and Evaluation of the Rural Finance Project - Final Report,
        REMACO Consulting, July 2007
    13. RFP Project Management Unit. Quarterly Progress Reports




                                        52

MAP




   53

