Document of
The World Bank                                   E COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3408-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN'
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
SECOND NATIONAL URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING PROJECT
November 15, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Korea Won (W)
US$1           = w 740
W 1            = US$0.001351
W 1 million   = US$1,351
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 millimeter (mm)                     =    0.03937 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                           =   39.37 inches (in)
1 square meter (sq m)                 =   10.8 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (cu m)                       35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer                           =    0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare                                  10,000 sq m or 2.471 acre or
3,024 pyongs (py)
1 pyong (py)                          =    3.307 square meter (sq m) or
35.586 square feet (sq ft)
1 liter (1)                           =    0.264 US gallon (gal) or
0.220 Imperial gallon
1 liter per capita per day (lcd)   =    0.264 US gallon per capita per
day (gcd)
1 metric ton (mt)                     =    1,000 kilograms (kg) or
2,240 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton per day (mtd)            =    1,000 liters per day of water
(approx.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CNB     -   Citizens National Bank
EPB     -   Economic Planning Board
FYP     -   Five-Year Plan
GNP     -   Gross National Product
KHA     -   Korea Housing Association
KHB     -   Korea Housing Bank
KLDC    -   Korea Land Development Corporation
KNHC    -   Korea National Housing Corporation
KRIHS   -   Korea Research Institute for Human Settlements
MOC     -   Ministry of Construction
MOC-HB  -   Ministry of Construction/Housing Bureau
MOC-LB  -   Ministry of Construction/Land Bureau
MOF      -   Ministry of Finance
NHF     -   National Housing Fund
OSROK   -   Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
ROK     -   Republic of Korea
CPL     -   City Planning Law
LR      -   Land Readjustment
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
SECOND NATIONAL URBAN-LAND DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Government of the Republic of Korea
Beneficiaries:      National Housing Fund (NHF), Korea Land Development
Corporation (KLDC), and Korea National Housing Corporation
(KNHC).
Amount:             US$100 million equivalent, including capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:              15 years, including 3 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending Terms:   The proceeds would be onlent to NHF and KLDC at an annual
interest rate of 0.05% higher than the interest rate of
the Bank loan. NHF would blend the Bank loan with its
own funds and onlend to KNHC at its standard loan terms,
currently 20 years at 10%.
Project
Description:        The project would advance the Bank/Government dialogue on
sector policy and programs. In keeping with this, this
project would: (a) assist in rationalizing and strengthen-
ing the housing and land development institutions in the
public sector; (b) support the development of the NHF as a
viable financial intermediary with capacity for project
appraisal and supervision; and (c) support improvements in
the policies and programs for delivering housing to lower
income families by financing the development of land and
housing by KLDC and KNHC. The primary target income group
would be the 15th to the 50th percentile of the urban
household income distribution. The project would consist
of: (a) development of about 1.43 million py /1 of urban
residential land by KLDC in several cities with a total
number of low and middle-income plots of about 22,900; (b)
construction by KNHC of about 10,100 housing units for
low-income families; (c) construction of about 2,500 units
by housing cooperatives through the program managed by
1 py =3.307 sq m.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
_~~~~~~~~



- ii -
local authorities; (d) provision of about 10,300
middle-income serviced lots; and (e) technical assistance
to the Ministry of Construction Housing Bureau, KLDC, and
KNHC, for future project preparation, training and studies
(e.g., on incentive and disincentive policies and
practices, public sector appraisal capacity, and
monitoring and evaluation).
A project risk is that upward movement of interest
rates during implementation could affect affordability
targets. A 2% increase in NHF interest rates would
shift the affordable group for whom units are currently
designed from the lSth-50th percentile to the 25th-50th
percentile of the income distribution. As there is an
understanding with the Government that the changes in
interest rates and costs relative to income would require
reconsideration of the type and mix of units, this should
not seriously affect project objectives.
Estimated Project Costs:                            Local  Foreign  Total
($ million)
Land acquisition                50.4      0       50.4
Land development                23.8    L5.9    39.7
Off-site infrastructure          4.8      3.1      7.9
Housing construction           102.6    60.3   162.9
Technical assistance             0.7      0.7      1.4
Subtotal                    182.3    80.0   262.3
Contingencies
Physical                       2.7      1.8     4.5
Price                         31.0    16.7    47.7
Total Project Cost          216.0    98.5   314.5 /1
Front-end fee                    0        1.5      1.5
Total financing required  216.0   100.0   316.0
/1 Includes taxes of about $9.0 million.



- iii -
Financing Plan:                                    Local  Foreign  Total
($ million)
IBRD                             -      100.0   100.0
NHF                             47.1      -      47.1
KLDC                            72.8      -      72.8
KNHC                            67.7      -      67.7
Housing cooperatives            18.1      -      18.1
Local government/
central agencies              10.3     -       10.3
Total                   216.0   100.0   316.0
Estimated
disbursement:    Bank FY         1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual          3.0   28.5   34.7   24.7    9.1
Cumulative      3.0   31.5   66.2   90.9  100.0
Rate of Return:    12.5% (weighted average return for six sites)
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 4044-KO, dated November 15, 1982.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RFCONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPM[ENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA FOR A SECOND NATIONAL
UJRBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
second loan to the Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $100 million to
help finance a second National UJrban Land Development and Housing Project.
The loan is for a term of 15 years including 3 years of grace at the
standard variable interest rate. The Bank loan proceeds would be onlent to
the National Housing Fund (NHF) and the Korea Land Development Corporation
(KLDC) at an annual interest rate of 0.05% higher than the interest rate of
the Bank loan. NHF would blend the Bank loan with its own funds and onlend
to the Korea National Housing Corporation (KNHC) at its standard terms,
currently 20 years at 10%.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea:  Adjusting to a New
World Environment" was distributed under cover of Sec M82-514 dated June 1,
1982. The following summary is based on this Report together with updating
information obtained during a Bank mission in August 1982. The Country Data
Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
Past Performance
3.        Twenty years ago, Korea was one of the poorest developing
countries, heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of payments
financed almost entirely through foreign grants. By the early 80s she had
become a semi-industrial, middle-income country with a fairly strong external
payments position. During 1960-8i GNP grew by over 8% p.a. and per capita
income more than tripled in real terms. The share of the manufacturing sector
in GNP rose from 14% to 29.5% while the share of agriculture fell from 36% to
18%. Merchandise exports, principally manufactured goods, accounted for
almost 41% of GNP as against a mere 4% two decades earlier.
4.        Rapid industrial growth also brought about a marked shift in the
structure of employment. In the early sixties well over half the labor
force had been employed in agriculture. By 1981, employment in this sector
had fallen to a third, while manufacturing absorbed over 20% of the econo-
mically active population. Heavy migration from the rural areas to the
cities combined with deliberate Government policies to improve the agricul-
tural terms of trade and a steady increase in agricultural value added
helped to ensure a growth in per capita rural incomes more or less in line
with the rest of the economy through the first half of the 70s. There are
indications of some deterioration in the income share of the rural population
in the last four years, but Korea still compares favourably with most
countries, the ratio of the population below the poverty line in the rural
sector having declined from 40% in the early sixties to 11% in the late 70s.



- 2 -
Adjustment to Oil Crises and Domestic Shocks, 1974-82
5.        A number of measures enabled Korea to not only surmount the first
oil crisis which raised the cost of imported fuel by US$700 million within a
matter of a year, but also to average a growth rate of 10% between 1973 and
1978. These included, increased borrowing from abroad, combined with a
devaluation of the currency, export diversification in products as well as
markets and an increase in public sector savings. However, the very success
of the Korean planners in stimulating the economy generated serious
inflationary pressures.  Real wages rose at an average annual rate of 18%
between 1975-78, well in excess of the growth in productivity, and by 1978
the Consumer Price Index (CPI) was increasing at over 18% p.a., compared to a
rate of 10% in 1977.  In addition, the large volume of subsidized credit
which was made available to the heavy and chemical industries by the
financial system under the Government's direction, brought about an
excessive expansion of capacity in subsectors faced with weak demand while
the traditional light industries were frequently starved of funds. This
trend was in line with the Government's view of Korea's changing comparative
advantage, but it created structural imbalances in the manufacturing sector
and in conjunction with exchange rate rigidity and a rising price level, had
a dampening effect on the expansion of exports.
6.        To tackle these problems, the Government announced, in April 1979, a
far reaching program of stabilization-cum-restructuring, but the program
was overwhelmed by a series of unexpected shocks. The oil price hikes in
1979 and 1980 raised Korea's petroleum import bill from about US$2.3 billion
in 1978 to US$6.2 billion in 1980 with the price-induced increase equal to
nearly 6% of GNP in 1980. In October 1979, President Park Chung Hee, the
chifef architect of Korea's "economic miracle" since the mid-sixties, was
assassinated. This was followed by a period of the severest political
uncertainty and social unrest in twenty years (with the situation returning
to normal only after the ascendancy of a new Administration under President
Chun Doo Hwan in September 1980). On top of these developments, the
unfavorable weather resulted in a drop in agricultural output of about 22%
in 1980, or over 4% of GNP, and a 15% decline in investment led to a
worsening of deflationary pressures which could not be offset by the 10%
growth of export volume. As a result GNP fell by 6.2% in 1980, unemployment
increased to 5.2% from 3.2% in 1978 and the higher costs of fuel, raw
materials and foodstuffs pushed up consumer prices by 29% in sDite of a 5%
cuit in real wages.
7.        The reduction in wages resulted primarily from the Government's
income policy which along with the 26.7% devaluation of the won, were the
two most important measures introduced in 1980 to stabilize the domestic
economy and promote external adjustment. With the won depreciating by a
further 12% in 1981 and real wages decreasing almost 4%, the effects of these
policies on the adjustment process have been very positive, although recovery
has been less rapid than after the first oil shock. Export volume increased
by another 19% in 1981 and together with only moderate real import growth
(5%) reduced the current account deficit from US$5.3 billion in 1980 (10% of



GNP) to USS4.4 billion (7% of GNP).  At the same time, on a year-end basis,
inflation was a little over 12% compared to 29% in 1980 and GNP grew by 7.1%,
although some 3% of this reflected a recovery of agricultural production.
Inflationary pressures continued to subside through the first nine months of
1982 and the current account BOP deficit which was forecast at TJS$4.4 billion,
has been revised downwards to USS1.8 billion, about 2.7% of GTNP. This is
partly because of a 3% improvement in the terms of trade, a reduction of oil
imports due to conservation measures, and slower than anticipated growth in
GNP.
8.        The Government's original GNP growth target of 7% for 1982 has been
reduced by 1%, and actual growth may not exceed 5%. Employment growth in this
period also slowed to 1.4% p.a., with all the job creation being outside
agriculture and manufacturing. With capacity utilization in the manufacturing
sector averaging 70% and the interest burden having risen, there has been a
persistent deterioration in the financial position of enterprises. The ratio
of net profits to sales decreased from 2.2% in 1978 to -0.7% in 1981, and the
ratio of financial expenses to net sales rose from 4.8% to 8%.
Recent Reflationary Measures
9.        In mid-1982, the Government encouraged by the improvement in the
balance of payments and the fall in inflation through the first half of the
year, introduced measures to spur economic activity and improve both the
liquidity as well as the profitability of enterprises. These measures are
aimed at stimulating aggregate demand and strengthening the liquidity of
firms. The liquidity and profitability of manufacturing is to be raised by
means of a 4% cut in interest rates introduced in July 1982 and a 15%
reduction in corporate taxes planned for 1983. These changes are also likely
to have a favourable influence on investment. However, given the heavy
reliance of the Korean economy on trade, a full recovery also requires a
resurgence of export demand, which, given the economic climate in the OECD
countries, is likely to be slow in materializing. Thus, both growth and trade
prospects over the next twelve months remain somewhat uncertain. With money
supply increasing at 30% p.a., Korean planners will have to be very vigilant
so as to ensure that the increase in consumer prices estimated at 7% in 1982,
does not surge back to double digit levels.
Medium Term Prospects
10.       It is in this environment of uncertainty that Korea's Fifth Five
Year Plan covering the years 1982-86 has been launched. The basic objectives
of the Plan are to restore growth momentum along with the achievement of price
stability and equity. For this purpose, the Plan puts emphasis on (a)
economic stabilization, (b) export promotion and import liberalization, (c)
establishment of an internationally competitive industrial structure, (d)
promotion of the market mechanism, (e) liberalization of the financial sector,
and (f) expansion of social development expenditure. The goal of price
stabilization is to be pursued mainly through fiscal discipline, a prudent
monetary policy and monitoring of wage contracts. Export promotion efforts



- 4 -
will be helped by price stability and a flexible exchange rate policy as well
as by quality improvement and product innovation. The Plan also proposes a
program of import liberalization as well as tariff reduction to improve price
competitiveness. An important change in industrial policy during the Plan
period will be the reduction of the Government's role in promoting the
so-called strategic industries. Investment choices will be left increasingly
to the initiative of the private sector with the Government providing only the
general framework. To promote the market mechanism, the Government has
started a program for liberalization of the financial sector, including
denationalization of the commercial banks. However, the pace of this program
is likely to be slowed by the continuing sluggishness of the economy which has
exacerbated the weaknesses of the corporate sector. The Plan also proposes
that relatively more Government resources will be allocated to meet the "basic
needs" of people such as education, housing, social security and improved
sanitation and water supply. The basic strategy of the Fifth Plan, which is
to expedite structural adjustment and make greater use of market forces, is
sound, but the transition is going to be difficult and the growth target of
7.6% p.a. might not be achieved. In any case, during the 80s Korea will have
to adjust to a substantially lower growth rate than in the past two decades
and find ways of increasing the employment intensity of its growth to keep
unemployment rates at acceptable levels. The projected export growth of 11%
does not appear unreasonable in terms of the country's past performance, but
the near-term prospects are less favourable than assumed in the Plan.
Consequently, the realization of export projections for the Plan period will
depend on the success of policies to improve export competitiveness.
11.       External Resource Balance.  As discussed above, provided appropriate
policies are followed and world trade expands as projected, an increase in
total exports to the extent projected under the Plan, does not appear
unrealistic. The projected reduction in import elasticities is also
consistent with the import liberalization program, provided the energy
efficiency and oil substitution programs are implemented as planned and
appropriate exchange rate policies are followed. In the area of invisibles,
an important factor is the Plan projection of a significant reduction in
international interest rates in nominal as well as real terms; this expect-
ation is broadly consistent with the forecasts made by the World Bank and the
IMF. The gross borrowing program envisaged in the Plan (about $9 billion
p.a.), though large in absolute amounts, is realistic in terms of availability
and prudent in terms of Korea's debt service capacity, provided export
projections are realized./I With the projected level of borrowings, Korea's
external debt as a ratio of GNP would decline from about 50% at present to
about 45% in 1986. If the Plan expectation of a decline in interest rates
materializes and the export projections are realized, the total debt-service
ratio (including interest payments on short-term debt) would decline from
/1 The significant recent improvement of the balance of payment, discussed in
paragraph 8 above, which is in part structural, is likely to reduce the
borrowing requirements and improve the results of the subsequent
analysis.



- 5 -
about 20% of exports in 1981 to 14% in 1986, which is considerably lower than
the debt service ratio projected for other non-oil developing as well as newly
industrializing countries. However, in relation to GNP, Korea's debt-service
burden is high and there are risks with regard to the availability and cost of
external capital over the next few years.  Thus it is desirable to assure that
the current account deficit does not exceed the 3% of GDP p.a. projected in
the Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
12.       As of September 30, 1982, Korea had received 62 Bank Loans
(including one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, totalling USS3,765
million in loans and US$106.8 million in credits (taking into account
cancellations and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank
Loan). As of that date, US$1,045.61 million remained undisbursed on effective
Loans, mostly from commitments in the past two years. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of
September 30, 1982 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. As
indicated in the notes, progress on project implementation is generally
satisfactory, and implementation delays which have occurred in a number of
projects - mainly irrigation, highways and population - due primarily to
shortfalls in Government budgetary contributions resulting from cost overruns
during a period of high domestic inflation are being addressed. The problem
was reviewed with the Government during 1981 and the Government subsequently
took measures to increase local funding of Bank financed projects. As the
Government's budgetary situation continues to be tight, the status and plans
for counterpart contributions would remain an integral part of country
implementation reviews held jointly with the Government. Nevertheless,
despite the recent delays, Korea's disbursement rate remains the highest among
major Bank borrowers in East Asia.
13.       In recent years, the thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations
in Korea has been towards assisting the Government's efforts:  (a) to secure
the external resources required to supplement domestic savings in sustaining
a high GNP growth rate by following a policy of rapid export-oriented
industrialization; (b) to avoid the emergence of infrastructure bottlenecks;
and (c) to complement industrial development with agricultural and rural
development schemes aimed at bringing about a better dispersal of the fruits
of growth through raising incomes and improving the quality of life in the
rural areas.
14.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been directed towards the
vital industrial sector through lending to Korea's four major development
banks. The Korea Long-Term Credit Bank has received US$410.0 million, the
Korea Development Bank, US$352.5 million, and the Small and Medium Industry
Bank, US$205 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry, and the
Citizens National Bank US$60 million to meet the financial needs of the small
enterprises. The primary beneficiaries of these loans have been the



-6-
numerous industrial enterprises which have received funds through the
financial intermediaries. This has contributed to the overall development
of the industrial sector, and also to the achievement of institutional
improvements as well as the Government's objective of decentralizing
industry.
15.       In recent years, the Bank has also been assisting the Government's
ef-fort to develop the country's technological capability. The Electronic
Technology Project (Loan 1676-KO), approved in March 1979, provided the Korea
Institute of Electronics Technology (KIET) with sophisticated facilities to
enable it to undertake production-oriented development work, and financed an
R&D program that is directly linked to the needs of the electronics industry.
In March 1982, the Bank approved a US$50 million loan to the Korea Technology
Development Corporation (KTDC) whose main objectives are to accelerate
advanced foreign technology imports and support in-house research development
and engineering.
16.       As Korea's economy has continued to grow and the pace of industri-
alization has quickened, there has had to be a parallel expansion of transport
facilities. The Bank Group, through its association with the Government's
efforts to modernize and expand the transport sector, dating back to 1962,
has played an important role in these developments. Financing of US$432
million has been provided for seven railway projects designed to increase the
railroad's capacity and improve its operations; four loans totalling USS334.5
million have been made for highway construction and paving of high priority
sections of the national network and for a countrywide maintenance organiza-
tion; and two loans amounting to UJSS147.0 million have been provided for the
expansion of port facilities at Busan and Mugho.
17.       Korea's paucity of natural resources and dependence on the manufac-
turing segment of its economy have resulted in the adoption of a strategy
based on maximizing the advantages of a skilled and hardworking labor force.
The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements for
appropriately trained workers and certain categories of skilled manpower
through its lending for four education projects, which have pursued the broad
objectives of technical manpower development either through the expansion of
relevant subsectors or through specific quality improvements. Together,
these projects have catered to a wide range of manpower training needs.
18.       Korea's record of achievement in modernizing its agricultural sec-
tor, although less spectacular than the gains made in the industrial sphere,
is nevertheless commendable. The past 15 years have seen agricultural output
grow at an average 4.2% p.a., which has resulted in the country becoming
nearly self-sufficient in its staple food, rice, and made possible a steady
and perceptible improvement in the living standards of the 35% of Korea's
population who live in the countryside and rely primarily on agrarian pursuits
for their livelihood. The Bank has lent US$375.5 million for the improvement
of irrigation facilities, land and seed development and the provision of
agricultural credit to farmers and processors of agricultural products. In
addition, US$155.0 million has been provided for two rural infrastructure



projects in support of the Government's rural development program, initiated
in 1971, to improve the quality of life and the standard of living in the
rural areas. In 1979, a US$125.0 million loan was provided by the Bank to
help meet the growing demand for municipal, industrial and irrigation water
in the Han Basin southeast of the capital city, Seoul; reduce flood damage;
and generate electricity to augment and provide peaking capacity for Korea's
power system.
19.       The Bank's first essay into the field of regional development in
Korea, through the project approved in January 1975, has proved successful.
The project was designed to support Government policy by financing high
priority investments in the poor, primarily agricultural, southwest region.
A loan of US$65.0 million for a second project for the development of the
region was approved by the Executive Directors in September 1979. A loan for
TJS90.0 million was approved in April 1981 for a National Urban Land
Development and Housing Project.
2 fl.    In order to revitalize the economy while ameliorating inflation
and promoting social equity, the Government has taken a number of policy
measures described in Part I above. Some of the most important of these
measures are incorporated into a structural adjustment program for which a
US$250 million structural adjustment loan was approved by the Executive
Directors in December 1981.
21.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external MLT debt
disbursed and outstanding at the end of 1981 was about 10%, and its share of
MLT debt service was of the order of 8% at that time.  These ratios are
expected to be around 9% and 7% respectively by the mid-eighties.
PART III - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
Introduction
22.       Between 1975 and 1980, Korea's urban population (23 million in 1980)
has been increasing at more than three times the rate of the total population
(38 million in 1980), 5% and 1.5% per year, respectively. Household sizes are
becoming smaller (5.06 persons per household (p/hh) in 1981 compared to 5.44
p/hh in 1975), resulting in even more rapid growth of urban households - 7%
per annum during the same period. About 60% of the country's households live
in urban areas; this level is projected to grow to 75% by 1991, comparable to
most developed countries. This rapid urbanization, accompanied by growing
personal incomes, had put great pressure on urban housing markets by the
mid-1970s, stimulating housing production and, with supply lagging, inflation
in housing prices.
23.       During 1979 and 1980 the Government developed specific measures to
increase output of both the public and private sectors and issued a "Master
Plan for Public Housing Construction and National Urban Land Development" in
October, 1980. This plan proposed quantitative targets for increasing
housing production and investment; an expanded role for the public sector;



- 8 -
and measures to reduce costs, increase the supply of funds and otherwise
provide incentives for private developers and builders. The Bank discussed
these and other measures with the Government as part of a dialogue on the
development of the housing sector and Bank support for the sector. This
dialogue resulted in the First National Urban Land Development and Housing
Project (Loan 1980-K0, in May 1981).
24.       Since the first project was appraised during September 1980, the
sector has experienced a continuing decline in housing production, from
250,000 units in 1979 to about 150,000 in 1981. The ratio of housing units
to households has also fallen to 73.7 nationwide in 1981 from 76.5 in 1979
(60.1 in cities, down from 60.4). The Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social
Development Plan, 1982-1986 (henceforth Fifth Plan), and subsequent policy
initiatives have been designed to reverse this decline. The Government has
made it a priority to address the problems of urban growth. The Fifth Plan
emphasizes meeting basic needs of urban dwellers and improving the quality
and availability of urban services. Housing, water supply and sewerage,
urban transport and general infrastructure are the primary components of the
Government's urban development strategy, and among these, housing is the
first priority. The Bank supports this strategy, emphasizing policy and
institutional development through an ongoing dialogue with the Government.
Policies and Performance During 1980 and 1981
25.       In 1978 housing production hit a peak of 300,000 new units and
housing investment as a percentage of GNP rose to 6.0%. However, between 1965
and 1978 land and housing price increases significantly exceeded those of
wages and prices. For the period, wage increases averaged 2559% annually,
general prices, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, rose 13.7%,
residential land prices, 39.9% and housing prices, 30.1%.  To dampen what was
perceived as speculation in the housing market, the government introduced
certain measures, including a threefold increase in capital gains taxes on
property sales in designated areas /1 and the application of "standard land
pricing" (below market value), as the basis for compensation for public
acquisition in urban planning areas. The effects of these measures, combined
with stagnation in the growth in real incomes, have been dramatic. By 1981
housing production had fallen from the 1978 peak by 50% to 150,000 with the
private sector declining by 61% to 72,000 units, the public sector by
one-third to 77,000 units and housing investment as a proportion of GNP fell
by almost a third to 4.27. However, since 1979 the rate of increase in real
estate prices has also slowed to well below both average wage and price
increase rates. During 1980, housing and land prices increased 4.3% and 5.2%
respectively over the previous year, while wages and general price levels
gained 22.7% and 34.6% respectively. Housing and land prices almost stagnated
in 1981, rising only 1.1% and 1.4% above the 1980 level; wages and general
prices climbed over 20% during the year.
/1 Three hundred and sixty three dongs (neighborhoods) and four apartment
areas, which included most of the suburban areas of miajor cities, were
designated 'specific areas."



- 9 -
26.       These drastic cuts in housing production led the Government to relax
some of its "anti-speculation" measures.  In December 1980 the capital gains
tax structure and rates were revised. The new rates represented a reduction
in base rates of between 20% and 40% for individuals and 20% to 30% for
corporations. In addition, a further discretionary reduction was applied to
all transactions leaving current rates between 50% and 70% lower than
pre-December 1980 levels. In June 1981 the most severe of the
anti-speculation measures, the "specific areas" designation was lifted.
27.       Despite these relief measures, private developers' output in the
housing sector has continued to decline at a more rapid rate than that of the
public sector. In the past, housing units produced by both private and public
developers were generally pre-sold before construction, however, since 1979,
both had inventories of unsold units from each year's production.   By
end-March 1982, the major public developer, Korea Natioi.al Housing Corporation
(KNNHC), reduced its inventory of unsold units from about 20% of 1981
production to about 10% through advertising and publicity, while the large
private developers who are members of the Korea Housing Association (KHA) had
47% of 1981 production still unsold.
28.       Short-term investors who were attracted to this market by rapidly
rising prices in the 1970s are no longer receiving a rate of return on real
estate comparable to other investment opportunities. Consequently, these
potential buyers have left the housing market. However, during the 1970s
when they were active, price increases for land, houses and rents rapidly
outgrew increases in wages, making housing less affordable to consumer/
investors./1 In addition, consumer/investors have had great difficulty in
entering the market because of the high down payment (60-80%) needed.
Although real estate price increases have moderated over the past two years,
it appears that even those consumer/investors able to raise the down pay-
ment are reluctant to purchase units which are appreciating so slowly. The
recession since 1979 and the uncertain housing policy environment, charac-
terized by frequent changes in signals, also appear to have discouraged real
estate investment. These factors have had a greater impact on the private
developers than on the public developers as short-term investors were more
active in the size and price range of units typically built by private
developers. In addition, mortgage financing terms are structured to require
proportionally more cash to purchase units built by private developers.
Land prices are higher for private developers compared to public developers
(over 2.5 times more) and real estate related taxes which private developers
(but not public developers) pay add an estimated 12% to the cost of units.
Together, these factors raise the affordability requirements considerably
for privately developed units.
/1 Defined as those seeking housing as shelter as well as a means of
accumulating assets.



29.        The problems for public developers have been less saere, as lower
costs of land, taxes and financing enahle overall development -Osts to be
more affordable.  As applicants for pubblicly developed housing cannot own
other houses, short-term investors are generally ineligible. Consequently,
the decline in demand affecting the public developers is more n-irectly
zelated to the ability and willingness of consumers to malce a 40% or larger
down pay-ment and commit themselves to a major purchalse during a time of
economic uncertainty.
30.       The slowdown in the purchase of newly constructed uni,ts does not,
ntowever, reflect disinterest on the part of Koreans in improv-Ing their
hiousing conditions.  The decline in demand for new tnits has ',een accom-
panied by increased expansion of existing units,  Y:,otll the ratios of housing
units to households and owner-occupancy (down to 60'1% in 1920 ftom 64% in
1975) have continued to decline, nevertheless living area per capita
increased (fromi 2.4 py in 1975 to 2.8 py in 1900 nationwide;  [_1 py to 2.6 py
in cities).  Tn the current context, it appears that Korean h)oclsing
consumers are trying to satisfy their requirements for shelter 'by renting
additional space rather than investing in home ownership, and -;hat landlords
find it profitable to provide such space by expansion and su'cletting of
existing houses..
Recent Developments
31.        In January 1982, the Government announced a number of measures
designed to accelerate economic growth.  The housing sector received a
special prov.ision of W 300 billion for five-year loans to be made available
to the private sector through the Citizens Nationa:L Bank (CNB) and the Korea
Housing Bank (KHB) for purchases of existing houses or construction of new
units. These funds were to be committed by the end of June 19>82. To reduce
uncertainty about the future of capital gains tax rates, the existing tax
regime which was due to expire in September 1982 was extended to March 31,
1984.  The period during which a homeowner could own a second dwelling without
incurring capital gains taxes on its sale was extended f rom c year to
18 months to encourage those who could to "trade-up."
32.        Indications as of April. 1982 were that performance .n the sector in
the first quarter of 1982 was improving relative to the same period last year.
Building approvals were up in January 1982, and of the spec-a:' W 300 billion
allocated for loans, W 261 billion had been committed as of March 23, 1982.
Finally, according to the EPB Business Survey Indices, housinig construction
activity improved during the first quarter of 1982! compared -7ith the fourth
quarter of 1981.
Prospects for the Future
33.        The Fifth Plan targets include investment of 5.33% of GNP in new
housing, numabers of units to be built by the public (570,000) and private
(890,000) sectors, distribution of units between iurban (92`) and rural areas



- 11 -
(8%), and an investment plan totalling W 19,125 billion. These projections
appeared optimistic when they were announced in the summer of 1981 and by
March, the 1982 target had been scaled down from 270,000 to 200,000 units.
34.       A number of measures are to be taken to improve performance in the
sector. Funds for public housing are to be expanded and terms improved by
lowering down payment requirements. The National Housing Fund (NHF) was
created in July 1981 as the vehicle to mobilize funds and bring stability to
the public sector housing finance system. The private sector is also to be
encouraged to provide housing by developments in the housing finance system,
reforming the tax system to reduce taxes to builders and purchasers, and
developing a steady supply of land through the public sector. This last
measure is also seen as an important means of stabilizing housing prices.
The Fifth Plan also promotes the provision of rental housing, and improve-
ment of the planning and management of housing developments.
35.       The general thrust of the objectives and policies for the Fifth
Plan appear appropriate. Improvements in the availability and structure of
mortgage financing for both public and privately developed units may be the
most important development to assist the growth of the housing sector.
36.       The measures proposed to increase private participation in the
sector are also important but stop short of equalizing the incentives for
private developers to provide low-income housing. KNHC and local authorities
have access to land and financing at much lower prices /1 and are not subject
to real estate related taxes which add significantly to the cost of prTi'vate
developments. These implicit subsidies to public developers give them a major
competitive edge over private developers. At present, private developers do
not have the same access to land and financing as public developers because
such transactions are not permitted by the Residential Site Development
Promotion Law and the Housing Construction Promotion Law. Private sector
participation in real estate development is one of the topics of the housing
sector study financed under the first project and an element of the ongoing
dialogue between the Government and the Bank. Incentives and disincentives,
which are in effect subsidies in the housing sector, and their allocation, are
proposed to be the subject of a study financed under this project. Agreement
on this study was reached at negotiations (Schedule 2, Part F(2) of the draft
Loan Agreement).
37.       The recent stimulation measures and the Fifth Plan program for
housing are designed to boost production but without the serious inflation of
the 1970s. The success of this strategy will ultimately depend on the
performance of the economy as a whole. If this expansion is not to be
accompanied by high levels of inflation in housing and land prices, restraints
on the supply of urban land and uncertainty in the policy environment will
/1 The only exception to this is the program for housing cooperatives.
These cooperatives can obtain land and financing on the same terms as
KNHC.



- 12 -
r,eed to be reduced. In particular, a smooth and timely increase in financing
for consumer/investors and private sector production for low-income buyers are
important.
Government/Bank Sector Strategy
38.       The Government's sector strategy, which the Bank supports, focuses
on encouraging and supporting the following key activities:
(a) expanding resources available to the sector;
(b) expanding private sector participation in the housing market;
(c) rationalizing and strengthening the public sector institutions;
(d) developing sound financial policies for the expansion and
utilization of the NHF;
(e) developing economic and financial appraisal capability for
housing sector programs; and
(f) strengthening policies and programs for improved delivery
of housing to lower income families.
39.       Within this broad strategy, the first project approved in April 1981
had four primary o'bjectives:  (a) assist the Korea Land Development
Corporation's (KLDC) development; (b) provide affordable housing to the target
group through KNHC; (c) establish a project preparation and implementation
cycle for future Bank support; and (d) assist in improving policy formulation
for the sector. KLDC and KNHC have been performing satisfactorily under the
project and have been fulfilling project objectives. Construction is well
underway on all of the project sites and the first group of the 8,500 units to
be provided under the project will be available for sale by January 1983.
40.       Over the last two years, the Bank has participated in discussions of
policy proposals for the housing Master Plan as well as in the review of the
draft Fifth Plan. The exchange of views has continued, focusing on the NHF
and the 1982 implementation plan. Further discussions on sector policy will
take place in the context of the housing sector study (financed under the
first loan) which was initiated in May 1982. The results of the study will be
reviewed jointly by the Government and the Bank. Significant progress,
however, has not yet been made on establishing appraisal capacity in the
Government for public sector land development and housing projects. A study
of the requirements for and appropriate location of this appraisal capacity is
to be carried out under this project. Agreement on this study was obtained at
negotiations, (Schedule 2, Part F(2) of the draft Loan Agreement).
41.       The first project, its associated studies and the continuing
dialogue have nelped develop a better understanding of the sector, assisted
institutional development, and have introduced new shelter solutions for



- 13 -
low-income families. This second project is timely in that it would reinforce
and expand the institution building that has taken place and would involve the
NHF during its early development. The studies to be financed from this loan
are addressed to mutually agreed topics not examined in the ongoing sector
study but identified during preparation discussions. The emphasis in
preparing the second project has been on reaching agreement on the process,
principles and criteria by which land and housing development programs and
projects would be prepared and implemented. In addition, this project would
help to maintain the Bank/Government dialogue, and expand Bank participation
in and knowledge of the sector and its institutions. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Bank/Government dialogue on housing policies will
continue (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government (MOC, KLDC and
KNHC) with assistance from local consultants during 1981 and 1982; pre-
appraised in January 1982; and appraised in April 1982. Negotiations were
held in Washington from September 20-25, 1982 with the Korean delegation
led by Mr. Ru Kur-chang. A report titled "Staff Appraisal Report - Second
National Urban Land Development and Housing Project" (No. 4044-KO)1, dated
November 15, 1982) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project
data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
43.       This project is intended to advance the Bank/Government dialogue
on sector policy and programs. In keeping with this, the project would:
(a)  assist in rationalizing and strengthening the housing and land
development institutions in the public sector;
(b)  support the development of the NHF as a viable financial
intermediary able to perform project appraisal and supervision;
and
(c) support improvements in the policies and programs for delivering
housing to lower income families.
Project Description
44.       The proposed project would finance about 3% of the public sector
land development and 1% of public sector housing development programs in the
Fifth Plan. It would consist of:
(a) development of about 1.43 million py of urban residential land
by KLDC with a total of about 22,900 low and middle-income
plots; approximately 770,000 py in six cities in Phase I,
and about 660,000 py in Phase II in a number of cities and



- 14 -
sites to be selected by criteria and procedures agreed with the
Bank;
(b) construction by KNHC of about 10,100 housing units for low-income
families; about 5,500 units on Phase I sites and 4,600 units on
Phase II sites;
(c) construction of about 2,500 housing units by housing cooperatives
through a program supervised by KLDC and local authorities with
about 1,300 units on Phase I sites and 1,200 units 'on Phase II
sites;
(d) provision of about 10,300 middle-income serviced lots; and
(e)  technical assistance to MOC-HB, KLDC and KNHC for future project
preparation, training and studies (e.g., onl incentives and
disincentives in the housing sector, public sector appraisal
capacity, and monitoring and evaluation).
45.       The planning principles are similar to the other shelter projects
supported by the Bank in Korea./l On sites developed for multiple uses,
profits from the sale of open commercial and middle-income residential plots
would be used to cross-subsidize plots for families in the low-income group.
The project has been designed to provide dwelling units to the 15-50th
percentile of the urban household income distribution. Within this target
group, 30% of the units would be for the 15-19th percentile, 50% for the
2D-39th percentile, and 20% for the 40-50th percentile. Expandable core
houses, row houses and apartments would be built in appropriate proportions as
determined by marketing studies done by KNHC to achieve the recuired distri-
bution. These planning and allocation criteria and procedures were confirmed
at negotiations (Schedule 2 Annex 1, A. of the draft Loan Agreement).
Implementation Arrangements
46.       The project will be implemented in two phases with six sites in
Phase I and a number of sites to be identified in Phase II. Coordination of
project implementation will be the responsibility of the Ministry of
Construction's Housing Bureau (MOC-HB) through a senior level Liaison
Committee chaired by its Director General and including representatives of the
Land Bureau, KNHC and KLDC. This Liaison Committee should meet periodically
and report to the Bank on project status. The role and functions of this
Committee were confirmed at negotiations (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Selection of the remaining sites will be done by KLDC based on
KNHC requirements and using criteria agreed with the Bank.  KNHC will specify
the number of units, size of low income area needed, maximum cost per py of
/1  Secondary Cities Regional Project (Loan 1070-KO, approved 1975); Second
Gwangju Regional Project (Loan 1758-KO, approved 1978:); National Urban
Land Development and Housing Project (Loan 1980-KO, approved 1981).



- 15 -
developed land which would meet the affordability target of the project and
locational constraints, such as accessibility to employment and facilities,
which the sites must meet. If KLDC is unable to provide appropriate sites,
KNHC may attempt to find sites to fill any gaps in its program. Should KNHC
be unable to use all of the low income land developed by KLDC, KLDC will sell
such remaining land to local governments and housing cooperatives for
low-income housing construction. The Bank will review the Phase II land
development and housing proposals of the agencies before implementation.
These procedures, criteria and their use were confirmed at negotiations
(Schedule 2 Part A2 and Annex II to Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement and
Sections 2.10 (b) and 2.07 (c) of the KLDC and KNHC draft Project Agreements,
respectively). Land acquisition and development will be the responsibility of
KLDC, who will also market the commercial and residential areas, sell school
sites to educational institutions and ensure the availability of low-income
housing land. Off-site infrastructure would be developed by either KLDC or
local governments depending on arrangements in each city. Arrangements
regarding the timing and terms of sale of land by KLDC to KNHC will be
detailed in an agreement, the ratification of which would be a condition of
effectiveness (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Construction
and sale of housing for low-income families will be the responsibility of KNHC
on most sites. On other sites the local governments and KLDC will supervise
housing cooperatives which would be responsible for the construction of house
types determined by members. KLDC would be responsible for promoting the
formation of these housing cooperatives and the local authorities for
borrowing the necessary funds from the NHF to be onr-lent to the cooperatives.
Participation of housing cooperatives is expected to broaden the role of the
private sector in the construction of low-income housing. Procedures for the
participation of the cooperatives in the program were confirmed at
negotiations (Section 3.06 and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Implementing Agencies
47.       The key agencies involved in the project are the MOC-HB, the NHF,
KLDC and KNHC. MOC-HB sets housing policy and building regulations, develops
and supervises NHF's plans and programs, approves and supervises KNHC's
programs and conducts research on technical issues. The Bureau's staff of 35
professionals are organized into four divisions responsible for housing
policy, housing management, building technical guidance and the architecture
law. MOC-HB is the main point of contact for the Bank's ongoing dialogue on
housing sector policies in Korea.
48.       The NHF was established on July 20, 1981 to supply housing finance
for the public sector National Housing Construction Plan, especially to low-
income groups. The NHF is managed by the Minister of Construction who
determines overall policies for the utilization of its funds on the advice
of the MOC-HB/Policy Division. For administrative purposes, the day-to-day
management of the Fund has been delegated to KHB. NHF proceeds are onlent
mainly to KNHC, local governments and housing cooperatives. Its loans are
primarily in the categories of "housing construction" and "housing lottery"



- 16 -
loans. Housing construction loans (96% of NHF's outstanding loans as of end
1981) are for low-income houses built in large quantities. Loan amounts are
converted to individual mortgages to purchasers at the time of sale.
Housing lottery loans (4% of 1981 outstanding loans) are made at highly
concessionary rates to veterans and families of those who died in military
service. Loans are to be repaid over 20 years with 10% interest rate on
construction loans and 4% on veterans loans. The basic goals of the Fifth
Plan for the housing sector are to enhance the housing supply ratio to 78.4%
by 1986 from 74.5% in 1980 and to increase the living space per capita to
3.4 py in 1986 from 2.8 py in 1980 through the provision of housing finance
to support the construction of about 1.46 million units, approximately 40%
of which would be provided by the public sector supported by finance from
the NHF. Of the total capital requirements of W 5,691 billion to support
these objectives during the Fifth Plan, the planned sources of NHF's funds
are: national housing bonds (28%), repayments (21%), accrued interest (15%),
pension funds (17%), government equity (11%), foreign loans (4%), housing
funid bonds (2%), savings deposits (2%), housing lottery profits and interest
income (1%). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government
will provide the appropriate level of equity contributions and cause an
adequate level of pension or other loan funds to be provided to NIIF (Section
3.01(c)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement.) The financial costs to NHF of new
funds in 1982 vary from 0% (repayments, government equity and housing
lottery profits) to 13.5% (housing fund bonds), averaging 4.85% overall.
NHF's administrative costs are the 2.2% /1 fee paid to KHB. The Fund
maintains a positive spread as its interest income from its loan portfolio
in 1982 is about 12% compared to an average cost of all funds in use of
8.5%. By policy and in practice NHF is required to maintain an interest
spread adequate to cover all costs.
49.       KLDC, a Government-owned corporation, established in March 1979, has
a broad mandate to acquire, develop and sell urban land for residential and
industrial use with a major priority of developing residential land for low
income groups. VLDC has been an effective and successful organization which
has performed in a fully satisfactory manner under the first project. KLDC's
sources of finance have been primarily capital contributions from the
government as equity and land debentures. At end 1981, its total paid-in
capital was W 143.9 billion and about the same value of land debentures,
W 144.4 billion, were outstanding. KLDC issues two types of debentures: to
landowners for already developed lands which KLDC would subdivide before
resale and to businesses for idle lands which KLDC plans to resell without
further development. KLDC is required to earn a profit on sales of developed
middle-income residential land, commercial land and land purchased for resale
including idle land from businesses (sold at competitive bids). The
Cc,rporation earns no profit from serviced low-income residential and
industrial land; the former is cross-subsidized from profits on other sales
while the latter is priced to recover all direct and indirect costs. KLDC's
1981 profit before tax was about 15.8% of total sales (of W 66.7 billion).
/I On average outstanding loan portfolio managed during the year.



- 17 -
50.        KNHC, also Government-owned, was established in 1962 to im-l-ment
the country's public housing program. The organization which is operationally
and financially sound, built about 45,000 units in 31 cities during 1981 and
is also performing satisfactorily under the first project. Sources of
financing for KNHC currently include borrowings from NHF, foreign borrowings
under previously approved projects, key money (rental deposits) and down
payments from purchasers. As of end-1981, paid-in capital was W 132.2 billion
and retained earnings were W 133.0 billion. Since 1978 KNHC has paid annual
dividends equal to 1% of paid-in capital. Total long-term debt was
W 446.4 billion as of end-1981, of which NHF s portion was 80%, and foreign
loans (from ADB-2, and USAID-6) 18%. KNHC has been consistently profitable,
earning 8% (W 38 billion) on revenues of W 483 billion in 1981.
Project Costs and Financing
51.        Cost estimates based on detailed designs of Phase I sites indicate a
total project cost of about US$316.0 million (W 233.8 billion).  The tax ele-
ment is estimated at US$8.99 million. Design and supervision costs are
estimated at 3% of civil works, and physical contingencies are estimated at
10% of applicable costs for land development and off-site infrastructure or
about 2% of base cost. No physical contingencies have been allowed for
housing construction, as contracts are "lump sum" bids for completed units.
Price contingencies for local currency costs are based on expected increases
in construction costs of 7% in 1982, 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984 and 7% per annum
thereafter. The corresponding rates for foreign costs are 8.0%, 8.0%, 7.5%
and 7.0%, respectively. The overall price contingency amounts to about 9% for
land development and 24% for housing construction. Local consulting services
cost an average of $3,000 per man-month.
52.        The proposed Bank loan of US$100 million, including front-end fee
(US$1.48 million), will finance the estimated foreign exchange component which
is 32% of total project cost. The loan would be for a period of 15 years,
including three years grace at the standard variable interest rate. Bank
funds will be on-lent to KLDC (US$29.7 million) for land development and to
MOC, as manager of NHF, (US$68.8 million) for housing construction at the same
interest rate and terms as the Bank loan plus an administrative fee of 0.05%
per annum. KLDC and NHF will bear the foreign exchange risk for their
respective shares of the loan. These transactions would be covered under
subsidiary loan agreements, the signing of which would be conditions of loan
effectiveness (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). MOC, as manager
of the NHF, will blend the Bank funds with its other funds and orr-lend to KNHC
for housing construction, at its normal terms and conditions under financing
agreements, the signing of which would be conditions of disbursement (Section
3.02 (b) and Schedule 1, paragraph 3(b) (ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
These terms are currently 10% over 20 years. Government will pass on the
responsibility for repayment of the front-end fee to project agencies for
their respective portions and arrangements for this were agreed during
negotiations (Section 3.01(b)(v) of the draft Loan Agreement). KLDC would
provide about US$72.8 million equivalent (W 53.8 billion) and NHF about



- 18 -
USS47.1 million equivalent (W 34.8 billion) from their own resources or other
borrowings. KNHC and the housing cooperatives are expected to raise their
fuands for housing construction, about USS67.7 million equivalent (W 50.1 bil-
lion) and US818.1 million equivalent (W 13.4 billion), respectively, from down
payments. As with other areas promoted for housing estates by MOC, the
capital costs of off-site infrastructure of USS10.3 million equivalent (W 7.6
billion) will be shared equally by central and local governments. Community
facilities will be provided by local governments as required. (Section 3.04
(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Inflation and Interest Rates to Beneficiaries
53.       Korea's rate of inflation accelerated from 22.7% in 1979 to 35.0% in
1980./I The Government instituted policies which have reduced the rate to
14.7% in 1981 and inflation is expected to be about 7% in 1982. With the rate
of inflation decreasing the Government recently adjusted interest rates
downward in all sectors, including housing. Positive real interest rates are
being maintained for all sectors. Mortgage interest rate policy will be
examined further in the context of the housing sector study underway and
through periodic review of performance on housing policies.
Cost Recovery and Affordability
54.       The project is designed to recover all financial costs.  The actual
cost of land acquisition, site preparation, infrastructure, housing construc-
tion, management costs, interest during construction, and design and super-
vrision will be recovered from beneficiaries through land sales, down payments
and mortgage payments to the NHF. Sale of commercial and upper-income
residential land at market prices by KLDC will generate profits which will be
used to lower the sale price of the low-income land to KNHC and housing
cooperatives. Housing, provided only for the target group, would be construc-
ted by KNHC and the housing cooperatives and sold at cost with long-term
mortgages, with funds rolled over from the NHF. Land for public facilities
will be sold at cost to the respective agencies. In accordance with prevail-
ing practice, infrastructure (roads, drains and water supply) will be turned
over to the respective cities for operation and maintenance, the costs of
which will be recovered through taxes, utility and user charges. All costs
associated with estate management will be recovered through management fees
paid by the residents.
55.       Housing has been designed to be affordable to the income groups
between the 15-50th percentile of the urban household income distribution. As
in the first project, about 30% of monthly income and down payments of 40%
would be required, which is in line with current NHF policy (reduced from the
60-80% of recent years). (Section 3.02 (c) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Based on these assumptions, all of the units constructed would be affordable
by households below the 30th percentile.
/1 As measured by the Gross Fixed Capital Formation (GFCF) deflator.



- 19 -
Procurement
56.       Foreign contractors will be invited to prequalify for civil works
valuing over US$2 million. Should any foreign contractors prequalify for
civil works, these contracts will be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. However, none
expressed interest in the previous three urban sector projects and none are
expected to do so in this project. If foreign contractors do not prequalify,
all contract documents may be written in the Korean language and bidding times
reduced in accordance with local procedures. Other Bank guidelines on
competitive bidding will be maintained. Civil works contracts under US$2
million will be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. KLDC is expected to bid out each site as
a single contract including land preparation and infrastructure; major
off-site infrastructure may be bid separately. Contract packages (15-16) may
range from IJS$1-10 million each. KNHC will bid housing construction at each
site in phases with packages of about 300-500 units, i.e., 30-50 housing
contracts, ranging from US$4-6 million. The Bank will review civil works
contracts of over UJS$2 million and procurement of materials over US$100,000 on
a sampling basis prior to award.
Disbursements
57.       Disbursements under the proposed loan would be at the rate of 60%
for land development civil works, 75% of NHF disbursements to KNHC and 100%
for staff training, consultancy services and studies. NHF would establish a
Project Account as a condition of disbursement (Section 3.02(a) and Schedule 1
para. 3(b)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement) and would submit to the Bank
statements of expenditures setting out disbursements to KNHC. Supervision
missions would carry out ex-post reviews of work progress. All other
disbursements including disbursements for KLDC would be fully documented. It
is expected that disbursements will be completed by December 1986.
Project Justification
58.       The principal justification for the project is its ability to
strengthen program and policy formulation and institutions in the housing
sector, ameliorate the housing shortage in the project cities and provide
employment opportunities in construction.
59.       The imputed rental values (based on current rent of similar units)
of the dwellings to be constructed at the various sites and estimated market
values (from 1982 surveys) of the serviced commercial and open market land
were used to measure the benefits of the project. Land acquisition and
development, housing and recurrent costs were considered in the analysis, with
all taxes excluded. The economic rates of return for the six sites ranged
from 7.4% to 14.6%. Relatively low estimated rates of return for sites in
Gangreung and Gimhae, the two smallest cities in the project, are in part due
to typically lower projected rentals and land sales prices in smaller centers,



- 20 -
a reflection of the lower average incomes of residents of such cities.  The
experience gained in developing these sites (which account for less than 5% of
project costs) will be useful in the longer term sector and policy dialogue on
housing and in the planning of future programs that address the problems of
the smaller urban centers. The weighted average rate of return for the six
sites was 12.5%. According to sensitivity analyses, a cost increase of 10%
resulted in a range of IERR from 5.4% to 12.0%. Similarly, a 10% decrease in
benefits resulted in a range of IERR from 5.2% to 11.8%.
Project Risks
60.       Currently domestic interest rates for housing in Korea are lower
than international lending rates. Over time domestic interest rates should
move closer to international interest rates.  Increases in interest rates
during project implementation would affect affordability targets. The effect
of a 2% increase in NHF interest rates would be to shift the affordable group
to whom the units are currently designed from the 15-50th percentile to the
25-50th percentile of the income distribution. As there is an understanding
with the Government that the changes in interest rates and costs relative to
incomes would require reconsideration of the type and mix of units, this
should not seriously affect project objectives.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Korea and the Bank,
and draft Project Agreements between the Bank and KLDC and the Bank and
KNHC, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Special conditions of the project are listed in
Section III of Annex III. Signing of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements between
ROK and MOC as manager of NHF and ROK and KLDC and the due execution of the
Agreement between KLDC and KNHC are conditions of effectiveness.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63D       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 15, 1982



- 21 -                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
KOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7RGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             98.5                                MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      22.5              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA & PACIFIC   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 190.0       430.0    1520.0                 890.1                  1902.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    208.0        657.3    1472.5                 701.7                  1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 25012.0    32241.0  38197.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.7        40.7      54.8                  32.4                    65.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      52.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        70.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      254.0       327.4     381.8                 255.9                   35.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND   1168.8      1389.1    1669.4                1748.0                    92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.9        42.1      35.1                  39.9                   39.7
15-64 YRS.                         53.7        54.6      61.1                  56.8                   56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.3         3.3       3.8                   3.3                    4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.5       1.9                   2.3                     2.4
URBAN                              4.7         6.4       4.9                   3.9                    3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    42.7         30.3      25.3                  31.8                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     13.4         9.1       7.9                   9.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.7         2.1       1.6                   2.0                    2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..       671.0     686.0/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         32.0      49.1                  36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0        99.0     113.0                 115.6                  110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   97.4       107.0     117.2/d               106.4                  108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          57.1        62.8      72.171                54.4                   66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        7.0         8.2      14.37id               13.9                   34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      8.6         3.9       2.1                   6.7                     5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   54.4         60.3      65.4                  59.8                   64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           78.3        50.1      34.1                  63.7                   64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             12.1        58.0      71.0                  32.0                    65.6
URBAN                             18.6        84.0      85.0                  51.9                    78.9
RURAL                              9.5        38.0      54.9                  20.5                   43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        25.0      64.0/e                37.7                    59.3
URBAN                               ..        59.0      68. 07               65.7                    75.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      50.071                24.0                   30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3540.8      2238.3   1978.8/d               8540.4                 1617.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3245.1/f,g  1786.5/f   487.471              4829.4                 1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2513.5      1949.5     642.4/e              1047.5                  477.4
URBAN                           1286.9      1095.3     754.87;1              651.6                  679.8
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                2597.6                  1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        14.9        ..                  27.0                    27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.6         5.0       4.5
URBAN                              5.4          ..
RURAL                              5.6          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.5         2.3       2.0/c
URBAN                              2.8         2.7       2.17                   .
RURAL                              2.4         2.2       2.07 O
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             28.4        49.9
URBAN                             67.3        92.4
RURAL                             12.4        29.9      64.9/d



ANNEX I
-22-                                            Page 2 of 5
XOREA REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KOREA REPUBLIC OF              REFERlENCE GROUPS (VUEIGHTED AVE5ACES
- MODST RECENT ESTIMASTEz
MIOST RECENT         MIDDLE INCOME MRDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        ASIA 4 PACIFIC   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
AMUM  ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLHAMY:    TOTAL                94.0       105.0    111.0                   96.2                   104.3
MALE                 99.0       106.0     112.0                  99.8                   106.4
FEMALE               89.0       105.0    111.0                   92.1                   103.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                27.0        42.0      76.0                  37.6                    41.3
MALE                 38.0        5L.0      82.0                  41.1                    40.4
FEKALE               14.0       33.0       70.0                 34.1                     41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 14.2        14.3      19.7                  20.8                     33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          58.2        56.9      48.1                  35.5                    29.9
SECONDARY                        34.3        36.5      39.0                  25.0                    16.7
4ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      70.6       87.6      93.0                  73.1                    79.1
CONSURTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        0.5         1.9       6.2                   9.8                    42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       31.2       124.4    402.2                  116.5                   270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        0.3        13.1     150.6                  37.6                   107.7
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATIONI PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                69.0       136.3    172.8                   53.7                    63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDAINCE PER CAPITA  4.0       5.2       2.0                   2.8                     2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    8307.2    11285.2  14637.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 26.1        32.7      32.5                  33.6                    24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            66.0        50.0      34.0                  52.2                    31.3
INDDUSTRY (PERCENT)               9.0        18.0      29.0                  17.9                    23.9
P&RTICI?ATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              33.2        35.0      38.3                  38.5                    33.6
MALE                               49.5        46.8      51.3                  50.5                    50.4
FEHALE                             17.2        23.0      25.1                  26.6                    16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.4         1.3       1.0                   1.1                     1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   15.1/h     17.1      16.1/t
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  42.37h     44.5      45.37..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    S.7rh      7.1       5.77*-
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0Th     17.7      16.97;.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    320.0                  194.7
RURAL                              ..          ..    270.0                  155.1                   184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    370.0                  178.2                   518.0
RURAL                              ..          ..    310.0                  164.9                   371.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      18.0                  24.4
RURAL                               *           .-     11.0                  41.1
.Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted srithuetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 sad 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
Ic  1975; /d 1977; /e 1976, /f Registered, not all practicing in the country; ./  1962; lb 1965.
May, 1982



- 23 -                                                                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS Op SOCIA  INDICATdO
tae Alsho...h t-  d.un are dsmo f-o to--uo Ito-aIy~ jodged the  -as  -oh--ttt Io an-aaieb., it should also he noted that they toy no Ih ite-
i..tooalyoep-rble ht--ueof the lath of -tadsrdt-d dafitattoot aod  ....epts: ned.by  ifrn   oote   i. o1lloiog the data,  The dat   t.  ae
themes. .. nofol to d-soth  orders of magnitudo. hihettd.nod-o1-           obero trt      _ oatio  _ao ifteraoat_I      eto-     orts
Thtefreoe   oonean  ()  h,e- naeeooony gty,ospofhaaheo otrad(2)aI oo-nty groupeilhhaoanhathtgheoav-rse   - tsoehantheo  o                                    .yaap
of thnhsnontt             Po.tfr "ghlta                  i   toatr", grnpahar  1ftdl  Iuo  North Atrta cad Ktiddl   Ices" is obosn b-ocos  of etteg-r
sni-utolafnlti....    I  the rafteo-e arop data the a--tges atepopnlation sigtntsd  titheatio -eta  too eaoh tonditto  and  hf-a  ny  ha
majorityol   h      oriai     to  hasI"data..    too that hod hot-r  Sito. the noaag f -ontie- a-on  the itdi-uton  depends en the  -nilahilisy of d.lc
sndnsotaaior-        ounooua  beonet-tmd inte-a-ogat-rgem  ofotatindio-i-teothr.Thesett- en oloyueetuInIIo-spaoissnbethoaa1 f
one itdtoano- at a tim   o.-g the  -o-otY and -tseso--        oot
dAM  Cohnoaaodnq.kna.)                                                                         Populaion Ot" tHa.... ted - tta, urhb, adttl-Ppln                        ttl
Total  ' Totl- -of-o  area  -oeratg I.od aron sod irlandea-et; 1979 data                       orban, an -tta) ditide   by  hir  eptience   thmantbd
for onpa, ontorat ntha  sod kinchet gardetto-    n  i  fallow: 1979 data.              huhilitetion  esthete.  dmiti   re       dt lsmis1im  p hueol  e          Z-te
GOP PtR t,tITA (USh)                                                                             b 9   a   npt   siaese  -rntmca   oos.oi  iL oars ar -t ph.is d.Ora  hespb1ie,hamtr- iod hat
toasd  y  a  ed orso:   sno  amtbl at   tas(OO-O   et); IshI,                            anIcd tnooer  oa   asnm lp  tffed by a phymloid  (bin by 
1970. ca  19NSfMTI dt.edohassa.nm. idif., e-.) shiob eff-r is-ytietson
R PER CAYITA    Aoo_I ~~~~~~~~~daian sod provida a Ilmtdrnee   aic  Eolsa.Pnmca
nadligeity . osrlo,ntra                n   yr-.Pnoetadgahra   io                               o   oa Phospitals Isnloh         rre   asisp    cdtaholja    ttPs
aron)id ihaasa   oi   gi-ct  a  aia  1960. 1970. nad hO7S                                      otnsre   ipoeia    opTalor_            slia   aycae   e
fins hoapitlaI divided by tha  ns  a   es
Tot-I FPortltio, Mid_-Yea  (thoisads) - ho of Jaip 1; 1960. 190.an  160dO.iN
Udatao.j.i   (_.,otoa90rad190                                                            HOSVGolcofinood(renpe   achd)-ttlnbm.adoa-
dtffet....dtnIassootoarea                i a mo  a beo   oaoprntli1  of  banedteh    i    al.                                   I dl n   Ae   a u   fnth  itatd
amnghoonii;191.170  ad  91  ut.Ah  hasead  frsaittlPorpasec..
toroletton Pnajaotinns                                               An.soaoenotteri"oftsmo   a   ombtl   ea.mdrri-atg
non   ouaian Op61 aae11 cu  d Z   theIr  orta iny so  feriltytar"                    odeelrt  r               Apotp   bselitg- cthdl  mopemnetettott    a
Promotio  paracatra for crts1 taomoat oneriat of  Ires ieohauanoYaIannoonpod parts
lo    i  npoaoya   ittloontgso-ouny   prh it    orItah   tattin    elen   fdnltaf-  oa,nea,adgaa 
laa,an   aal  ieanehno   tbltign   05per.Te  aa C.....ldriig P'                                                   ionilpinlnngqattam   aretg
codJfari-tytrns  o   sottinpnp               i.                                          Adjott 1nrllnttato
httioap  arlnio-nata  torypooltinthreustA.r....o Pimt Iooo -teal  mae  n  fnl   - -drInsntl   aeadf l
thebithat  i  tna  t  te  ecb the  ad  li  teuasrotoer-                orof eto  allp ages atI th  pratb       an.apreeee.fd apoia
mattotat   Ti  i   tbeodolpftrlrtltyrse   eoie  oprmaytood-g  oplstas -                                                    ralyioidm hldotaa  hi
the  epltnanr  ota  ofso i  or  raradottn rte,theneat  geeraionpeas ht adustd t: dtftentleaabs  f pimap enoaias  fa
ofmon  rynonmel_satl.Th   teinay   ooltaoieaoonotos st  niatslssoramrnImntmpYaae   Ogprt-
esiaoe   n  hehil  o  teprjecd  haaoaieto    f  hopetatonsCo.                 trPnp'iisaetleo   bv   heoto                  oalas
Paf9.S.     idpa  pptain  e  non 1-Ioee   d100b iotres  of                               Pontind etliab             (teoet a  iotadaty)-lpteisc  iaittii
oni; 160  1970il   e-d' 197  dnt.J-i                                                     tni-notrrto     asty apeods     tslsodise-ald
papaanit Ag itootue latoet)    Chtara  10lA   or) crIgag   i-ptie   n  a-IoAe-nda-11                       leolmdivda  b  ste        aoe. in she
6 .b4   l yarm .ai  reire   16  yat  admoat) amd pooetagt ,ofg midZc-ya  pos                 tepod     levdela.-G  .  ...1
lain   fr1506,1607.an   90-l                                                          aengrfaa(atiaeodrraii  Pffega  tarsl  d-pi-; f-in
Crue Ort gae (atttonaof      Oeso   lion .bryh par thtno   feu-rr                       amietngl tii          t eight      i -oro    1- eoide   amblan da heame  sad-
Iopthtat -9g  1900.  nod hl9t_ daof h_eoadosotmil                                                      to- ge-sre 1 pobhi per thousan  uf popmtadm; eno-id   am-.
haltll r lotmlopannn  Ipn       --od  if -eayTh.noIa pta-a  agei-aypsoifp.e-                  enwa  notot.dt  for o'so    ysaas may sot heix            tnmc-taim. c-anoe
ni in   ll rae;  o clitiepcavrgstdnin16,97,nd90.n en nos ofet  a2hoi7nyhed  lmaig.;-                                                                    __         -1
P.re   . ly     P Moidn -pnI-    iostt.  nul(togna kl-.ton  toter      of soenoV te..               na(eatouadp.-lofuais  - IF. reteear  ta  bradrait  in
ot brt-tita  dogntnns Iupin  orotoaifeul  pianin pogrm.                                      en tal 1pblieatthn1 in id-    opsiasian;     V am iodm hnloaaad-t. rtivened
P_nl   _lnin-ita (pero1   ofanrtd Iore) - feneag  ofmotld                                     infutiaadi   sr    bnrgcrta    tT   eamei   fes
al Iaridsr  inmn"g sl.rlatu   f"aly                                                                      geealiteet":mpp, defne -n                    ptidsa
loden        ..of.Pood P..d...n pr -CCit  11h-l-l00) 1-1 Yndanof pa  onpina.E  arual  Cinema dind Attodnre ranI daitis, per Teen- aadon t..he naIe  af
pn4du-tuu  of all fun         . --dtmuies   Prdonal oooa tP-_ eed and teedP-                  ..  an.noh. sodi. doio  th   er   oldigansi     a   oei   i
ino  aan96       at0   ai.ttsogmsttopiapand   eg a1970oad                                   And.1  tahl- unte..t    ~b.l.rd
o   floc  aatg 19 dn5t0 ros-6g0a;lot-O,190,ao  160daa                                 Total labor toto  tnho saads-tanuolyntopeam.oaig
ta Bninh mR-nro  olrs  (ppt.I   teethIof rotmith) p- loau-d ofra                            re   uomadsepoa   a  mattading.-               hoiees, sndoc   sa.,
pperde.   dosil960a 197a    -dple 19mt8 a  dod nt   routin   spts  ea                        o  o       _bin;1h.  90an   in-aa
Cnpoota D and Rohnge-  inhsnook.  ten. anpltas  P orhodaanima  dead, andi. Pam le (arct  -P, Pmal  -abo trr  asAeosng  at;~   tata  faaorte.di
qson1tintsm  o9ntd to9eso  rrnaiaod19a8mond0ttttid                    aqut-tttoltr (rretort) - inbr fre Ni  fdetg fI                                  ty    atn    a
Glote mre edatiante  byPDbseRnpptoogo   rd   o  normal1.  1  ani-                             fImblit as petrg   d  oa lahor. fae _lObS-  1970tsad 1of date.
aid,- sond     -d-tb tlo -t  poplaion  enf  lown   0peoh.towse  ta  aEleotr loi-n_plmsa  oad gas am' petntg  et anne  leo  trs
bouaehtl  level;            y        -9.   d.9 1961-6. 1907so  097ddana                      099. 196 an  100 bihdane.-ig
Par tplth an-iy of -prteIn  o..  (grhma .ye   d dp) - PAonain tonnan  ofpe  ospins           7 PRa-i-iteo  tans (hpe...nod ppnatal,  -ae mi tmae- Pbraod-sim  et
nat soplyfha- dpe d ay..   itt nplof f,oodI  dfird malabove, ploV .                          E -    IbiP- attipaecethtted a  ana   m le,ad. tamlelahd Tar  ma-
hotteaits  or al touttriesanta lahd~ byII otaatr  iia                             oso-tea  of. tndI.  malt andfeal  pp.itof  of ci iae  amfyetiv
alamnos  s o  rae  t atl  roei  pardayan  2           Iat     of anrlcd16,17.md19fdt.TmsaebmdanIOsprtieimrtn
p    hin ro Elt   taib1  gmi odh  n           bm l pran.i.  Chase anso-                ttflnoting cia-sri-( _tronas e         th  ppaaina   n   agnn   ed 
atmatlnroantoso   Sgem   fttlpani   a   3gnao t-p~am esinate  crai tram naIrI   anurfosa.ld~
aniat  tosinancnaeta0tta  th  wnd,praaid h  ~0 i  te TIr             reait I'ledl, e  iani p,-  a1ltof -platica wadr1              Il 61 cad ever
t~..ofi Food hadrtosy;  196-6 , 17   o 19F&-77 data.                                         no she natal laihar- faroe-.o
paosiarotuaoy drabaiml.. shod olias-Peatai   suppl  at fold  oda-i-l o
rhe   rm  omi and poises C-in-rm  pa   dp; i6-65y  1970 so  17  dt. gns.aa -g-...TO
ag   ro  -4 psd ,  n ehra Ag-1   --in him age  r  ..p toe can b.dato-png  au-           R peortCE    ibs   Rpret   ote   0  eta.cdpneoh   sr
tasdtadrivgd frt d-       life t ibbe;   1960,  i6dand1960       90 danu.T of Ib                      F hchod..    ~.d -& -ily-l- --                      Iig
ifAl.TO                                                                     POOPUTY TASET iROO~~~~~~~~~Gwld f-  lp PhId-__.,  1dl   ,,i,
liefret4-Ptiit yan)-gtnt   amt  fyerb                      f  itraoon                   The  oil-i-genamans  ar  very appraietei cuesatpsetyIIsa
ofae  e  the anandb ti b.pian-ha          o.,.po.u.      pl.I..---..l; 1960.  1970 an.90dt.aboaepvrpdmclnli tIe  nanelae   emssA-5  ite
eaatuha  ta  frep     gaotdhuePla    frag.an   antryall)as                            gna   eltv  pev-rty iofa level Iabo  fs-ndr  at a70cg  peetap
perodantagOna...f hitephyve .poaian.gi.Is an d  f-ha     ..are   ap tbin             pe-nlIa    a  h   tnry    r               ea  is9drive f'`  ad the9 ata
foint i  orsndotletsdo   nste h100thc.e.ridtram a-d    ihtor any hed leve                              p.l-wt   djacn  fa  highefn- iac  at linin  in-ubani te
rIs-ndhlncbtoes Iaofl  mlpta    -ds houseifeor I oteaPo nba. ha              ad             ad rotal-1 Perteat of. p-dato   fnrb   am   ofnt-l)mb  1mb  fmia...s
dono  bsv  no aps  65a dmp9p70aorn  part of- the6dayin teacing th
Pnee Ipto   -,oret f timoal.i (ost.e. of  drrylnto-)-  tonal uran Pnd total -                Lt.-i.               - ")-t                1,-    .I         .ti        -o
pertao_age  of nhIrtP_dnyrNioo  populutffood inoet dfiapde  may i-.ntlodap-     .                                                      I       f         b-f
the ollarionf ca1dmpma. athboiAnhod  greUSAtn al-d.f harii PetatoIatai"-f
trlahn  a Phystia-  Pop   oletn   tidad bdy nt,bd  of prtinn   phyi-                                                       toonodwirdt.    b.     .   and  noia  iata .tuiesain
ohn  qaife   ta   nadloal of h   hsolfsa sovasap-      e . oI    -     rdlf                        ig                      lb.mi    cupatin. and Projeotinu    -dystAs
poroatin plten ictin   Pro -Ppaino -d. iode .d by nme atAOI   h   hl                          -        pd.  p-osotiininpgp                   asp lObO        -   6
sale enod female  grd  7toris  maicn  use.proiolnusn  n
snat ssoillstln97sd..                                                                              II



ANNEX I
Population:  38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)                            -  24   -                                           Page  4  of  5
LNYI Per Capita:  USS1,516 (1980)
KOREA - ECONOIIIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                           Annual growth rates (X) at consLant prices
current prices)                                  Actual                                        Projected
:ndicator                               1980/a               1976       1977       1978       1979        1980       1981/a    1985         1990
1iATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product                59,177              13.9        10.1       11.3        7.1       -3.5         8.0        7.6        8.0
Agriculture                          9,754              10.7        2.1       -4.0         6.7      -22.0       23.0         2.5        2.5
Industry                            24,396              20.1       15.8       20.8         8.4       -0.5        4.7        10.0       10.0
Services                            25,027              10.8        9.7        11.0        6.0       -4.2        2.9         7.0        7.0
Consumption                           45,215               8.8        7.1        11.0        7.4       --1.0       4.2         4.8        6.4
Gross investment                      17,889               8.0       24.0        35.9       17.5      -24.4         5.6        8.5        7.6
Exports of GNFS                       21,145              43.0       25.7        17.5       -3.6        9.9       17.5        11.0       10.6
Imports of GNFS                       25,846              26.9       23.8        29.1        8.6       --7.7       7.9         7.4        8.8
Gross national savings                12,268              42.3        17.3       14.1        3.7      -17.7        18.0        -          -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1975 - 100)                                116.3      135.8       164.6      197.4      246.7      289.0         -          -
Exchange rate (US$1 -)                                   484.0      484.0      484.0       484.0      637.6        -           -          -
Export price index (1975 - 100)                          112.8      120.2       137.2      161.2      168.7      179.9       240.9      321.1
Import price index (1975 - 100)                          103.0      103.9       108.4      137.3      175.2      170.2      233.5       316.6
Terms of trade index (1975 - 100)                        109.5       115.7      126.6      117.4       96.3       105.7      103.2      101,4
Share of GDP at market prices (X)                         Average annual increase (%)
(at current prices)                                    (at constant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990           1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product              100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0              8.6        9.8         8.2        7.3        7.7
Agriculture                       36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    15.9          12.4         4.3        4.9       -1.2         5.3        2.5
Industry                          20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    44.4    49.2              17.4       15.3        13.5        9.1       10.0
Services                          43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    39.7    38.3               8.1        7.7        7.6         6.2        7.0
Consumption                       85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    65.7          58.1         6.7        7.8         7.1        4.8        6.1
Cross investment                   11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    33.2    33.8             23.6       11.2        14.6        9.2        8.8
Exports of GNFS                    3.4      14.3    27.6    35.7    43.7    49.6            29.3       25.4       16.1        10.9       10.5
Imports of GNFS                    12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7        42.6    43.9         20.2       15.8       17.0         7.2        8.4
Gross national savings /b           8.0    19.5    20.6    21.7         -        -          17.2       14.6         -          -          -
As X of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1980          Labor Force in 1980           Millions (%)
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                 Agricultuare                   4.7       32.2
Current revenues                           18.5        17.8       17.9       19.9            Industry                      3.9       27.1
Current expenditures                        14.3       13.1       15.4       15.6            Services                      5.1       35.5
Current surplus                              4.2        4.7        2.5        4.3            Unemployed                    0.7         5.2
Capital expenditure                          3.4        6.4        6.4        5.9
Foreign financing                            ...        1.0        1.3         1.0               Total Labor Force        14.5      100.0
1960-70           1970-75           1975-80           1980-85           1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (%)                                   8.7               9.0               7.9               7.5               8.0
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (X)                        5.9               6.9               5.2               5.9               6.4
Annual energy consumption growth rate (X)                    14.2              9.6              12.3/c             7.7
.CUR                                                         1.9               2.7               5.4               4.7               4.4
riarginal savings rate                                       0.3                0.3               0.3              0.5                0.4
Import elasticity                                            2.2                1.6              2.0                1.0              1.1
/a  Preliminary.
b  Including net transfers.
ic  1975-79.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
April 1982



- 25 -                                            ANNEX I
Population        38,445 (mid-1980, thousands)                                                               Page  5  of;
GDP per capita:  US$1,516 (1980)
IKO8EA - BALANCE OF PATMENTS,. EXTERNAL CAPITAL ANDI DEBT
(millIon US$ at current pricesD
Indicator                                                      Actual                                           Projected
1970    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    198Q    1981/a    1985    1990
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services         1,379   5,909   9,467  13,059  17,124  19,523  22,577  27,400    55,074 121,077
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.          882   5,028   7,821  10,035  12,678  14,694  17,214  20,850    43,368  97,476
Imports of goods and services         2,180   7,992  10,119  13,272  18,651  24,115  28,347  32,655    59,810 119,694
Of which: merchandise f.o.b.        1,804   6,671   8,407  10,517  14,436  19,266  21,598  24,105    45,557  95,014
Net transfers                           178      225      345      222     467      439      449      512        668      893
Current account balance                -623  -1,858    -307          8  -1,_060  -4 ,153  -5,321  -4,743    -3,968  +2,276
(% of GNP)                            (-7.2)  (-9.2)  (-1.1) (+0.02)  (-2.2)  (-7.1)  (-9.3)  (-7.2)    (-3.3)  (+3.1)
Direct investment                        66       53       75       72       61       17      96      122        800   1,749
MLT loans (net)                          242   1,252   1,238   1,458   2,746   2,944   2,096   3,419           3,821   6,019
Official                              147      486      663      594     663      853      689   1,108         893      908
Private                                95      765      575      864   2,083   2,090   1,408   2,311         2,927   5,111
Other capital                           372      929      308    -167  -1,039   2,090   4,362   1,792          1,682  -7,436
Change in reserves                      -57    -376  -1,314  -1,372    -707    -898    -863    -326    -1,348  -2,611
International reserves                  610      797   1,985   2,992   2,828   3,112   3,975   4,301           9,352  19,370
Reserves as months imports              3.4      1.2      2.4      2.7      1.8      1.5     1.7      1.6        1.8      1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements
Official grants                         -        -        -        -       -        -        -        -          -        -
Concessional loans                    123      123      238      163     184      193      138      159        205     200
DAC                                 122      108      226     132      167      173      121      158       205      200
OPEC                                  -        -        -      21       13       20       17        1          -       -
IDA                                   1       14       10       9        3        -        -        -         -        -
Other                                 -        1        2        1       -        -        -        -
Non-concessional loans                317   1,511   1,518   2,040   3,729   4,448   3,655   4,779            7,457  13,855
Official export credits              18      151      132     262      219      341      606      844        711   1,054
IBRD                                  7      189     286      190      321      426      254     306        611   1,075
Other multilateral                    5       87       83      85       89       91       90      104        168     255
Private                             287   1,083   1,017   1,503   3,101   3,591   2,705   3,525           5,968  11,471
Medium- and Long-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                         1,797   5,540   6,817   8,593  11,937  14,553  16,585  19,766    36,538  59,291
Official                            613   2,657   3,359   4,121   5,016   5,667   6,531   7,806    12,102  16,440
Private                           1,185   2,883   3,458   4,472   6,921   8,886  10,054  11,960    24,436  42,851
Undisbursed                           902   1,629   3,459   4,793   6,294   5,337  11,293   5,047            5,828   9,208
Debt Service on MLT Loans
Total service payments                268      667      910   1,201   1,827   2,634   3,192   3,505          7,083  13,444
Interest                            70      283     392      475      659      936   1,442   1,791       3,242   5,408
Payments as x exports                19.4    11.3       9.6     9.2    10.7    13.5    14.2    12.9           12.8    11.1
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                           ...   2,409   3,045   3,239   3,575   6,279  10,047  13,658    18,649  15,864
Interest payments                     ...      ...      ...     152      236      377      907   1,810      2,237   2,261
Interest as Z exports                 ...      ...      ...      1.2     1.4      1.9      4.0      6.7        4.1      1.9
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (%)
Official                              4.5      7.9      7.1      7.9     7.4      7.6        -        -          -        -
Private                               7.1      9.3      8.3      8.4     9.7    11.5         -        -
Average Maturity of New Loans (years)
Official                             28.0    19.3    21.7    18.3    19.2    16.8            -        -
Private                              10.9      5.7      8.7     8.8      9.3      9.3        -        -
As % of debt outstanding
at end of most recent
year (1980)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within  5 years                           35.6
Maturities due within 10 years                           61.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                            6.3
/a Preliminary
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
April 28, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 13 pages
- 26 -
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A.  Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1982)
Los.r or                                                                            Amount ($ million)
Credit      Calendar                                                               (less cancellations)
Number        Year         Borrower             Purpose                        Bank     TW    IDA   Undisbursed
Th-trty-one  loans and eight credits fully disbursed                        1,299.01  40.0  106.81
1203         1976    Republic of Korea       Highways III                      90.0                        0.55
1319         1976    ADC                     Irrigation                        29.0                        7.97
1264         1977    ADC                     Irrigation                        95.0                       29.03
1401         1977    Republic of Korea       Ports II                          67.0                       14.29
1474         1977    Republic of Korea       Vocational Training               23.0                        0.80
1';03        1978    ADC                     Agriculture/Irrigation            36.0                       23.05
1530         1978    Republic of Korea       Rural Infrastructure II           95.0                       17.47
1542         1978    Republic of Korea       Railway VI                       120.0                        1.22
1i74         1978    KDB III                 Dev. Finance Co.                 110.0                        0.21
1635         1978    KLTCB                   Dev. Finance Co.                 100.0                        0.37
1640         1978    Republic of Korea       Highways IV                      143.0                       37.04
1566         1979    Republic of Korea       Chungju Multipurpose             125.0                       58.05
1576         1979    Republic of Korea       Electronics Technology            29.0                       12.97
1749         1979    SMIB III                Dev. Finance Co.                  60.0                        0.71
1758         1979    Republic of Korea       Second Gwangju Regional           65.0                       50.74
1774         1979    Republic of Korea       Population 1                      30.0                       29.25
1788         1979    Korea Electric Co.    Power                              115.0                       94.32
1300         1980    Republic of Korea       Education V                      100.0                       79.83
1829         1980    CNB I                   Dev. Finance Co.                  30.0                       10.78
1835         1980    Republic of Korea       Railway VII                       94.0                       16.50
1851         1980    AFDC                    Agriculture II                    50.0                       27.83
1932         1981    KLTCB VIII              Div. Finance Co.                  90.0                       38.65
1933         1981    KDB IV                  Div. Finance Co.                 100.0                       22.72
1974         1981    Republic of Korea       Third Agriculture Credit          50.0                       34.32
i980         1981    Republic of Korea       Nat. Urban Land & Housing         90.0                       84.32
2004         1981    SMIB IV                 Dev. Finance Co.                  60.0                       54.58
2071         1982    Republic of Korea       Structural Adjustment            250.0                       80.30
2572         1982    Republic of Korea       Water Supply                      90.0                       90.00
2111         1982    Republic of Korea       Agricultural Marketing            50.0                       49.27
2_12         1982    KTDC                    Technology Development            50.0                       48.47
2:44         1982    CNB                     DFC                               30.0                       30.00
Total                                                          3,765.'11  40.0  106.81   1,045.61
of which has been repaid                                      362.52   -       -
Total now outstanding                                         3,402.49  40.0  103.12
Amount sold                       8.83
of which has been repaid       8.83                             -       -      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                              3,402.49  40.0  103.12
Total undisbursed                                              1,045.61   -       -      1,045.61



- 27 -                   ANNEX II
Page 2 of 13 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1982)
Fiscal                                                           Amount ($ million)
Year      Obligor                  Types of Business            Loan  Equity Total
1968    KDFC                        Development Financing          -      0.7    0.7
1969    Honam Silk Co.              Textiles                      1.4    0.3    1.7
1970    Atlas Paper                 Pulp and paper                4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.7    0.7
1974    KDFC                        Development Financing          -      0.4    0.4
1974    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.3    0.3
1975    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             16.0    1.3   17.3
1975    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development  5.0    0.6    5.6
1975    Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.            Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975    Hae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.       Tourism                       2.8    0.7    3.5
1976    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market Development   -        0.4    0.4
1976    Chungju Paper Mfg. Co.   Paper                            5.0    0.5    5.5
1976    Korea Zinc. Co., Ltd.    Zinc                            15.0    4.0   19.0
1976    KDFC                       Development Financing         17.8      -    17.8
1976    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products             10.0    0.4   10.4
1977    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      0.2    0.2
1977    KDFC                       Development Financing           -      0.3    0.3
1977    Korea Securities
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                 -      0.5    0.5
1977    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.            Capital Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978    KDFC                       Development Financing           -      1.1    1.1
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.7    1.7
1979    KIFC                       Capital Market                  -      0.6    0.6
1979    Korea Development
Leasing Corp.                                           -      0.2    0.2
1979    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.5    1.5
1980    Gold Star & Co., Ltd.    Electronic Products               -      1.8    1.8
1980    Korea Investment
Finance Corp.            Capital Market                 -      0.6    0.6
1980/82 Korea Securities
Finance Corp.                                           -      1.1    1.1
1980    KDFC                       Development Financing           -      2.2    2.2
1981   Taihan Bulk Terminal        Grain Port Terminal            7.0    2.5    9.5
Co., Ltd.
1982   KIFC                        Capital Market                  -      0.6    0.6
1982   K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)        Research & Development         -      0.7    0.7
Total gross commitment                                  106.4   28.9  135.3
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                   75.2    4.0   79.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                        31.2   24.9   56.1
TOTAL undisbursed                                          -     1.2    1.2
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 13 pages
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECIJTION /1 AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; $29.0 Million Loan
of August 5, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project comprises irrigation and land development on 10,350 ha
together with river channel improvements and village roads. The project area
has been reduced from 12,665 ha at appraisal as a result of deleting about
2,300 ha of land development which, because of the sharp escalation in
construction costs, have become uneconomic. The project has been divided
into eight subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract.
One of these subprojects has been completed, and four more will be completed
by mid-1984; loan disbursements will be limited to these five subprojects.
An extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan No. 1364    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II; $95.0 Million
Loan of February 11, 1977; Effective Date: April 22, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project will provide irrigation and land development on 20,700
ha in the lower reaches of the Yong San River. Project works include an
estuary dam on the Yong San river, sea dike, pumping plants, irrigation
canals, reclamation of 5,500 ha of tidal lands, conversion of 3,250 ha of
uplands for irrigation of paddy, land consolidation on 3,200 ha, and irriga-
tion of 1,050 ha of uplands. The main contract for the estuary dam construc-
tion, awarded in December 1977, is complete. Other parts of the project have
fallen behind due to a shortage of local budget. The Bank and the Government
recently agreed that loan disbursements would be limited to the ten subproj-
ects under implementation and scheduled for completion in 1984.
Loan No. 1503    Ogseo Area Development Project - Stage I; $36.0 Million
Loan of January 4, 1978; Effective Date: March 29, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project will provide irrigation and drainage improvements for
10,800 ha, including 5,800 ha of land consolidation and 1,800 ha of land use
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in partictular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 13 pages
conversion from upland to paddy. The project has been divided into seven
subprojects, each to be constructed under a separate contract. Insufficient
budgetary allocations have delayed the project from its start in 1978, but
the Government has now approved a funding program which will allow completion
of five subprojects by 1984 and Bank disbursements will be limited to these
subprojects. An extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan No. 1530    Rural Infrastructure Project II; $95.0 Million Loan of
March 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 8, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes about 36 minor irrigation subprojects, conr-
struction or improvement of 2,500 km of river levees or bank protection,
contruction or improvement of water systems for 7,400 villages, and telephone
line installation to provide new service for 2,700 villages and 76,000 addi-
tional lines to other villages. The river levee bank construction, rural
telephones and the water supply components are complete. The minor irriga-
tion component is scheduled for completion by the end of 1983, about one
year behind schedule.
Loan No. 1851    Second Agricultural Products Processing Project;
$50 Million Loan of June 27, 1980; Effective Date:
September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1984:
The project provides funds to the Agriculture and Fishery Develop-
ment Corporation (AFDC) for medium- and long-term loans to the private
sector for the construction and equipping of agroprocessing facilities, and
for technical assistance to AFDC. The project has been progressing satis-
factorily with lending being directed increasingly towards ensuring that the
project would finance a wide range of processing facilities and that medium
and small size processors would be the main recipients of the total project
funds.
Loan No. 1974    Third Agricultural Credit Project;  $50 Million Loan of
May 13, 1981; Effective Date: August 11, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project would help increase of (a) production of high-value
fruits and vegetables; (b) farm productivity; and (c) off-season employment.
Over the four-year period, the project would provide credit nationwide for
financing a wide range of activities, notably: greenhouses, sprinkler
irrigation, onr-farm storage, chilled storage, spraying equipment, small-scale
agro-processing and backyard livestock. Project implementation is proceeding
rapidly with disbursements ahead of schedule.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 13 pages
Loan No. 2111    Agricultural Wholesale Marketing Project; $50.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1982; Effective Date:  August 6, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project provides for construction and equipping of an agricul-
tural wholesale market at Garagdong in Seoul, the establishment of an author-
ity to run the market, training for wholesale and market officials and
carrying out a study of Korea's agricultural marketing system and related
public policies. The main civil works contract for construction of the
market has been awarded and construction is underway.
Multipurpose
Loan No. 1666    Chungju Multipurpose Project; $125.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: July 11, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help meet the growing demand for municipal,
industrial and irrigating water in the Han Basin for about 20 years
following its completion in 1984, and would substantially reduce flood
damage, and generate an average of 770 million kilowatt hours annually for
Korea's power system. The principal features of the project are a 90 m high
concrete dam and a 450 MW power plant on the South Han River, a reregulating
dam about 20 km downstream of the main dam, relocation of roads and a rail-
way, and implementation of a resettlement program for some 9,300 families
affected by the project. The contract for the main dam and power plant was
awarded in December 1979 and construction is proceeding on schedule. The
major accomplishments to date are completion of the excavation of the slide
zone on the right bank and diversion of the river through the left bank
tunnels. Detailed planning is underway for the resettlement program.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 1574    Third Korea Development Bank Project; $110 Million Loan of
June 21, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB; apart from direct imports, the
loan would be utilized by KDB to finance the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods. An amount of up to $10.0 million of
the proceeds of the loan was made available to KDB's subsidiary, the Korea
Industrial Leasing Corporation Ltd. (KILC), by way of subloans in order to
finance small- and medium-sized leasing projects. Project implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily and loan disbursement is nearly complete.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1635    Seventh Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
$100.0 Million Loan of December 7, 1978; Effective Date:
February 6, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan was made to cover the foreign exchange requirements of
subprojects to be financed by KDFC. In order to support relatively
labor-intensive enterprises, a component of $20 million was earmarked for
financing specifically: (a) enterprises with fixed assets not exceeding
$750,000; or (b) projects generating employment at a fixed investment cost
per job not greater than $12,500. Also, in order to finance small- and
medium-sized leasing projects, an amount of up to $10.0 million of the
proceeds of the loan was made available to the Korea Development Leasing
Corporation (KDLC), a leasing company affiliated to KDFC, by way of
subloans. Progress is good and disbursement is nearly complete.
Loan No. 1676    Electronics Technology Project; $29.0 Million Loan of
March 29, 1979; Effective Date: June 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project comprises two components: (a) the development of Korea
Institute of Electronic Technology (KIET) which, through its service, devel-
opment and production activities, would stimulate and support the Korean
electronics industry's drive into new areas; and (b) the establishment of a
program to promote and finance RD&E carried out by KIET for the electronics
industry. Project implementation was about 18 months behind schedule due to
delays in procurement and shortage of local funds. However, the semiconduc-
tor facility, which is the main physical component of the project, is opera-
tional. KIET's work program has been prepared with input from industry.
The training and expert invitation program has been implemented satisfac-
torily. Some shortage of counterpart funds which had affected the project
and proposed institutional changes which had given rise to concern have been
addressed by the Government.
Loan No. 1749    Third Small and Medium Industry Bank Project; $60 Million
Loan of July 23, 1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979,
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan would be
utilized by SMIB to finance the foreign exchange component of domestically
produced capital goods. To ensure that a reasonable proportion of the loan
is directed towards small, labor-intensive projects, an amount of $25 mil-
lion of the proceeds of the loan will be earmarked to finance: (a) enter-
prises with fixed assets not exceeding $300,000; or (b) projects generating
employment at a fixed investment cost per job not greater than $8,500. The
loan would assist SMIB in its efforts to support the Government's policy of
increasing the regional dispersal of employment opportunities and of deep-
ening the industrial structure, and also to continue SMIB support of projects
which would complement large-scale manufacturing enterprises. About 98% of
the loan has been committed and disbursement is nearly complete.



- 32 -
AINEX II
Page 7 of 13 pages
Loan No. 1829    Citizens National Bank (CNB); $30 Million Loan of May 7,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980, Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The loan is being used to cover part of the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by the Citizens National Bank
(CNB) over a two-year period, and would assist CNB in its efforts to support
the Government's policy in increasing regional dispersal of employment
opportunities and of deepening the industrial structure. Apart from direct
imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by CNB to finance the
foreign exchange components of domestically produced capital goods. The
project would also enable the Bank to help build up CNB's project appraisal
capabilities. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1932    Eighth Korea Long-Term Credit Bank Project; $90.0 Million
Loan of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KLTCB over the next two years. In
order to encourage increased mobilization of medium-term foreign commercial
borrowings by KLTCB, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature,
which would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The
project incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which
would be implemented by the Government as a part of a comprehensive reform
of the financial system of Korea. The project is progressing well. Both
commitments and disbursements are on schedule.
Loan No. 1933    Fourth Korea Development Bank Project; $100 Million Loan
of January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange require-
ments of subprojects to be financed by KDB over the next 1:wo years. In
order to encourage a reduction in KDB-s reliance on long-term official
borrowings, the loan incorporates a special amortization feature, which
would permit the blending of Bank and commercial resources. The project
incorporates a package of financial sector policy measures which would be
implemented by the Government, as a part of a comprehensive reform of the
financial system of Korea. The project is progressing well. Disbursements
are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 2004    Fourth Korea Small and Medium Industry Bank Loan;
$60.0 Million Loan of July 7, 1981; Effective Date:
September 1, 1981; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
The loan is being used to help cover the foreign exchange
requirements of subprojects to be financed by SMIB over the next two years.
Apart from direct imports, the proceeds of the loan are being utilized by
SMIB to finance the foreign exchange components of domestically produced



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 13 pages
capital goods (estimated at 60%). The loan assists SMIB in its efforts to
support the Government's policy of increasing the productivity of Korea's
small- and medium-scale industrial sector which plays a vital role in
providing employment opportunities and in assisting the country's export
effort. It also initiates an attempt to improve and expand extension
services for the SMI sector. Commitments and disbursement are slightly
behind appraisal estimates; however, SMIB expects full commitment and
disbursement of the loan ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 2112    Technology Development Project; $50.0 Million Loan of
April 5, 1982; Effective Date: June 10, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
The project would help foster the technological development of
Korean industry by supporting the development of the Korea Technology Devel-
opment Corporation (KTDC). Specifically, the loan will finance $1.0 million
worth of technical assistance and training of KTDC staff and provide a $49.0
million line of credit to finance industry RD&E. Subprojects are expected
to be approved by KTDC up to end-1984. The project is making excellent
operational progress. As of June 15, 1982, the Bank had approved subloans
of $5.6 million equivalent for 18 subprojects.
Loan No. 2144    Citizens National Bank II; $30.0 Million Loan of May 24,
1982; Effective Date: August 24, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
The project would assist CNB to move toward term transformation,
upgrade CNB's term lending capability at the branch level and encourage CNB
to diversify its sources of foreign currency. In line with the Bank-s con-
tinued support of small-scale industries (SSI), at least $15.0 million of
the loan is earmarked for financing smaller SSIs employing no more than 50
workers. In addition, at least $15.0 million of the Bank loan proceeds is
earmarked for projects outside the city limits of Seoul. The loan became
effective on August 24, 1982.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1774    Population Project;$30 Million Loan of December 27, 1979;
Effective Date: March 21, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project would provide for the construction, furnishing and
equipping of 91 Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning Centers in rural
areas; 11 Family Planning Clinics in low-income urban areas, expanded infor-
mation, education and communication production and training facilities, and
upgraded health centers; providing and equipping 13 mobile family planning
units; provision of about 75 vehicles, and training and information, educa-
tion and communication equipment; production and distribution of information,
education and communication materials; fellowships; research and evaluation;
and information, education and administrative staff. Training of multipur-
pose midwives is progressing satisfactorily and 400 staff have been trained



- 34-
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 13 pages
to date and training of a further 1,120 multipurpose workers is being under-
taken. Construction of 14 maternal and child health family planning centers
are in the final stages of completion. Euqipment procurement ior these
centers has progressed satisfactorily.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1474    Vocational Training Project; $23.0 Millicin Loan of
July 22, 1977; Effective Date: October 25, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project includes the establishment of eight new Vocational
Training Institutes (VTIs), equipment for a National Central Vocational
Training Institute (NCVTI) and technical assistance to be provided by UNDP
and Germany.  After an initial delay implementation is now on schedule.  All
civil works contracts have been awarded. All eight VTIs and the central
VTI are in full operation and performance is satisfactory.  A11 equipment
has been awarded. All experts are in post and the fellowship program has
been completed. Management performance has also improved.
Loan No. 1800    Higher Technical Education; $100.0 Million Loan of
February 21, 1980; Effective Date: April 7, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is the Bank's first subsector loan in education. It
finances public and private institutions in higher technical education and
will be approximately allocated as followed: $60 million for engineering,
$36 million for technicians and $4 million for technical assistance. The
project includes about 10 national programs for staff and curriculum develop-
ment and 55 subprojects for equipment. The objectives of the project are:
(a) to alleviate manpower problems, (b) to improve quality and (c) to reduce
the investment gap between public and private institutions. Initial imple-
mentation of the project is satisfactory with all 10 national Drograms and
55 subprojects already prepared. Management capability for implementation
has been strengthened with additional staff. Actual performance on teacher
recruitment is behind schedule but the anticipated 1980-84 target will be
reached as planned.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1758    Second Gwangju Regional Project; $65.0 Million Loan of
September 27, 1979; Effective Date: February 15, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is a multicomponent regional development project con-
sisting of:  housing - 3,950 residential plots in Gwangju, Mogpo and Yeosu;
industrial estates - 200 ha of serviced industrial land in Gwangju and Mogpo;
water supply - improvements to water supply systems in NDgpo, Yeosu and
Narodo; transportation - two bridges to link Dolsan and Jindo islands with
the mainland, improvements to a 1.9 km commercial road in Yecsu and ferry



- 35 -
ANNEX IT
Page 10 of 13 pages
service between Narodo and the mainland; fisheries - an aquaculture develop-
ment program and a shrimp storage facility at Imjado; and technical assist-
ance. The physical works have been divided into 15 subprojects. Contracts
have been awarded on 13 subprojects while 2 subprojects have been cancelled.
Four subprojects have been completed on schedule and are being transferred
to the cities and county concerned. Land acquisition has been essentially
completed and construction is well underway. Only limited construction was
possible on both Jindo and Dolsan Bridges during 1981 because of insufficient
Government budget allocations; however, construction is now proceeding as
originally programmed. A continuous budget has been established for Central
Government funded subprojects whereby annual allocations have been determined
for the life of the project.
Loan No. 1980    National Urban Land Development and Housing Project;
$90.0 Million Loan of May 13, 1981; Effective Date:
August 11, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The objective of the project is to provide affordable housing for
low-income families and serviced land for middle-income families in 10
medium-sized cities.  The four Phase I sites would provide 4,100 dwellings
(low income) and 1,200 serviced lots for middle-income houses. The six
Phase II sites would provide more than 6,000 housing lots including about
4,400 low-income dwellings. Overall project progress is satisfactory.
Contract work on nine of the original ten sites have been completed. The
tenth site has been ommitted due to the uncertainty of marketability of the
site. Further savings due to lower than estimated bids for land preparation
and timely implementation have been achieved. KLDC proposed to utilize
these savings to finance development of three supplementary sites (Seoul
Goduck, Busan Manduck and Gwangju Yeomgju). This has been agreed after
review of feasibility studies, and contracts awarded. A fourth supplemen-
tary site is under consideration for financing out of cost savings, subject
to mutual agreement by KLDC and KNHS and agreement on use and pricing of
low-income land.
Loan No. 2072    First Water Supply Project; $90.0 Million Loan of
December 22, 1981; Effective Date: April 1, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
The principal objective of the project is to improve access to safe
water supplies to the populations of the municipalities of Daegu and Gwangju
and for the Masan Region serving jointly the cities of Masan, Changwon and
Jinhae. The project would also support the Government's efforts to improve
the organization and coordination of the sector as well as to increase
capability of institutions: at the national level where the Water Resources
Bureau of MOC would receive assistance and training in project planning and
implementation; at the regional level where three cities under this project
would jointly build and manage source works for more efficient water



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 13 pages
utilization; and at the local level where individual city water bureaus would
receive technical assistance to improve their financial and management
capabilities. The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 1401    Second Ports Project; $67.0 Million Loan of April 28, 1977;
Effective Date:  July 27, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31,
1982
The project provides mainly for continuation of the extenion of
the Port of Busan started under the First Ports Pro'ject with special emphasis
in container handling facilities. The project comprises: (a) a 700 m exten-
sion of the container terminal including stacking areas, dLredging, access
road, container freight station and equipment and ancillary works and equip-
ment; (b) rehabilitation of 4 existing general cargo handling berths; and (c)
acquisition of two tugboats. The institutional component of the projects
provides for technical assistance and training to improve KMPA's capability
in port planning and operations and managerial and accounting procedures.
The feasibility study and detailed engineering for the proposed third ports
project have recently been added to the project and Schedule I of the Loan
Agreement amended accordingly.  Project completion is expected for June 1983.
Loan No. 1542    Sixth Railway Project; $120.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1978; Effective Date: August 3, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is part of the railroad Investment Plan 1977-81, and
includes (a) electrification and double tracking of Seoul City suburban lines;
(b) capacity increases in lines and stations; (c) way and structure renewals
and improvements; (d) procurement and repowering/remodeling of diesel loco-
motives and rolling stock; (e) modernization and construction of repair
facilities; (f) improving telecommunications and power supply facilities; and
(g) provision of staff housing, training equipment and advisory services.
The project is near completion.
Loan No. 1640    Fourth Highway Project; $143.0 Million Loan of December 7,
1978; Effective Date:  March 14, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) construction and improvement,
including paving and supervision by consultants, of 36 sections of national
roads totaling about 950 km; (b) construction and improvement, including
paving and supervision by consultants, of 10 sections of provincial roads
totaling about 280 km; (c) procurement of additional road maintenance
equipment for maintaining national roads; (d) a study by consultants of the
institutions involved in the planning, design, maintenance, construction,
administration and financing of provincial and county (gun) roads, and the
preparation of a program for improving the organization and functions of
such institutions, upgrading provincial and gun road maintenance and the



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 13 pages
future development of the Gun road system, to be followed by detailed
engineering of about 2,000 km of gun roads; and (e) provision of fellowships
for training staff of the Ministry of Construction. An estimated 80% of
the civil works were completed by end September 1982. Maintenance equipment
procurement is underway. The study reports of the Gun Road Development
Program and of the Provincial and Gun Road Maintenance Program have been
finalized and detailed engineering for Gun Roads have been completed. An
extension of the closing date is under consideration.
Loan No. 1836    Seventh Railway Project; $94 Million Loan of May 21,
1980; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
December 12, 1983
The project is the 1980-81 part of the railroad investment plan,
1977-81, and includes (a) capacity increases in lines and stations; (b) way
and structure renewals and improvements; (c) procurement and repowering!
repair of locomotives and rolling stock; (d) modernization and construction
of repair facilities; (e) improvement of telecommunications and power
supply facilities; (f) implementation of management improvements; and (g)
overseas training. The loan also finances training in transport planning
and coordination and technical assistance for transport feasibility and
urban transport studies. After a slow start, the project is now progressing
well. The Management Technical Assistance contract is under way. One of
the Transport Studies is about to start and terms of reference for another is
being finalized.
Power Sector
Loan No. 1788    Gojeong Power Project, $115 Million Loan of December 27,
1979; Effective Date: March 21, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides for (a) a thermal power station with two
500 MW coal/oil-fired units and associated auxiliary equipment; (b) coal
handling and storage facilities, fuel-oil tanks, ash system and storage
area; (c) a fuel unloading dock; (d) a pumping station to transport fresh
water to the station; (e) a 160 km of double circuit, 345 KV transmission
line and related terminal substations and (f) consulting services for
management and organization study of KECO. Execution of works is slightly
behind schedule. Completion date of the first unit is estimated to be
December 1983/January 1984. Management and organization study was completed
and reviewed by the Bank in January 1982. There were substational delays in
the preparation of bidding documents, but all contracts have now been placed.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 13 pages
Structural Adjustment
Loan No. 2071    Structural Adjustment Loan; $250.0 Million Loan of
December 22, 1981; Effective Date: March 4, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan will support the Government's comprehensive structural
adjustment program, the principal aim being to keep the balance of payments
manageable while restoring the growth momentum of the economy. To achieve
these medium-term objectives, specific actions will be taken (i) to save
imports (particularly energy-related imports); (ii) to promote exports and
improve industrial efficiency through consolidation of investment, further
opening of the economy and reducing government intervent:ion; and (iii) to
strengthen domestic resource mobilization efforts. The foreign exchange
provided by the loan is being used to finance essential imports. Overall
progress has been satisfactory and the second and final tranche of $100.0
million was released on August 27, 1982.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
KOREA
SECOND NATIONAL URBAN LAND DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:             Eight months
(b)  Agencies which prepared the project:    KLDC, with the assistance of
local consultants, KNHC, and
MOC/NHF.
(c)  First presentation to Bank:                September 1981.
(d)  Departure date of Appraisal mission:    March 1982.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:        September 25, 1982
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:             February/March 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(i) signing of subsidiary loan agreements between ROK and MOC as
manager of NRF and ROK and KLDC (para. 52); and
(ii)  signing of the agreement between KLDC and KNHC (para. 46).
(b) Conditions of disbursement (for the concerned agency):
(i)  establishment of Project Account by NHF (para. 57); and
(ii) signing of the financing agreements between NHF and KNHC
(para. 52).
(c) The Government would:
(i) undertake a study of incentives and disincentives in the housing
sector and their allocation (para. 36);



- 40 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(ii) undertake a study of the requirements for and location of
appropriate appraisal capacity for public developer proposals
(para. 40);
(iii) use agreed planning and allocation criteria and procedures for
housing (para. 45);
(iv)  adopt agreed role and function of the senior Liaison Committee
(para. 46);
(v) use agreed city and site selection criteria (para. 46);
(vi) use agreed procedures for the participation of cooperatives in the
project (para. 46); and
(vii)  provide the appropriate level of equity contributionis and cause an
adequate level of pension funds to be provided to NHF (para. 48);



IBRD 16490R
U s S R                                        127 7                         I28                             29                      OCTOBER 1982
,                  '    N O RT H  KORE A
C H I N A            /          \                                                                        _     .
J
.S P A oJ 9l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mhwo ~)  
r  JUpon Sea  cjh
q~KORE4                                                                                                                       s          e
ellow    5JAPAN                                    Panmm                    N         -   C           Q                                                          W \  3sv
xi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                        n     g     NGnh,  ,      G   ''v'r' E  N Q
/1                -~~~~~ii         -y
[2hta5ett                                                              t                                                               R  j  Mugho
QS- i S- ~~~~~~ X126                        S                                                                                  mcheok
This -p ha bn ptp-d by t . thI ey                                                                                   Jengse
Wunbe Bath utet--S'nhy be, 
T--t dehohhu ni d Sea th.f                                                                       n
d. not, ntoh,t n   -thetWtnt                                        on        \
WhaId Been edtnsSee  n
y<dsh .,dnfl,,,t uno t  <eheD IegInIst \1
Sty terttfty n/Stydredm In5OflIS5uInIb        ,r  s                                                                                       ]37
36'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3'
:~~~~~~~~ UX                                      G
A            (                           X          4   U Gt..  0~~~~~~~~~~~~G 
-36   g e, Zo w;    S e a   Jrz    X l  sfgeor7gg<  <      G    I     m     c h           \P o h a n g                        36~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Phan  36
S..bse.ngp       j    j    r                    7      (Y E C) N1 G $           _gP                 |,
WRgAS                                                                    SANJ
159                       <                                  4                         +^                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~35,
~~~ J E~~Lc 
KOREA
undo ,r~ >'iLAND DEVELOPMENT AND HOUSING  PROJECT FT
-          A                                        PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT SITES
N                                                             Uil   PROJECTISITES 2N20E0CONSTRUCT,ON,          34
-34                                                     X                                                        :3    PROJECT 11 PHASE I SITES (PROPOSED)
PRIMARY ROADS
Hb-5---u RILWA,YS
RIVsRS
-               LZiZZZ ~~~~~~~SPECIAL CITIES
_   - PROsINCIALBOUNDARIES
*-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
2  3  A      60    bE    100    120    14O    hO0
S.ogipo                                           29           KiLOMETERS
12 -                            16                                                                                       MILES                        IR1
135'                    ~~~~~~~~~~26'                    127"                            122'                             22



