LOAN NUMBER 2216 ED
KNHC Project Agreement
(Second National Urban Land Development
and Rousing Project)
41                                            between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
KOREA NTIONAL HOUSING CDRPORATION
Dated December 20, 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2216 I0
KNRC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1982, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and KOREA NATIONAL HOUSING CORPORATION (hereinafter called
KNHC).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank,
the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to one hundred million dollars
($100,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that KNHC agree to undertake
such abligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS KNHC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. KNHC shall carry out Parts C and F (3) (ii) of
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with   appropriate  administrative,   financial,   economic,   and
engineering practices.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the civil works to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to
the Loan Agreement.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. (a) KNHC undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation anL delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such        insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by KNHC to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, KNHC shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) KNRC shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) KNHC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures ade-
quate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (includ-
ing its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan,
and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by KNHC of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between KNHC and the
Bank, KNHC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of those Parts of


﻿9                             -3-
the Project for which it is responsible, the cost and the bene-
fits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by KNHC
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) KNHC shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of KNHC and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.05. (a) KNHC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) KNHC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by KNHC of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.06. KNHC shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed, all
such land and rights in respect of such land as shall be required
for carrying out its responsibilities under the Project, and
shall furnish to the Bank promptly after such acquisition, evi-
dence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in
respect of land are available for purposes related to the
Project.
Section 2.07. (a) KNHC shall enter into an agreement with
KLDC on the terms and timing of the sale of land under Part A.(4)
of the Project, whose tLrms and conditions shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.
(b) KNHC shall enter into a financing agreement with MOC in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 (b) of the Loan
Agreement.
(c) KNRC shall develop and apply, in cooperation with KLDC
and the supervision of the Liaison Committee referred to in
Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement, the eligibility criteria for
the sites to be developed by KLDC under Parts A (1) and (2) of
the Project and to be sold to KNHC under Part A.4 of the Project.
(d) In planning the construction of the units under Part C
(1) of the Project, KNHC shall in consultation with the Bank


﻿-4-
determine the unit sizes affordable to each income group eligible
under the Project and shall, from time to time, review such unit
sizes in view of any material changes in the interest rate and
down payment policies or the prevailing cost of land development
and housing construction.
Section 2.08. KNHC shall: (a) carry out market surveys to
determine the mix of housing types to be constructed under the
Project; (b) furnish to the Bank for comments the results of such
surveys and its housing mix proposals for each Project City; and
(c) upon approval of such housing mix proposals by the Bank, pre-
pare the layouts and plans for the respective sites.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KNHC
Section 3.01. KNHC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
economic and engineering practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. KNHC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and re-
newals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.
Section 3.03. KNHC shall take out and maintain with respons-
ible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. KNHC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) KNHC shall establish and maintain separate
accounts for purposes of Part C of the Project.


﻿9                             -5-
(b) KNHC 'shall: (i) have its accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
such separate accounts and its financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
KNHC and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of KNHC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly so notify KNHC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter


﻿-6-
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For KNHC:
Korea National Housing Corporation
San 21, Hak-Dong, Kangnaw-Ku
Seoul
Korea
Cable address:
KOHOCO
Seoul
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of KNHC, may be taken or executed by the
Executive Director of Engineering of KNHC or such other person or
persons as the Executive Director of Engineering shall designate
in writing, and KNHC shall furnish to the Bank sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signa-
ture of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ S. S. Kirmani
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
KOREA NATIONAL HOUSING CORPORATION
By Is/ Chong-Sang Park
Authorized Representative


