LOAN NUMBER 2216 KO
KLDC Project Agreement
(Second National Urban Land Development
and Housing Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND IEVELOPMENT
and
KOREA LAND IEVELOPMENT ORPORATION
Dated December 20, 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2216 XD
KLDC PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 20, 1982, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and KOREA LAND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter called
KLDC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred million
dollars ($100,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that KLDC agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter set
forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and KLDC, a portion of the proceeds of the
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available
to KLDC on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS KLDC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. KLDC shall carry out Parts A and F (1), F (3)
(1) and F (4) of the Project, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and
engineering practicez.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. Fxcept as the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to the
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) KLDC undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insuratnce any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by KLDC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, KLDC shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively for the
Project.
Section 2.04. With respect to those Parts of the Project for
which KLDC is responsible, KLDC shall:
(a) furnish to the Bank, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, training programs, contract
documents and work and procurement schedules, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)  (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and
the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to dis-
close their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by KLDC of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.


﻿-3-
(d) Promptly -after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose jetween K%DC and the
Bank, KLDC shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest, on the execution and initial operation of those Parts of
the Project for which it is responsible, the cost and the bene-
fits derived and to be derived therefrom, the performance by KLDC
and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Project
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
(e) KLDC shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of KLDC and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.05. KLDC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the KLDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, KLDC shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the KLDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.06. (a) KLDC shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the KLDC Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) KLDC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by KLDC of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the KLOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) KLDC shall enter into an agreement with
each Project City where off-site infrastructure and community
facilities are to be financed by KLDC which terms and conditions
shall include, inter alia, that: (i) each Project City shall
agree to assist KLDC as necessary in the implementation of the
Project in that city, including, inter alla, by providing in a
timely manner its share of funds for off-site infrastructure and
community facilities; and (ii) with respect to the Project site
to be developed under Land Readjustment procedures, the Project
City shall agree to undertake all negotiations with original land
owners, including agreement on the basic development plan for the


﻿-4-
area, and KLDC shall agree to undertake site planning, engineer-
ing and construction works on behalf of such Project City.
(b) KLDC shall provide the Bank with a copy of each Project
City agreement promptly after its conclusion.
Section 2.08. KLDC shall take or cause to be taken all such
action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all
such land and rights in respect of such land as shall be required
for carrying out its responsibilities under the Project, and
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evi-
dence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in res-
pect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 2.09. In order to assist KLDC in carrying out Parts
F (1), and F (4) of the Project, KLDC shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank, such consultants to
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Execu-
ting Agency," published by the Bank in August, 1981.
Section 2.10. (a) KLDC shall enter into an agreement with
KNRC on the terms and timing of the sale of land under Part A.(4)
of the Project, which terms and conditions shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.
(b) KLDC shall develop and apply, in cooperation with KNHC
and under the supervision of the Liaison Committee to be estab-
lished pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.05 of the Loan
Agreement, the eligibility criteria for the selection of sites to
be developed by KLDC under Parts A (1) and (2) of the Project and
to be sold to KNHC under Part A (4) of the Project and shall to
that effect enable KNHC to review the draft drawings and specifk-
cations for such land developments.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KLDC
Section 3.01. KLDC shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
economic and engineering practices under the supervision of qua-
lified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.


﻿-5-
Section 3.02. KLDC shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and
financial practices.
Section 3.03. KLDC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. KLDC shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. (a) KLDC shall establish and maintain separate
accounts for purposes of Parts A, F (1) and F (4) of the Project.
(b) KLDC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
such separate accounts and its financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reason-
ably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other informa-
tion concerning the accounts and financial statements of KLDC and
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿-6-
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of KLDC thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly so notify KLDC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any votice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For KLDC:
Korea Land Development Corporation
Samick Building
Yongsan-Ku
Seoul
Korea


﻿-7-
Cable address:                       Telex:
LANDCORP                           K23376
Seoul                              SAMHOUS
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of KLDC may be taken or executed by the Vice
President for Planning, Research and Finance of KLDC or such
other person or persons as the Vice President for Planning,
Research and Finance of KLDC shall designate in writing, and KLDC
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all col-
lectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. S. Kirmani
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
KOREA LAND DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By /s/ Chong-Sang Park
Authorized Representative


