Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 2962 TUN
                   (Structural Adjustment Loan)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 26, 1988
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  September  26,  1988,  between  REPUBLIC OF
TUNISIA (the Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated May 19, 1988
from the Borrower describing a  program of actions, objectives and
policies  designed  to   achieve   structural  adjustment  of  the
Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower's  commitment  to  the  execution  of  the  Program,  and
requesting assistance from the  Bank  in the financing of urgently
needed imports required during such execution; and
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of  the  Program  to provide such assistance to
the Borrower by making  the  Loan  in  two tranches as hereinafter
provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereof  set  forth  below  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
          "'Project' means the  imports  and other activities that
     may be financed out of  the  proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
     the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
          "(c)  Not later than  six  months after the Closing Date
     or such later date as may  be agreed for this purpose between
     the Borrower and  the  Bank,  the  Borrower shall prepare and
     furnish to the  Bank  a  report,  of  such  scope and in such
     detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
     of the program  referred  to  in  the  Preamble  to the Loan
     Agreement, the performance by the  Borrower  and the Bank of their
     respective  obligations   under   the   Loan   Agreement  and  the
     accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."; and
     (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC"   means   the    Standard   International   Trade
Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986);
     (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (c)  "TD" means Dinar in the currency of the Borrower;
     (d)  "NAP"  Classification"   means   the   nomenclature  for
activities  and  products  as  established  and  published  by the
Borrower's National Institute of Statistics;
     (e)  "Effective  Cost  of  Preferential  Credits"  means  the
arithmetic weighed  average  of  the  interest  rate  paid  on the
portion of the loan obtained  at  a Preferential Interest Rate (as
defined thereafter) and the interest  rate  paid on the portion of
the loan obtained at market rate; and
     (f)  "Preferential Interest  Rate"  means  a lending interest
rate below the money market prevailing  on the day of the approval
of the loan by the lender.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  the Loan
Agreement, an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to one
hundred fifty million dollars ($150,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Program,
open and maintain  in  dollars  a  special  account  in the Banque
Centrale de Tunisie on  terms  and  conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. Deposits into,  and  payments  out  of,  the Special Account
Page  3
shall be made in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  April 30, 1990 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section  2.08.  (a)  The   Banque   Centrale  de  Tunisie  is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action  required  or  permitted  to  be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this  Agreement and Article V of the
General Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction  to the foregoing, the
Borrower hereby  entrusts  the  Banque  Centrale  de  Tunisie with
responsibility  for  the  preparation  of  withdrawal applications
under the Loan and for  the  collection of the documents and other
evidence  to  be  furnished  to   the  Bank  in  support  of  such
applications; such  withdrawal  applications  shall  to the extent
practicable be  consolidated  so  as  to  apply  for withdrawal of
aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower  and  the Bank shall from time
to time, at the  request  of  either  party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in  carrying  out  the  Program  and the actions
specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for  its  review  and  comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out  the  Program, in such detail as
Page  4
the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed  by  the  provisions  of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with  consistently  maintained   sound  accounting  practices  the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account  for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, a  certified  copy of the report of
               such audit by said  auditors,  of such scope and in
               such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish  to   the   Bank   such  other  information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audits  referred  to in paragraph (b)
               of this Section and  that  the report of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that a situation has  arisen  which  shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
Page  5
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  5.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the Borrower has employed consultants with qualifi-
cations, experience and  terms  of  reference  satisfactory to the
Bank to assist the Borrower in carrying out:
          (i)  a  study   to   identify   suitable   measures  for
               safeguarding  its   market   against  unfair  trade
               practices  from  suppliers  outside  the Borrower's
               territory;
         (ii)  a review by the Borrower  of its banking sector and
               a study of measures  to increase competition within
               said sector; and
        (iii)  a  study  to  evaluate   the  implications  of  the
               extension of a  value  added  tax  system to retail
               trade;
     (b)  that a value  added  tax  system  and  a consumption tax
system satisfactory to the Bank have been implemented; and
     (c)  that a draft law,  satisfactory  to  the Bank, on direct
taxation  has  been  submitted   to  the  Borrower's  Assembly  of
Representatives; and
     (d)  that  a  circular  has  been  issued  announcing  as  of
January  1,  1989,  the   increase   of   the  Effective  Cost  of
Preferential Credits to at least 7%.
     Section 5.02. The date  one  hundred  twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided  in Section 2.08 (a) of this
Agreement, the Minister of Planning  of the Borrower is designated
as representative of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Planning
          Place Ali Zouaoui
          Tunis
          Tunisia
          Cable address:                      Telex: 93415117
               MIPLAN
               Tunis
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
Page  6
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the city of West Berlin, as of
the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
                        By /s/ Mohamed Ghannouchi
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ W. Thalwitz
                                           Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   Subject to the provisions  set  forth  or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan  may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if  the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of  the  reasonable cost of goods and services
required during the execution  of  the  Program and to be financed
out of such proceeds.
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods  included  in  the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any  successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as  designated by the Bank by notice
to the Borrower:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
      112                    -              Alcoholic beverages
      121                    -              Tobacco,       unmanu-
                                            factured,      tobacco
                                            refuse
      122                    -              Tobacco,  manufactured
                                            (whether     or    not
                                            containing     tobacco
                                            substitutes)
      525                    -              Radioactive        and
                                            associated materials
      667                    -              Pearls,  precious  and
                                            semi-precious  stones,
                                            unworked or worked
     718                     718.7          Nuclear  reactors, and
                                            parts   thereof,  fuel
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated     for
Page  7
                                            nuclear reactors
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
     897                     897.3          Jewelry    of    gold,
                                            silver   or   platinum
                                            group  metals  (except
                                            watches    and   watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
      971                    -              Gold,     non-monetary
                                            (excluding  gold  ores
                                            and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in  the  currency  of  the  Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (d)  expenditures for goods  procured under contracts costing
less than $50,000 equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods  supplied  under a contract which
any national  or  international  financing  institution  or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance;
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended  for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption; and
     (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent
to $30,000,000 for petroleum products, natural gas and foodstuffs.
3.   No withdrawal  shall  be  made  and  no  commitment  shall be
entered into to pay amounts to or  on the order of the Borrower in
respect of expenditures to be financed  out of the proceeds of the
Loan after the aggregate  of  the  proceeds  of the Loan withdrawn
from the Loan Account  and  the  total  amount of such commitments
shall have reached the equivalent of $100,000,000, unless the Bank
shall be satisfied, after  an  exchange  of  views as described in
Section 3.01 of this  Agreement  based on evidence satisfactory to
the Bank: (a) with the  progress  achieved  by the Borrower in the
carrying out of the Program; and (b) that the actions described in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken.
4.   If, after the  exchange  of  views  described  in paragraph 3
above, the Bank shall have  given  notice to the Borrower that the
progress achieved  and  actions  taken  are  not satisfactory and,
within 90 days  after  such  notice,  the  Borrower shall not have
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then
the Bank may, by  notice  to  the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
     beginning March 15, 1994
     through September 15, 2005                   6,250.000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Page  8
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
   Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The     interest     rate
                                         (expressed as  a percent-
                                         age per annum) applicable
                                         to the  balance outstand-
                                         ing on  the  Loan  on the
                                         day     of     prepayment
                                         multiplied by:
Not more than three years                           .18
     before maturity
More than three years but not                       .35
     more than six years before
     maturity
More than six years but not                         .65
     more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      .88
     more than fifteen years before
     maturity
More than fifteen years                            1.00
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
     Contracts for the procurement of  goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000  or  more  each  shall be awarded through
international competitive  bidding  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8  of  the  Guidelines  is  deleted  and the
following is substituted therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international  community  should  be  notified  in a
     timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
     advertising invitations to apply  for inclusion in a bidder's
     invitation list, to  apply  for  prequalification, or to bid;
     such  advertisements  should  be   placed  in  at  least  one
     newspaper of general  circulation  in  the Borrower's country
     and, in addition, in at least one of the following forms:
          (i)  a  notice  in   the   United  Nations  publication,
               Development Forum, Business Edition; or
         (ii)  an  advertisement  in  a  newspaper,  periodical or
               technical    journal    of    wide    international
               circulation; or
        (iii)  a notice to local  representatives of countries and
Page  9
               territories referred to in the Guidelines, that are
               potential suppliers of the goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at  the  end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
          "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
     the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
     used in  international  trade  and  specified  in the bidding
     documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56  of the Guidelines are deleted.
Part B:  Other Procurement Procedures
     Contracts for goods estimated to  cost the equivalent of less
than $5,000,000 each shall be  awarded  on the basis of the normal
procurement procedures of the purchaser of such goods.
Part C:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in Part A of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of  the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the  Loan  Account  in  respect  of  such contract, two
conformed copies of such  contract,  together with the analysis of
the respective bids and  recommendations  for award, a description
of the  advertising  and  tendering  procedures  followed and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   With respect to each contract  referred  to in Part B of this
Schedule, the Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of  the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such documentation
and information as  the  Bank  may  reasonably  request to support
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs  1 and 2 of Part
C of this Schedule, where payments under a contract are to be made
out of the proceeds  of  the  Special  Account, the copies of such
contract or the documentation and  the information to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 or paragraph
2 of Part  C  of  this  Schedule,  as  the  case  may be, shall be
furnished to the  Bank  as  part  of  the  evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.   The provisions of the preceding  paragraphs  1, 2 and 3 shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan  Account  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  in  the carrying out of the
studies and review referred to in  Section 5.01 (a) of this Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall  employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to  the  Bank.    Such  consultants  shall  be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of  the  "Guidelines  for  the  Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and  by  The  World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 3 (b)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.   Increasing the share of: (a)  goods whose producer prices are
not  subject  to  control  to  at   least  70%  of  the  value  of
agricultural, fishery and  manufacturing  domestic production (NAP
Classification item 111  to  item  6414);  and  (b)  the goods not
Page  10
subject to price control at the  distribution stage by at least 10
percentage points  over  their  share  in  the  value  of domestic
production  as  measured  in   terms   of  production  value  (NAP
Classification item 111 to item 6414) as of June 30, 1988.
2.   Presentation to the Borrower's Assembly of Representatives of
a draft law satisfactory to the Bank to improve competition on the
domestic market at the production and distribution levels.
3.   Adoption  of  ceilings,  satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  on the
subsidies to be channelled in  1989 through the Caisse Generale de
Compensation.
4.   Reducing  the  share  of   imports  subject  to  quantitative
restrictions by at least 15 percentage points in terms of domestic
production weights from the level in effect as of June 30, 1988.
5.   Adoption of a policy, satisfactory  to the Bank, to safeguard
against unfair trade practices, on the basis of the results of the
study referred to in  paragraph  (a)  (i)  of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement.
6.   Issuance of a circular  announcing  by September 1, 1989, the
reduction by  one  third  of  the  differential  between the money
market rate and  the  Effective  Cost  of Preferential Credits and
adoption of a  policy  to  ensure  that  no  further reductions in
Preferential Interest Rates will be undertaken.
7.   Undertaking measures, satisfactory  to  the Bank, to increase
competition  within  the  banking  sector,  including  through the
increase and eventual elimination of  the ceilings on bank spreads
over the money market rate,  on  the  basis  of the results of the
study referred to in paragraph  (a)  (ii)  of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement.
8.   Adoption of measures satisfactory  to the Bank to rationalize
the system of taxation applicable to Treasury Bonds.  Increase the
present rate of such  Bonds  to  compensate for the elimination of
the tax incentives presently applicable to them.
9.   Review the experience under  the  system  for the covering of
the foreigh exchange risk  on  foreign borrowings and introduction
of such modifications to  said  system  as the Bank shall consider
necessary to ensure its efficient operation.
10.  Extending the application of  the  value  added tax system to
wholesale traders with a  yearly  turnover  of  TD 500,000 or more
each.
11.  Adoption of a program, satisfactory  to the Bank based on the
recommendations of the study referred  to in Section 5.01 (a)(iii)
of this Agreement.
12.  Adoption of a program, satisfactory to the Bank, for reducing
the level and  the  scope  of  application  of the consumption tax
system to a limited number of products.
13.  Adoption of a new law on direct taxation.
14.  Evaluation of the  Borrower's  performance in the realization
of the Program based  inter  alia  on  a series of agreed economic
indicators covering growth  and  external and internal equilibrium
objectives.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of  the  reasonable  cost  of  goods  required  during the
Page  11
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
     (b)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $35,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On  the  basis  of  such  requests,  the Bank shall
withdraw from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  into  the Special
Account such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special
Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out
of  the  Special  Account  for  eligible  expenditures.  Each such
deposit shall be withdrawn by  the  Bank  from the Loan Account in
the respective equivalent amounts as  shall have been justified by
the evidence supporting  the  request  for  such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the  Bank  pursuant to Section 5.02
               of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
               Program, shall be equal  to the equivalent of twice
               the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Loan  shall  follow  such
procedures as the Bank  shall  specify  by notice to the Borrower.
Such further withdrawals  shall  be  made  only  after  and to the
extent that the  Bank  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
Page  12
payment out of the Special Account:  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified  by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall,  promptly upon notice from the Bank,
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion  thereof  not  so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account.
