Docunment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4820-BT
SrTAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BOTSVANA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
April 11, 1984
Population, Hlealth and Nutrition Department
This durnument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its rontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT            Pula (P)
US$1                     P 1.07
1 Pula             -     100 Thebe  =  US$0.93



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
BCC      -,              Bct-  ta Christian Council
CHIPS    -               Conti.tuous Household Integrated Program Surveys
CHSU -  -                Community Health Sciences Unit
CMS      -               Central Medical Stores
CPS      -               Contracept.ive Prevalence Survey
EN       -               Enrolled Nurse
EPI      -               Expanded Program on Immunization
FWE      -               Family Welfare Educator
IEC      -               Information, Education and Communlcations
IUD      -               Intra-Uterine Contraceptive Device
MCH/FP   -               Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning
MLGL     -               Ministry of Local Government and Lands
MOE      -               Ministry of Education
MOFDP    -               Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
MOH      -               Ministry of Health
MOW                      Ministry of Works
NDP      -               National Development Plan
NHI      -               National Health Institute
PMOH     -               Principal Medical Officer of Health
PPF      -               Project Preparation Facility
Py                       Project Year
RUT      -               Regional Health Team
RHO      -               Regional Medical Officer
SRN      -               State Registered Nurse
STD      -               Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TTC      -               Teachers Training Colleges
UNCDF    -               United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNFPA    -               United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF   -               United Nations Childrens Fund
USAID    -               United States Agency for International Development
WHO      -               World Health Organization
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
This report is based on findings of an Appraisal Mission comprising
Messrs. V. Jagdish, H. Barnum and V.P. Kumar (IBRD) and F.H.H. Walker and
Dr. M. Labbok (consultants) which visited Botswana in June, 1983. Mr.
E.M. Schebeck participated in concluding discussions.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be useu by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DEF INITIONS
Crude Birth Rate             Nuimber of births per 1,000 population in a given
year.
Crude Death Rate             Number of deaths per 1,000 population in a given
year.
Rate of Natural Increase   Rate at which a population is increasing (or
decreasing) in a given year due to a surllus (or
deficit) of births over deaths, expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Fertility                    Actual reproductive performance of an
individual, a couple, a group, or a population.
Total Fertility Rate         Average number of children that would be born
alive to a woman (or group of women) during her
lifetime if she were to pass through her
childbearing years conforming to the
age-specific fertility rates in a given year.
Incidence                    Number of cases of a given disease which come
into being during a specified period of time,
that is the frequency of events, usually
expressed as the number of cases per specified
unit (e.g., 1,000) population.
Infant Mortality Rate        Number of deaths of infants under one year of
age in a given year per 1,000 live births in
tlat year.
Child Mortality Rate         Number of deaths in children one to four years
of age per 1,000 children one year of age in a
given year.
Life Expectancy at Birth   Average number of years an infant will live if
the current age-specific mortality trends
prevailing at the time of birth twere to
continue.
Unitisation                  Dosage based packs of drugs for direct dis-
pensing.



BOTSWANA
STAFF APPRAISAL OF FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
BASIC DATA1/
Total Popuiation                                            941,020
Total Area (Km2)                                            582,000
Rate of Natural Increase                                    3.5%
Crude Birth Rate                                            50.8
Crude Death Rate                                            15.6
Life Expectancy at Birth                                    60
Infant Mortality Rate                                       70
Urban Population as Percent of Totai Population             16%
Population per Physician                                    1:948
Population per Nurse                                        1:81
Government Expenditures on Health as a Percentage
of Total Government Expenditures (1983-84)
- Capital                                                 2.3
- Recurrent                                               7.1
- Total                                                   5.0
Percent of Birtlhs Supervised   -                           60%
-/ 1981 data unless otherwise noted.



BOTSWANA
STAFF APPPT.AISAL OF
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND ................. .. . ..*, * **....     1
A.. Geographical and Economic Situation ...........          1
B. 'Demographic Situation                                    1
C. Population Projections ...........................    2
D. Population Policy .................... ;                  3
II.  THE HEALTH SECTOR ..............                                   3
A. Introduction **s@***s**@X@@ve                             3
B. Health and Nutrition Status                               3
C. Health Policy                            ......           5
D. Health Facilities, Organization, Management
and Manpower .,                                           5
E. Major Health Programs                                     8
F. Health Expenditures and Financing         .................  11
G. External Assistance ****  **.**.**.....s.. .   14
H. Recommendations      ................... .   14
1. Role of the Bank .....   15
tII. THE PROJECT .................          ,                          15
A. Status of Preparation .                                  15
B. Design and Objectives ....... . .. . . .. . . .. . .. . . . *...    16
C. Project Composition .. * * ......................... .   16
D. Detailed Project Description    ......................   18
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT ..................        26
A. Project Costs ....e ................................   26
B. Financing                               .............   29
C. Procurement  .............  30
D. Disbursements  ..*....*......*.. .............    31
E. Accounts and Audits                   ,                  31
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ................................... .   32
A. Organization and Management .......................   32
B. Consultant Services and Technical Assistance ......      33
C. Monitoring and Reporting         ..........................   33
O. -Eval uat ion . . . o. . . .. .. .                       33



Table of Contents (Cont'd.)
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ..................   34
A.  Benefits   ...............   . ,                        34
Bo Cost Savings ...........**...                            35
C . Cost Recovery ...............      , , , . ,           36
D. Risks                          ... ,,.,,. . ,,36
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...........................   37
ANNEXES
1.   Summary of Training Activities ........0....................   39
2.   Person Months of Consultant Services ......................   44
3.   Cost Savings Resulting from the Project .....e ........g   45
TABLES
1.   Population Projections, 1980-2015                 .              52
2.   Ten Leading Causes of Morbidity of First Visit
Outpatients (All Age Groups), 1978 and 1979                  53
3.   Ten Leading Causes of Mortality (Inpatients)
of All Ages, 1979 .. ....                                    54
4.   Distribution of Health Manpower, 1979 ....................    55
5.   Estimated Health Expenditures by Agency, 1983/84 ..........   56
6.   Ministry of Health Recurrent and Development
Expenditures, 1979-1984  **ef* e.....    57
7.   Timing of Recurrent Costs of Online Projects ..............       58
8.   Projected Recurrent Expenditures on Government
Health Services . . o ..*.*.. ...... i.... ...   . .. .... .    0  59
9.   Comparison of Projected Available and Required
Government Health Funds . g * g g * e .g e e e . . .  g.e . g .   g g.e   60
10.  Estimated Costs by Component and Year .....      ................    61
11.  Estimated Costs by Expenditure Category and Year ..........       62
12.  Estimated Costs by Expenditure Category and Component .....    63
13.  Proposed Project Financing  .g......e          .........          64
14.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .-.....^.........e...    65
15.  Procurement Table ...g..  egege *.............e *..........   66
CHARTS
1.   Present Organizational Structure - Ministry of Health .....    67
2.   Proposed Organizational Structure - Ministry of Health ....   68
3.   Implementation Schedule for Reorganization
of Healtlh Care Delivery System          ...........................   69
4.   Implementation Schedule for Civil Works ...................   70
MAP  IBRD 11895R



I.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
A. Geographical and Socio-Economic Situation
1.01      Botswana is a landlocked country in the center of the Southern
African Plateau, bordered by Namibia, Zambia, Zimbabve and the Republic of
South Africa. Most of the 570,000 sq. km. of land area is arid or
semi-arid and lies at a mean altitude of 1,000 meters above sea level.
Two-thirds of the country lies in the Kgalagadi (Kalahari) Desert,
characterized by grass and tree savannahs and an absence of surface water.
The availability of water has been a dominant influence on the settlement
pattern; the majority of the population lives near the Limpopo River in the
eastern part of the country.
1.02      Since independence in 1966, the exploitation of extensive mineral
reserves has transformed the economy from a traditional into a dualistic
one in which a small modern sector exports large quantities of beef,
copper/nickel and diamonds. The economy experienced rapid growth since
independence, with GDP expanding by over 13% a year in real terms until
1980.1/  GNP per capita had reached an estimated US$1,010 in 1981.  The
balance of payments had also been favorable during this period. However,
the prospects for growth in the early 1980s are less favorable given the
worldwide slump in diamond prices and weak prices in the nickel and copper
markets.  Furthermore, the country was declared drought-stricken in early
1982 and, agricultural output is expected to be low in 1983. Botswana
experienced an overall balance of payments deficit in 1981 and was forced
to finance the deficit by drawing down foreign exchange reserves. The
economy experienced negative real growth in 1981 and only a modest recovery
in 1982. As a result of these developments, the Government's financial
position is not as strong as originally anticipated in The Fifth National
Development Plan (NDP V) 1979-1985. Moreover, growing unemployment and
unequal distribution of income are increasingly becoming constraints in the
development of the economy.
B. Demographic Situation
1.03      At the time of the 1981 census Botswana's de facto population was
941,020, a growth of 61% since the last census in 1971. The implied annual
intercensal population growth of 4.8% is implausibly high, even allowing
for some decrease in migration of labor to South Africa, and probably
reflects differences in completeness of coverage between the two censuses.
Seventeen percent of the population lived in urban areas and 83% in rural
areas. The number of persons reported to be outside the country was
42,015, although the accuracy of reporting is not known. Most emigrants
are employed in South Africa, although recruitment to the mines halved
between 1976 and 1980. In 1981, the estimated crude birth rate was 50.8
while the crude death rate was 15.6 pe'r thousand, resulting in a rat, of
natural increase of 3.5%. The growth rate may increase further in the
1/ Economic Memorandum on Botswana, Report No. 3627-BT, July 21, 1982.



-2-
coming years as the crude death rate declines from its already relatively
low Jevel.  Mortality "as fallen steadily at least since the 1950s, always
remaining among the lowest in sub-Saharan Africa. The infant mortality
rate is probably now under 70 per 1000 live births and life expectancy at
birth about 60 compared with values of 140 and 50 respectively for Sub-
Saharan Africa. Fertility has remained more or less constant at a total
fertility rate of around 6.5, which is high by world standards though not
the highest in eastern and southern Africa.
1.04      As in other developing countries, high fertility has resulted in
a young age structure in Botswana.  Children under the age of 15 are
estimated to constitute 47% of the total population, and children aged 0-4
make up 18% of the total. Even if fertility declines, the rate of natural
increase will remain high as these children reach reproductive age. At the
current 3.5% rate of population growth the population will double in about
20 years, resulting in considerable strain on the country's resources.
Growth in cities has been parti ularly dramatic; urban areas have increased
177% since 1971, while rural areas have increased 51%. Localities with
populations of 5,000 or more now account for 35% of the total population
compared with 22% in 1971.
C. Population Projertions
1.05      On the basis of past population growth trends, present structure
and assumptions concerning further changes ki fertility and mortality,
population projections have been prepared up to the year 2015 (Table 1).
If the rate of natural increase (RNI) rises from the present level of 3.5%
to 4.17% between 2010 and 2015 under the constant fertility assumption,
Botswana's population wi±± reach 3,528,000 by the year 2015. Under a
moderate fertility decline the RNI falls to 2.41% during the period
2010-2015, resulting in a population of 2,810,000 by 2015. More rapid
fertility declines over the next three decades (to an RNI of 1.59) could
make a considerable difference in the total size of the population in the
year 2015 (2,033,000). A successful population program in the 1980s is
feasible and would increase the likelihood of the second alternative and
is essential to the realisation of the third.
1.06      The stress on the country's social and economic systems caused by
rapid population growth is evident from the projected number of persons who
in the next three decades will require schooling. The rate of fertility
decline would make a substantial impact on the necessary growth in spaces
in schools. There are currently about 175,000 children aged 6-12 years in
Botswana. If fertility remains constant this number will increase more
than four times to 741,000. Even with a moderate decline in fertility the
number of school age children will be 499,000 in the year 2015. Under
rapid fertility decline the number of children aged 6-12 would reach a peak
of 294,000, less than 40% of the number projected without any fertility
decline. Botswana, therefore, faces very rapid population growth in the
near future under any likely trend in fertility, with its population
doubling or tripling over the next 30 years or so. Economic growth in past
decades has certainly been more than adequate to support such rates



-3-
of growth. But even if GNP continues to grow fast, the stresses on the
country's economic and social systems will result in an acute and rapid
transformation of the way of life for most of the rural majority. Slower
population growth, on the other hand, will enable social and economic
development to keep pace with increasing needs.
D. Population Policy
1.07      Although the Government has not developed a comprehensive
population policy there is an awareness among senior officials of the
socio-economic problems caused by a rapidly growing population. Already,
the NDP III (1973-1978) cautioned that "at Botswana's stage of development,
economic growth is in no way assisted by rapidly rising population. A
conscious and planned effort must therefore be made to stabilize the growth
of the population." The NDP IV stated that "it is an important aim of the
health policy to make family planning advice and materials available to all
potential parents and by so doing to achieve a reduction in the population
growth." The Government's policy is now to provide advice on all aspects
of family planning as an integral part of basic health services. Family
planning services are offered along with maternal and child health (MCH)
services. More recently, the Government has proposed a number of new
initiatives such as improving accessibility to services, increasing demand
for family planning services and targeting male groups. These activities,
together with a major effort to strengthen existing maternal and child
health/family planning (MCH/FP) services, provide an excellent framework to
develop effective family planning activities in Botswana.
II. THE HEALTH SECTOR
A. Introduction
2.01      Sector knowledge and background are derived from the findings of
a population, health and nutrition (PHN) sector review mission which
visited Botswana in February 1981.  The mission conzluded that health
status in Botswana was good. The changing patterns of morbidity and
mortality and the comparatively lo:? 'Levels of infant mortality indicated
that health and rural water programs have had a positive impact on health
status. Tuberculosis and Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STD) remain
particularly significant problems and their high levels of prevalence
appeared to be associated with inappropriate control strategies and
problems of diagnosis. Overall, health services have been based on sound
policies and conscious efforts have been made to provide resources to rural
ar2as. However, the existing organizational structure of the Ministry of
Health (MOH) and deficiencies in the referral system make realization of
program objectives in tlhc most effective and efficient manner difficult.
B. Health and Nutrition Status
2.02      Incidence of common tropical diseases such as malaria,
schistosomiasis and trypanosomiasis is low, a direct result of the dry
climate which inhibits the vectors. These diseases are limited mainly to



-4-
the wet northern part of the country. The leading cause of morbidity is
respiratory illnesses which accounted for 27% of first outpatient visits
in 1979 (Table 2). This includes tuberculosis which is major public health
problem in Botswana. The high tuberculosis incidence rate is probably due
to ease of transmission through a mobile population, lack of genetic
resistance and the relatively high proportion of miners. In 1979
tuberculosis accounted for 10% of morbidity in males and 3.0% in females.
Other leading causes of outpatient morbidity are gastroenteritis and
digestive disorders (15%), skin infections (11%) and STDs (8%). Diarrheal
diseases, skin infections and eye infections, some of the principal health
problems associated with poor sanitary practices and lack of safe water,
accounted for about 30% of all outpatient morbidity. The incidence of
STD seems to be rising rapidly and spreading to lower age groups, although
laboratory confirmation is generally unavailable. In children under one
year, the leading causes of inpatient morbidity in 1979 were: perinatal
conditions (46.0%), intestinal infectious diseases (17%), pneumonias (8%),
bronchitis (4%) and measles (4%). Perinatal conditions, primarily low
birth weight, account for an extraordinarily high proportion of childhood
morbidity, much of which could be prevented by an effective MCH/FP program.
2.03      Tuberculosis was the leading cause of mortality (defined as
institutional deaths) in 1979, accounting for 20% of deaths (Table 3). It
was followed by perinatal conditions (14%), diseases of the circulatory
system (11%) and intestinal infectious diseases (10%). Tuberculosis
accounts for about one-third of all institutional deaths in the 15-64 age
group, and is significantly higher in males than females. Diseases of
the circulatory system are the leading cause of death of people above 65
years--almost 25% of total mortality. In children under one year the
leading causes of inpatient mortality are perinatal conditions (49%),
infectious intestinal diseases (18%) and pneumonias (15%). Again, it is
likely that low birth weight is a significant factor in perinatal
mortality. the leading causes of inpatient mortality in children of 1-4
years of age are infectious intestinal diseases (24%), pneumonias (15%),
nutritional marasmus (10%) and measles (10%).
2.04      Malnutrition is an important underlying factor in the major
causes of morbidity and mortality, especially among children under 5
years. The National Nutr'tion Surveillance System wbich has been in
operation sincc 1978 reports that 20-35% of children under five are
nutritionally at risk (below the 80th percentile of the Harvard standard)
in a normal year. This is determined using weight-for-age and
weight-for-height measurements in children attending under-five clinics.
There are significant regional and seasonal variations in childhood
malnutrition with the largest number of children at risk during the sumnr
months of November and December and the smallest number during the winter.
Malnutrition has been particularly serious since the onset of the drought
in 1981/82. In 1982/83, over 40% of the children were at risk in 20% of
the clinics in Botswana.



-5-
C. Health Policy
2.05      At independence, Botswana inherited a largely curative,
hospital-based health care delivery system. Since then the Government has
made siguificant progress in shifting to a primary health care system
accessible to the entire population.  This shift in policyr toward the
development of rural health services began with the National Health Plan
for the period 1968-1973. The NDP IV, 1976-1981, emphasized the
strengthening of "primary health services, equitably distributed for all
people, but with emphasis on the rural and peri-urban areas," and
introduced the concept of an integrated, comprehensive health service.
This policy has been reaffirmed in NDP V. In the health sector, the NDP V
places emphasis on training and manpower development (especially for rural
health services), health care support programs, statistics and planning,
and physical infrastructure. The health care support programs include
health education, MCH/FP, nutrition, the prevention and treatment of
blindness, environmental sanitation, dental health, mental he;alth,
occupational health and programs for the handicapped. Oral rehydration
therapy is an important component of the health education and MCH/FP
programs.Though important from a public health standpoint, emphasis has not
been placed on tuberculosis and STD control.
2.06      The Government has largely met the physical infrastructure
objectives of the NDP IV, with assistance from bilateral ai1 multilateral
agencies such as NORAD, USAID, WHO, UNFPA and UNICEF. District hospitals
have been rebuilt, health centers and clinics constructed and the National
Health Institute (NHI) and its branches expanded and made operational. The
NDP V continues to provide sound policy directions for meeting its goals.
The trends toward decentralization, support for primary health care and
strengthening the referral system are in the right direction. Generally,
the evolution of health policy from a curative emphasis to a preventive
emphasis demonstrates the Government'3 awareness of its main problems in
the country and its willingness to deal with them effectively. However,
the basic problems of Botswana 's health planning havc been the lack of
detail in annual implementation plans, and lack of sperific medium-term
health status impact targets. This has resulted from a shortage of
personnel within the Planning Unit, which presently consists of only three
planning officers, and from the emphasis placed on project planning and
implementation rather than on health planning.
D. Health Facilities, Organization, Management and Manpower
Health Facilities
2.07      Health care facilities consist of hospitals, health centers,
clinics and health posts. There are 15 hospitals, 7 health centers, 112
clinics and 227 health posts in the country. Hospitals are the most
important of the curative facilities and handle 90% of all in-patients. In
1932, hospitals and health centers also handled 42% of the new oitpatient
load, 40% of the repeat attendances and 55% of those who received



-6-
injections and dressings. Most health centers act as small hospitals in
the more remote parts of the country and and serve as back-up for health
clinics. Every health center has at least two State Registered Nurses
(SRNs), together with about 4-5 Enrolled Nurse (ENs)O Each clinic covers a
population of 5,000 to 10,0C) or more,and handles about 40% of all
outpatient visits. Clinics are generally staffed by one SRN and 2 ENs
though this varies, particularly in the more remote areas. The lowest
level of health facility, a health post, is designed to serve 500-1,000
people in rural areas. Health posts are the base for Family Welfare
Educators (FWEs), primary school graduates chosen by the village
development committees, and who provide motivational support and minor
clirLical. services. Qualified nurses visit health posts periodically
(usually once a week) to provide MCH/FP and curative services. Currently,
utilization of health posts is closely related to the periodic visits of
the nurses. It is intended that ENs will be permanently assigned to health
posts when adequate manpower is available.
2.08      The Government has made substantial efforts to ensure that health
facilities are well distributed throughout the country. Basic health
facilities already cover 90% of the country, using a 15 km radius
criterion, and mobile services are used to cover much of the remaining low
population density areas.
2.09      The Princess Marina Hospital in Gaborone presents a particular
problem to the health care system. The hospital was built in 1966 when the
population of Gaborone was only 5,0C), and now has to serve around 60,000
inhabitants of Gabarone. It is, therefore, unable to provide adequate
services for the town and the adjoining district, or to serve as the
national referral hospital. Its accommodation is inadequate and its
equipment is in a poor state. In addition, the administration of the
hospital is weak; its records are not kept accurately and there is an
inadequate system for patient referral. The Government has recently begun
efforts to upgrade the administration of the hospital.
2.10      Missions continue to play an important role, and in recent years
health services have also been provided by mining companies and a small
number of private practitioners. Mining companies operate three hospitals
for their employees. Missions currently operate three hospitals, and six
clinics. The Government coordinates well with the health services of the
missions and mining sectors.
Health Organization and Management
2.11      Various organizations are responsible for the administration of
the health facilities. The MOH is responsible for general health policy,
professional supervuision of all health services in the country and Adminis-
tration of government hospitals and health centers.  The Hlinistry of Local
Government and Lands (MLGL), through the district and town councils, is
responsible for the provision of basic health services (clinics and health
posts). The present organizational structure of the MOH (Chart I) is a
legacy of the past, which was mainly concerned with the management of a few



-7-
curative institutions.  The Permanent Secretary, assist,!d by the Chief
Medical Officer is responsible for the day to day operacions of the MOH.
All MOH units are expected to report to the Permanent Secretary through the
Chief Medical Officer. In practice, however, there has been considerable
confusion and many inconsistencies of approach. The structure has expanded
along professiuiral rather than functional lines, and as a result the
special interests of pai-ticular categories of health workers has tended to
'ominate approaches to health problems. It is not capable of meeting new
challenges, especially the need to make existing programs more effective
and efficient. The situation is further complicated by a weak
administration throughout the health system. Coordination with the MLGL
is the responsibility of the Permanent Secretary through a coordinating
committee at the central level. District and town councils coordinate
hea th services thr)ugh their health committees. Coordination works
rea onably well a.t the central level but not at the district levels.
2.12      Technical supervision of health services is done through Regional
Healch Teams (RHTs). A RHT consists of a Regional Medical Officer (RMO),
regional health inspector, regional public health nurse and a regional
health and nutrition education officer. The areas covered by the twelve
RHTs do not in all cases coincide with local government areas and vary
considerably in area, population size and density. RHTs, which should be
the key element in the delivery of health services, are not fully effective
since they do not have administrative authority. RHT recommendations are
not mandatory on district and towr. councils who have administrative
responsibility for basic health services. Furthermore, the RMO, designated
as the team leader, has no administrative authority over the other members
of the team since each of them reports to the respective professional
superior at the MOH. The role, organization and authority of RHTs has been
reexamined with support from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), and as
a result the MOH has decided to second the RHTs to the district councils.
2.13      The main problems facing the Central Medical Stores (CMS)
included adminisrrative inefficiencies, poor procurement procedures, lack
of proper financial and stock accounting procedures, wastage through
unitization, lack of cost consciousness in prescribing practices, lack of
an essential drug list and a highly centralized distribution svstem.
Following a NORAD sponsored review in 1980 implementation of a number of
recommendations to improve the functioning of the CMS has begun.
Corrective actions initiated include (a) updating of the accounting system
and proper maintenance of records; (b) development of a drug formulary,
including an essential drug list; (c) use of central tender board for
procuring drugs (generic names) through international competitive bidding;
(d) improvements in distribution logistics; and (e) abo-ishing the practice
of unitization. Continued improvements in the suipply and distribution of
pharmaceuticals are essential for improving the effectiveness of che health
care delivery system.
Health Manpower
2.14      There were 85 doctors in Botswana in 1979, 80% of whom were
expatriates on two to three-year contracts. Few Botswana doctors are



-8-
currently being trained abroad and hence the shortage of doctors is
expected to continue in the foreseeable future. The Government is making
efforts to secure more places in medical schools for training doctors.
SRNs and ENs are now trained at NHI and its four branches with an annual
output of approximately 100 ENs. In 1979 there were 476 SRNs and 530 ENs
in the country (Table 4). Since then there has been a steady output of
SRNs and ENs and nursing manpower shortages are decreasing. By Decewber
31, 1982, the number of doctors and SRNs had increased to 142 and 548
respectively. The curriculum is generally clinically oriented with little
emphasis on preventive care or administrative skills. In addition to the
Chief Health Inspector at the MOH, there are 15 health inspe-.tors in
Botswana. Health inspectors, responsible for communicable disease and
environmental health activities, are trained in Swaziland. Health
Assistants, of whom there were 94 in 1979, are trained at the NRI. Their
training is well suited to the country's needs. Finally, there are about
600 Family Welfare Educators (FWEs) working in health posts and other
facilities primarily as educators and motivators, but without any official
role in providing clinical services.  FWEs could play a more significant
role in primary health care and MCH/FP.
2.15      Although training targets have been set on the basis of budgeted
positions and projected staffing patterns for health fa,-ilities, a health
manpower development plan has not been prepared. There is also no central
training unit to take care of overall manpower development planning and
implementation of training programs. An assessment of the suitability of
training programs for each category of health staff is required. Some
training shortcomings have already been iientified. For instance, SRNs
have responsibilities in administration and management, but have not
received appropriate training for these functions. At the same time, a
devolution of clinical responsibilities to ENs and FWEs is needed to
improve the quality of service. Training in family planning techniques for
all health service providers needs upgrading. The other critical issue is
the lack of health administrators. There is reluctance on the part of the
professional staff of the MOH to accept a new administrative cadre. The
creation of a specialized administrative category, however, could relieve
professional staff of administrative duties and lead to a more efficient
use of scarce resources.
E. Major Health Programs
Maternal and Child Health and Family Planning
2.16      The MCH/FP program is planned centrally in the Family Health
Division of the MOH, and iB coordinated and supervised regionally by the
RHTs. Antenatal care is provided by SRNs at clinics or by visiting
SRNs or ENs at health posts. The presence of a midwife at an antenatal
clinic is a key factor in ensuring patient attendance.  The foundation for
effective MCH/FP service delivery has been laid, and as staffing
(particularly midwives) at peripheral health facilities improves the
program should attain its full potential. Mothers are encouraged to
deliver under supervision of trained health staff at clinics, maternity
wards, health centers or hospitals., On average over 60% of all deliveries



-9-
are attended by midwives. This is relatively high and may be responsible
for the low maternal mortality rate. The number of postnatal attendances
is small and it is presumed that most of such visits are prompted by
complications. The MCH/FP program is also responsible for monitoring the
growth of pre-school children who are weighed monthly at under-fives
clinics which are well-utilized. Health officials continue to monitor the
growth of school children as well as provide health education in the
schools.
2.17      Family planning services are provided as part of the MCH/FP
program.  Missions and industrial firms also provide services.  Oral
contraceptives, intra-uterine contracepti.ve devices (IUDs), injections,
condoms, diaphragms and spermicides are offered at clinics and health
centers, and sterilizations are performed routinely at hospitals.
Termination of pregnancy is allowed only for medical reasons. The program
emphasizes the spacing of pregnancies; Botswana has no quantified fertility
reduction objectives. Demand for family planning has reportedly been
increasing substantially since 1981. However, largely because of staff
shortages, inadequate supplies of contraceptives, and, the limited clinic
time during which family planning services are available, the MOH has had
difficulties in meeting this increased demand. Serious disruptions in
supplies, resulting from delays in obtaining pledged contraceptives from
foreign donors, had adverse affects on the program. The lack of a steady
and reliable supply of contraceptives is a major obstacle to Botswana's
family planning efforts.
2.18      Statistics on family planning acceptance are incomplete and must
be interpreted with caution. For example, there is widespread belief that
there is overreporting due to the mobility of the population. In 1981
17,405 family planning first attendances and 75,541 repeat visits to
facilities were reported. Of the first attendances, about 75% were handled
by clinics or health posts. For initial acceptors the preferred method is
the oral contraceptive (51%), followed by the condom (18%), the IUD (15%)
and injections (7%). (The endemicity of STD limits large-scale. IUD
acceptance.) Unmarried acceptors account for about 71% of all active
acceptors; 65% of total acceptors are between the ages of 20 and 29 years;
and 66% of total acceptors have had three pregnancies or fewer. Family
planning services are provided mainly by nurses, who are allowed to
prescribe oral contraceptives, whereas IUDs are inserted by midwives.
Guidelines for recommendations of particular methods are clearly laid
down. Condoms, diaphragms and spermicides are available from health
assistants and FWEs. FWEs may resupply oral contraceptives once, after
which the client must see a nurse to obtain resupplies. There is a need to
upgrade the skills of health workers in the provision of family planning
services. So far, the family planning program is still essentially
passive, promotion being largely confined to health facilities where some
motivation by staff takes place. Attrition is a serious problem, about 60%
of first visitors never return, calling for greater follow up and
motivation.
2.19      The Health Education Unit is part of the family health division.
There are three full-time health educators in the MOH and each RHT now has



-10-
a health/nutrttion educator. The central Health Education Unit is
responsible for the production of programs and materials.  Until recently
it was directly responsible for running health education programs
throughout the country. Health education programs use a number of
different approaches, including person-to-person contact, radio broadcasts,
seminars for targeted groups and film shows, and have generally been
well-designed. With the introduction of health/nutrition educators into
RHTs, decentralization of health education programs has begun. The health
educ tion unit responds on an ad-hoc basis to the demands of various
prog^ams. Thus far, little emphasis has been placed on family planning
subjects though excellent opportunities exist for initiation of demand
creating activities, and for improving follow-up.
2.20      Immunizations are provided as a part of general health services;
there are no special immunization teams, except in very remote areas. The
Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI), which commenced in 1979, has been
able to achieve very high coverage rates in the target age group for the
vaccines used in the program. A WHO evaluation in 1983 found that
approximately two out of every three children are now fully immufnized,
double the figure when the coverage was first evaluated in 1980. Given the
large size of the country aid the scattered distribution of the population
this is an exceptional performance. The WHO evaluation has described
Botswana's EPI program as one of the best in the world.
Communicable Disease Program
2.21      A tuberculosis control program, designed' by the Epidemiology Unit
of the MOH, is implemented through the health care delivery system.
Technical supervision of the program is carried out by regional health
inspectors. Tuberculosis is one of the most important public health
problems in Botswana. A 1981 report by the MOH epidemiologist concluded
that 70% of the tuberculosis cases are identified and under treatment,
although defaulting from treatment is a serious problem. Another drawback
is an increase in proportion of reported drug resistance. It is usual
practice in Botswana to hospitalize patients for streptomycin injections,
primarily because current regulations require nurses to give injections.
This requirement is extremely expensive--about 25% of all hospital beds
are occupied by TB patients. Detailed data from the Princess Marina
Hospital indicate that the typical treatment of a tuberculosis patient
costs P 1,374. It is unlikely that tuberculosis patients would be willing
to visit health facilities daily for their in4ections.  Alternative
treatment regimes which emphasize a domiciliary approach should be
introduced wherever possible.
2.22      Health staff through out the system are responsible for the
treatment of STDs which are also a serious public health problem.
According to outpatient returns in the last few years, gonorrhea alone
accounts for about 5% of the total number of now outpatients recorded at
liealth facilities and, other STDs amount to 3%. Despite instructions by
the MOH to "trace and treat all contacts" and attempts made by some clinics
to comply with these instructions, there are serious problems of diagnosis,



-11-
treatment and follow up. Shortage of laboratory facilities is an important
contributing factor, as is a general lack of awareness of the problem.
This may be due to the view that STD is a matter for traditional medicine,
a view found elsewhere itl Africa. The diagnosis of STD by clinical
examination alone is difficult, since urinary tract infections and
vaginitis can easily be confused with STD.
F. Health Expenditures and Financing
Expenditures
2.23      Total expenditures on health services (public and private) are
estimated to be about US$56 per capita in 1983/84 (Table 5).  This is very
high by the standards of middle income countries in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Two-thirds of the total expenditures are made by government agencies, while
non-government expenditures--industry, voluntary organizations, and pri,;ate
household expenditures--account for the remaining one-third of total
expenditures.
2.24      Measured in constant prices, MOH actual expenditures for
recurrent and capital costs increased substantially between FY79 and FY82
with a growth rate of nearly 9.5% per year in recurrent expenditures and
25% in capital expenditures (Table 6). After 1982 the growth in recurrent
expenditures slowed to 5% and capital expenditures were reduced by 14% as
the growth of government expenditures in all areas slowed because of
adverse changes in international markets affecting the mining sector. In
spite of the depressed economic environment, the Government has maintained
the real value of MOR expenditures and kept the MOH share of the total
recurrent budget at or above 7% and the share of the capital budget at 5%.
Overall, through the period of the NDP V that has elapsed to date, the real
growth of public health expenditure has been 8% per year in contrast to the
annual planned level of 9%. The difference between planned and actual
growth has not been large in light of the constraints on the total
government program. The steady support of the health sector through the
economic difficulties of the last few years underlines the Government's
commitment to the provision of health services.



-12-
Ministry of Health Recurrent and Development Expenditures
As a Percent of Total Goverrument Expenditures
1979      1980       1981       1982      1983       1984
Recurrent         7.9        7.1       7.1        7.3        7.1        7.1
Development       2.1        1.9       3.3        4.1        2.3       2.3
Total             5.2        4.6       5.4        6.0        4.9        5.0
Source: Annual Statement of Accounts, MOFDP, Botswana, various years;
Estimate of Expenditure from the consolidated and development
funds, MOFDP, various years. Details in Table 5
2.25      The allocation of MOH and local government operating expenditures
on health services in FY84 can be broken down as follows:
MOH headquarters, General Administration               1.8%
MOH Headquarters, Special Support Units                3.6%
Training                                              8.8%
Hospitals                                            48.8%
Health Centers                                         3.1%
Regional Health Teams                                 3.3%
Clinics                                              16.5%
Health Posts                                           5.2%
Miscellaneous                                          8.9%
Total      100.0%
This breakdown differs sigrificantly from other developing countries
since a better balance has been achieved for priority health programs. To
begin with, only 49% of recurrent expenditures are on hospitals.
Generally, developing countries spend about 75% of their recurrent budgets
on hospitals. Secondly, training activities account for 8.8% of
expenditures reflecting the high priority Botswana attaches to health
training. Finally, health services below the hospital level account for
25% of recurrent expenditures (not including special programs) which
reveals an emphasis on rural health services.



-13-
Sourtes of Financing
2.26      Virtually all of the MOH recurrent health expenditures in 1978,
the latest year for which detailed information is available, were financed
from general government revenue. Patient fees as a percentage of recurrent
expenditure were only 2.9% for MOH, 3.2% for district councils, and 8.9%
for town councils. The bulk of government capital expenditure on health in
1978 was financed by foreigr aid (bilateral and multilateral agencies),
which covered about 87% of MON and 98% of local government capital
expenditures on health. "'te pattern of expenditures is not believed to
have changed significantiy since 1978.
Cost Recovery
2.27      Fees for health services have been collected for over ten years
by government and mission facilities. In spite of the relatively long
experi nce with fee collection, fees are not a significant source of cost
recovery. At 1983/84 prices the value of fees has fallen from P 416,000 to
i 240,000; revenue from fees has diminished from 7% to 1.3% of total MOH
expenditures, since FY74. Except for an increase in the private patient
fee from P 3 to P 5 in 1979, the official schedule of fees now in effect
at government and mission facilities has no  changed since 1972.  General
adult outpatients pay 40 thebe (100 thebe = 1 Pula) and private patients
pay P 5. If fees had remained at the 1972 level in real terms, the 1983/84
fees would be P 1.50 per outpatient visit and P 11.0 per private visit.
2.28      The deterioration in the recovery of cost through fees is
attributable to both the failure to raise fees in line with inflation and
inefficient collection. Revenue from fees has dropped despite higher
attendance at health facilities. At their present low level, the return
from fees is not worth the administrative cost.  Deficiencies exist both in
billing and collection of fees from private patients. Current household
expenditures on private practitioners and traditional medicine are
estimated to be P 10 million annually and, with an expenditure elasticity
greater than 1, household expenditures on health are expected to grow
substantially over the next few years with projected growth in the
econumy. Given the fiscal constraints on the Government, it is important
that steps be taken through cost recovery measures to recover a greater
proportion of household expenditures for MOH services.
2.29      There has been a continuing interest on the part of the
Government to improve cost recovery in the health sector. The MOH has been
particularly interested in:
(a) raising fees for private patients above cost;
(b) introducing a national health insurance scheme to cover
employees in government and parastatal organizations; and
(c)  developing a fee schedule for outpatient care thiat would
include a sliding schedule according to the ability to pay
and free services for indigents.



-14-
The MOH with support from the PPF is recruiting a consultant, to study the
feasibility of each of these options. The results of the study should
become available for review jointly by the Government and the Bank by
September 30, 1984 and a mutually agreed timetable should be drawn up for
implementation of agreed recommendations.
G. External Assistance
2.30      Bilateral and multilateral agend4 es are active in the health
sector in Botswana. In 1981, of a total of US$104.4 million in external
assistance, US$3.3 mil.ion was provided to the health sector and US$705,000
to the population sect)r.  WHO, UNICEF, and UNCDF provided US$809,000 as
support for primary heilth care, water, sanitation, nutrition, health
infrastructure development, technical assistance and a number of training
fellowships. UNFPA provided US$492,000 for population activities mainly
for the 1981 population census. The African Development Bank is supporting
the construction of the new Francistown Hospital in the northeastern part
of the country.
2.31      Bilateral assistance in 1981 amounted to US$2.26 million and was
provided by the governments of Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway, United
Kingdom, United States of America and France. Voluntary agencies also
support health activities. Since mission health facilities receive
financial support from the Government only for recurrent expenditures, they
receive grants for capital development from overseas.  External assistance
is reasonably well coordinated.
H.   Recommendations
2.32      The PEN sector review recommended that the following measures be
nonsidered by the Government to improve the quality of health services:
(a) reorganization of the MOE by programs instead of
professional groups; such reorganization would include the
introduction of more direct consideration of inter alia,
program budgeting, the creation of an establishment and
training division, the strengthening of monitoring,
evaluation and planning capacity and strengthening the
referral system;
(b) further decentralization, accompanied by strengthening
district and town councils to handle their health
responsibilities;
(c) strengthening family planning activities;
(d) strengthening the effectiveness and efficiency of existing
health programs such as tuberculosis and developing health
programs for priority health problens such as STDs;



-15-
(e) improving of administration at all levels, and the
establishment of a category of professional health
administrators; and
(f) continued improvements in the health infrastructure,
particularly upgrading of health centers and the Princess
Marina Hospital.
I. Role of the Bank
2.33      Bank involvement in the PHU sector begEn substantially with the
sector mission in February 1981. The report's recommendations including
wide-ranging reorganization of the health sector and improvement of health
and family planning programs were accepted by the Government. Recognizing
the extent of malnutrition, a comprehensive food and nutrition study is
planned by the Bank during FY86. The Bank's immediate strategy is to
assist the Government in improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the
health sector and to strengthen and expand family planning activities.  In
the longer term, further development of family planning activities and
strengthening of the total health system is envisaged.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Status of Preparation
3.01      The Go'%ernment accepted the recommendations of the PHN sector
report in May 1982 and requested Bank assistance. During project
preparation, a number of pre-project activities critical to successful
implementation were identified. A PPF of US$480,000 was approved in June
1983 to finance consultancies, studies and technical assistance to: (a)
prepare designs and cost estimates for the proposed civil works; (b) study
health financing mechanisms and outline cost recovery measures; (c) study
the organization of the MOH; (d) review family planning curricula for
various categories of health workers; and (e) develop a work plan for the
proposed demegraphic unit. With the assistance of a consultant funded
through the PPF, the MOE has also reviewed the roles and functions of the
RHTs.  Also a committee of the National Health Institute has, with PPF
support, reviewed family planning curricula for various categories of
health workers. In addition, the PPF advance is funding short-term
fellowships in health planning and family planning. Implementation of
these activities is underway and they are expecte-d to be completed on
schedule by September 1984.
3.02      At the same time, with the advice and guidance of the Director of
Personnel, Office of the President, the MOH established five committees to
review the following functional areas: hospital services, primary health
care including MCI/FP, health support services, health manpower development
and health administration. The main objectives of these committees were
to: (a) establish performance standards, (b) coordinate interdepartmental
activities; and (c) address specific problems facing eaclh functional area.



-16-
These committees, comprising senior and middle level MOH officials, also
identified the goals and objectives of the MOH and reviewed the suitability
of the present organizational structure to achieve them.  Progress hias been
rapid, and an alternative organizational structure for the MOH has already
been formally adopted (Chart II). The Ministry of Finance and Development
Planning (MOFDP) has agreed to the introduction of program budgeting in the
MOH.
B.   Design and Objectives
3.03       In accordance with the immediate stra:egy (para. 2.33) the
objectives of the project are to improve the effectiveness and efficiency
of the health care delivery system and to strengthen nationwide
availability of family planning services. It would start by building up
the central organisation of the MOH and then progressively build up each
level of the health care delivery system. By doing so the project will
help in increasing the effectiveness of existing health programs. The
project is also designed to strengthen family planning activities it, the
MCH program and to introduce family plannin3 activities in women's pio-grams
and in workplace programs directed towards men.
3.04      Improved effectiveness and efficiency of the health care delivery
system would be achieved through reducing the unit cost of health care
within the referral system and increasing the efficiency of the
pharmaceutical supply system. Critical steps in lowering fertility would
include increased availability of family planning services and the
generation of demand-creation activities.
C.   Project Composition
3.05     The proposed project will include four components:
(a)    Reorganization of the Health Care Delivery System
(US$6.7 million): e/
(.)     Strengthening of Management and Planning Capacity:
through support for 66 man months of consultancies
studies and technical assistance, equipment and 7
vehicles, for MOH to reorganize the health care delivery
system, establish an improved planning and evaluation
capability, a management information system, and a study
of the long-term health needs of Gaborone;
(ii)     Financial Management and Cost Recovery:  through 12 man-
months of consultancy to improve the financial management
system, and establish a system of cost recovery;
2/ All figures in the paragraph exclude contingencies.



-17-
(iii)     Community Health Sciences Unit (CHSU):  through support
for 51 man-months of consultancies and technical
assistance, one vehicle, equipment and a building to
establish a Community Health Sciences Unit to collect and
analyze epidemiological data, including the necessary
_aboratory services, and strengthen existing communicable
disease coiitrol programs;
(iv)     Strengthening of Rural Health Services:  through
renovations and additions to four existing rural health
facilities with provision of equipment and four vehicles;
and
(v)      Central Medical Stores (CMS):  through support for the
renovation of existing buildings in Gaborone and the
construction of a new building In Maun, with equipment,
to improve pharmaceutical procurement and distribution;
(b)   Population/MCH/PP (US$2.4 million)
(i)     MCH/FP Services:  through support for 36 man-months of
consultancies and technical assistance, equipment, family
planning commndities and expanding the existing Health
Education Unit building to strengthen family planning
activities in MCH program, strengthen family planning
activities in the Health Education Unit, support family
planning related activities for women's organizations and
work place programs directed towards men's groups;
(ii)    Demographic Unit:  through support for 36 man-months of
technical assistance, and equipment to establish a
demographic unit in the Central Statistics Office;
(c)   Urban Health and Family Planning Services (US$9.0 million)
(i)     Princess Marina Hospital: through support for renovations
and additions to existing buildings with the piovision of
equipment at the Princess Marina Hospital, Gaborone; and
(ii)     Urban Clinics: renovations and additions to eight
existing health facilities with the provision of
equipment and two vehicles in urban and peri-urban areas
and the construction of a materrnity uinit in Gaborone.
(d)   Manpower Development (US$1.6 million): through support for 57
man-months of consultancies and technical assistance, basic
in-service and overseas training, and curriculum development to
strengthen the MOH's reorganisation of the health care delivery
system and the expansion of population/MCH/FP activities.



-18-
D. Detailed Project Description
Reorganization of the Health Care Delivery System
3.06      This component would support the (a) strengthening of management
and planning capacity; (b) implementation of systems of financial
management and cost recovery; (c) establishment oZ a CHSU; (d) strengthen-
ing of rural health services; and (e) strengthening of pharmaceutical
procurement and distribution. Training activities are discussed under the
manpower development component (para. 3.33) and have been scheduled in
close coordination with technical assistance activities (Chart 3).
3.07      Strengthening of Management and Planning Capacity:  As a result
of the MOH review (para. 3.02), a revised organizational structure for the
Ministry's headquarters has been prepared (Chart II) which responds to the
recommendations of the sector report. The revised organizational structure
of the MOH has been formally adopted by the Government.
3.08      The project would continue this process of improving the
management of the national health delivery system by providing detailed
management studies of each unit of the system. Their results would be used
to redefine the structure of each unit, its objectives and the job
functions of its staff. Simultaneously, a separate study would develop an
appropriate management information system linking all units. One of the
studies would review the health units of the MLGL. To assist with these
studies, the project would provide two long-term consultants In
organization development for a total of 24 months. Because the
reorganization of ministries is a function of the Office of the President,
these consultants would be seconded to the Directorate of Personnel, Office
of the President. In collaboration with the MOH and the Institute of
Development Management, the consultants would assist with the management
training of health staff (Annex I).
3.09      The project would support the MOH's efforts to improve health
planning. One long-term consultant (18 months) in health planning and one
short-term (6 months) consultant in evaluation would work closely with
staff of the planning unit and would assist in the definition of central
and district planning processes and establiskment of monitoring and
evaluation activities. Since improvements to urban health services
financed under this project will not be sufficient for the long-term needs
of Gaborone (para. 2.09), the project would support a health needs study
to identify future Investment requirements in the Gaborone area.
3-10      Financial Management:  Improvement in the system of financial
accounting would be undertaken by the MOH. An accountant for 12 months
would help develop a program budgeting system and in training staff in its
implementation during the second and third years of the project (Chart 3).
The functional classifications developed would relate to the reorganization
of the MOH and facilitate the monitoring of progress towards plan



-19-
objectives. The definition of categories under the program budgeting
system would also be consistent with the establishment of the monitoring,
evaluation and health information systems and allow the development of cost
effectiveness indicators for management. Although more detailed revision
might be important in the longer term, the immediate revision in budgetinig
would be limited to identifying expenditures by institution and major
programs. Establishment of broad program accounting categories would take
place concurrently with the reorganization of the MOH in the first and
second years of the project. More detailed categories would be implemented
thereafter. Recommendations on a new system of cost recovery (para. 2.29)
would be implemented with support of the 12 months of technical
assistance. Cost recovery measures would include an interrelated system of
fees and an insurance plan., Implementation of cost recovery would be
gradual and coordinated with improvements in the referral system.
3.11      Commurity Health Sciences Unit (CHSU):  To improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of existing communicable disease control
programs and to develop new programs to tackle emerging public health
problems the project wou..d support the establishment of a CHSU in
Gaborone. The tuberculosis control strategy would be modified from a
facility-based approach to a domiciliary approach. Earlier evaluations of
the tuberculosis program ha,'e identified compliance and drug resistance as
two major problems. The project would assist in a comprehensive evaluation
of these problems by providing a consultant for three months. Based upon
this evaluation undertaken during the first year of the project, changes in
strategy and treatmxnt will be implemented by the MOH.  It is planned to
limit inpatient care for tuberculosis patients to those who are very ill or
those who live far away from a health facility. Using these criteria it
has been estimated that only 20% of tuberculosis patients would need
long-term admission. Zhis change in strategy is expected to generate
substantial cost savings (para. 6.03).
3.12      The rapid increase in the incidence of STDs calls for training
health personnel in their diagnosis and management. The project would
support in-service training for health workers, educational programs at
work places for community leaders and equipment for health centers and
clinics (Annex II).
3.13      The Principal Medical Officer of Health in the MOH would be the
director of the CHSU which would have two sections.  The field activities
section, headed by the existing MOH epidemiologist, would be responsible
for existing communiceble disease control programs and for their monitoring
and evaluation. This unit would also undertake peri_lic epidemiological
studies and surveys as needed for specific morbidity problems. A
laboratory services section, under the direction of the Pathologist of the
Princess Marina Hospital, would be established to provide backup analysis.
Laboratory services would cover serology, microbiology, biochemistry and
parasitology. The CHSU unit would replace the current epidemiological unit
now housed with inadequate space and equipment in the Princess Marina
Hospital. Staff would be transferred from existing epidemiological
programs to the new unit. A building for the new CHSU unit and support for



-20-
equipment and one vehicle will be provided under the project. Overseas
training for a Botswana entomologist and microbiologist would take place in
the first year of the project. The project would also provide two
consultants, an entomologist and a microbiologist, to be recruited for two
years each in the second year of the project to ensure adequate on the job
training of the Botswana specialists.
3.14      Strengthening of Rural Health n-ervices:  The project would
upgrade four existing rural health facilities. These include the clinics
at Letlhakane and Thamaga that are presently being operated by local
district councils, and health centers at Mmadinare and Bobonong operated by
the MOR. These facilities require upgrading and renovation to bring them
up to the level of other existing facilities and allow their efficient
operation as part of the reorganized health system. Architectural details
of the upgrading of the rural health facilities are available in the
project file. Equipment and four vehicles would also be provided. The
population to be covered by the upgraded rural facilities is approximately
60,000. During negotiations assurances were obtained that each rural
facility upgraded under the project would be staffed by at least one SRN
and two ENs by September 30, 1986, when the buildings are expected to be
completed (para 7.01, c).
3.15      Central Medical Stores (CMS): The project would assist the MOH to
continue its efforts to improve the operation of the CMS by supporting
limited decentralization, improved central warehousing, orientation in
prescribing practices and training pharmacy technicians in supply
management and drug storage.  The project would upgrade the existing CMS
facility in Gaborone.  Additional office space and warehouse space would
also be provided. The storage capacity of the existing facility would be
increased by 50%. A pharmaceutical quality control laboratory would be
established at the CMS.   Decentralization would be achieved through the
establishment of a sub-depot at Maun from where drugs would be supplied to
health facilities in the North-West region of the country.
Population/MCH/FP
3.16      This component includes support for (a) service provision; (b)
information, education and communication (IEC); (cN commodities; and (d)
establishment of a demographic unit. Training activities are discussed
under the manpower development component (para. 3.33).
3.17      Service Provision:  The project would serve to increase access to
family planning for high risk groups (thereby reducing high risk
pregnancies), increase knowledge of family planning, decrease the spread of
STD, and promote weaning food practices and oral rehydration therapy.
MCH/FP services are available at all static facilities, covering 90% of the
population, but at present, clinics provide family planning services for
only about two hours weekly, or about 5% of the time the clinic is open.
The time available for family planning activities will be increased at all
static health facilities every working day; no increase in staffing will be



-21-
required. The project would support the training health staff in family
pianning (para. 3.33), equipment, supplies and contraceptive commodities
(para. 3.26). During negotiations assurances were obtained that not later
than September 30, 1984: (i) family welfare educators would be authorized
to resupply clients with up to six cycles of contraceptives before any such
client would be required to see a nurse again; (ii) an implementation plan
for revised clinic routines to provide family planning services every
workiug day would be submitted to the Bank for its approval; and (iii)
implementation of such clinic routines would be started in South-East
District (para. 7.01, a).
3.18       Information, Education and Communication (IEC):  The Health
Education Unit currently undertakes few acti.vities in support of family
planning and does not support other programs which focus on family planning
or population related issues. The project wGt,ld support the Health
Education UTnit for: (a) inclusion of family planning themes into existing
health education programs; and (b) IEC support for other programs or
activities which address family planning/population issues.
3.19      The IEC support would include the development of targeted
programs to generate demand for family planning. These programs include
(a) family health education in primary and secondary schools and at the
TTCs; (b) STD/FP programs aimed at men at work places; (c) programs ±or
adolescents both in schools and through clubs and community groups; and (d)
innovative programming through women's groups. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that a work plan setting forth the information,
education and communication activities in support of family planning to be
undertaken by the Health Education Unit would be submitted by December 31,
1984, for Bank review (para. 7.01, b).
3.20       Social and financial cost implications of school dropout due to
unwanted pregnancy have been recognized by the Government. Although past
efforr- to deal openly with this problem have met with parental opposition,
the Government believes the environment now exists to address this issue.
The project would support the MCH/FP Unit to assist the Ministry of
Education (MOE) introduce family health topics into rrimary and secondary
school curricula. Curricula revision committees have already been
established in the MOE and formal agreement to introduce family health
topics has been reached between the MOE and MOH.
3.21       Selected staff of the TTCs would be trained in adolescent
fertility management and then develop, in consultation with the Health
Education Unit, a curriculum for training both staff and student teachers
to be able to teach and counsel in adolescent fertility. The project
would assist these efforts through support for workshops, seminars and
in-service training for teachers, booklet and poster development as well as
evaluation. Government intends to introduce family health topics into the
primary and secondary schools curricula on a trial basis by the beginning
of the 1986 school year.
3.22       In addition to the introdoction of family health education in
school curricula, the project would support efforts by civic and religious
organizations, particularly the Botswana Christian Council (BCC), to reduce
adolescent fertility. Membership in the Cotncil and its women's groups



-22-
extends throughout most of the country and its efforts should complement
those of the schools and the clinics. These groups, trained by the Health
Education and MCH/FP Units, would hold seminars for parents and youth to
acquaint them with the concepts of family planning and family
responsibility. The BCC has identified eight health regions where It would
hold workshops. The MOH, through this project, would support two national
and eight regional workshops and the provision of training materials.
3.23      The Occupational Health Unit in collaboration with the MCH/FP
Unit is presently carrying out a pilot project extending primary health
care into selected workplaces employing 50 or more persons. On site
activities include the collection of baseline information, presentation of
health education sessions, developing support materials, and making condoms
available from machines or distributors. The project would support the
expansion of these activities to additional industrial sites including
mines, agricultural cooperatives, police and the Botswana Defense Force.
The family planning content of the program would consist of seminars in STD
and child spacing and provision of contraceptives. Though the target for
this activity is modest (5,000 males) the provision of family planning
services to males in the African context represents a significant
breakthrough.
3.24      There are several women's groups in Botswana active in
development activities. These groups include both governmental
organizations (Women's Affairs Unit and Women's Development Planning
Committee, Ministry of Home Affairs) and non-governmental (Red Cross,
Business and Professional Women's Association of Botswana, Botswana
Council of Women, the Association of Botswana Women's Organizations,
YWCA, Botswana Girl Guides Association, and Christian Women's Fellowship,
etc.). None of the Planned efforts of these organizations are presently
directly related to MCH/FP.  However, there is much interest in this area,
especially for child care, and proposals would be sought from such women's
groups for appropriate, innovative activities. The project would allocate
US$100,000 for this purpose.
3.25      To provide IEC support for the above mentioned activities and to
incorporate family planning themes into existing health education programs,
the project would upgrade the skills of the staff of the Health Education
Unit, and provide additional facilities and materials. The pro4ect would
also provide an external consultant and a local consultant to assist in
program development and training (para. 3.39) as well as a graphics studio,
stores and offices, the production of .eaflets and posters and equipment
for slide and radio production.
3.26      Commodities:  The specific objectives of this subcomponent are to
ensure that sufficient quantities of contraceptive commodities and supplies
are in stock at each service delivery site for uninterrupted service
provision. The project would finance the procurement of contraceptive
supplies. Contraceptive needs, during the project period are estimated as
follows:



-23-
1984       1985       1986       1987
Pill cycles                    418,000    475,000   539,000   612,000
IUD                              9,000      11,000    12,000    14,000
Condoms                        415,000    472,000   535,000   607,000
Injectable doses                 17,000     19,000    21,000    24,000
Foams, Jellies                   10,000     12,000    13,000    15,000
Diaphragms                        2,000      2,000      3,000      3,000
These estimates are based on the current contraceptive prevalence rate of
14%, and a build up of a six month inventory level. It is also based on
the assumption that: the contraceptive mix would remain constant at its
present status, there would be a 10-12% increase per annum in the
prevalence rate, and that there will be no plateauing of usage levels.
3.27      In addition, the project would ensure that each clinic has a
sufficient number of IUD insertion kits. Fifty additional kits would be
ordered in the first two years of the project.  Family planning teaching
kits and pelvic models would be provided to all clinics and health posts
(360).  These would be purchased over the first two years of the project.
3.28      Demographic Unit:  The project we-:id finance the development of a
Demographic Unit within the Central Statistics Office. Existing staff in
the Government Statistician's Office would be transferred to the
Demographic Unit. Project support would include a micro-computer,
calculators and a library. The unit would collect, analyze, interpret and
disseminate population data and would provide consistent population
projections at national, district and local levels. The activities
undertaken by the unit would form a nucleus for future censuses and
intercensal surveys and would provide demographic data for development
planning and administrative decision making. A detailed plan for the
establishment of the unit has been prepared by a short-term consultant
under the PPF. The project will provide 36 months of technical assistance
by a demographer to establish the unit. The expatriate demographer would
overlap with the local Batswana trained in demography (Para. 3.39) to
ensure adequate on-the-job training.
Urban Health and Family Planning Services
3.29      While the development of basic health facilities and district
hospitals has concentrated on rural areas, the development of urban health
services in Gaborone has been neglected (para 2.09). In addition to coping
with the health needs of Gaborone, the Princess Marina Hospital also serves
as a district hospital for surrounding areas and for patients referred from
other parts of the country. Staff cannot work efficiently because of
inadequate buildings, equipment and support services. Upgrading the
Princess Marina Hospital would not only address the health needs of
Gaborone and surrounding areas but would also strengthen the primary health
care system with an improved referral capability and, through specialist
support, of district hospital services. Furthermore, a system of cost
recovery cannot be implemented until reasonably good quality services are
offered.



-24-
3.30      Overcrowding at the Princess Marina Hospital will be addressed
through upgrading urban clinics. At present, Gaborone has eight urban
clinics which operate only during weekdays. There has also been a
substantial increase in the demand for family planning services at these
clinics during the past three years. Each clinic is staffed by 2 SRNs and
4 ENs, and is regularly supervised by the matron from the Gaborone Town
Council and a physician from the Gaborone RHT. To reduce the outpatient
load on tle Princess Marina Hospital and meet the increasing demand for
family planning services these facilities need to be upgraded and to remain
open for longer hours. The project would support the upgrading of these
clinics by providing for the necessary extensions and equipment. In
addition a new maternity center would be constructed in peri-urban
Gaborone, providing 20 maternity beds for routine deliveries, to augment
the limited capacity at the Princess Marina Hospital and the existing
maternity facility at one of the clinics.
3.31      The project would support the upgrading of the Princess Marina
Hospital as follows:
(a) expansion of wards to accommodate 200 additional beds;
(b) a new accident and emergency department;
(c) two major operation theaters (to total four) and
two minor operation theaters;
(d) Improved X-ray, pharmacy, pathology, physiotherapy and
mortuary facilities; and
(e)  offices and equipment for hospital administration.
3.32      UpgradiuLg the buildings and the provision of additional equipment
would improve considerably the effectiveness of the worl. of existing
staff. There would be a gradual increase in nursing staff as bed numbers
are increased which can be met through current output levels without
diverting staff from rural and district health facilities. To support the
expansion of urban health services, four medical officers would be seconded
from the MOH to the Gaborone Town Council. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that four medical officers would be seconded to the Gaborone
Town Council by September 30, 1985 (para. 7.01, d).
Manpower Development
3.33      The immediate objectives of the manpower development component
are to: (a) strengthen the capability of the National Health Institute
through training of trainers; (b) revise the curricula to ensure that newly
trained health personnel are able to respond to the country's evolving
priorities and needs; (c) refresher training of existing health personnel;
and (d) overseas training to increase the number of competent Batswana
personnel and reduce dependency on expatriates. These objectives would
support the MOH's efforts in reorganization of the health care delivery
system and in the development of population/MCH/FP activities. A manpower
development and Utilization Department, responsible for administration and
coordination of all health manpower activities, has been established in the
MOH. The head of the Departmenz wqould be the training coordinator.



-25-
In the longer term the planning and research division (Chart II) would, in
conjunction with the consultants on organization development, undertake a
skill-gap analysis of the MOH in order to develop a manpower plan. A
detailed summary of training activities is presented in Annex 1. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that annual training plans would be
submitted for Bank review by July 31 of each year (para. 7.01, e). As a
condition of effectiveness, the training coordinator should be appointed
(para. 7.02, a).
3.34      Local Training.  The functional reorganization of the MOM would
be supported by seminars and short-term training courses to acquaint staff
with the newly developed objectives for each unit and new responsibilities
in line with revised job descriptions. Staff from the MOH and MLGL would
attend reorientation seminars. Training in management for senior and
middle level officers of the MOH would be undertaken. At the district
level and below, training programs would emphasize team work and supportive
supervision. The project would provide three short-term consultants for a
total of eight months to assist in implementation of these training
activities. The consultant in health planning, (para. 3.09) would assist
in organizing courses to train district health teams in planning. The
consultant in financial accounting (para. 3.10) would assist in training
MOH financial and accounting staff in program budgeting and in preparation
of an accounting module for the district management training programs.
3.35      The project would support short-term local training courses of
one week duration in tuberculosis treatment and program management. Rapid
increase in the incidence of STDs calls for training health personnel in
their diagnosis and management. This would be done through in-service
training for health workers and community leaders, and educational programs
at work places, to promote the control of STDs (para. 3.12).
3.36      One week courses to improve physician prescribing practices and
increase the awareness of cost implications of drug choices wottld be held.
In addition, pharmacy technicians would be trained in two-week courses in
pharmaceutical storage, logistics and formulation. These activities would
be supported by two months of technical assistance from a consultant in
pharmaceutical management.
3.37     All MOH personnel involved in MCH/FP will receive refresher
training to enhance their skills. The objective is to reorient staff to
the newly identified priorities for MCH/FP services and to impart service
delivery skills. The priorities are family planning education and
services, immunization, oral rehydration therapy, infant growth monitoring,
weaning food practices and tuberculosis identification and followup.
Tutors and training personnel would undergo a 10 week course in the
training of trainers in family planning techniques.  In-service training
for all levels of MOR and MLGL health personnel would be held at the NHI
and its branches. A major focus of the in-service training effort would be
the retraining of FWEs in line with these priorities by regional NII
trainers (Annex I).  All FWEs would be r  -ained over the four year



-26-
project period. In preparation for the courses, flip charts, manuals, data
collection forms, curriculum revision and a scheme for evaluation would be
developed and tested. An external consultant for two months and three
internal consultants for three months each would participate in the
curriculum development activities. Other inputs would include student and
faculty transport, supplies and materials, and teaching aids and audio
visual equipment.
3.38      Overseas Training.  A major aim of overseas training is to
decrease over the medium term dependence on expatriates for the day-to-day
functioning of the MOH. The project would support 3 months overseas
training for 3 persons in management training, 12 months for I person in
public health, 6 months for 2 persons in hospital administration and 3
months for 1 person in management of family planning programs. Overseas
training for 12 months would be needed for an entomologist and a
microbiologist to support the development of the CHSU. The project would
support 24 training fellowships in tuberculosis program management.
Improvenm.nts in pharmaceutical procurement and distribution would be
supported by the provision of 3 months training abroad for two persons in
pharmaceutical and medical supply management to commence not later than the
second year of project implementation.
3.39      Tutors from both didactic and practical trainiag centers would
undergo a 6 months course on training of trainers in famlly planning
curriculum development and staff from the NHI would undergo a 6 months
course in curriculum development. In the IEC effort, WHO will provide
short-term training support in radio production, sound and slide production
and equipment maintenance. The project would supplement these efforts with
further short-term training in FP/IEC. Three short-term overseas courses
in FP/IEC program development and evaluation are planned. Post-graduate
training for 12 months for a recording studio specialist would be
provided. The project also would support overseas training for one person
for 2 years in demography and two persons for 1 year in  CH//FP.
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND PROCUREX4ENT
A. Project Costs
4.01      Total costs of the proposed four-year project are estimated at
US$26.6 million excluding the front end fee of US$0.1 million. Base costs
are calculated at US$21.4 million equivalent at March 1984 prices, and
contingencies at US$5.2 million equivalent (24%). There are no duties or
taxes paid on goods and services purchased within the Southern African
Customs Union, of which Botswana is a member. Commodities imported
directly under government programs into the Customs Union are also not
subject to duties or taxes. Because this project would have only small
amounts of materials purchased locally under civil works contracts, the
share of local taxes are insignificant and would be below 2% of the total
costs. Foreign exchange costs account for US$17.4 million or 65% of total
project costs. Project costs by expenditure category are summarized in the
table below and detailed in Tables 10-12. Capital costs for civil



-27-
works, equipment, vehicles and other capital account for 61% of base costs,
technical assistance for 12%, overseas fellowships for 3%, local training
for 3%, incremental recurrent costs (salaries, supplies, vehicle and
building operation and maintenance costs) for 19%, and, the PPF for 2%.
PKR T CoSrS BY EXKNDrIUE CATEOCRY
(in millions)
Expenditure                  Pula               US$               % of Foreign  % of Total
Category             local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total    Exwhange    Base Costs
I. CAPIIAL CX)ES
Civil Works             3.9    7.3   11.2   3.6   6.8    10.4           65          50
Furniture & Equipment    -      2.0    2.0    -      1.8     1.8       100           9
Vehicles                 -      0.2    0.2    -    0.2       0.2       100           1
IAcal Trining           0.6      -     0.6   0.5    -        0.5        -            3
Foreign Training         -      0.7    0.7    -    0.7       0.7       100           3
Technical Assistance    0.4    2.5    2.9   0.4   2.3        2.7        85          12
Other Capital           0.5    0.1    0.6   0.5   0.1        0.6        14           3
PPF                      -      0.5    0.5    -    0.5       0.5       100           2
Subtotal, capital       5.4   13.3   18.7   5.0  12.4    17.4          71           83
II. RECREEN COSTS
Salaries                1.7    0.1    1.8   1.6   0.1        1.7        6            8
Supplies                0.1    0.8    0.9   0.1   0.7        0.8       90            4
Contraoeptives           -      1.0    1.0    -    0.9       0.9       100           3
Vehicles                 -      0.1    0.1    -    0.1       0.1       100           -
Other                   0.3    0.2    0.5   0.3   0.2        0.5       43            2
Subtotal, Recurrent     2.1    2.2    4.3   2.0   2.0        4.0       52           19
Subtotal, Base Costs    7.5   15.5   23.0   7.0  14.4    21.4          67          100
II1.00NMAhEE2ES
Physical Contingencies   0.4    0.9    1.3   0.4   0.8       1.2       69            6
Price Contingencies     2.0    2.4    4.4   1.8   2.2        4.0       55           19
Subtotal, Contingencies  2.4    3.3    5.7   2.2   3.0       5.2       66           25
TOM - RQJCr WSrS        9.9   18.8   28.7   9.2  17.4    26.6          65          125
4.02       Civil works costs have been estimated on the basis of recent
Ministry of Works contracts for comparable buildings, and for equipment and
vehicles on the basis of current insurance and freight costs from
manufacturer's lists. Project costs include 321 months of overseas



-28-
fellowships at an average cost of US$2,300 equivalent rer month based on
the actual cost of overseas training in 1984. In addiAon, 378 months of
technical assistance are included at an average cost of US$7,000 per
month. Incremental salaries, local training costs and operational and
maintenance expenses are based on current government scales and rates.
4.03      The total project costs include an allowance for contingencies of
US$5.3 million equivalent (25%). Physical contingencies have been
estimated at 10% for civil works and 5% for vehicles and equipment,
comprising US$1.2 million equivalent or 6% of base costs. Local price
contingencies have been included at 10% per year for the first and second
years and 9% per year for the third and final project years. Foreign price
contingencies, appropriate to the mix of construction, specialized
equipment and commodities to be purchased under the project, have been
included at 7.5% for the first year and 7% per year afterwards. Price
contingencies account for US$4.1 million equivalent or 19% of base costs.
4.04      The foreign exchange component of US$17.4 million, or 65% of
total project costs, is estimated at 65% for civil works, 100% for foreign
training, vehicles, furniture and equipment, and 85% for technical
assistance. The incremental recurrent easts involving foreign exchange
(52%) cover supplies, petrol, oils, lubricants and salaries of expatriate
employees.
4.05      Project costs by functional category are shown in the following
table. Reorganization of the health care delivery system will absorb 31%
of base costs, POP/FP/MCH 11%, urban health and family planning services
42%, manpower development 8%, project coordiniation 6%, and PPF 2X.



-29-
PRCJECT COSTS BY FLNCTIONAL CQ4P0N&C
(in millions)
CoQponent                   Pula              US$             % of Foreign  % of Total
Local Foreiga Total Local Foreign Total   Exchange    Base Costs
Reorganization
lHalth System          2.4    4.8   7.2    2.3   4.4    6.7        66          31
POP/1MC/FP               0.8    1.8   2.6    0.7   1.7    2.4         69          11
Urban Health and
Family Planning        3.3    6.3   9.6    3.1   5.9    9.0         66         42
Manpower Dbvelopment      0.7    1.1   1.8    0.6   1.0    1.6        61           8
Project Coordination     0.3    1.0   1.3    0.3   1.0    1.3         76           6
PEF                       -      0.5   0.5     -    0.4    0.4       100           2
Total Baseline Costs     7.5   15.5  23.0    7.0  14.4   21.4         67         100
Contingeies
Physical Contingencies   0.4    0.9   1.3    0.4   0.8    1.2         69           6
Price Contingencies      2.0    2.4   4.4    1.8   2.2    4.0         55          19
Subtotal ContiTgencies   2.4    3.3   5.7    2.2   3.0    5.2         58          25
Total Project CDsts       9.9   18.8  28.7    9.2  17.4   26.6        65         125
Front End Fee
on Bik Loan 1/                   0.1   0.1          0.1    0.1       100          -
TOTAL _ ANCI1  WEJIE     9.9   18.9  28.8    9.2  17.5   26.7         66         125
Bank loan of US$11.0  illion.
B. Financing
4.06       The proposed Bank loan of US$11.0 million would finance 63% of
the total foreign exchange cost of US$17.4 million and would cover 41% of
total project cost of US$26.7 million including the front end fee. The
Norwegian government would provide a grant covering 27% of total project
costs and totalling US$7.2 million to cofinance selected sub-components of
the Rural Health Services (US$2.9 million), Urban Health and Family
Planning (US$1.3 million), Community Health Sciences Unit (US$0.7 million),
Manpower Development (US$1.4 million), and POP/MCH/FP (US$0.9 million)
components. WHO would provide parallel financing for selected training
components totalling US$0.5 million (2% of total project costs) and USAID
is expected to provide parallel financing totalling USSO.9 million (4% of
total project cost) for contraceptive supplies. T'>. Government would
finance 77% of the lOCdl cost, amounting to US7.1 million equivalent.



-30-
4.07      Ninety percent recurrent costs would be financed by the
government. The remaining 10% of re,current costs would be financed by the
Norwegian government. Recurrent costs of the project would be modest in
relation to the total projected recurrent cost of government health
operations. The recurrent cost of the project start from P 0.3 million
during the first two years (FY85 and FY86) and rise to a sustained level of
P 2.4 million in the fifth year (FY89). At the sustained operating level,
the recurrent costs would be only 6% of total projected government
recurrent health expenditures. With the inclusion of potential cost
savings (para. 6.03) of P 2.8 million and revenues from cost recovery
(para. 6.05) of P 2L6 million, the project would generate a surplus of P 3
milliotn in recurrent revenue that becomes especielly important when
considered in ;he light of the expected increment in recurrent costs from
other externally funded projects being completed by the MOH during the
implementation period.
C. Procurement
4.08      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 15.  Procurement
under the loan will be in accordance with Bank guidelines. The Government
of Norway grant is to be administered by the Bank; procurement under the
grant will also be in accordance with Bank guidelines. All sites have been
acquired. Separate civil works contracts will be awarded for the Princess
Marina Hospital (US$7.4 m); the CHSU (US$0.7 m); urban clinics, CMS and
upgrading the health education unit (US$2.2 m); and, the rural health
clinics (US$3.1 m) after international competitive bidding (ICB).
Furniture, equipment, vehicles, other capital and supplies will be grouped
as far as possible into contracts valued at US$100,000 or more and will be
procured through ICB. Contracts for miscellaneous equipment and supplies
valued at less than US$100,000 will be purchased through local competitive
bidding (LCB) according to procedures acceptable to the Bank provided that
the aggregate value of such contracts does not exceed US$500,000. Items of
equipment and supplies less than US$20,UUO may be purchased by prudent
shopping with at least three price quotations provided the aggregate value
of such purchases does not exceed US$100,000. Suppliers would be required
to agree to maintain an adequate after-sales service and an inventory of
spare parts. Contraceptive commodities, other than those financed in
parallel by USAID, would be procured through ICB. All works contracts and
equipment and supply contracts over US$100,000 each will be subject to
prior Bank review, which will cover 100% of value of works and about 65% of
equipment and supply value. Other contracts will be subject to selective
post award review. During negotiations assurances were obtained that the
procurement procedures described above would be followed (para. 7.01, f).
4.09      For all consultants employed for this project, qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to
the Dank, in accordance with the guidelines for the use of consultants by
"World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as an Executing Agency (August
1981)." Terms of reference for each technical assistance position would be
agreed with the Bank in advance and recruitment procedures would be similar
to those for consultants (para. 7.01, h).



-31-
D. Disbursements
4.10      Disbursements of the loan would be made as follows:
(a)  68% of total expenditures for civil works for the
LetlakaTie Rural Health Center, Central Medical stores and
Princess Marina Hospital (US$6.2 million);
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles. furniture
and equipment, 100% of local expenditures (ex factory)
and 85% of local expenditures (off the shelf) for
vehicles and equipment (US$1.9 million);
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures for consultant services
(US$2.3 million);
Disbursements of the Government of Norway grant would be made as
follows:
(a)  100% of civil works costs for the community Health Sciences
Unit, Health Education Unit, Bobonong, Mmadinare and Thamaga
Rural Health clinics, Urban clinics (US$4.3 million);
(b)  100% of expenditures for furniture and equipment (US$0.6
million);
(c)  100% of expenditures for supplies (US$0.4 million);
(d)  100% of expenditures for consultants services (US$0.5
million);
(e)  100% of costs of local training (US$0.5 million);
(f)  100% of costs of foreign training (US$0.4 million);
(g)  100% of other capital costs (US$0.5 million);
Disbursements would be made against full documentation.  It is anticipated
that the loan will be fully disbursed by March 31, 1989, six months after
project completion. A schedule of disbursements under the Bank loan, based
on the disbursement profile for the Kenya Integrated Rural Health and
Family Planning Project, is shown in Table 14.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.11      Project funds would be channeled from the MOFDP to the MOH to be
budgeted and administered by the Permanent Secretary. F!tpds for the
demographic unit would be administered by the Permanent Secretary, MOFDP.
Project financial records would be maintained by an accountant attached to
the project coordinaLor. The project would be subject to normal government
accounting and auditing procedures, which are considered satisfactory to
the Bank. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that separate
project accounts would be maintained and that all project accounts would be
audited by the Auditor General or by independent auditors whose
qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Bank, and that all
audited accounts, together with an auditor's report, would be submitted to
the Bank not later than six months following th.o end of the fiscal year
(para. 7.01, g).



-32-
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
5.01       The Permanent Secretary of the MOH would have overall
responsibility for project implementation, which is expected to start on
August 1, 1984, and be completed by July 31, 1988. A project coordinator,
a senior civil servant, has been appointed to the Office of the Permanent
Secretary MOH.  He would be supported by two staff members, one of whom
would be an accountant with primary responsibility to maintain project
accounts and the other to assist in project administration. The Permanent
Secretary would also be responsible for the implementation of the
strengthening of management and planning capacity and financial management
and cost recovery activities. The Principal Medical Officer of Health
would be responsible for implementation of the CHSU anu with the Senior
Planning Officer (MLGL) for strengthening rural health services
activities. The Chief Pharmacist would be responsible for implementation
of the CMS activities. The MCH/FP part of the Population/MCH/FP component
would be the responsibility of the Principal Medical Officer (MCH/FP). A
subcommittee would be set up under the chairmanship of the Head of the
Family Health Division, with representatives3 from the CMS, Occupational
Health Education and MCH/FP Units, to coordinate MCH/FP activities. The
project would support the project coordinator, an accountant, a secretary
cum administrator, and the architectural planning team. Implementation of
manpower development activities would be the responsibility of the Training
Coordinator. Implementation of the demographic unit would be the overall
responsibility o1 the Permanent Secretary, MOFDP.  A coordinating
committee, chaived by the Permanent Secretary, will meet at quarterly
intervals to review progress of implementation. The coordinating committee
would include MOH department heads concerned with the project, the
Government Statistician and representatives frori the Chief Architect's
office, Directorate of Personnel, and the MLGL, MOFDP, MOE and the Gaborone
Town Council. As a condition of effectivenuss, the Project coordinating
committee would be established (para. 7.02, b).
Implementation of Civil Works
5.02      The Chief Architect, Ministry of Works, would be respcnsible for
the implementation of the civil works assisted by the architectural
planning team.  The architrctural planning team has been established to
prepare designs and detailed cost estimates for the proposed civil works.
This MOW team consists ok a senior architect, two architects, a structural
engineer, a consultant quantity surveyor, and consultant mechanical and
electrical engineers. The team initially funded under the PPF would be
financed out of the project upon effectiveness.
5.03       Surveys of existing buildings which require extension and
renovation are under way as part of PPF activities. Preliminary designs
have been prepared for the rural health centers.  Working drawings and site
plans for the other civil works are expected to be completed by October
1984. Existing sites are considered adequate for the planned upgrading. A
new site has been selected and allotted for the Community Health Services
Unit.  Equipment and furniture lists and schedules of accommodation for all
buildings have been agreed.



-33-
B. Consultant Services and Technical Assistance
5.04      Because of the shortage of trained Batswana in most disciplines
(see para. 2.15), a variety of consultants would be required to assist in
the implementation of this project. A number of preparation activities
have been initiated by the MOH. Draft terms of ,eference for the
consultants and technical assistance positions have been prepared, short
lists of candidates developed, and local counterparts identified. Tkic MOH
prefers to recruit individuals rather than consultant firms because of a
greater ability to select from a wide range of qualified persons and to
procure their services at a lower cost. This is feasible given
long-standing MOH experience in relying on individuals, coordinating their
work effectively, and providing adequate support services. Recruitment of
consultants would be handled by the Project Coordinator; technical
responsibility for agreeing on selection and ensuring proper utilization of
consultant services would rest with each officer responsible for the
implementation of the project activity.  A summary of consultant services
required for the project is present I in Annex II.  Quarterly reporting on
project progress would include a se_tion on consultancies underway or
completed and an assessment of achievements in relation to stated
objectives and terms of reference.
C. Monitoring and Reporting
5.05      Monitoring the progress of implemenLation of the project would
be the responsibility of the project coordinator. He would be assisted by
the proposed Monitoring and Implementation Unit in the Planning and
Research Division (Chart II) and will be responsible for preparing
quarterly reports and highlighting major issues for resolution. The
quarterly reports would be approved by the coordinating committee (para.
5.01) before submission to the Bank. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that a completion report would be prepared no later than six
months after the loan closing date (para. 7.01, i).
D. Evaluation
5.06       Evaluation activities under the project would be undertaken by
the Planning and Research Division of the MOH. An evaluation sv!.cem will
be established, the objective which is to enable the collection of valid
and reliable information on project activities to assess: (a) process, by
monitoring progress in effectiveness of the reorganized health care
delivery system and increased cost effectiveness of health programs; and
(b) program impact, in terms of increased health and family planning
services and awareness creation. An evaluation officer has been appointed
and will be responsible, with help of divisional staff and a consultant for
six months (para. 3.08), for the following studies and surveys of process
evaluation:
(a) Two management audits, one at the end of the second year of
the project and the other towards the end of the fourth
(final) year of the project would consist of interviews and
observations of management practices following the
reorganization of the health care delivery system;



-34-
(b)  Bi-annual evaluations of compliance with revised
tuberculosis strategy;
(c)  Annual evaluations of effectiveness of referral system would
consist of analysis of service statistics of outpatient
services at the urban clinics and the maternity to determine
the impact of improving the quality and increasing the
availability of services;
(d)  Bi-annual functional analysis of rural health facilities of
a sample of clinics would be carried out to determine the
amount oi time being spent on provision of family planning
services
(e)  Bi-annua- evaluations of prescribing practices and trends
based on a sample of prescriptions filled at hospital
pharmacies to determine the appropriateness of drugs used
for particular conditions; and
(f)  Bi-annual evaluations of family health education programs
would be carried out to determine the number of teachers and
students trained, and the time spent in training.
5.07      The evaluation of the impact of improved services in health and
family planning will be measured by existing information systems which the
project will strengthen. These efforts will be supplemented by a
Contraceptive Prevalence Survey (CPS) with USAID assistance, planned fo':
1984. This survey would provide the necessary baseline data at the start
of the project. A subsequent CPS, expected also to be funded by USAID, is
proposed for the final year of the project. Annual health morbidity
modules are planned in the Continuous Household Integrated Program Surveys
(CHIPS) currently underw.ow at the Central Statistics Office.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01      The Bank's PHN sector review observed that despite substantial
inputs, output and impact on health status was less than optimal. This
project has been designed to ensure that existing resources are used with
maximum efficiency. The reorganization of the health care delivery system
would have short and long term benefits. In the short term, there would be
improvements in the management of health programs. The development of
objectives for various units and job descriptions at each level would
strengthen management capability. Emphiasis on the team approach,
particularly at the district level, would ensute better coordination and
implementation of ongoing health and family planning programs.
Reorganization would also ensure that there would be a more rational use of
manpower, and that training will conform to health priorities.
Strengthening health planning, establishing mDnitoring and evaluation
systems and organizational decentralization will ensure that health
programs are designed to address priority health problems.



-35-
6.02      The incidence of the project on fertility, morbidity and
mortality levels is likely to be slight during the four years needed to
implement activities which are required before a demoastrable impact can be
expected. Strengthening communicable disease control programs would result
in the short term in increased case finding, better diagnosis and
treatment, identification of cases resistant to standard treatment regimes
and a decrease in the number of defaulters. These programs would result in
a decrease in the incide..ce and prevalence of tuberculosis and STDs.
Strengthening the MCH/FP program should result in increased availability of
family planning services at clinics, and of contraceptives through FWEs and
through commercial retail outlets. Improved quality of MCH/FP services
should result in: (a) an increase in the numbers of acceptors of family
planning; (b) more women breastfeeding; (c) longer birth intervals
resulting from encouragement of breastfeeding and use of contraception; and
(d) decrease in infant morbidity and mortality and healthier mothers, due
to birth spacing and improved child health. Substantial benefits, both in
terms of improved quality of services and the increased relevance of the
service mix available, would accrue to the lower income groups of
peri-urban areas in Gaborone and in rural areas throughout Botswana.
B. Cost Savings
6.03      By the time of completion the project is expected to result in
substantial savings ranging from P 3 million to P 4 million per annum from:
(a) reduced expenditure on tuberculosis treatment; (b) reduced domestic
referral for high level care; (c) reduced reliance on foreign facilities
for health care and laboratory analysis; and (d) reduced expenditure on
pharmaceutical procurement and management. Annex 3 presents a detailed
discussion of cost savings from the project. Tuberculosis savings (P 1.5
million to P 2.5 million) would result from health worker tra'ning allowing
reduced inpatient care and the use of alternative treatme..nt regimes having
a shorter treatment period. Domestic referral savings (P 0.5 million)
would come about through the upgrading and construction of urban and rural
referral facilities that would provide lower cost alternatives to the
outpatient clinics at Princess Marina and district hospital facilities.
Foreign referral and laboratory savings (P 0.2 million) would be made
possible by increases in the capacity and quality of services at the
Princess Marina Hospital and CHSU that would result in reduced use of
facilities in the Republic of South Africa. Finally, pharmaceutical
savings (P 0.9 million) would be made possible by management training and
logistic support allowing improved supply, purchasing and distribution of
drugs. About 65% of the estimated cost savings are economic rather than
financial and would not result in a direct increase in MOFDP or MOH
revenues, However, the savings imply that resources that would have been
used for tuberculosis care and unnecessary use of higher level facilities
could be diverted to accommodate part of the expansion in health services
otherwise required by population growth.
6.04      Savings would also be produced by the organization and management
component through the reorganized structure of the health care delivery
system, rationalization of manpower and coordination of health programs.



-36-
C. Cost Recovery
6.05      A program of cost recovery including a national health insurance
scheme and ;, revised system of fees and rules for referral would be
initiated during the project period.  These recoTamendations would be based
on a study of health financing financed under the PPF (para. 2.29) to be
completed prior to September 30, 1984.  The recommendations for cost
recovery would be implemented in phases with a revised fee schedule
starting during the first two years of the project and an insurance plan
covering, at a minimum, civil servants and their families and employees in
industry and mining during the final two years of the project. Assuming
that cost recovery revenues would grow from their present level of 1.3% to
7% of MOH expenditures, by the end of the project P 2.6 million per annum
could be obtained. Implementation of the cost recovery measures would be
highly dependent on other aspects of the project. Changes in the quality
of services, population coverage and access, reorganization of management
and the design of the referral system are necessary complements to the cost
recovery measures. These changes would provide the environment necessary
to gain the cooperation of beneficiaries. The combination of government
commitment, financial feasibility and complementary components provided by
the project is extremely favorable for the successful implementation of the
cost recovery measures.
D. Risks
6.06      The proposed project will probably attract no greater risk than
other first projects in the health sector. The main risks of the project
come from the health system reorganization and manpower development, both
of which are planned to be fairly expensive and upon which rests the
success of the entire project. The process adopted by the Government for
reorganization is sound. The leadership for the reorganization rests in
office of the President. Task forces comprising a wide range of MOH staff
have been established to work on various issues connected with
reorganization.  Progress has already been made and the objectives of the
MOE have been defined. Individual programs have been reviewed by the
Government and priorities established. There is every reason to assume
that the task of reorganization would be satisfactorily completed. The
main concern in the manpower development component is whether training
activities will be coordinated and implemented according to schedule and
whether technical assistance is used effectively. To reduce the training
risks, a newly established unit under a full-time training coordinator
would coordinate all manpower development activities. The substantial
technical assistance provided is another potential source of risk but
designation of local counterparts, clearly defined terms of reference and
close coordination with training activities, will ensure maximum
utilization of consultant expertise. Bank experience in other sectors of
Botswana has been satisfactory and, given the MOH's considerable experience
with other doilors, the risk of poor implementation is minimal.



-37-
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) (i) family welfare educators would be authorized to resupply
clients with up to six cycles of contraceptives before any
such client would be required to see a nurse again, (ii) an
implementation plan for revised clinic routines to provide
family planning services every working day would be
submitted to the Bank for its approval; and (iii)
implementation of such clinic routines would be started in
South-East District (para. 7.01, a);
(b) a work plan setting forth the information, education and
communication activities in support of family planning to be
undertaken by the health education unit would be submitted
by December 31, 1984, for Bank review (para. 3.19);
(c)  rural health facilities upgraded or newly constructed under
the project be adequately staffed by at least one SRN and
two ENs by September 30, 1986 (para. 3.14);
(d) four medical officers would be seconded to the Gaborone
Town Council by September 30, 1985 (para. 3.32);
(e) annual training plans would be submitted for review
by the Bank by July 31 of each year (para. 3.33);
(f) procurement procedures as outlined in para. 4.08 would be
followed;
(g) separate project accounts would be maintained by the project
accountant; all project accounts would be audited by the
Auditor General or by independent auditors with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank,
together with an auditor's report, would be submitted to the
Bank not later than six months following the end of the
fiscal year (para. 4.11);
(h) consultants, with qualifications and experience mutually
acceptable to the Bank and the Government, would be selected
in accordance with the Guidelines for Use of Consultants by
the "World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as an
Executing Agency (August 1981)" (para. 4.09); and
(i) a completion report would be prepared no later than six
months after the loan closing date (para. 5.05).
7.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a) the training coordlnator would be appointed
(para. 3.33);
(b) the project coordinating committee would be established
(para 5.01);



-38-
(c) other cofinancing agreements have been completed and
condition precedent to their effectiveness have been
fulfilled.
7.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions being met, it is
recomnended that the proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for
a Bank loan of US$11 million equivalent on standard terms to the Government
of Botswana.



- 39 -                 ANNEX I
Page l of 4
SUMMARY OF TRAINING ACTIVITIES
This annex sets out the details of training activities to be
carried out under the project. Table A presents the implementation
schedule for these activities.
I. Local Training
A. Reorganization of the Health Care Delivery system
(a) Strengthening Management and Planning Capacity
(I)  Reorientation Seminars:  Seminars for local government staff
will be organized for urban and district councils and will focus on the
changes in delivery of health services as a result of the reorganization,
coordination within MOE and the role of administrators in provision of
health services. These seminars will be given at the Institute of
Development Management, (,aborone.
(ii) Management Orientation: These seminars are directed at
senior and middle level managers of the MOR. The objective is to introduce
managers to the revised management system and procedures to be adopted
following reorganization. Senior managers would be trained by external
consultajits. Middle level managers would be trained at the Institute of
Development Management.
(iii) Job Orientation: Separate seminars for district and urban
council health personnel will be conducted to discuss the revised
objectives and functions of the MOH, concepts of decentralization, team
work coordination and communication.
(iv) Supervisory Training: The objective of these seminars is to
introduce concepts and methods of supervision to supervisors of health
staff at all levels of the health system. Emphasis would be placed on
developing concepts of team work and coordination. The MLGL and
Directorate of Personnel would also participate in these seminars.
(v) District Planning: These seminars would orient the district
health team in concepts of the planning process and in preparation of
district health plans. The seminars would be held at the district and
would be undertaken by the Planning Unit assisted by external consultants.
(b) Community Health Sciences Unit
(i) Tuberculosis Treatment: The modification of the
tuberculosis control st:rategy from a facility based approach to a
domiciliary one necessitates retraining of health staff in identification,



-40-
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
treatment and follow up of tuberculosis patlents, methods of dealing with
poor compliance, and identification of drug resistant cases. Regional
health inspectors and public health nurses would train health assistants
and enrolled nurses in these aspects of tuberculosis treatment.
Furthermore, regional community seminars would be held to increase the
awareness of the community of the tuberculosis problem.
(ii) STD Treatment: Regional health teams, health assistants and
enrolled nurses would undergo seminars on STD treatment. These seminars
would focus on the diagnosis, treatment and the tracing of contacts of STD
patients. They would also emphasize the growing problem of STD in the
country. Community seminars would be held to increase community awareness
of the STD problem and the need to obtain early treatment.
(c) Central Medical Stores
(i) Physician Training: These courses, aimed at physicians, are
designed to improve prescribing practices. The use of drugs,
considerations of drug interaction, cost implications of drug choices and
the hazards of over-prescribing would be emphasized.
(ii) Pharmaceutical Technicians: Pharmaceutical technicians
would receive training in storage, logistics, drug formulacdon and
inventory control to enable them to respond to the new systems of the CMS.
Training of pharmaceutical technicians would be undertaken by the Chief
Pharmacist assisted by a consultant in pharmaceutical management.
B. Population/MCH/FP
(a) MCH/FP Services
(i) Refresher training in Family Planning Techniques: A series
of seminars in family planning techniques are planned for health staff.
At the national level, seven senior SRNs would undergo training in family
planning techniques, including IUD insertion, at the regional NHI. These
staff would then be responsible for conducting training programs. In time,
regional staff would be responsible for training lower levels of health
staff. The regional staff would also be responsible for organizing the
refresher training of FWEs in family planning education and services,
immunization, oral rehydration therapy, infant growth monitoring, weaning
food practices and tuberculosis identification and follow up.
(ii) Senior Sisters and Public Health Nurses: The objective of
this seminar is to retrain participants in family planning focusing
primarily on family planning techniques, handling complications,
supervisory support for lower levels and supply management.



-41-
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
(iii) Staff Nurses and Enrolled Nurses: These seminars, will be
held at district level, to upgrade the skills of staff and enrolled nurses
in current practices in family planning, handling complications and
undertaking motivational activities at MCH clinics. Emphasis would be
placed on reducing dropouts, better record keeping and improved supply
management.
(iv)  Health Assistants:  Seminars on family planning motivation
will also be undertaken for health assistants who are directly concerned
with service delivery. Health assistants would be made aware of family
planning services and would be encouraged to refer prospective clients to a
family planning clinic.
(v) Supervising Training in Family Planning: Seminars will be
held for regional health teams and FWE supervisors to enable them to
undertake field supervision of family planning activities. These seminars
would emphasize problem-solving, management of complications and the
continuing education of the staff.
(vi) Health Education: Family planning topics would be
introduced into existing health education seminars. To prepare for this
Health Education Unit staff would participate in a seminar organized by the
MCH/FP unit to identify topics to be introduced and prepare suitable course
material. In addition to ongoing health education activities, Health
Education Unit staff would also organize seminars for teachers fron TTCs on
family planning and adolescent fertility.
(b) Demographic Unit
(i) Middle Level Demographers: Two middle level demographers
would each undergo a four-month course at the University of Botswana in
basic demographic techniques including data collection and analysis. Field
experience will be obtained through participation in the proposed
Contraceptive Prevalence Survey.
II. Overseas Training
(a)  Management Trainers:  Key MOH personnel, to be responsible for
management training, will undergo training in management and in training
techniques. They will on their return work with external consultants in
the retraining of health staff in management.
(b) Specialist Training: Training in public health, drug management,
hospital administration, entomology, parasitology and tuberculosis program
management will be provided by study tours and fellowships. The objective
is to provide Batswana with the necessary skills to take over positions
held by expatriates.



-42-
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
(c) Population/MCH/FP: Training of trainers in training methods and
techniques and curriculum development will be provided, focussing on family
planning. Subsequently, participants would initiate family planning
training activities within the country.



ANNEX I
Table A
M         DDLDR1  - 1AINDC SUMMZ
1mcriptilx of Training Cdqorent                     Nnter of People          tWratiau of Course                  Nziber Per Year
(k)               rr I    nr 2    Ff 3    PY 4    Ibtal
A. Peodxization:
a. Mmaagement and Plamnng Cacity
(i)   Peorientatiou Sena                      40                       1               40        -        -        -       40
(ti)    8xewt Orienatii
- Senor Officials                       14                      2                14       -        -        -       14
- Secnd leewl gu os                    43                       2                43       -        -        -       43
(tt.1) Job Orieatat±
- District Cocus                        44                      1                 -       44       -        -       44
- To iaQamcils                          34                      1                 -       34       -        -       34
(iv)    zperyiaory Train±2g                   60                       2                -       30       30        -      60
(v)  DitWict PlmDig                          36                       4                6        12      18        -       36
b. CHSU
(t)   Tuercuis Treafzent                    144                       1               36       36       36       36      144
(t )  51 TaAtnt                              272                       1               68       68       68       68      272
C.  OlE
(t)    hyusian Prescriblg                     50                       1                -       50        -        -       50
(Wi)   Farsxurtica  Tekhddan                  50                       2                -       50        -        -       50
B. Populatia/iP/MAl2
a. M}VE/ Services:
(t)    Pefrter Trainixg In FP 1wlniqus:
Gentral                               7                     10                 7       -        -        -        7
Begional                             24                      4                24        -       -        -       24
600                      2                -      2D       200      200      600
(ii)  Senior Sistern adFN                     48                       3               12       12       12       12      48
(iii)  Staff Nursw                           320                       2               80       80       80       80      320
(iv)  EhroUed N aies                         400                       1              100      100      100      100     400
(v)   Hmth  AsAistat                          84,                      1                -       28       28       28       84
(vi)    eal Health Mams                       36                       1               12       12       12        -      36
(vii) lm/l&zs Workshop                         4                       2                -        4        -        -       4
(viti) Pm  SFervlsars                         40                       1               20       20        -        -       40
(ix) FhysidawSesfir                           80                       I1day            -       8D        -        -       80
(x)   1ealth E dtioi/In-Service               10                       2                -       10        -        -       10
b. Dawgraphic tbait:
(i)  KL&fle-teve 1Dmqpies                      2                      16                2                 -                 2
LE.   Oeraas Trairdg
A. Peoraiatis
a. M     _eut Tzainers                             3                       3                 3       -        -        _        3
b. Speiazesd Trairing
(S)   Study Trs                                1                      12                -        -                          I -  1
(ii)  Pibltc Health                            1                      48                -        -        1        -        I
(iit) Diug Muga nt                             2                      12                2        -        _        _        2
(iv)  Ebepital AMdm istzatm                    2                      24                2        -        -        -        2
c. C85tl
(t)   Enaolognlt                               1                      48                 1       -        -        -        1
(ii) Micrbiologist                             1                      48                 1       -        -        -        1
(ii)  Tbberwilsis Refresher                   24                      16                6        6        6        6       24
B.  opulatitM/MP/ :
a. FP/Mtl Servlws
(i)  Tfaining of Trandr                        7                       6                 7       -        -        -        7
(ii)  Qbwicn  Course                           3                       6                3        -        -        -        3
(i) FP FeUlwtdp                                1                       9                -        1        -        -        1
(iv)    2EP Ad/Pnistration                     2                      12                                                    -



-44-                                        ANE
PERSO  lNS OF OONSULTANr SMICE(;
Project Component and                         Racruitment                   Person Months
Sub4act of Consultnmcy                                        PY 1    PY 2      PY 3      PY 4  lM
I.     Reorgad.zation of Health System
A. Munageint capacity
a. Health Planner                  International    12        6        -                IF
b. Mungaement Specialist           International    12       12        -        -       24
c. Financial Manageiant            International    -         6        6        -       12
d. Health Planner/Evaluation       Tnternational    -         6        -        -       6
e. HeaJ.th and Town Planners for
G>'borone Referral Study       International    -         6        12       -       le
B. Q.aummity Health Sciences Unit
a. Microbiologist                  Intemnational    -        12        12       -       24
b.  &Etarologist                   International    -         12       12       -       24
c. TB Evaluation                   Internatioatal    3        -        -        -       3
Sub-Total                                                                          129
II.   Ppulation/MCVFP
A. IEC
a. Program Developmnt              National         12       12        -        -       24
b. Program Design                  International     6        6        -        -       12
B. Denographic Unit
a. Daographer                      International    12       12       12        -       36
Sub-Total                                                                          72
III.  Manpower Development
A. Reorganization Manpawer
a. Management and
Organization W4orkshop         International    -         6        -        -       6
b. Mmageent Orientation
for Hospital Staff (2 people)  International    -         2        -        -       2
c. Physician Training for
Prescription Practices         International    -         2        -        -       2
B. Population/?LVFP   npawer
a. Local Workshop                  National          9        -        -        -       9
b. Curriculun Consultant           National          2        -        -        -        2
c. Training Coordinator            International    12       12       12        -       36
Sub-Total                                                                          57
IV.   Project Coordination
A. Architectural Planning Teain
a.  Senior Architect               International    12       12       12        -       36
b. Architects (2 people)           International    12       12        12       -       36
c.  Structural Engineer            International    12       12        12       -       36
d. Quantitv Surveyor               International    -         4        -        -        4
e. Hechanical Engineer             International    -         4        -        -        4
f. Electrical Engineer             International    -         4        -        -       4
Sub-Total                      International                                      120
¶ITYJ'AL                                                                               378



-45-                         ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 7
COST SAVINGS RESULTING FROM THE PROJECT
Four major areas of cost savings are discussed below: (1) reduced
expenditure for tuberculosis treatment (P1,500,000 to P2,460,000); (2)
improved drug purchasing and management of the central medical stores
(P850,000); (3) reduced domestic referral for higher level care (P470,000);
(4) reduced use of foreign facilities (P240,000). An estimate of the
savings from these areas ranges from P3,060,000 to P4,020,000 of which
P240,000 represents a savings in foreign exchange from reduced referrals
abroad. The savings to the MOH are estimated to range from P2,800,000 to
P3,780,000. This represents the value of released resources that can be
used to offset a part of the projected increase in the recurrent costs for
health services arising from population growth. The estimate of total
savings is conservative because it omits an estimate of the difficult to
quantify, but large, savings expected from the MCH/FP program.
A. Tuberculosis Treatment
Tuberculosis is a major health problem in Botswana with an
iacidence of 2.87 cases per thousand population and a total of 2705
notified cases in 1982. Treatment of tuberculosis has absorbed nearly 20%
of the total MOE expenditures on institutional care over the last few
years. At present there is an average of 90 days of inpatient care per
case of tuberculosis treated. The proposed project will greatly reduce the
cost of treatment through the replacement of inpatient with outpatient care
and the use of alternative drugs having a shorter treatment period than the
drug now being used. The change in treatment will be made possible by
appropriate field worker training that will allow the entire treatment to
be given as ambulatory care to eighty percent of TB patients. The
remaining twenty percent of patients, either because of the severity of the
infection or the distance lived from the treatment center, would continue
to be given at least 2 months of inpatient therapy.
Analysis of the cost savings from the revised treatment of
tuberculosis proceeds by first specifying the .3'ternative treatment
regimes, then identifying the most cost effective regimes and, finally,
calculating the difference In total cost between the current regime and the
cost effective alternative.
Alternative Treatment Regimes
There are three drug treatment alternatives to be evaluated.
First is the use of streptomycin (S) and a combination (TH) of thiacetazone
and isoniazi.l for two months, followed by sixteen months of TH alone.
Second is the use of streptomycin (S), isoniazid (H), rifampicin (R) and
pyrazinamide (Z) during the first two months followed by six months of H
and ethambutol (E) alone. Third is the use of SHRZ during the first two
months (as under the second alternative) followed by four months of HR
alone. Each of these alternatives can be carried out through either two
months of inpatient care while the daily streptomycin injections take place
with the remainder of the treatment being given as outpatient care, or
entirely as outpatient care. This gives a total of (3x2=) 6 alternative
regimes. In addition, we evaluate as a seventh regime the present practice



-46-                         ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 7
of using an average of three months inpatient care (STH) followed by 15
months of ambulatory care (TH).
Table 1: Botswana: Unit Costs and Parameters Related to Alternative
Tuberculosis Treatments
Description                                                  Symbol   Cost (P)
I.   UNIT COSTS
Cost/day a/ of streptomycin (1 g)                         CS    .120
thiacetazone (150 mg) and
ison!azid (300 mg)                        CTH   .009
isoniazid (400 mg)                        CH    .004
ethambutol (25 mg/kg body weight)         CE    .107
rifampicin (600 mg)                       CR    .322
pyrazinamide (2 g)                        CZ    .270
Cost per Xray b/                                          CX   1.60
Cost per sputum test                                      CL   1.32
Cost per inpatient day                                    CI  14.50
Cost per ambulatory visit                                 CA   4.10
II.  OTHER PARAMETERS
Initial continuation rate for outpatient use after
inpatient treatment                                       do    1.00
Default rate for outpatient treatment (per month)         dl    0.04
Cure rate for regimes based on TH                         ra      .7
Cure rate for regimes based on R and E                    rb      .9
a/ For an average adult of 50 kg weight.
b/ Cost per Xray is P 3.20. Only 50% of those treated have access to
Xray facilities.
Case holding has been a serious problem with the TB program. It
is estimated by MOH officials that of all patients starting a course of
treatment 20% have dropped out after 6 months and 50% have dropped out
after 18 months. The reduced compliance with longer programs must be taken
into account in an evaluation of costs. The drop-out behavior described
can be closely modeled by use of the formula
Nt = do e-dl(t 8)
where Nt is the proportion of patients still in the program after t months,
given that ambulatory treatment is started in month s. The parameters do
and d1 are set to 1 and .04.
The cost of each regime can be calculated by an accounting of
inpatient costs (ci), outpatient costs (CA), drug costs (cS, cTH,
cH, cR, cz, cE) and the cost of Xray (cX) and sputum (cL)
tests. Dropout behavior can be incorporated by multiplying the monthly



-47-                              ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 7
cost per person starting treatment by the dropout factor, Nt. 1/
Cost effective Tuberculosis Treatment
Given the cost of drugs, inpatient and outpatient care and Xrays
and laboratory tests as summarized in Table 3, the cost per person starting
ea.ch of the alternative regimes can be computed. Cost estimates for each
regime are given in Column 3 of Table 4. The least expensive regime per
Table 2: Botswana: Cost Effectiveness of Alternative Tuberculosis
Treatment Regimes
(Pula, 1983 prices)
Cost
Cost per per person
Regime                                                          person  effectively
No.   Description (months of treatment and drug ueed a/ treated    treated
1.    2 mo. inpatient (STH), 16 mo. out patient (TH)           938       2441
2.    2 mo. inpatient (SHRZ), 6 mo. outpatient (HE)            958       1301
3.    2 mo. inpatient (SHRZ), 4 mo. outpatient (HR)            968       1213
4.    2 mo. outpatient (STH), 16 mo. outpatient (TH)            306       863
5.    2 mo. outpatient (SHRZ), 6 mo. outpatient (HE)            323       475
6.    2 mo. outpatient (SHRZ), 4 mo. outpatient (HR)           337        457
7.    3 mo. inpatient (STH), 15 mo. outpatient (TH)           1374       3437
Drug Abbreviations:   S = Streptomycin                          E = Ethambutol
TH = Thiacetazone and Isoniazid          R = Rifampicin
H = Isoniazid                           Z = Pyrazinamide
1/ For example, the cost of regime #1 (2 months of inpatient care using STH
and 16 months of outpatient care using TH) can be represented as
18
C1 = 60 (cI + cS + cTR  ) +  CL +   2i Bt
3
where Bt = (cA + 30 cTH)  Nt + cL Nt                  + cX Nt
on t                  on t=
4, 8, 12, 18          12,18
Similar expressions were derived for regimes 2 through 7 and a computer
program was used to evaluate the costs.



-48-                         ANNEX 3
-8Page 4 of 7
case identified and starting treatment is #4 which uses the cheapest drugs
and has the longest treatment period. However, because of bacterial
adaptation to the drugs used and the high dropout rate over the long
treatment period, the regime is not necessarily the least costly per case
successfully treated.
Bacterial resistance to streptomycin and thiacetazone has lowered
the cure rate for regimes #1, #4 and #7 to approximately .7, while the cure
rate for regimes #2, /13, #5 and #6 using ethambutol or rifampican is .9.
The long treatment period for regimes #1, #4 and #7 results in fewer than
50% of people receiving treatment throughout the full 18 months required.
In contrast, 85% of patients receiving the four-month treatment are
expected to complete the full course. The differentials in dropout rates
and cure rates are reflected in an expression of the c st effectiveness of
the ith regime, measured by the cost per person successfully treated, as
CEi = ci/ri NT      (2)
where r iepresents the cure rate and Nt represents the proportion of
persons starting treatment that comply and continue treatment over the full
period of T months. Estimates of cost effectiveness are given in column 4
of table 4.
The most cost effective treatment is #6 using rifampicin (R) and
having a treatment period of 6 months. Treatment #5, using ethambutol (E)
and having a treatment period of 8 months follows closely in cost
effectiveness. Alth,ugh the cost of regime #4 is P 306 per person starting
treatment as opposed to P 337 for regime #6, the cost per person
succesofully completing treatment using 116 is only 53% of the cost per unit
of effect for treatment #4.
All of the least costly treatments are given entirely through
ambulatory care. Where inpatient care is necessary, the least costly
treatment per unit of effect remains that using rifampicin. Regime #3,
using R and 2 months of inpatient care, is less than 50% of the cost per
unit of effect of regime #1 using STH and including two months of inpatient
care. It is notable that all 6 alternative regimes are substantially less
expensive than the current practice, characterized by regime #7. The
current practice is over four times the cost of the most cost effective
alternative.
Cost Savings from Adoption of New Tuberculosis Treatment
In 1982 there were 2705 notified TB cases receiving treatment.
At a cost of P 1374 per case under the current treatment practice (#7) the
total cost to the MOH was P 3,716,700. If, as would be possible with the
proposed project, the most cost effective outpatient care (regime #6) were
given to eighty percent of notified cases and the most cost effective
inpatient care (regime #3) given to the remaining twenty percent requiring
hospitalization, the cost of treating the 2705 notified cases would be
reduced to P 1,253,000 resulting in a cost savings (or value of released
resources) of P 2,463,700.
These results are sensitive to the assumption that the improved
outpatient treatment can be given to eighty percent of the notified cases



-49-                          ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 7
and improved inpatient care to the remaining twentv pecent. If
difficulties in implementation arise that restrict the improved outpatient
care to only 48% of notified cases and the improved inpatient care to 12%
of the cases, with the remaining 40% treated under the current practice
(regime #7), the cost savings would be reduced to P 1,500,000. Thus, even
if the improved regimes are available to only sixty percent of the
population, the cost savings from this dimension of the project will be
substantial.
B. Improved Pharmaceutical Management
Pharmaceutical supply offers scope for cost savings through
improvements in procurement, reduction of local purchases, deunitization,
inventory control and stock management and use of optimum distribution
cycles in scheduling transportation. The expected cost saving from
improved pharmaceutical management is projected as follows:
1.  Procurement under generic name by ICB                           12-15%
2. Improving inventory control, minimum stock levels
and monitoring shelf life                                           2%
3.  Deunitization                                                       5%
4. Savings from transport cost by limited decentralization
and establishing distribution cycles                                5%
5.  Essential drugs list for various levels of health care              3%
6. Control of prescribing practice, cost consciousness
about drug alternatives                                             5%
32-35%
Expected savings on the 1982 Drug budget of P 2,500,000 are estimated to be
800,000-875.000 per annum.
C. Reduced Domestic Referral
Improvements to eight existing urban clinics and the construction
of one new clinic will provide a lower cost alternative to the present
outpatient clinic at Princess Marina Hospital, currently serving
approximately 90,000 outpatient visits per year at an estimated cost 2/
(in 1983 prices) of P558,000 or P6.2 per visit. At the conclusion of the
project only outpatient visits referred by a clinic or emergencies will be
accepted by the Princess Marina. This policy should result in an 80%
reduction in the number of outpatient visits to Princess Marina. Thus,
70,000 visits (.8 x 90,000) will be transferred to urban clinics.
The improved urban clinic facilities will provide an increased
outpatient capacity of 440 visits/day 3/ over a 260-day year for a total
of 114,000 visits per year. With an annual incremental cost of P 316,000
2/ Including allocated administrative costs.
3/ 250/day in the new clinic and 190/day from improvements to existing
clinics.



-50-
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 7
the cost per visit will be 2.77. The cost savings achieved through
transfer of the 70,000 outpatient visits to the urban clinics will .otal
(70,000 x P6.82 - 70,000 x P2.77 =) P284,000.
Improvements to the four rural clinics will markedly upgrade the
quality of the services; the improvements include laboratory, Xray and
kitchen, as well as increased bed capacity. The increased quality and
capacity should make it possible to divert inpatients from the crowded
district facilities.   Seventy-four beds will be added for a total increase
in capacity of 27,000 bed days per year at an incremental cost of P340,000,
or P12.60 per bed day. Given an estimated cost per bed day of P19.40 for a
district hospital, the potential cost savings are P184,000 (=(P19.40 -
P12.60) *27,000)).
D. Foreign Referral and Laboratory Use
Constraints on the quantity and quality of health services in
Botswana have resulted in a limited referral of inpatient care and
laboratory analysis to foreign facilities, primarily in South Africa.
While the number of referrals from government facilities is small, the
value of self referred use of South African medical care by private
individuals is estimated to be P500,000 annually. 4/ The proposed project,
by increasing the capacity and quality of facilities in Botswana,
especially Gaborone, would reduce the expenditure on foreign health care by
the MOH and by private individuals.
There are two budget items related to MOH payments for foreign
health care referral. The first (budget head 110, subnote 113) provides
for the foreign referral cost of medical specialists and treatment for
indigents and qualified government employees.  MOH records reveal that
approximately P41,000 was spent in this category in FY82 and P74,000 in
FY83. The estimate for FY84 is P53,000, making an average of P56,000 for
the three years. Based on the pattern of diseases referred and the nature
of the improvements to be made to the Princess Marina, it is estimated that
there will be a 50% reduction in the number of foreign referrals in this
category for a savings of P23,000.
The second category involves a "below the line" account for pay-
ment of South African referrals other than the indigents or government
employees covered above. For patients in this category the government ?ays
the cost of hospitalization in South Africa and then charges patients on
return to Botswana. In practice only a small part of the government ex-
penditure is recovered. In 1983 the cost of unrecovered expenditures by
the MOH was P 56,000. An improved cost collection mechanism and well
designed insurance scheme to be developed as part of the financial
management study funded by the project should allow the recovery of at
least 90% (P50,000) of this amount.
4/ MOH estimate. This estimate does not include the cost of travel,
lodgings, or other incidentals.



-51-
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 7
A lack of trained manpower and facilities has made it necessary
to carry out selected laboratory work abroad. The MOH estimates that
approximately P50,000 is spent on tests performed in South Africa. The
development of the community health sciences unit under the project will.
allow an estimated 85% (P42,500) of the work now being done in South Africa
to be carried out in Gabarone.
It is difficult to predict the amount of private use of South
African care that will be diverted by the project, but assuming
conservatively that the improved quality of Gabarone facilities and the
insurance scheme attract 25% of the private flow, the foreign exchange
savings would be P125,000. The reduced foreign referral will require added
domestic re-current expenditures that will nearly offset the cost in
foreign exchange. Thus, the net financial savings from this aspect of the
project vrill probably be small. However, the foreign exchange savings will
be significant. Adding the reduced expenditures for laboratory work and the
two categories of ministry of health expenditures to the reduced
expenditure on self-referrals gives a gross estimate of approximately
P240,000 in foreign exchange savings.



-52-
Table 1: POPULATION PROJECTIONS, 1980-2015
(In Thousands)
1980     1985      1990      1995      2000      2005      2010    2015
Projection I 1/          901      1071      1234      1378     1538      1709      1878    2033
Projection II 2/         901      1072      1290     1563      1862      2179      2A91     2810
Projection III 3/        901      1072      1290     1563      1904      2331      2864    3528
1/ Projection I assumes rapid decline in the total fertility rate from 6.5 in 1980 to
2.37 between the years 2010 and 2015.
2/ Projection II is from the World Development Report, 1983. It assumes a moderate fall
in the total fertility rate after 1990, from 6.5 in 1980 to 3.39 between the years
2010 and 2015.
3/ Projection III assumes a constant total fertility rate of 6.5.



-53-
Table 2: TEN LEADING CAUSES OF MGRBIDIT'i
OF FIRST-VISIT OUTPATIENTS (ALL AGE GROUPS)
1978 AND 1979
19X8                   1979
Visits      (%)        Visits      (M)
1. Acute and Chronic Respiratory
Illnesses, including Tuberculosis       244,315    27.0         300,865    26.9
2. Gastroenteritis and Digestive
Disorders                                110,509    12.2        160,549    14.4
3.  Skin Infections                          124,595    13.8        120,550    10.7
4. Gonorrhea and other Sexually
Transmitted Diseases                     68,411      7.6         87,592      7.9
5.  Bones, Muscles and Joints                 53,401     5.9         67,471      6.0
6.  Injuries                                  43,289     4.8         49,334      4.4
7.  Eye Infections                            37,817     4.2         48,461      4.3
8.  Urinary Infections                        19,057      2.1        21,103      1.9
9.  Disorders of Teeth and Gums               17,147      1.9        19,436      1.7
10. Menstrual Disorders                       16,625      1.8        19,228      1.7
11. Others                                   171,175    18.7        224,855    20.1
TOTAL                                   906,341   100.0       1,119,444   100.0
Source: !Tnpublished MOH Statistics



-54-
Table 3: TEN LEADING CAUSES OF MORTALITY (INPATIENTS)
OF ALL AGES, 1979
Deaths                       %
1.  Tuberculosis                                  399                      20.5
2.  Perinatal Conditions                          269                      13.8
3.  Diseases of Circulatory System                212                      10.9
4.  Intestinal Infectious Diseases                201                      10.3
5.  Pneumonia                                     148                       7.6
6.  Malignant Neoplasm                            135                       6.9
7.  Injury and Poisoning                           94                       4.8
8.  Cerebrovascular Disease                        50                       2.6
9.  Nutritional Marasmus                           47                       2.4
10. Nephritis, Nephrotic Syndrome
and Nephrosis                                  46                       2.4
11. Others                                        348                      17.9
TOTAL                                       1,949                     100.0
Source: Unpublished MOH Statistics



-55-
Table 4: Distribution of Health Manpower, 1979
Government           Mission          Mines &         Total
Private
Central   Local
Doctors                  56                         9              20             85
General Nurses!
Midwives                316       70              45               45            476
Enrolled Nurses/
Midwives                382       63              65               20            530
Health Assistants        84       10               _                _             94
Pharmacists               8        -                                6             14
Health Inspectors         9        5                                1 l           15
Dentists                  3        -               2                1              6
Family Welfare
Educators                 _      340               5                5            350



-56-
TabLe 5:    ESTIMATED HEALTH EXPENDITURES BY AGENCY, 1983/84
Agency                      PuLa (000,000)               US$            Percent
Total    Per       of Total
I.   Government               Recurrent Capital Total   (000,000) Capita
MOH                      18.6       4.7    23.3      21.7      23.2       41.3
Other Ministries          6.4        .2      6.6      6.1       6.5        11.7
Local Councils a/         6.1       1.3      7.6      7.1       7.6        13.5
Subtotal               31.1       6.4    37.5      34.9      37.3       66.5
II.  Non-Government
Individuals               9.9       n.a.    9.9       9.3       9.9       17.5
Industry b/               3.6       n.a.    3.6       3.3       3.5        6.4
Other NGO's C/            5.4       n.a.    5.4       5.0       5.4         9.6
Subtotal               18.9        -      18.9     17.6      18.8       33.5
Total                            50.0      6.4    56.4       52.5     56.1       100.0
a/ Current functional accounts are not available by ministry.  Other ministry
expenditures are primarily made in support of MOH services and have been
estimated as the same proportion of KOH expenditures as in 1977/78, the
latest year for which details are available (MOH, "The Financing of Health
Services and Activities in Botswania", Second Study, 1979).
b,  Per capita projection from results of second financing study.
c/ NGO expenditures are estimated to have remained constant in real terms since
FY78.
Source: The Financing of Health Services and Activities in Botswana. Second
Study, 1979; Ministry of Health, Gaharone.



-57-
Table 6: MINISTRY OF HEALTH RECURRENT AND 0wVELOPMENT EXPENDITURES
1979-1984
(P 000,000)
I.    Current Prices
Fiscal               MOH Expenditures                       Total Government
Year         Recurrent  Development  Total        Recurrent c/  Development  Total
1979 a/          7.2          1.7        8.9           91.3            79.0      170.3
1980 t/          8.4          1.9       10.3          118.9           104.5      223.4
1981 a/         11.2          4.0       15.2          158.0           121.2      279.3
1982 a/         13.7          5.0       18.7          188.1           121.3      309.3
1983 6/         16.1          4.6       20.7          225.8           199.1      424.9
1984 '/         18.6          4.7       23.3          261.6           206.2     467.8
II.   Constant Prices (1983/84 prices)
Fiscal               MOH Expenditures                       Total Government
Year         Recurrent  Development  Total        Recurrent      Development  Total
1979            12.9          2.9       15.8          162.0           140.2      302.2
1980            13.4          3.1       16.5          189.6           166.6      356.2
1981            15.5          5.6       21.0          218.7           167.8     386.4
1982            16.9          6.1       23.0          231.7           149.4      381.1
1983            18.0          5.0       23.0          248.4           219.0     467.4
1984            18.6          4.7       23.3          261.6           206.2     467.8
III. MOH as % of Total
Fiscal
Year          Recurrent  Development  Total
1979             7.9          2.1        5.2
1980             7.1          1.9        4.6
1981             7.1          3.3        5.4
1982             7.3          4.1        6.0
1983             7.1          2.3        4.9
1984             7.1          2.3        5.0
a/  Annual Statement of Accounts, MOF, Botswana, various years.
b/  Estimate of Expenditure from the Consolidated and Development Funds, MOF,
Botswana, various years.
c/ Gross recurrent expenditures less statutory expenditures and appropriations
from revenue.



-58-
Table 7: TIMING OF RECURRENT COSTS OF ONLINE PROJECTS
(1983/84 Prices, 000 Pula)
Estimated                          Incremental Operating Costs
Completion   Development
Project                         Date          Costs      FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
MOH
Athlone Hospital Upgrade         Oct. 83          1840        370    370    370    370    370    370
Palapye Health Conrer            June 85           850                 70     70      70      70      70
Medical Equip.; Part a           83 - 85          2000        100    100    100    100    100    100
Part b         86 -88           1500                         75      75     75      75
Central Medical Stores                88          4000                               200    400    400
New Francistown                       87        25000                               5100   5100   5100
Suppcrt Infrastructure            87        10000
Gomare H.C.                           85          2700                200    200    200    200    200
Good Hope H.C.                        86          1500                        100    100    100    100
Tutume H.C.                           86          1500                        100    100    100    100
Subtotal                                                 470    740   1015   6315   6315   6315
Districts
Rural Health Facilities          84 - 87          4500        300    600    900    900    900    900
Total                                                     770   1340   1915   7215   7215   7215



-59-
Table 8: PROJECTED RECURRENT EXPENDITURES ON GOVERNMENT REALTH SERVICES
(1983/84 Prices, 000,000 Pula)
Proposed     Projected
Baseline a/           On Line Projects b/   Project           Total
Year       KOH   Local   Total       KOH   Local   Total
1983/84    18.6    6.1      24.7                                               24.7
1984/85    19.3    6.3      25.6       .5      .3      .8          .3          26.7
1985/86    20.0    6.5      26.5       .7      .6     1.3          .3          28.1
1986/87    20.7    6.8      27.5      1.0      .9     1.9         1.3          30.7
1987/88    21.5    7.0      28.5      6.3      .9     7.2         1.9          37.6
1988/89    22.2    7.3      29.5      6.3      .9     7.2         2.4          39.1
1989/90    23.0    7.5      30.5      6.3      .9     7.2         2.4          40.1
a/ The baseline expenditures are derived by projecting the 1983/84 estimated
expenditures for the MOH, district governments and town councils using the
population growth rate, 3.5%.
b/ See Table 7.



-60-
Ta'le 9:  COMPARISON OF PROJECTED AVAILABLE AND REQUIRED GOVERNMENT HEALTH FUNDS
(1983/84 Prices, 000,000 Pula)
Potential
Project    Budget        Cost                     Budget Surplus or
Total    as X of  Surplus (+)   Savings    Potential   Deficit Including
Fiscal    Funds      Required  Required        or         from        Cost         Cost Savings and
Yea;  Available a/ Funds b/   Funds   Deficit (-)   Prcject c/ Recovery d/ Cost Recovery e/
High   Low                        High     Low                              High    Low
1984   24.7  24.7   24.7         -          0        0       -           .2         + .2    + .2
1985   27.1  26.5   26.7        .01      + .4    - .2                    .3         + .7    + .1
1986   28.9  28.0   28.1        .01      + .8    - .1        -           .3         +1.1    + .2
1987   30.8  29.5   30.7        .04      + .1    -1.2        .7          .6         +1.4    + .1
1988   32.8  31.2   37.6        .05      -4.8    -6.4       1.4          .9         -2.5    -4.1
1989   35.0  32.9   39.1        .06      -4.1    -6.2       2.8         1.8         + .5    -1.6
1990   37.4  34.7   40.1        .06      -2.7    -5.4      2.8          2.6         +2.7     0.0
a/  Derived from MOF, Mid-term Review (MTR) of NDPV (draft of June 20. 1983).  Details
of projections are available in the project file. Excludes cost savings and cost
recovery from the project.
b/ Frowi Table 8.
c/  Based on the analysis of cost savings in the text.  The full potential is assumed
to be phased in starting with the third year of the project.
d/  Fees and other cost recovery measures are assumed to grow from their present level
of 1.3% to 7% (the level achieved in 1973/74) of MOH expenditures by the end of the
project. In 1973/74, revenue from fees totalled 7% of MOH recurrent expenditures; a
plausible goal would be to return to or exceed this level by the final year of the
proposed project. An examination of household cash expenditure data from a 1978/79
CSO survey reveals the feasibility of increased household cash expenditures on
health. The relationship between health expenditures and total expenditures was
examined statistically across aggregated groups of households available from the
survey and an estimated expenditure elasticity of 1.1 for health care was obtained.
This estimate, which implies that health expenditures increase by 11% for every 10%
increase in total household expenditures, can be used to project the growth of
private health expenditures with growth in income over the future. If household
cash expenditures increase from a level of approximately P215 million in 1983/84 to
P330 in 1989/90, the potential increase in private health expenditures would be P5.8
million. If a part of these new funds, generated from economic growth, is diverted
to Government cost recovery, the goal of deriving 7% of MOH revenues from private
expenditures could be exceeded.
e/ Recovered eosts accrue to general MOF revenues. Cost recovery revenue is not received
directly by the MOH.



-61-
Table 10:  ESTIMATED COSTS BY COMPONENT AND YEAR
(In Thousands of Pula)
Use Costs                       Tota1
PYI      PY2       PY3      PY4       KU      (US$ I000)
=:=--   r- -@-=   ==             -      XAMUaRUrtx
A. ECiEROAIZE WATH SYSTEM        24762 3P125.M    904.345   693465 7200.397 6696.361
St POATIGI / mm   VP               729.241   605.444  610A44   607.287 2452.465 2373,790
C. URWAN ILTH AND FP             2.069,582 3.415.106 297.064 10,2432  9640,2    M965379
Do  RW       IEWLOPIt              512.145  409,8    58.441   252.955  1 763,350  19639.914
E. PROJECT COORDINATION            489.242  442.938  312.724   99430  1344,333  19250.228
F. PRJECT PREPAATION FACLITY       469,209        -        -         -   469.209   436.364
Total BASELINE COSTS              6v746,300 7.999.   5.313.068 2t911.569 22t969.957 219362.037
PhVsiCa1 Contitdencies            493.285  533.808  229.019   32.369 1.288.482  1.198.287
Price Contirnusies               551,073 1t407.145 1,411.555 1.022.150 4p391*923 4tO64.484
Total PROJECT COSTS                7,797.658 M939,954 69953.662 3,966.068 284%650363 26.644.840
-   =:=_---e: =:=--= =---:=                  =.loan: rrr---
Forein Exctiare                 5.458.708 7M165.778 4p321.087 1 784.196 18.729.769 17.418.666
Febrars 15. 1984 11:22



-62-
Table 11: ESTIMATED COSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND YEPR
(In Thousands of Pula)
Phmical
PRO.ECT              Contimcins
REOR6AIIZE  POPULATION / URN IWALTH  IWPOWER         POJCT    PREPAATION               -
HEALTH SYSTEM  110  / FP      AND FP    DEELOPIMENT CMIRDIATION  FACILITY      Total    Z    ANait
I. IW/ESTlENT COSTS
A. CIVIL   S                          3.957,376      133.541    7,139.300           -            -           - I1P230.218 10.0 1123.022
9. FURNITURE MD EQUIPIINT               949.391      142,826    I,005,565      21.355        4.677            - 2.023.814  5.0   101.191
Co MHICLES                              159.664       18,751       25.001           -       18.709           -    222.125  5.0    11,106
D. LOCAL TRAIlN6I                             -            -            -     425.539            -            -   42553?  0.0       0.000
E. FOREIGN TRAINING                           -            -            -     388.039            -           -    38.039 0.0       0.000
F. LOCM. TRAYII6 / UO                         -            -            -     150.007            -           -    150.007 0.0       0.000
6. FORE16i  TRAINING / WHO                    -                         -     292.722            -            -     9m   00         0.000
No TEHINICL ASSISTANCE                  839.622      457.521            -     432.311   I112,677             - 24842.130  0.0      O.0t0
I. OTHER                                 10,417      547.921            -      49,211            -           -    607.5"   0.0     O.OW
J. FROiECT PREPAATION FACILITY                -            -            -           -            -     469.209    469.209 10.0   46i921
Total IIEST1ENT COSTS                   5.816,469   1300.560    8,169.866   19759.183   1W136.063        469.209 18,651,350  6.9 1,282,240
II. REaCWIT COSTS
A. SALARIES                            766,702      181,568      810.870           -        8,750            -  1.767.890  0.0    0.000
3. SLMIES                              306,264       16.667      550.025           -        9.375            -     2.332  0.0      0.000
C. CONTREPTIYES                              -    1l011.011            -           -             -           -  1l011.011  0.0    0.000
D. VEHICLES                             78,879            -       26,251           -        19.720           -    124,849  5.0     66242
E. OTHEt                               232,083       42,659       83.191       4,167      170,424            -    532,55  0.0      0.000
Total RECURN  COSTS                      It383.928    lt251.ffl    1W470.338       4,167      208,270           - 4il18.607  0.1   6h242
Total AELLIE COSTS                        7e200.397    2t552,465    9,640.204  1e763.350    19344.333      469.209 22e969,957  5.6 1.28.462
Ptm,.ical CntirUncis                     450,134       21,433      766.771       1.068        2.1S5      46u.21  1288M482  0.0    0.000
Price Continxmcies                     1.327.524     2m9.685    2,153.976      379,073      231.&6             - 4e391.923  4.6  2M2.045
Total PROJECT COSTS                       80978.055    29873.583   126560.950   2.143,491    1578.154     516.130 28650.363  5.2 19490.527
-  =               ===--=== ====--  -z=:tx:x== :2 g nS1 an"
Fortis Excham                          5e798.491    1,894,572    8e087.133   1,253,099    1.180.345     516.130 18e729.7U9 54 1,018.467
Febrwr. 15, 1984  11:22



-63-
Table 12:  ESTIMATED COSTS BY EXPENDITURE CATEGORY AND COMPONENT
(In   "housands  of  Pula)
Bas Costs t
Base Costs                   Foreisn Exchnse Price Cant. on Total Ir,l.
----------------------Base Costs              Cont.
PYI      PY2       PY3      PY4      Total      I     mout    (US4 '000)  tUSS '000)
1. INWESflIIT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORS                   4t339.732 4,547.294 2,039.210  303.93 11t230.218   65.0  7,299.641    12.139.214  13.353,136
B. FUXITURE VS EOUIPT             222.542 1.345.298   455.974       - 2:023.814  100.0  20?27*814      2t19*785  2,300,325
C. VEHICLES                        18.709   203.416        -        -   222,125 IC0.0   222.125          237.104    2486959
D. LOCAL TRAINING                  65.354   65.626   109.274  186.286   425.539   0.0       0.000        525.429    525.429
E. FOIE6N TRAININ16               125.006   90,629   172.404        -   308.039 100.0   388B039          420.471    420,471
F. LOCAL TRAINING / MO             37.502    37.502    37.502    37.502   1504007   0*0     0.000        177.525     177.525
6. FOR£I61 TRAIMIN  7 iO          117.714   89.487    85.421        -   292.722 100.0    m.722           312.136    312.136
N. TECHNICAL ASSIST*ICE           895.344 14031,808   796.798   118.180 2,842.130   85.0  2P415.811    3,061.529  3.088,529
I. OTiR                           108,463  159,247   14,038   196.801   607.548   14.3    87.006         6866539    686.539
J. PIROECT PRPARTION FACILITY     469.209        -         -        -   469.209  100.0   469.209         436.364    480.000
Total INFSTNIiT COSTS              6.399.575 7t570.406 3,838.619  842.751 18,651.350   70.8 13,198.366    20.214.097 21.593,049
II. RECUbT COSTS
A. SAURlES                        24.843   81,661  753.429  907.957  1,767.890   5.8   102.50         2,259.022  2v259.022
B. SUPLIES                         7.292    13.542   282.305  579.193   382.332   90.4   7971224      1,067.000   1,067,000
Co CONRCPTIWES                   206.763  234.968  266.753  302.527  1.011,011  100.0  1,011.011        940.239    940.239
D. YIICLES                         6,573   32.866    45M992   39.418   124.849   85.0   106,122         144.718     151,954
E. OTHR                          101.255   65.557   125.991  239.722   532,525  42.7   227.l72          633.544    633,544
Total REC1RNT COSTS                  346.726   428.594 1,474.469 2,068,818 4.318.607   52.0  2,244.033    5044.523   59051.759
Total 8MAELIKE COss                 60746.300 7?999.001 5.313.088 2.911.569 22,969.957   67.2 15,442.400    25,258.620 26.644.808
Phwsical Cantisowies               493.285   533.808  229.019   32.369  1,288,482   69.4   894.488             -           -
Price Continmiries                 551.073 1407.145 1.411.555 1,022.150 49391.923  S4.5  2,392.82
Total PROIECT COSTS                 7.790.658 9,939,954 6.953,662 3,966.088 289650.363  65.4 18,729.769    25t258.620 26,644.806
= ---== = ==== :=:== ====  ===a  M=:= _"
Foreiu  Excharge                 5458.708 7,165.778 4,321.087 1,784.196 180729.769   0.0     0.000              -  17.418.666
FebruaN 15. 1984 11:21



-64-
Table 13:   PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING
($US millions)
Expenditure           Total             GOB      IBRD    WHO      USAID      Govern-      %
Category              Cost With                                              ment of      IBRD a/
Contingencies                                         Norway
Civil Works               13.4          2.9      6.2                             4.3      68
Furniture and
Equipment                  2.3                   1.7                             0.6    100
Vehicles                   0.2                   0.2                                     100
Local Training             0.7                           0.2                     0.5
Foreign Training           0.7                           0.3                     0.4    100
Technical
Assistance                 3.1          0.3      2.3                             0.5      85
Other Capital              0.7          0.2                                      0.5
PPF                        0.5                   0.5                                     100
Contraceptives             0.9                                      0.9
Incremental
Recurrent Costs            4.1          3.7                                      0.4
Total Project Costs       26.6          7.1    10.9      0.5        0.9          7.2      61
IBRD Front End Fee         0.1                   0.1
TOTAL FINANCING
REQUIRED                  26.7          7.1    11.0      0.5        0.9          7.2      61
a/ Excluding WHO, USAID, Norway.



-65-
Table  14:   ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
(US$ '000)
IBRD
Fiscal Year                  Disbursement
and Quarter                     During            Accumulated        Cumulative %
Ending                        Quarter          Disbursement        Disbursement
1983-84
December 31, 1983                     -
March 31, 1984                       110                110                  1
June 30, 1984                        110                220                  2
1984-85
September 30, 1984                  320                 540                  5
December 31, 1984                     -                 540                  5
March 31, 1985                       110                650                  6
June 30, 1985                        230                880                  8
1985-86
September 30, 1985                  440                1320                 12
December )1, 1985                   440                1760                 16
March 31, 1986                      440                2200                 20
June 30, 1986                       660                2860                 26
1986-87
September 30, 1986                  660                3520                32
December 31, 1986                   770                4290                 39
March 31, 1987                      770                5060                46
June 30, 1987                       880                5940                 54
1987-88
September 30, 1987                  990                6930                63
December 31, 1987                   990                7920                 72
March 31, 1988                      880                8800                8G
June 30, 1988                        770               9520                87
1988-89
September 30, 1988                  660               10230                93
December 31, 1988                   440               10670                97
March 31, 1989                      330               11000                100



-66-
Table 15: PROCUREMENT TABLE a/
(US$ Millions)
Project Element                                          Procurement Method                 Total
ICB        LCB      Other        N.A.       Cost
Civil Works                                     13.4                                         13.4
(6.2)                                        (6.2)
Furniture, Equipment, Vehicles                   2.2                    0.3                   2.5
(1.9)                                        (1.9)
Other Capital and Supplies                       1.0                    1.6                   2.6
Local Training                                                          0.7                   0.7
Foreign Training                                                        0.7                   0.7
Technical Assistance                                                    3.1                   3.1
(2.3)                 (2.3)
Contraceptive Commodities                                               0.9                   0.9
Incremental Staff Salaries                                                         2.2        2.2
TOTAL                                                                                        26.1
(10.4)
a/ Including contingencies and excluding PPF and front end fee; figures in parentheses are the
respective amounts financed by the Bank.



-6 7-   CHART 1
L W             ~~~~~~~~~~~I'
fS'--1' 
*4    .,    _SE     E'
45AS-S
~X              .  X-.E 
cs    .               X W
4O5                              W
r 1!



PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Minister ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ thrMiitre
Ministry of local   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   -        Permanent Secretary
Govt. and Lands  LII
Health Planning Unit                                 Health Research Unit
Deputy Permanent Secrecary 
co
Director of 
Health Services 
Distr ict              Hospital                Primary Health          Health Technical |       Health Manpower                        Health
Realtn   Services      Care Services 8Support Services                     Development                     Administ!:ation
and Utilization
Diagnostic &   Treatment   Medical    Management          National         National       Technical      Finance   Supplies &  General   Admin.
Med. Research   & Care    Standards  of Hospitals    Pharmaceuti-         Laboratory      Equipment      6 Accts.1 Mainten.   Adm.Serv  Systems
cal Services       Services                                                       Developm
Comunity    Welfare       Fi        PHC Field      Dental         Health Manpower      Health Manpower      Manpower
Health      Rehabili-   Health    Service         Health             Planning         Development NHI    Deployment
Service       tation              Inspecrorate  Services 



-69-
CHART 3
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR REORGANIZATION OF HEALTH CARE DELIVERY SYSTEM
PYI         PYII         PYIII        PYIV
1  2 3_ 4                                2 2  3  4  _ 2  3  4  _ 2  34
A. MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING CAPACITY
1. Traini
Overseas
Management Trainers            _
Study Tour                                                 __
Public Health
Hospital Administration       -
Local
Reorientation Seminar         -
Management Orientation
Senior Officers          -
Second-Level Managers   -
Job Orientation
District Counclls           -
Town councils               _
Supervisory Training              _
2. Consultants
Health Planner
Management Specialist
Realth Planner/Evaluation
3. Stuty
Health Needs of Gaborone
B. FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
1. Training                                                   |  | ti| Staf
On-The-Job Training
For Financial and
2. onultntAccoantin8 StgLff                                     _         I
Financial Management
3. Iaplementation of Cost Recovery                                 .  *. 
C. COMMUNITY HEALTE SCIENCES UNIT
1. Training
Overseas
Entomologist
Microbiologist
Tuberculosis Refresher
Training                        -           - _                      -
Local
Tuberculosis Treatment                  --          -            -    I
STD Treatment                           --      I                --   I
2. Technical Assistance
Entomologist
Microbiologist
3. Studies                                                 III
Tuberculosis Evaluation            -
4. Civil Works
5. Equipment and Supplies
Finalise Lists
Tender
Equipment Arrives
D. STRENGTHENING RURAL HEALTH SERVICES            gee Implementation Schedule for Civil Works
E. CENTRAL MEDICAL STORES
1. Trainiag
Overseas
Drug Management               --
Local
Prescribing Practices                         --
Pharmacy Technicians                          --
2. Expansion of Building
sni df btablisment
of Sub-Depot at Maun           _      _        --    ---



-70-
CHART 4
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE FOR CIVIL WORKS
Pre-Project    PYI         PY1I         PYIII       PYIV
Quarters
1  2  3 4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3  4  1  2  3 4 1   2 3  4
Princess Marina Hospital| _
Su.-Vey-
Design
Tender
Construction       _             _      -  .._.    _._  _.  __
Urban Clinics
SUrvey                 -
Tender
Construction
Rua  Clincttstin._    _ 
RrlTender                       -
Construction
C. H. S.*U
Tender                       -
Construction
iC.N.S.llllllll..|
Tenader 
Construction
Health Education Unit
Tender                       -
Construction



s.s   _        ~~~~~A  N  G  O  L A                                                  K-  s             uguis Z  A  M   B  I A   ,
r Mohemnbo ,                            .'             , 
i ShekodA                                  1               Eti
i        / ,lO~KAVANGO;:'.;                                      \\
I        \    DELTA ~~D                                           \ L T
INCi%MILAND     \an\                                                           '
-206  i                \<,                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tutume 
-   !              t   /                 S \           ~~~~~~~~~~~~MAKGADIKG5pDI  .MO\ 
_   |           /                      >       r    , .PANS          ~~~~~~~~~~~   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~icopprr)   otsito
| ~~~~~G   H   A   N  l I                           C   E  N  I R AL L na
-220                                             r                                                                      S)el}ebiP
/j  \                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Serow_G(2  }  -
< \ K A WL A H ~~~~AA                                       R                       IlapyMen
j  >  g  \                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Shoshongog,y~ 
uu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o lo e I \S                                   aneR T  ,ine
-24 \ Hukunisl \\< \< <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Let1hakeng V/}\
! G A L A 6 A D I                                                 mol      M     OePOOe XI°MO udi r
l    %                       s     t     s       h>              S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sikwone
I   ii\          \AtS               Y              0_' ::Sa.~~~~~N~WKI ~,
_z6-                                        Tshebon   -McCarltys Rusta1k
|,0                         22  2/J2rrW.  1-   -



I__ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ ___ __ __ ___ __ ___ __ __ ___   __   ___   __   __   ___    __   __IB RD             li    8 9 5 R
26                                 7      /                            '                       ol         D i *'. jt I i983
*               ~~~~26°                       '/ ,di i3°                                                        3
xjKozungulo  Z  A   M   B  I A
*4A0~~n  (                                                       DOTS WANA
/'    '\o               \   _                          \
{/  
- X       I XASI IN(, MAIN RlOADIb
F               "\                                                                      -       fr XISI ING SE CONUARlY lOADS
_    ___ OTFRf R lOADS
N      1                                                        -     - e  IHAlLWAYS
\ s;   /  t  MAJOIH AIRI If I DS  lAIMAC
\ " \   At                                                MAJOR AIIRIFilDS   UNSURIACID
\       '6. <>9                                                 INL HAL PHOJrCIS
RI VI RS
\   -'       6I )0    DISTRICT AOMIN'STllA1 V\ CINlE ftS
DISI RIC bOUNDARIIS
INTE RNATIONAI BOUNDARiFS
.0 --------  Nato                  Bulawayo                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~200 
GweNa  ta                                                                            0      20     40    60      e0      100
Twtume A   >                           v                           MILES
0  20  40  60  30  100 120  140 l6O
MAKGADIKGGADI                        ukweRomokgwebana                                                      IILOIETERS
PANS                                                     m                                        KLEJ
(Copper)     4MatsitMam
j  Dar     i                   oda        Proposed        Frastown
~~^         ZSer~~ule 0Mmadina-e
\  (Copper)  8obonong
Selebi- I we(±                                                                         22P
I~~~~~~~~
Serowl  0(2 l                  -                         P nDll~_ _
/                            T  wfPol~~~~~~~~~~opye                            W
0 DMoeng   <  
Shoshong                                    erwood Ranch
7FY.<ch~~~~Onel;+
Letihakeng                 ye
-.R      \                               1?{    t@d\                                                                                       24°-
A  - K%IIIjC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 
Molepolol&     _  Iiloxn,e  Mochudi f
Mogodltshon4...  'S'               (S
Sebele   So
Gabor  e*    -. -~Sikworie
Ka ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~300
-i A  N  i                  '" '                                                                                    I                                    I _ _ _ _ _ _
,hnLbsee                                                                             ANGOLA                  ZAMBIA   -
~~r Poneer Gale                                                                                     -s -        r    ._         r
(S    R a    m    a 9                                                                                    g         \ Z MBABWE
Romothiobomo                                                     ~~~~~~~~NAMIBIA
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V  w^                                                   ls I BO TSW AN A 
Mofecing 2° %
260 -
-~~~~~~                                                                       Ic).~~~~~~~~~~~~~,0 ~~~~~~SWAZItANBC
lile~T HO
ho 0000., 000 nn S .s     '05.5  , JS h o' oU l ,.,fl.h  l 0000  Io/  Wtoo W Id dnh flood thre Olethn:lo.hu
st1as sarsIhe [... ....... -1 .r.o. mwh 1b.- o.-h l'N-   F4                        5vwb>l r  Lnn Tl Hbgod-ntZw¢f.
on  .7slf10 olt.0.v nOiO,O,,,,o,,rOr'ooo¶,,sb,la,oll Obo.4-W- r *. e o   svsF R I C A
Z" (g  2a                        6 °00                                               . . I'y



