Docummnt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
bt bNG. 12014
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
BOTSWkl&
WAILY HEALTE PROJECT
(LOAN 2413-BT)
JUNIE 18, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No. :12014 BT         Type: (PCR)
Title: FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT - BOTSWA
Author: DOVE, L.A.
Ext. :31752 RooIb:T 9013 Dept. :OEDD1
Population and Human Resources Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distibuton and may be used by reipients only in the peforNmance of
their official duties. Its contents maY not otherwise be dielosd without World Bank athorization.



FI8AcL YES
April 1 through March 31
CURRBNCY EQUIVALhWTS
At time of Appraisal (1982) = US$1 = Pula 1.07
At time of Completion (1992) = US$1 = Pula 1.99
_088ARY
AD        Assistant Director
APT       Architectural Planning Team
CHSC      Community Health Services Center
(.1SD     Community Health Services Department
CMS       Central Medical Store
CSO       Central Statistics Office
DABS      Department of Architectural and Building
Servicas
DEMS      Department of Mechanical and Electrical
Services
DHT       District Health Team
GOB       Government of Botawana
GON       Government of Norway
IUAT      International Union Against Tuberculosis
IEC       Information, Education and Communication
MCH/FP    Maternal and Child Health and Family
Planning
MLGL      Ministry of Local Government and Lands
NHL       National Health Laboratory
MOH       Ministz2 of Health
NDP       National Development Plan
PH        Primary Hospital
PHC       Primary Health Care
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PMH       Princess Marina Hospital
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
RHT       Rural Health Team



FOR OFMCAL US ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
W.§ashlngton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Of"" o Dilretor.General
Opertons Evaluaion
June 18, 1993
EMBORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Botswana
Family Health Project (Ln. 2413-Bll
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Botswana - Family Health
Project (Loan 2413-BT) prepared by the Afica Regional Office. Part II of the report was
prepared by t' Borrower.
Underpinning the Govermment's reorganization of its health care delivery
ystem and despite considerable delays and difficulties, the project was ultimately
successu in meeting three central objectives: (a) strengthening the country's Rural
Health Teams and developing 13 rural and urban primary health care centers so as to
provide more %,utpatient care and free in-patient resources, (b) upgrading the country's
main hospital facility and (c) helping in nearly doubling the incidence of family planning.
On the other hand, the Government did not put in place an improved
budgeting and accounting system, and civil works were subject to cost overruns. Weak
coordination of the various ministry agencies' activities was detrimental to institutional
development which was only parially achieved.
Nevertheless. the prospects for sustainability of the strengthened health care
delivery system are adequate and the overall project outcome is rated as satisfactory.
The PCR provides a candid account of project achievements and short-
comings. No audit is planned.
Attachment
Thbe doounwnt has a restrited didribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their omfcia
duie. Its oonbtnts may not othewise be disclosed without World Bank auftoridzion.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION RZPORT
ISOTSWANA
FAMILY UM&LTN PROJECT
(LOAN 2413-IT)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PaAte No,.
EVALUATION Sll KAY    a...........  ...   .                         iii
I.  PROJECT REVIEW PROM UhK$ $ PERSPECTIVE   9  .        . . *.   1
Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
Project Background   .      . . . . ..eee...      .*         1
Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . . . . . . .    2
Project Design and Organization  .. . . . . . . . . . . .    3
Project Implementation   .................                   4
Project Results  . . . . . . .                       .       5
Project Sustainability                8                      a
Bank Performance   . .                                       9
Borrower Performance   *...........-.                       11
Consulting Services  *. . . .                               11
II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE   . . . . . . .   13
II.   PART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION   . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Related Bank Loans   .........* ..a.                        15
Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
Loan Dis!lursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   16
Project Imlamentation        *     *#                         17
Total Project Costs and Financing  .0......9999             18
Status of Loan Covenants                                    2.3
Use of Staff Resources                                      24
LIST 01 ANNEXES
Annex 1 -  Names of Officials Met during PCR Mission   . . . . . .   26
Annex 2 -  Project Implementation Sumary (as of October 1992)   .   27
Annex 3 -  Construction Completion Program for PME (October 1992)    29
Annex 4 -  Training Output as of September 309 1990 ,     9 - . . . 0  30
Annex 5 -  Consultant Services (October 1992)  . . . . . . . . . .   31
Annex 6 -  Record of Project Progress Reports Submitted  . . . . .   32
MAP - IBRD 11895R
This document has a nstricted distribution and may be used by reipients only in the performane
of their oMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without Worid Bank authorization.



U    MT CM TON 
FAMILY WMH1  ROj
(Loam 2413-IT),
This is the Project Completion Report (FCR) for the Family Iealth
Project in Botswana, for which Loan 2413-BT in the amount of US$ 11.00
million was approved on MIy 15, 1984.  The Government of Norway prvided
a Grant amounting to US$ '.2 million equivalent to finance portions of
the project. The Loan and the Norwegian Grant were fully disbursed.
The last disbursment was on July 22, 1992.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources
Operations Division of the Southern Africa Departmen; (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, 'Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
The PCK is based, inter alia.on the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Loan Agreement; the Grant Agreement between the Governments of Nerway
and the Borrower; supervision reports; correcpondence between the Bank
and the Borrower; Progress Reports by the Borrower; and interviews with
Bank staff and Botswana officials who were closely associated with the
Project.
i



PROJEcT C,FeumON PRT
BOTSWANA
FAMILY   ALTH 
(Loan 2413-BT)
RVALV&TIO 
Proiect Objectives and Content
i)          The main objectives of the project were: (a) to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency of Botswana's health care delivery system,
and (b) to strengthen nationwide availability of family planning
services. Specifically, the project aimed at assisting the Government
to attain these objectives by reorganizing and strengthening the central
organization of the Ministry of Health (MOH), progressively building up
each level of the health care delivery system. strengthening family
planning activities in the Maternal and Child Health (ECE) program.
introducing family planning activities in women's programs, reducing the
unit cost of health care , and improving the efficiency of the
pharmaceutic-1 supply system.
Iplementation Exnerience
ii)         Overall project performance was satisfactory.  On the
physical side, with the notalle exception of the Princess Marina
Hospital (PMH), all the rural and urban health centers, as well as well
as the Community Health Sciences Center (CiSC) were completed as
planned. The project was also quite successful with respect to
institutional and program strengthening, as detailed below (Paras. 13-
24).
iii)        The major variances between planned and actual
implementation were as follows: a) The project's Closing Date was
extended by three years to allow completion of project components
(excepting PMR); b) PHi upgrading remains unfinished and it is estimated
that the Hospital will be completed and fully operational in 1994, about
six years behind the original schedule, iii) Expansion of the Central
Medical Stores (CMS) in Gaborone and a new pharmaceutical store in Maun
were deleted from the project in favor of a new storage facility
financed by the Government; and finally iv) the Government decided not
iii



to introduc, cost recovery schemes In the health sector, as part of its
overall policy to provide free (or almost free) prlmary health services
to the population. particularly in rural aeas.
iv) Some of these variances, especially the delay at PM. were caused
by factors that were essentially beyond the control of the project.
Some of those factors includeds a one-year freeze in hiring expatriate
technical assii,tance staff and consultants on account of financial
constraints caased by the 1985 draught in the country; delays in
recruiting the tsam leader for the Architectural Planning Team (APT).
and subsequently turn-overs of other architect.; a significant increase
(by about 402) in the new area to be constructed; major design changes
that rendere4 the construction of the new and remodelled facilities far
more technologically complex and sophisticated than originally
envisaged. On account of these and other related factors. the cost
overrun at the time of the completion mission (October, 1992) was
-stimated at 2502. The cost overrun for the project as a whole is
estimated at about 1772 (Para. 22).
Results
v)          One of the main aims of the project was to imp_ove the
effectiveness and efficiency of the country's health delivery system.
On the whol, this objective was achieved as evidenced by the following
results: (a) MOR was successfully reorganized along functional lines
following studies undertaken by the Government as well as though the
project (Para. 13); (b) Rural Health Teams (RHTs) were transferred from
MOH to the Ministry of Local Government and Lands (HLGL) as the latter
had overall responsibility for coordinating and administering social
services (including health and education) at the district level; (c) the
National Health Laboratory and the Community Health Services Division,
which hitherto were weak and housed in scattered facilities were
provided with permanent facilities in adjacent buildings, thereby
contributing to better coordination and collaboration between community
health practitioners and laboratory staff (Pare. 14)s (d) rural and
urbaz6 primary health services were strengthened and expanded through the
provision of nine (9) urban-periurban and four (4) -.ural primary health
centers (renamed primary hospitals in 199O) (Paras. 16, 21-22). The re-
n3ming of the health center as primary hospitals is in itself a clear
indication that the centers have been upgraded beyond their traditional
service of providing primary (outpatient) care to provide some of the
medically more involved functions, usually reserved for larger health
institutions. The project has been far less successful with respect to
the upgrading of PUB, the country's main hospital. For a variety of
reasons discussed in some detail in this report (Paras. 11, 21-22), the
hospital is yet to be completed. The Government has the resources and
the commitment to finance the rmaining civil works and to procure the
necessary equipment. One of the positive results of the project in
relation to PMH is that the pressure on its outpatient department has
been greatly reduced as much of the burden for outpatient treatment has
iv



nov been directed to the project-assisted urban health clinics.
(Para.20).
vi) The second main objective of the project was to strengthen
nationwide availability of family planning services. This objective too
has on the whole been attained. For instances fami..y planning themes
have been integrated in health education programs nationwide; primary
and secondary school curricula now contain pertinent information on
family planning; likewise curricula for basic training of health
personnel at all levels have been revised to incorporate appropriate
lessons on family planning; and significantly; more than 901 of primary
health centers (Primary Hospitals) now offer family planning services on
a regular, daily basis. The proportion of women who use modern family
planning methods has increased from 16X at appraisal to nearly 301 in
1988, and there are indications that the ratio has increased even more
since 1988 (when the last comprehensive survey on this subject was
undertaken). Contraceptive prevalence rate has increased from 24Z in
1981 to 30X in 1988. The fertility rate has likewise declined from 7.1
in 1981 to 5.0 in 1988. Clearly, not all these benefits are
attribut- ;le to the Project. But it is equally true that the project
has made a signif±cant contribution toward attaining these benefits.
(Pora. 17).
Sustainability
vii) The benefits derived from the project are likely to be sustained
for the foreseeable future as an integral part of MOH's programs. There
exists a clear Government policy and commitment for primary health care,
a sine aua non for project sustainability, as pointed out in ORnDs 1990
report on the sustainability of investment projects in education (and
equally applicable to health projects). Under NDP VII (1992-1997). GOB
has increased the allocation for recurrent budget by about 91 per year,
in real terms, over allocations made under NDP VI. Maintenance of
facilities and equipment in the health sector (as in other sectors. such
as education) has been a matter of serious concern to GOB over the
years. The Government has now (1992) decided to contract out (through
tender) maintenance services of most health facilities and equipment.
including those at PM. to a reputable private firm. This too augurs
well for the sustainability of the project-assisted facilities and
equipment. (Para. 25).
Findings and Lessons Learned
viii) With the notable exception of PMH, all project components were
fully implemented. All the nine urban/peri-urban and four rural primary
health facilities have been established and are fully operationa'.
Lessons derived from the implementation of this project include:
a) The project brings to the fore once again the on-going
discussion in the Bank regarding the extent to which project
implementation arrangements should be organizationally and
functionally integrated with the responsible Government
v



Ministry or agency. In this project, instead of a separate
project implementation unit (PIU), a project coordinating
committee consisting of the relevant heads of MNR
departments was assigned responsibility for project
management. While this is consistent with the Bank's
present efforts to enhance the Borrower's sense of
"ownership", the experience in the implementation of this
project demonstrates that unless the government officials
(such as head of departments) take a proactive role in
project management, the mere establishment of a
"coordinating committee" is not sufficient to create a sense
of "ownership", and the full integration of project
activities with the regular functions of the Borrower's
agency. (Paras. 7-8, 28).
b) The experience with the PMH upgrading,/expansion
indicates that it is exceedingly difficult, and often more
expensive, to undertake a ma1or upgrading, especially when
the existing facility is expected to o'erate while the
upgrading is in progress. A detailed cost analysis shoul'4
first be undertaken to dete;.inne the cost-effectiveness of
such maior upgrading operations vis-a-vis establishing a new
hospital, on a difi rent site. (Para. 25).
c) Further, the experience with the PMH upgrading indicates
that it is critically important to define in detail the
exact nature and acope of the upgrading/modification before
actual construction/modification begins. Failure to do that
would almost inevitably result in constant changes and
additions to the original plan. (Para. 22).
d) Finally, the project reinforces the lWportance of
retaining the responsibility (and the requisite financial
resources) for building and equipment maintenance as close
as possible to the users. In this particular case. those
responsibilities were centralized in two Government
agencies. DABS (for building maintenance) and DIMS (for
buildings and equipment servicing). As the agencies are far
over-stretched and understaffed to cater to the needs of all
goverment agencies. As a result, essential repairs of
buildings and equipment are not attended to promptly.
(Para. 16, 28).
vi



PRojEcT CaPETO    REPORT
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
(Loa 2413-pT)
PART I.  PROJECT REIEW F          BAlK98 1NC
A.    Proiect Identity
Project Name:     Family Health Project
Loan No.:         2413-BT
RVP Unit:         Africa Regional Office
Country:          Botswana
Sector:           Population and Health
B.    Proicgt Background
1)          Sector Development Oblectives.  At the time the project was
appraised Botswana*s health services were already wvll established on
sound policies and conscious efforts were being made to provide
resources to rural areas. Although the Gov :nrment had not at the time
developed a comprehensive population policy, there was a clear awareness
among senior officials of the socio-eaonomic problems caused by a
rapidly growing population. Incidence of common tropical diseases such
as malaria, schistosomiasis vas low on accouut of the dry climate which
inhibits the vectors. The leading cause of morbidity was -and continues
to be) respiratory illnesses, including tuberculosis. Among children,
malnutrition was perhaps the leading cause of morbidity and infant
mortality. The Government's objectives in the areas of health and
population have been to strengthen and expand basic health services,
while at the same controlling communicable diseases.
2)          Policy Context.   At independence, Botswana inherited a
largely curative, hospital-based health care delivery system. Since
then, the thrust of the Government's policy direction has been to re-
orient the system to a primary health care system accessible to the
entire rural population. This shift in policy began in earnest with the
National Health Plan for the period 1968-1973. This emphasis on primary
health care as the cornerstone for the health delivery system was
reaffirmed in successive National Development Plans (NDPs), particularly
NDP IV (1976-1981) and NDP V (1982-87). The health care support system
included health education. HCH/FP, control of communicable diseases (in
particular tuberculosis and sexually transmitted diseases). nutrition,
the prevention and treatment of blindness, environmental sanitation,



occupational health and programs for the handicapped. The Government
continues to make substantial efforts to ensure that health facilities
are well distributed throughout the country.
3)          Sector knowledge and background for the project was derived
in the main from the findings of a population, health and nutrition
sector review missions which visited Botswana in 1981. While the
mission concluded that on the whole the health status and overall
government policy and strategy were good, there were certain major gaps
and deficiencies that need to be addressed. These included weaknesses
in the organization and management of the Ministry of Health; over
centralization of health services; strengthening the effectiveness and
efficiency of health programs; and revitalizing family planning
services. The Government accepted the main conclusions of the Bank's
sector study as a basis for requesting external assistance from donor
agencies including the Bank itself.
C.    Proiect O'bectives and Descrintion
4)          Prolect ObiectivAs.  The main objectives of the project
were: (a) to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of Botswana's
health care delivery system, and (b) to st:engthen nationwide
availability of faminly planning services. More specifically, it was
aimed at assisting the Government in reaching these objectives over a
five-year period by bt'dlding up the central organization of the Ministry
of Health (MOB). progressively building up each level of the health care
delivery system, streg7thening family planning activities in the NCH
program, introducing family planning activities in women's programs,
reducing the unit cost of health care within the referral system, and
increasing the efficiency of the pharmaceutical supply system
5)          Prolect Components.  The project included four main
componentes
(a)   Reorranization of the Health Care Doliver, System.  Through
the provision of technical assistance, consultanciess in-
country and overseas training, construction of new or
upgrading existing facalities, as appropriate:
(i) strengthening management and planning capacity, (ii)
introducing cost recovery and strengthening finnncial
management, (iii) establishing a Community Health Sciences
Center for the collection and analysis of epidemiological
data, (iv) strengthening rural health serqices, and (v)
establishing a Central Medical Store;
(b)   Population. Maternal and Child Health and Family Plannina.
Through the provision of technical assistance consultancies
local and overseas training, equipment, the procurement and
distribution of contraceptive commodities as well as the
expansion and upgrading the existing He.lth Education (HEU):
2



(i) Integrating family planning theme& into existing health
education programs and supporting other programs and
activities pertainirg to family planning, and (ii)
establishing a demographic unit within the Central
Statistics Officet
(c) Urkaa Health and Family Plannint Services. Through support
for extension and upgrading of physical facilities and procurement
tf equipment:
(i) upgrading and expanding the Princess Marina Hospital
(PMU). and (ii) Upgr4ding and strengthening nine urban
health clinics in Gaborone; and
(d)   Man_ower Development.   Through provision of technical
assistance, training health manpower required for
implementing MOH's reorganization of the health care
delivery system and the expansion of population/MCH/PP
activities.
D.    Prolect Desian and Oraanization
6)          The Family Health Project derived its conceptual foundation
from the findings of a Bank health sector review mission in February
1981 and its recommendations were accepted by the Government in May
1982. The project was appraised in June 1983 and negotiated in February
1984. Because of its long-standing assistance for rural health services,
the participation of the Government of Norway (GON) was sought to
finance portions of the project on a grant basis. The GON agreed to
provide a grant of US 7.2 million equivalent to finance portions of the
project.
7)          According to the original design of the project, overall
responsibility for project implementation was to rest with the Permanent
Secretary of MOB, with each component being managed by the Head of the
relevant department in MOH. Thus, the Assistant Director (AD) of Primary
Health Care was to be responsible for implementation of CiSC, IEC/MCH
and VP activities as well as for strengthening urban and rural health
tactlities. Similarly, the AD of Hospital Services was to be
responsible for the upgrading of PMH with technical supiport by the Chief
Architect and a PNH Architectural Planning Team. The same applied for
the other components of the project. A Project Coordinator, appointed
in May 1984, vas to assist the PS and component managers with project
implementation. A Project Coordinating Committee, chaired by the PS,
consisting of MOE department heads and other relevant Ministries, was
expected to meet quarterly to review progress of implementation.
8)          On the whole, the project was managed along these lines.
However, in retrospect, a more proactive role of component managers and
more frequent meetings on a systematic and sustained basis, would have
further enhanced the effectiveness aad efficiency of the project,
thereby establishing an even better basis for a continued integration of
project-related activities after the end of the project.
3



9)          Apart from the PMH upgrading and extension of the Closing
Date, most project components have been successfully completed,
although with some delays. The PH 4is now scheduled to be completed by
December 1994, close to three years after the Project Closing Date and
six years after the original schedule. Some of the underlying factors
behind this considerable delay and related gross cost overruns are
detailed below.
E.    Prolect Implementation
10)         The major variances between planned and actual project
implementation were:
a)    extension of the Project Closing Date by three years to
allow completion of project components (excepting PHH);
b)    delayed planning and construction of PM1, now estimated to
be completed about six years after the original schedule and
related cost o--erruns; and
c)    the deletion of CMS upgrading/addition and a new
pharmaceutical store in Maun from the project, in favor of a
new storage facility in Gaborone financed by the Government;
and
d)    the decision not to implement a cost recovery scheme.
There were one or two other relatively minor elements that were not
carried out. The first was concerning project evaluation. During
appraisal, MO had agreed to undertake annual evaluation of the project.
But, when it became clear that it will not be possible to carry out
annual evaluations on account of shortage of local expertise in project
evaluation, in 1987 a Bank supervision mission agreed with the
authorities that the Bank will be satisfied with the government's semi-
annual progress reports and its own supervision mission reports for
monitoring implementation progress. Secondly, the SAR plan to introduce
program budgeting and to revise MOE's accounting system was not carried
out, largely because MOH lacked the authority to do so on its own as the
health sector was under two separate ministries (MNO  and ML.GL). and also
because there was no overall decision from the Ministry of Finance to
adopt a new budgeting and accounting system nationwide.
11)         The delays in the civil works were beyond the control of the
project. The factors that contributed to these delays included: (i) a
one year freeze in the hiring of expatriate consultants/technical
assistants on account of financial constraints due to the 1985 drought
in the country, (ii) in the case of PMH, late recruitment of the team
leader for the Architectural Planning Team (APT) which caused an initial
delay at P11 of about two years, and (iii) recurring vacancies in APT
(eg. when one of the architects died in a traffic accident). The cost
recovery scheme was not introduced because of policy changes by the
Government not to introduce increase user charges in the social sectors,
including primary education and primary health care. Instead, the
4



Government decided to freeze health care (and school) fees at the very
modest level which were in effect at the time.
12)         Overall the project was a success.  As discussed in greater
detail below. the project was particularly successful in re-organizing
NOR, in strengthening family planning services and in expanding and
upgrading primary health care services in rural and urban areas. There
vas close communication and collaboration between Bank and Government as
these variances occurred. During implementation, as and when it become
clear that some elements could not be carried out as planned, relevant
changes were made in full consultation with the Government.
F.   Project Results
13)         Reortanization of MOR. One of the main aims of the project
was to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the health care
delivery system. With the help of an advance from the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF), the organization of the MOR was studied and
the roles and functions of the District Health Teams (DETs) were
reviewed. A proposal was made to reorganize the MOH along functional
lines (MOH's reorganization along functional lines was introduced as
early as 1985). The transfer of the Rural Health Teams (RHTs) from MOH
to Ministry of Local Government and Lands (MLGL) took more time and was
implemented from 1989. The study of health financing mechanisms and a
cost recovery scheme was completed (financed from PPF), but as noted
above, GOB decided not to implement the proposals, as part of the
Government's overall policy to provide free social services, especially
primary education and primary health care. Thus patient fees still
remain at the same nominal level as at appraisa.l. The health planner
consultancy was successfully completed, leading to improved planning at
the district level. The planned changes towards program planning and
budgeting were not realized. Likewise a management information system
was not developed.
14)         Stren=thening Community Health Science.  The Community
Health Sciences Center (CHSC) in Gaborone was completed as planned. The
Community Deslth Services Division (CHSD) (with Epidemiology and Disease
Control Unit, AIDs program, Environmental Health and Occupational Health
Units) are housed in one block, while the National Health Laboratory
(NHL) is housed in an adjacent building, both funded by the project.
Until the laboratory facilities at PMH are operational the MmL will
continue so serve PMH. The Center has contributed to better coordination
and cooperation within the field of public health. Staffing has been
improved since the start of the project both in the Community Health and
in the Laboratory area. Regrettably, however, it seems that the
buildings (completed in 1988) have some major construction and design
defects which have caused major leakages and floodings. MOB has reported
the damages to the relevant agencies and the defects are expected to be
remedied forthwith.
15)         The tuberculosis treatment regimen was revised early on in
the project, with assistance from the International Union Against
Tuberculosis (IAUT). The National Tuberculosis Program Manual was
subsequently revised (1985) with stronger emphasis on domiciliary
5



treatment. Although a systematic evaluatfon of the new treatment regimen
has not yet been undertaken, some of the benefits are already clear.
For instance, TB-patients now generally remain hospitalized for about
60 days, while the average inpatient stay was 90 days at appraisal.
Combined with a less expensive treatment regimen, this has brought about
cost savings, even though the magnitude of the savings has to be
assessed more closely.
16)         Exvansion and Unarading of Rural Primary Health Services.
The upgrading and additions to four existing Health Centers (from 1990
called Primary Hospitals (PH)) at Lethlakane, Mmadinare, Bobonong and
Thamaga was completed on time. All PH. have been fully operational since
1988 and are well utilized. However, some of the new equipment (e.g. new
boilers, x-ray equipment) that were delivered two or more years ago have
yet to be installed and put to use. Installation of equipment and
maintenance of buildings and equipment for all government Ministries and
agencies are centralized in Botswana under two departments, the
Department of Architectural and Building Services (or DABS). and the
Department of Mechanical and Electrical Services (DEMS). Because those
departments are overstretched in terms of technical staff to cope with
the high demand for their services. it is not unusual to see long delays
in installing equipment or repairing damaged buildings. Thus, one of the
importanr lessons that emerges from implementation of this project is
the vital importance of retaining the responsibility (along with the
requisite funds) for equipment and building maintenance as close to the
user agency as possible. At Thamaga PH there have been problems with
the sewerage system ever since the opening of the facility in 1988.
Although, the need to remedy the defects has been underscored by several
supervision missions, the situation has yet to be remedied. underscoring
once again the delays and inefficiencies inherent in a highly
centralized system of building and equipment maintenance.
17)         Strengthenina Family Planning Services.  The second main
objective of the project was to strengthen nationwide ability of family
planning services, by increasing the use of contraceptive commodities
thereby reducing Botswana's high fertility rate. There have been a wide
range of activities under the project to achieve this objective both
under the population/MCH/FP/IEC and under the manpower development
component. Most important of these have been: (i) the integration of
family planning themes in health education programs has been intensified
and improved. (ii) the integration of family health in primary and
secondary school curricula, (iii) revision of curricula for basic
training for health personnel, and (iv) the introduction of a
comprehensive and integrated approach at primary health care facilities
that offer family planning services on a regular, daily basis.
Cumulatively, these activities have been very successful. As of October
1992 more than 902 of primary health facilities offer integrated
services. It is also encouraging that from 1984 to 1988 the proportion
of women who know of modern methods of family planning has increased
from 74 to 95 S. The proportion of actual users of family planning
devices has increased from 16 to 29.7 X, and the proportion of women who
have used at one time or another modern family planning methods ha.
likewise increased from 34 to 54K All methods included, the current
contraceptive prevalence rate has increased from 24 to 30 S from 1984 to
6



1988. Total fertility has declined 30 2 in less than 10 years. from 7.1
in 1981 to 6.5 in 1984 to 5.0 in 1988. Clearly, not all these benefits
can be att-tibutable to the Project. But it is equally true that the
project has made an important contribution toward attaining these
benefits.
18)   The establishment of a Demographic Unit, including necessary
equipment, in the Central Statistices Office (CSO) was taken out of the
project, but the Unit was established with funding from UNFPA.
19)         In the area of urban health and family planning services,
the project had two main componentss (i) upgrading/extensions of
urban/periurban clinics in Gaborone, and (ii) renovations/additions to
the PMH.
20)         Strenatheninft Urban Health Centers.   The Gaborone Health
Needs Study was completed in time to provide a valuable in-put for
planning the strengthening and upgrading of both the urban primary
health services as well as the upgrading of PMR. On the whole, the
improvement of primary health care services in Gaborone under the
project has been a significant success. Altogether eight existing
clinics were upgraded and expanded, and one new clinic with a maternity
ward was established. As the existing facilities remained in operation
whilst the expansion and upgrading was in progress, it was decided to
undertake the remodelling and expansion in three phases as shown in
Section III, Table 4. Apart from the maternity ward at the recently
(December, 1991) completed Old Naledi clinic that has not operated due
to shortage of midwives, all facilities are operational. One of the
Centers, Extension 2 Clinic, is in fact operating on 8 24 hour basis.
The staffing of the clinics has generally improved. Presently 5 doctors
work in these clinics while there none were assigned before start of the
upgrading. The expansion and upgrading of these urban health centers,
has had an important impact on the pattern of primary and outpatient
care in the Gaborone area as a whole. For instance, during the period
1982-1991 total attendance at the clinics has increased by about 260 Z
(from 234 000 to 620 000), thereby relieving the pressure for outpatient
care at PMH. Outpatient attendance at PMH has decreased by about 80 2
(from 3-400 to 80 a day), over roughly the same period. All outpatients
at PMH (apart from A&E cases) are now referral cases.
21)         Princess Marina Hospital (PMH). This is the only component
that has not been completed as yet. At the time of the Completion
Mission, it was estimated that upgrading of the Hospital was about 40-
501 completed. The Hospital is expected to be completed and fully
operational by December, 1994. The Government is fully committed and
has the necessary resources to complete the civil works, to procure the
necessary equipment. and to provide the full compliment of medical and
paramedical staff from its own resources. The financial implications
for these undertakings are fully reflected in the country's Development
Plan.
22)         Some of the factors that explain this delay were discussed
in Para. 11. Additional factors included: (a) the scope of the
upgrading was increased considerably. The total area for new buildings
7



increased by almost 402, from about 14,000 square meters planned at
appraisal to close to 20.000 square meters in the present construction
plan; (b) the total number of beds was likewise increased by about 82
from 440 to about 480 beds; (c) the nature of upgrading too has
increased not only in terms of scope (as indicated above), but also in
terms of its complexity. Both the civil works, and especially the
equipment have now acquired a far more hi$h technology character than
originally envisaged. The situation was further exacerbated by the
absence of an architect with sufficient experience in large hospital
projects. This was particularly crucial in the case of PMH where new
construction and extensive remodelling were taking place while the
hospital was still operating. Of the new facilities only the pediatric
ward was completed on time (1986). These and other factors together
have caused considerable cost overruns. of about 2502 at the time of the
project completion mission in October, 1992. This figure is likely to
be even higher by the time the hospital is completed (with Government
funds) in December 1994 (Para. 41). The cost overrun for the project as
a whole was about 177Z (Table 5).
23)         Mannower Develoyment.  Under the Manpower Development
component both the training program and the health manpower planning
consultancy have been successful. A National Health Manpower Plan was
completed in 1989 and had significant impact on health manpower and
training projections in NDP VII and on the National Health Institute
(NH) Requirement Study that was funded outside the project.
24)         Implementation of the training program was successful. As
can be seen from Annex 4, appraisal targets for both in-country and
overseas training were exceeded, by about 50% on average. However, the
original project idea of integrating project-funded training with a
national training scheme so that manpower development could continue
even when project funds are exhausted has not materialized to the extent
originally envisaged. This is a matter of concern in that when project
funds have been exhausted the Government has not yet provided funds for
the continuation of training along similar lines. In this respect, the
project reinforces a lesson learned from other Bank-funded operations
which underscore the crucial importance of gradually phasing-in
Government contributions to such activities as craining so those vital
programs would continue even when the project terminates.
CG    Project Sustainability
25)         Botswana is likely to derive long-term benefits in the
health and social sectors from the project as a result of the improved
Population/MCH and PP related services and programs. Especially, due to
inter alia the introduction of integrated services at primary health
care facilities and improved health education programs. the project is
likely to have further impact on fertility decline. In principle the GOB
has sufficient resources of its own not only to sustain, but to expand
and strengthen the activities initiated under this project. Under NDP
VII (91-2/96-7), GOB has increased the allocation for recurrent budget
of NOR by about 9% per year. in real terms. over the allocations made
under UDP VI. This is among the highest yearly increases approved for
8



any Ministry, which in itself is a clear testimony to the importance and
priority the Government continues to attach to health, and indeed to the
social sectors as a whole. Further, the Government has recently decided
to contract out (through tendering) maintenance services of most health
facilities and equipment, including PFE, to a reputable pr!vate firm.
Again, this augurs well for the project-funded health facilities and
equipment.
26)         All the rural and urban primary health facilities that have
been built under the project are operational, well staffed and well
utilized and as indicated in the preceding paragraph there is every
reason to expect that the Government will be able to maintain these
services at this level. While the expansion of PMH has been more
prolonged and much more costly than expected at appraisal, the
Government is firmly committed to complete the hospital and maintain its
operation. including the necessary training of local and recruitment of
expatriate specialist staff. This is bound to have an impact on the
overall resources allocated to the health sector, but in the present
financial situation for Botswana this is unlikely to prosent a major
constraint.
H.   Bank Performance
27) As noted in the Government's contribution to this report (Part
II). Bank staff contributed positively to the successful completion of
the project through supportive relationship and professional advice.
Ten supervision missions were fielded during the life of the project.
This proved to be quite adequate, as the project was on the whole
problem-free, with the single exception of the PM1. While the frequency
and even the composition of Bank supervision missions (mostly, public
health specialists, economists, and architects) were adequate, there was
frequent turn-over of Bank staff who were responsible for supervision.
Indeed, a consultant public health specialist was virtually the only
staff from the Bank side who participated in moee (80X) of the missions
(Section III, Table 12). In retrospect, another area where the Bank
could have been more helpful to the Borrower was in assisting the
Borrower to clearly conceptualize and define the exact nature and scope
of the PMH upgrading. In the absence of a more proactive role on the
part of the Bank (and possibly NOR), the PSH upgrading component was
left almost entirely to the architects (APT) and the users, who
inevitably kept making constant changes and additions to the facilities
to be upgraded or built anew. In the end, what started as a modest
upgrading project became a large and complex hospital construction
operation.
28)   Lessons Learned.  For future projects the following lessons
learned from implementation of the Family Health Project may be of
value:
a)    The project brings to the fore once again the much discussed
question of project implementation arran8ements. As in a
number of other Bank-assisted projects. implementation of
this project was assigned to a "Coordinating Committee"
(i4ntead of a separate "project implementation unit (PIU)"
9



consisting of high level MNE department heads (Para. 7). In
principle, this is appropriate as it would help facilitate
integration of project activities with regular MOE programs,
thereby ensuring MOH's "ownership" of the project. But as
in so mnay other cases, the department heads (with some
notable exceptions) who were designated component managers
did not always take a sufficiently proactive role in project
management. largely because of the heavy responsibilities
they already have in their regular MOE responsibilities. In
such cases, it is only inevitable that a good deal of
implementation matters would be left to the Project
Coordinator to wrestle with. In this particular case,
largely because the Project Coordinator was a well qualified
health planner. she was able to "manage" the project
reasonably well, in consultation with her MOE colleagues.
The lesson to be derived from implementation of this
project, is that unless the government officials (such as
heads of departments) who were assigned to implement a
project component pertaining to their department take a
proactive role in project management, the mere establishment
of a project coordinating committee (in lieu of a separate
project implementation unit) is not sufficient to create a
sense of "ownership" and the full integration of project
activities with the regular functions of the Borrower's
agency.
b)    The experience with the PMH upgrading/expansion indicates
that it is exceedingly difficult, and even more costly, to
undertake a major hospital upgrading. This is especially
the so (as was the case with PMH) when the large and complex
upgrading was expected to take place while the hospital was
in full operation. In retrospect, it would almost certainly
have been less expensive, and certaiuly less cumbersome, to
build a hospital on an entirely now site.
c)    Further, the experience with PMH indicates that it is
critically important to define in detail the exact nature
and scope of the upgrading/modification, before actual
construction/modification begins (para. 21-22). In this
particular case, in the absence of a more proactive role on
the part of the Borrower and the Bank in monitoring closely
the magnitude and rationale of the upgrading to ensure that
these are kept as close as possible to what was envisaged at
appraisal, the PMH component was virtually left to the
architects (APT) and the users, who inevitably kept making
changes and modifications. In the end, what was started as
a modest upgrading scheme became a large and quite complex
hospital construction (Para. 27).
d)    Finally, the project reinforces the importance of retaining
the responsibility for maintenance of buildings and
equipment (together with the requisite budget) as close as
possible to the users (institutions). In Botswana, these
services are centralized in two Government agencies, the
10



Department of Buildings and Architectural Services (DABS)
and the Department of Mechanical and Electrical Services
(DBMS). These agencies are so over-stretched and
understaffed that they are unable to provide timely
responses to buildings and equipment, even to critical
facilities such as hospitals and clinics (Para 16).
1.    Borrower Performance
29)         All major covenants were complied with (Part III, Table 10),
although delays were encountered in fulfllling some of them (eg.
preparation and submission of audit reports). In retrospect better
coordination (and more frequent meeting) of the Project Coordinating
Committee (Para. 7) would probably enhanced the full integration of
project elements with MOH's regular activities. MOE officials were
uniformly helpful to Bank supervision missions and open to suggestions
and recommendations.
J.    Consulting Services
30)         As can be seen from Annex 5 most of the consultancies that
were planned at appraisal were utilized. On thLe whole the Government
was satisfied with the result of most of the consultants. At PUB, four
consultants (known as the "Commissioning Team") have been retained to
"commission" the various facilities and equipment as and when they are
completed. However, the services of the PrM Commissioning Team can not
be assessed pending the completion of the PEE component.
11



Part II.  PROJECT REVIEW FIGS BORR(MRS  ERWSPElCTVE
Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessone Learned
31.   The Bank personnel were recognized as professional in all
supervision visits. Apart from the Public Health specialist, there has
been a rapid turn-over on the Bank's side during the life of the
project. Sometimes it took sometime for the new staff members to be
familiar with the project and there were occasions when the
Implementation Unit was required to retransmit information to the Bank
which was submitted to previous staff members. On the whole the
relationship between the Implementation Unit and various Bank staff
was excellent. Every staff member has been supportive and provided the
needed guidance in the implementation of the project in accordance with
the Bank's regulations.
Major Lessons Learned
32.   The overall communication between the Bank and the Borrower
regarding accounting of commitments and drawdown of the loan/grant
proceeds should be vell documented and information from the Bank to the
Borrower regarding same would not be contradictory. When the Bank's
personnel change, there should be thorough handover for continuity
purposes.
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
33.   The planning and implementation of the training component of the
project was quite good. There were a few savings in the project which
enabled to train above 100l (of appraisal targets) in the several
training areas.
34. The planning and implementation of civil works component
experienced major problems in certain areas ranging from design faults
to lack of experience in building health facilities on the part of
contractors. Government of Botswana is likely to spend a lot of money
rectifying the problems in the future.4/
35    Equipment schedules and specifications were not properly done.
This had negative effects on the implementation of the project. The
problems led to over ordering of equipment in some areas and to delays
in utilizing new departments while rewiring to accommodate equipment.
Maior Lessons Learned:
36.   (a)   That planning of civil works project should be adequately
done with implications adequately analyzed.
I/Note: Contractorss were selected following Bank guidelines.
Contractors for the urban and rural primary health centers were selected
on the basis of LCB as the contracts were too small to attract overseas
competitors. The contractor for PMH was selected on the basis of ICB,
but architectural services were provided by a government agency (DABS).
13



(b) It is much more complex and costly to do a major upgrading
of an ongoing hospital. It would be much easier and less
costly to select new fields and build new hospitals than to
upgrade (an existing hospital].
(c) Design work for hospitals should be done by experienced
hospital architects and construction should be done by
experienced contractors. It is not cost effective to
promote local business by engaging local conttactors at the
expense of well constructed health facilities which are
likely to last a long time.
(d)   Future projects which require a large sophisticated manpower
should include a tra4ning component for euch manpower rather
than rely on the overall Ministry's trainLng allocation
which has its own limits.
14



PART III.  STATITCAL
A. Related Bank Loans
37.   This was the first (and so far the only) Bank Loan in the Health
Sector financed by the Bank. However, the Bank has financed in related
social sectors, such as in education, four projects, all which are
completed. A Completion Report for the Fourth Education project was
issued in September 1992 (Report No. 11164).
B. Project Timetable
Table 2: PLANNED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIME TABLE
ITEM             J PLANNED DATE      [REVISED DATE      | ACTUAL DATE
Identification    5/23-6/2/82         5/23-6/2/82         5/23-6/2/82
Preparation        11/7--27/82        11/7-27/82          11/7-27/82
Appraisal          6/20-7/8/83        6/20-7/8/83         6/20-7/8/83
Negotiations       2/6-10/84          2/6-10/84           2/6-10/84
Board Approval    5/15/84             5/15/84             5/15/84
Credit Effective  5/21/85             5/21/85             5/21/85
Project            7/31/88            7/31/88             7/31/98
Completion
Closing Date       1/31/89            1/31/91             1/31/92
Comments on Timetable:
Para. 38.   Project identification and project preparation were held in
conjunction with an on-going health sector study. The prcject was
implemented over a seven-year period (after approval by the Bank's Board
of Executive Directors. It was extended twice for a total of two years,
partly because of delays in preparing withdrawal applications with the
necessary documentation. When the project was closed, one of the
components (upgrading of the Princess Marina Hospital) was still under
construction and would probably take two more years to complete. The
Government is fully committed to complete the construction and to
provide the necessary equipment and staff.
15



C.    LOAN DISDURSMM_NTS
Table 3: CUMULATIVE AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US $ Million)
Bank    '84   '85   '86   '87   '8$   '89   '90   '91   '92   '93
Appra.  0.22  0.88   2.86  5.94  9.52  11.0  -        --    -       -
Estim.                                                 ,                  l
Actual   -    0.04   0.06  0.37  1.43  2.58  5.61  7.98  10.9   11.0
Actual       . 0.01   0.01  3      13    23    51    73    99        100
as %
of the
Loan
Date of Final Disbursements July 22, 1992
Para. 39. Comments on Loan Disbursement. Disbursement started very
slowly. There was virtually no disbursement for the first two fiscal
years. And only about half of the loan was disbursed during the first
six years. This meant that about half of the entire loan was reimbursed
during the last two years while the Government was paying for its
commitments upfront for on-going work from its resources. As in other
projects, the Government utilized the intervening years to collect the
documentation required to support the eimbursement applications sent to
the Bank. In the end, the entire loan was disbursed, albeit three years
behind schedule.
16



D.     Project Imnlementation
Table 4: PLAMlED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF CIVIL WORKS
' COmPONEIlS
Component             Planned           Actual            Months of Delay
Completion        Completion                         l
l.Princess Marina
Ho2s8ital             1988              1994 (Est.)       72
2. Health
Education Unit        1986              1986              0
3. Community
Realth Sci. Center
-Community Health    1988               1988              0
-Laboratory Work      1988              1988              0
4. Rural Health
Centers
-Thamaga              1988              1988              0
-Bobonong             1988              1988              0
-Nmadinare            1988              1988              0
-Letlehakane          1988              1988              0
5. Urban Health
Clinics
-Broadhurst II        12/86             12/87             12
-Village              12/86             12/87             12
-Tsholofelo           12/86             04/88             16
-Extensl.on 14        12/86             04/88             16
-Extension 2          12/86             04/88             16
-Broadhurst           12/86             04/89             28
-Bontleng             12/86             12/90             48
-Broadhurst
Traditional Area    12/86              05/89             29
-Old Naledi           12/86             12/91             60
Para. 40.   Comments on ProJect Implementation.   Except for the
Princess Marina Hospital, all of the civil works components of the
project have been completed. The PHH is not expected to be completed
until December 1994 (Parse. 9, 21-22). Construction of the Urban Health
Clinics was staggered deliberately in order to avoid overburdening the
young, but growing construction industry in the country. Thus the
twelve to 60 month delay shown in the above table was deliberate, and
not due to delays in the usual sense of the word.
17



E.   TOTAL PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Table 5: TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate              Actual
Casgory    Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Forei   Total
1. Civil
Works           2.9   10.5      13.4      14.31  12.33   26.64
2. Furn.
Equipt &         --    2.6       2.6       6.80   2.07    8.87
Vehicles                                         __
3.
Consultants,    0.3    4.2*      4.5       4.58   4.66    9.24
TA, Training
& Studies*
4. Project_
Prep.
Facility         __    0.48      0.48      __    0.48    0.48
(PPF)
5. IBRD
front end        __    0.03      0.03      __    0.03    0.03
fee
6. Pilot
Innovative
Pgm in          0.2    0.5       0.7       __    0.14    0.14
Family
Planing**
7.
Contracept-      __    0.9       0.9        __    0.90    0.90
ive***
8.              3.7    0.9       4.1       0.05   0.86    0.91
Incremental
recurrent
costs** _" 
TO-TA       7.1   19.6      26.7      25.74  21.47   47.21
*Including US$ 0.5 million equivalent from WHO
**Grant from Government of Norway
***Grant from USAID
18



Para. 41. Comments on Project Costs. The total does not include funds
required to complete the Princess Marina Hospital which was about 40%
complete at the time of the Project Completion mission. The estimated
total cost for completing the hospital (including equipment, furniture
and consultancies (for "commissioning" the hospital and for equipment
specialists) would be about Pula 111 million, or about US$ 55.5 million
equivalent, of which roughly Pula 76 million (or about US$ 38 million)
is for civil works only. This compares to Pula 8 million (US$ 7.5
million) estimated at appraisal. The reasons for the delay and the
significant cost overrun are explained in Part I. Paras. 11, 21-22. The
Government is fully committed to complete the hospital (including
equipment and furniture) and to make it operational.
Table 6: P&%OJECT FINANCING
(US$ Mill.)
SOURCE                    PLANNED                     ACTUAL
IBRD                       11.0                       11.0
Government of Botswana      7.1                       27.6
Government of Norway        7.2                        7.2
USAID                       0.9                        0.9
lWHO                     Io0.5                         0.5
TOTAL                      26.7                       47.2
Para. 42.  Comments on rroiect Financing.  Both the Bank loan and the
Norwegian Grant were fully disbursed. As can be seen from the Table
above, the Government's contribution has increased by more than three
fold. And this is without taking into consideration the funds required
to complete the civil works and to procure the necessary equipment and
furniture for the Princess Marina Hospital. The Hospital is now about
40% completed, and it is estimated that an additional Pula 80 million
(?) or about US$ dollar 40 million will be needed to complete the civil
works and procure the additional equipment and furniture needed, thereby
increasing the Government's contribution even more. The Government is
fully committed to complete the buildings and procure the necessary
equipment and furniture.
19



Tablo-7s  ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
(US $ Million)
CATEGORY                  ORIGINAL ALL!-CATION        ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT
I.  Civil Works            6,200,000                   6,903,957
II. Vehicles &              1,900,000                  1,249,468
Equipment                                                      _
II. Consultants, TA &    2,300,000                    2,631,811
Studies
IV. PPF                       480,000                    190,000
V.  Front End Fee              27,000                     27,000
TOTAL                   11,000,000                 11,000,000 (Rounded)
Para. 43.  Comments on Allocation of Loan Proceeds.  Disbursement of the
loan got off to a slow start so that there was virtually no disbursement
during the first three or even four years of the implementation period
(1984-1988). The loan and the Norwegian Grant were fully disbursed,
albeit a two-year extension of the Closing Date.
20



Table 8: DIRECT BENEFITS OF .HE PROJECT
rExpected Benefit at
Estimated at Appraisal   Estimated at Closing       Full Development
Indicators                                               Date
Establish and operate           Construction of           Construction completed   Instftutfon fully
Comamity Health Sciences        facility and equipmten    and facility furnished   operatfonal.
Unit                            planned for 1988          and equipped in 1988      Community Health
services are now
efficiently performed
In such areas as
enviroriental and
occupational health,
AIDS, TB, etc. As the
National Lab is
located in the seme
premises, the two
institutions are much
better coordinated.
Increase of Family Planning                              90X of facilities          Coverage likely to
(FP) services in static                                   offer FP services as      increase further.
facilities to cover 90X of                                part of integrated
target population.                                        approach. Proportion
of women who u
modern FP methods
increased from 24X in
1984 to 302 in 1988.
Fertility rates
declined 30X in less
than 10 years from 7.1 
in 1981 to 5.0 in
1988.
Procurement and distribution   Distribution initiated   Function now                Continued funding by
of contraceptfve comuoditfes   as early as 9/30/84        integrated with NON's    GOB is assured.
and supplies.                                             regular work.
Expansion and upgrading of      Consttuction beaon in    All facilities             National coversae of
urban clinics                   1986                      operational.  Total       primary health
clinic attendance         centers in the
increased by 260X        country continues to
between 1982 and 1991    be among the best in
(from 234,000 to         Africa.
620,000).  This in
turn reduced the
pressure on the
outpatient department
of Gaborone's main
hospital (PHU) by 80X
(from about 350
patients a day in 1982
to only 80 patients a
day in 1991.
Development of Health           40 staff-months of        Plan exceeded by about   GOB continues to
M Hanpower                      overseas and 3,513        2X for overseas and       sustain staff
staff-months of local    75X for local              development needs
training planned.        training,                  from its own
resources as well as
through bilateral
agencies.
21



Table 9: PROJECT STUDIES
I Purpose as Defined at
FPi,d of 8tudy             Appraisal              :     Status                      I tmpact of Study
Manaesment Study           Review of each level of    Study discontinued as a    WmO  reorganization
management of the health   reoaranization of NON         study fully
system and cost recovery   alcng functional Lines        implemented. The study
in the health sector.       was already on-going by    an cost recovery was
the time the project was   also completed, but GOB
inftiated.                  decided not to
implement the
recommendations
contained in the study
(Pars. 13).
Health Needs of            To investigate the           Study successfully          Report provided useful
Gaborone                   current health services    completed in 1987.             information for
of and project future                                   upgrading PMN and urban
needs over ten to twenty                                clinics and projected
years.                                                   future requirement.
Prescribing Practices      To determine current         roapleted in 1988           Findings of the study
Study                      prescribing practices of                                 used as a basis for
heasth workers and                                       rational drug use and
promote rational                                         for improving Training.
prescribing procedures
and practices.
TB Evaluation              To assess the National       Study completed by the      The principal
TB program, to evaluate    tnternational TB             conclusions of the
diagnosis and treatment    Association (IUAT)            study were incorporated
of TB and to recomuend                                   into the National TB
measures for                                             program and for
surveillance and record                                  revising the TB Manual.
keeping.
22



G.      Statue  of Loan Covenants
Table 10: COMPLL4NCE WITH LOAN COVENANTS
SECTION                             COVENANT                STATUS OF COMPLIANCE
Section 3.06                        By December 31. 1984, the
Borrower to submit for review by
the Bank a work plan setting        Delayed; otherwise, in
forth information, education and    compliance.
coimunication activities to be
undertaken in support of the
Health Education Unit.
Section 3.07 (a)                    By September 30, 1986 the
Borrower to employ for each rural
health facility at least one         In compliance.
state RN and two enrolled nurses.
Section 3.07 (b)                    By September 30, 1985. the           Delayed; otherwise, in
Borrower to second four medical     compliance
officers to the Gaborone Town
Council.
Section 3.08                        By September 30, 1984, the
Borrower to review with the Bank
the recommendations of the Health
Financing Plan financed from PPF,   Health financing study
and thereafter to implement the     completed; but GOM decided not
recommendations as agreed upon.     to introduces any changes.
Section 3.09                        The Borrower to maintain, until      The Department has been retained
completion of the Project, the      as a regular unit of MOR;
Manpower Development and             training coordinator was
Utilization Dept. and to employ a   obtained through bilateral
qualified and experienced           sources for thirty-six months,
training coordinator.                12 months more than originally
planned.
Section 3.10                        By July 31 of each year, the         Annual review
Borrower to submit to and review    undertaken on an ad hoc basis;
with the Bank annual training       however, training targets as set
pLans.                               forth in the SAR were exceeded.
Section  4.02 (a) and (O)           Borrower to maintain financial       On the whole complied with,
records and accounts, in            although audit reports were
accordance with sound accounting    often delayed sad not always
procedures; and to have those       sufficiently detailed.
accounts audited each year by
independent auditors acceptable
to the Bank, and to provide audit
reports of sufficient scope and
detail to the Bank within six
months of the Borrowers fiscal
year.
23



B.   Use of Staff Resource. -
Table 11: STAFF IN-PUT BY STAGES OF PROJECT CYCLE
(In Staff Weeks)
Stage of Project        Planned            Revised       |     Actual
Cycle                 _         _                        r --------
l________________    HQ    Field          HQ   | Field       HQ     Field
Through Appraisal   56.1    11.5       56.1    11.5       56.1      11.5
Appraisal to        61.2    10          61.2    10         61.2    10
Board              _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __                     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Board to             6.2      6         6.2      6         6.2       6
Effectiveness
Supervision        131.6    54        131.6    54         131.6    54
Para. 45.   Comments on Staff Inguts.  Staff in-put during the various
stages of the project cycle was well balanced.  Ter. supervision missions
were fielded during the seven-year life of the project, which is
somewhat below the average for social sector projects (eg. education) in
the region. As most of the project components, with the single
exception of PHI, were progressing reasonably well, the frequency of
supervision missions was quite adequate. As pointed out in the
Borrower's contribution to this report (Part II). except for the
consultant public health specialist who participated in eight of the ten
supervision missions, the composition of the supervision missions lacked
sufficient continuity. Part of the reason for this lack of continuity
on the part of Bank missions was probably because the Bank itself was
undergoing a major re-organization in its structure and staffing
precisely during the middle of this project's implementation period.
24



Table 12s MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
mission    Io th/Y  No. of             Staff
ear       Persons 1/      /week
Ident.        6/82    2(PHS,E)           2
Prep.        11/82     1(PHS)            1
Appraisal     6/83    5(PHS,E.Ph
A,MCH)           10         Performance Status 2/
Total No. of s/w in the fields 13               0      P       M      F
Spn I        10/84    5(2PHS,          10       NR     SR      RR     lR
Ph, Arc TrS)
Spn II        8/85     3(E.PHS.A)       4.5    2       SR      2      1
Spn III       1/86    3(E,PHS,A)        4.5    2       RR      2      1
Spn IV        8/86     4(E,A,2PHS       8       NA     NA      NA     NA
Spn V         1/88    4(2A,E,           8       2      MR      2      1
PHS)
Spn. VI      10/88    3(E,A,PHS)        6       1      1       1      1
Spn VII       5/89    2(E.PHS)          2       2      2       2      1
Spn VIII     11/89    3(E,A. PHS)       3       2      2       2      1
Spn IX       12/90    3(ED,A,PHS)       6       2      2       2      1
Spn x         8/91    2(EDC,PAS)        2       2      2       2      1
Notes:
1/ A-Architect; 3-Economist; ED-Education Specialist;  MaMaternal and
Child Health Specialist; PB=Pharmaceutical specialist; PBS-Public Health
Specialist; TrS-Training Specialist.
2/ G=General Status; P-Procurement; M-Management; P-Availability of
local finance; NR-Not Rated; NA-Not available.
25



Annex 
NAMES OF OFFICIALS MET DURING -CR MISSION
Ministry of Health
Dr. E. Maganu             Permanent Secretary
Mrs. K. Gasenelwe         Under-Secretary, Health Manpower
Mrs. K. Makhwade          Asst. Director, Hospital Services
Ms. B. Ottesen,           Asst. Director, Teohnical Support
Mrs. W. Manyeneng         Asst. Director, Primary Health Care
Mr. L. Lesetedi           Head, Family Health Division
Ms. M. Tselayakgosi       Sr. Planning Officer
Ms. G. Maolosi            Project Coordinator,
Mr. B. Tau                Project Accountant  Proj.
Ms. R. 0. Mandevu         Chief Community Health Officer,
Ms. N. Mokgautsi          Senior Lecturer, National Health
Continuous Education Unit
Ms. K. Koosmile           Health Asst. Officer, CHSC
Mr. K.O. Wathne           WHO/EPID/NACP, CHSC
Ms. K.M. Gyi              Public Health Specialist, CHSC
Dr. P.R. Vyas             Pathology Unit, National Laboratory
Princess Marina Hospital
Dr. B. Bagwasi           Acting Medical Superintendent
Mr. K. Oldroyd-Robinson Principal Architect, DABS
Coordinator for          Health Projects, Site Coordinator,
Mr. John Thomas           Director, Commissioning Team
Mr. David Moss            Commissioning Engineer
Mr. Alan Yates            Furniture and Equipment Specialist
Gaborone City Council (For Urban Health Centers)
Mr. G. Ghetsewe           City Clerk
Mr. E. K. 0. Kgologolo   Treasurer
Mrs. S. M. Motlogelwa    Acting Matron
Mrs. A. Nfila             Sr. Nursing Sister
Mrs. M. Mazhinye          Sr. Sister,
Mrs. S. V. Mokone         Nursing Sister
Mr. H. N. Perera          Sr. Architect
Mr. M. Seleka             Economic Planner
Mr. S. Pathmanathan       City Engineer
Primary HosDitals (Formerly Rural Health Centers)
Ms. G. V. Molefe          Sr. Nursing Sister, Lethlakane
Ms. A. Matshameko         Nursing Sister, Madinari
Ms. M. Kakanyetoo         Nursing Sister, Bobonong
26



"Anex 2
PROJECT                                 UM
(as of october 1992)t
PROJECT COMPONENT                                                soM     STATUS'   REMS
REORG. Of HEALTH CARE DELIVERY SYST                              P.18
1. Strenathenina of Mcmt. & PlanninM Cacacitv                    3.07
- MOH Review                                                  3.02    PPf       Successfully completed
- Management Studies MON Units & NLGL                                 PPf       Successfully completed
Health Unit                                                 3.08    (C)       MOH not satisfied with outcome/result
- Management Infermation System (MON linking)                 3.08    CC)       of Manseant Specialist Consultant
- Management Tra nling                                        3.08    (C)       Informattin System not developed
* Improve health plannng                                      3.09
- Evaluation wori (i.e. Study central and                     3.09    PH        Evaluation system not developed
district planni u process)                                  3.09              and planned evaluatfims omitted
- Gaborone Health needs study                                 3.09     C
2. Financfal Manaoement                                          3.10
D Development Progra  Budgeting System
- System for Cost Recovery (Study/report)                              C        ftudy completed, not iplepented
3. Comffnitv Healtn Sciences Center (CCSC)                       3.11
- Construction                                                3.11     C
- Vehicle and Equipment                                       3.13     C
N New TS Strategy                                             3.11     C
- STD training and educational programs                       3.12     C
- Equipment health centtes & clinics                          3.12     C
- Specialist training                                         3.13    PC/PM     Tr. of entomol. + microbiol. emitted
4. Strenathenina of Rural Health Services                        3.14
Upgrading rural health centres (N)                                   C
* Equipment and 4 vehicles                                             C        Soilers + X-ray equipm. not funct. yet
* Improved staffing standard                                           C
5. Central Medlcal Stores (CMS)                                                    Planned modifications found not
- Construction etc. CYS Gaborone                                      PH        feasible and component consequently
emitted from the project
POPULATION/HCH/FP
6. Service crovisfon                                             3.17
- Ctmprehensive services at all clinics                                C        Above 90K complete by October 1992
- fIE prescribing contracept. (6 cycles)                               C
- Training of health staff in FP                                       C        As per Training Plans
- Equipment, supplies & contraceptive comod.                           C/PH     USAID support for contraceptive coam.
7. Information. Education and Commun. (IEC)                      3.18
- FP themes in heclth education programs                               C
IEC for other program  which address fP                              C
- FLE in schools and at TTCS                                           C
- STD/FP program  for men at work places                               C
- Programs for adolescents In schools/clubs
etc.                                                                PC        Integr. in school curricula completed
- Innovative (NGO) activities                                         (C)       Little progrcas, only 2 applic. supp.
- Improved teacher training in FLE/FP                                 PC        Integr. in curricula ongoirg
- Strengthen Occup. Health Unit activities
In FLE/FP among men                                         3.23     C        I.e. supply of condom vending machines
- Expansion of Health Education Unit                                   C
- Training of NEU staff                                                C        As per Training Plan
- Radio Studio, graphics stiieas and
equipment                                                            C
- Poster production (NCM/FPP STD, TB, etc)                             C        Done, but much delayed
'ABBREVIATIONS USED:
C  a Completed;  (C) a completed unsatisfactorily;   P14  Plan Wodified
PC a Partially complete
27



CTGJM                           smmp  2 of 2
(Cont' d)
PROWECT CONPONENT                                                SAR     STAlUS'  REMARKS
RIf
8. Damoorahic Un1t                                               3.28
- Devetopuent of Demographic Unit within CSO                          PM        Unit estabtished, Funded by UNFPA
- Equipment                                                           PM
- Library                                                             PH
URBAN HEALTH AND FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES                     3.29
Upgrading & construct. of 9 urwan elinics                   3.30     C         Compteted in 3 phases, rtt compl.
- (inct. 2 maternity wards)                                                     by Oecamber 1991
Upgradfng Princeso Martna Hospital                          3.31    tP         See Anmex w/separat, constr. progr.
- Se ne t of doctors to GAB Toim Council                               C         Presently five doctors at clinics
AMUPOWER DEVELOPOENT
- Locat *nd Overseas Training                                          c        Very suscessful, output at 15OX
- _        -  _ _   _  _  above tarset see separate Annex
ABBREVIATIONS USED:
C  = Completed;  (C) a completed unsatisfactorily;   PN a Ptan Modified
PC a Partially complete
28



Arte
lSS1UiCIOS OQWLETIM PROAU  FMR FRM ($  of Octe   19M
EstSEattd Cmnseortlan COqpietlfn Dote.
Faciltityllbt.                                              _ t9      :            19 4
Operatfng theater                                            May
C.S.S.D.                        December
Laboratory                      November
Rado-diagnostic                 October
Delivery Unit                                                                July
Renovate Thester                                                             June
Intensive Care Unit             October
Private Ward                    December
Isolation Ward                                                              May
Admin. Block                                                                #May
Domestic Services                                                            July
Surgical Ward 1                                       October
Medical Ward I                                        November
Naternity Ward 2                September
Maternity Ward                                                               January
Eye Ward                        August
Gynecology Ward                                                              February
Staff Rest                                                                   Apr(l
Walkway C2                                                                   Septaetb
Kitchen                                                February
Medical Store                                                                January
Service Yard                                                                 Deceeber
Slood Trensfusion                                      Jsnuary
Orthopeedic W.shop                                    May
(funded by NORAD)
29



hnnex 4
TRXNXNG oUTplu As PER SUPThMDR 30, 1.990
PERSONS       TRAINED OR   IN TRAINING        (PLANNED & ACTUAL)
1    2             3         ~~4.- (1.3)                    6 * 1415x100)
TRAINING COMPONENT                                _24a___=4x_
OUTPUT AS PER   NON PLAN     OUTPUT PY 5    ACCUM. TOTAL       UAR. ACCUN  TOTAL OUTPUT
MARCH 1989      PY 5         AS AT SEPT 30  AS AT SEPT 30    TOTAL DY    BY SEPT 1990
1990           1990              PY 5        VS SP  TOTAL
BY PY 5 in 
LOCA  TRAINING
a) Reorganfzatfon                1223             440            402        1625                 787       206.5X
b) Population/MCH/FP             2290             686            3S7        2647                1653        160.1X
SU8-TOTAL LOCAL                  3513            1126            759        4272                2440        175.1X
OVERSEAS TRAININ
a) RsorganIzation                  23              14              5          28                  35        80.0t
b) PoputationjMCH/FP               17               3              4          21                  13        161.5X
SB-TOTAL OVERSEAS                  40              17              9          49                  48       102.1X
TOTAL (LOCAL & OVERSEAS)         3553            1143            768        4321                2488       151.9X
*       PY 5 = ProJect Year FIve
30



Antex 5
CONSULTANT SERVICES
(as of October 1992)
PROJECT COMPONENT/                           PERSON MONTHS          COMIPLETION   GRANT/ REMARKS
SUBJECT OF CONSULTANCY                  SAR   Revised  Comnitted  DATE            LOAN
I.    REORGANIZATION OF HEALTH SYSTEM
A.   Management Canacitv
(a)   Health Planner                      18       18       18       03/89          L    Successfully completed
tb)   Management Specialist               24       18       18       12/87          L    Report not approved by MOH
Financial Management
(and Cost Recovery)                12        12        0                     L    Not utilized
(d)   Health Planner/Evaluation           6         8        0                      L    Not utilized
te)   Gaborone Health Needs Study         18       18       18       10/87         L    Successfully comrpleted
(f)   Manpower Planner                    0        24       24       06/90         L    Phase 2 completed June 1990
t9)   Health Financing                              6        6       1984           L    Cost recovery proposals
B.    Community Health S.C.                                                              not inplewented
(a)   Microbiologist                     24         0        0        n/a          G    Not needed (MOH decision)
(b)   Entomologist                        24        0        0        n/a           G    Not needed (MOH decision)
tc)   TB-evaluation                        3                 0 Q       1985         G    Done by IUAT at nil cost
Sub-Total     129       104       84
II.   POPULATION/MCH/FP
A.    IEC
(a)   T.O.T. - MCH/FP                      0        4        4         7/85         G    PPF activity
(b)   Program design                      12        6        6        11/87         G
tc)   Program dev6lopment                24         6        6        12/88        G    Completed IEC plan
td)   FLiptharts                           0        3        3         6/85              PPF activity
B.   Demooraphic Unit
Ca)   Demographer                        36         0        0         n/a         G    Funded by UNFPA
Sub-Total      72        19       19
111. MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT
A.    Reorganization Manrower
(a)   o & M Workshop                       6        0        0         n/a          L    Not needed, done by MEDEX/DMI
(b)   Man. orient. for Hospital St.        2        2        0                      L    Not utilized
*c)   Physician tr. prescribing            2        3        3        04/89         L    Completed as a study
8.    Population/MCH/FP
Ca)   Local Workshops                     9         0        0                     G    Funded by INTRAH
cb)   Curriculum Consultant                2        5        6                     G    PPF activity
Cc)   FWE Curriculum                       0        3        3        08/87        G    PPF activity
Cd)   Training Coordinator               36        48       48        09/90        G
Sub-Total   57       61        60
IV.   PROJECT COORDINATION
A.   Architectural Plannina
(a)   Senior Architect                   36        84       72      To date 69 months done CL)
(b)   Architects (2)                     36       N/A      N/A      To date 117 months done (L), + resources fran GoB
(c)   Structural Engineer                36       N/A      N/A    tIndependent Consultants comnissioned (L)
Cd)   Quantity Surveyor                   4       N/A      N/A    tinstead of being directly               (L)
(e)   Mechanical Engineer                  4      N/A      N/A    Erecruited                               (L)
(f)   Electrical Engineer                 4       N/A      N/A    trecruited                               (L)]
(9)   F&E Consultant                       0       36       36      To date 36 months done CL)
(h)   Snr. Hospital Dev. Officer           0       24       24      Comapleted 24 'months (L)
Sub-Totat   120      N/A       N/A
Total t
*       In addition:  Consultant Commissioning Team (of 4) recruited 1990, consultancy stitl engoing (L)
N/A * Not applicable
31



Anmex
Page 1 of
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Record of Project Progress Reovrts Submitted
1.   February 15, 1985  Quarterly Progress Report for the
fourth Calendar quarter of 1984.
2.   April 1st,    1985  Quarterly Progress Report -
1/1/85 - 31/3/85.
3.   May 7th,      1985  Amendment Quarterly Renort -
1/1/85 - 31/3/85.
4.   October 22,   1985  Progress Report for the
third calendar quarter 1985.
5.   December 31,  1985  Quarterly Progress Report
for the last calendar quarter 1985.
6.   January 16,   1986  Progress Report Update for 4th
Quarter Report of 1985.
7.   May 2nd,      1986  Quarterly Progress Report for
first quarter of 1986.
8.   July 4th,     1986  2nd Quarterly Progress Report
for 1986.
9.  November 3,  1986  3rd Quarterly Progress Report
for 1986.
10.  January 23,   1987  4th Quarterly Progress Report
for 1986.
11.  April 1st,    1987  1st Q-'arterly Progress Report
for the quarter ending 31/3/1987.
12.  July 1st,     1987  2nd Quarterly Progress Report for
the quarter ending 30/6/1987.
13. November 6,   1987  3rd Quarterly Progress Report for
the quarter ending 30/9/1987.
14.  April 3,      1988  1st Quarterly Progress Report for the
quarter ending 31st March, 1988.
15.  July 29,      1988  2nd Quarter Progressi Report for the
quarter ending 30th June, 1988.
16.  October 25,   1988  3rd Quarterly Progress Report for
1988.
32



17.  February 15,  1989  4th Quarterly Report for the quarter
ending 31st December, 1988.
18.  May 19th,     1989  1st Quarterly Progress Report ending
31st March 1989.
19.  July 5,       1989  2nd Quarterly Progress Report ending
30th June 1989.
20.  November 3,  1989  3rd Quarterly Progress Report for the
quarter ending 30th September 1989.
21.  March 12,     1990  4th Quarterly Progress Report for the
quarter ending 31st December 1989
which incorporates responses to issues
raised in the aide memoire of November
1989 World Bank Supervision Mission.
22.  May 14,       1990  1st Quarterly Progress Report for the
quarter ending 31st March 1990.
23.  July          1990  2nd Quarterly Progress Report for the
quarter ending 30th June 1990.
24.  November 16,         19903rd Quarterly Progress Report for the
quarter ending 30th September 1990.
25.  February 27,  1991  4th Quarterly Progress Report for the
quarter ending 31st December 1990
which also incorporates the responses
to the issues in the aide mnemoire of
the World Bank Supervision Mission.
26.  June 13,      1991  1st Quarterly Progress Report for the
quarter ending 31st March 1991.
27.  September 6,  1991  2nd Quarterly Progress Report for the
quarter ending 30th June 1991.
28.  November 5,  1991  3rd Quarterly Progress Report for the
quarter ending 30th September 1991,
which incorporates responses to issues
raised in the aide memoire for the
World Bank Supervision Mission of
August 1991.
29.  January 17,   1992  4th Quarterly Progress Report for the
year ending 1991.
33



I~ ~ ~ ':                            AZ. =e .. 4{-      , 
I8RD 1IS95R
20-                                2Z-                                 2          ....    _                6'                                                                     30,      osCrisZR tot
A N G O L A                                                                     K-- RZ AM IA M
-IG                                                   _w-                                                                                       p-R t     w......                                 . .......s y...................BOTSWANA  e
*  Shzk<>;   < m   C H 0 8 E                                                9X') -eXIETING SHECONOARI ROADS
-. OTHER RASoe
MAJOR AIRFIRLD - TARMAC
t MAJOR AIRFIS LOS -UNSSRFACRO
HrNgRAC IRWJECTS
DISi4TCT ADWbOXSTRATIVE CERTERS
-|.-- .l- \,OISrRN CT#ROLOMARIEA
j > _ % 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~al> 0    tO   40   to   to  loo20_t
,      _            _            _                                                                                                                                                          1o_  0 , )5Rt  
i   I                                        '.                       tInrean; -                                            __ 
_82'~ ~~~~~ @/  \ G~ h                                                                                       /    NRL -o0 
<                                                                                                                                           n    L A h           t  ;f
SE'              ToOSiR    - A  cNSZ I  CRE                            N T K  R A NEN
U.    a,      H    .H. Th  .aUH   we n.y.n                        SOUTH L@         'f s
A        L       A",                                                                         _                                                        F                             2
OS.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ac



