Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PLE COPY
Report No. P-3782-BT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$11.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
April 25, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                              =        Pula (P) 1.07
Pula (P) 1.00                        =        US$0.93
ABBREVIATIONS
EEC             -         European Economic Community
NORAD            -        Norwegian Agency for International Development
UNFPA            -        United Nations Family Planning Association
UNICEF           -        United Nations Children's Fund
USAID            -        United States Agency for International Development
WHO              -        World Health Organization
FISCAL YEAR.
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Republic of Botswana.
Amount:                     US$11.0 million, including front-end fee.
Terms:                     Payable in 17 years, including four years of
grace, with standard variable interest rate.
Purpose:                   The project would support comprehensive
reforms in the organization, management and
strategy of the health sector so that health
and family planning services would be more
accessible, better focussed on Botswana's
needs and more cost-effective. In
particular, programs for tuberculosis,
sexually-transmitted diseases and maternal
and child health would be strengthened;
family planning made available on demand to
most of the population; and new population
programs developed. The project's support
would take the form of finance for physical
fatcilities, equipment, supplies, technical
assistance and consultancies.
Benefits:                  The project is likely to result in a
significant improvement in the health of the
Batswana in the medium-term, lay a sound
foundation for further improvement in the
quality of service and take crucial steps
toward alleviating population pressures that
could strain Botswana's limited physical and
economic resources in the next century. The
project is expected to generate recurrent
cost savings through improved efficiency and
coordination, apart from measures proposed
by the Government for cost recovery in the
sector.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
The risk t:hat thte proposed reorganization will
encounter difficulties, thus retarding the project's
overall success, is greatly diminished by Botswana's
commitmenit to the reforms, by broad agreement within
the Government on the need for a new organizational
structure for the sector and by excellent progress iin
establishing the coordinating machinery for the
project's implementation.  The need for the project to
draw heavily on expatriate technical assistance and
consultancies is mitigated by the fact that the
expatriates would be iinvolved in retraining Botswana
counterparts and replacements.
Estimated Cost:                                                US$ Million
Local   Foreign  Total
1.  Health System Reorganization                         2.3        4.4      6.7
2.  Population/Maternal & Child Health
Family Planning                                    0.7        1.7     2.4
3.  Urban Health & Family Planning                       3.1        5.9      9.0
4.  Manpower Development                                 0.6        1.0      1.6
5.  Project Coordination                                 0.3        1,0      1.3
6.  Project Preparation Facilty                           -         0.4      0.4
Base Cost                                        7.0       14.4
7.  Physical Contingencies                               0.4        0.8      1.2
8.  Price Contingencies                                  1.8        2.2      4.0
Total Project Cost                               9.2       17.4    26.6
9.  IBRD Front-End Fee                                     -        0.1      0Y.1
Total to be Financed
(Including Insignificant Taxes & Duties)          9,2       17.5    26.7
Financing Plan:                                                US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD                   -        11,0    11.0
Norway                 2.0       5.2      7.2
USAII)                  -        0X9      0.9
WHO                    0.1       0.4      0.5
Government             7.1         -      7.1
Total              9.2       17.5    26.7



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:         IBRD Fiscal Year 84 a 85   86   87   88   89
Annual          0.2  0.7  2.0  3.1  3.6  1.4
Cumulative      0.2  0.9  2.9  6.0  9.6 11.0
Economic Rate of Return:          Not Applicable
Appraisal Report:                 No. 4820-BT (April 11, 1984)
X   Map:                         IBRD 11895R.
* Against PPF advance.



I               -4.                                                                                                                                                              %



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Botswana for the equivalent of US$11.0 million to
help finance a Family Health Project.  The loan would have a term of 17
years, including 4 years of grace, with a variable interest rate. The
Kingdom of Norway would provide a grant of US$7.2 million equivalent; the
World Health Organization a grant of US$500,000 equivalent; and the UJnited
States Agency for International Development contraceptive commodities worth
US$900,000 on a grant basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic memorandum on Botswana (Report No.
3647-BT) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1982. This
description is based on that memorandum and information obtained on subse-
quent missions.
3.        Botswana is a lancllocked country in Southern Africa, bordered by
the Republic of South Africa, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe. With an area
of 570,000 sq km and an estimated population of just over one million
(mid-1983) it is for the most part sparsely populated. Over 80 percent of
the population is concentrated along the relatively fertile eastern third
of the country, as two thirds of the country is covered by the Kalahari
Desert. Rainfall is erratic and drought frequent.
4.        The 1970s were a decade of rapid economic growth and budgetary
and balance of payments stability. The mining of diamonds and nickel/
copper, which started in the early 1970s, led to real increases in GDP of
10 percent a year during the decade. As a result, per capita GNPI/ rose
from US$110 in 1970 to about US$900 by 1981. Increased receipts from the
Customs Union2/, direct taxes and mineral royalties caused recurrent reve-
nue to rise nearly 33 percent a year, which was substantially in excess of
the growth in recurrent expenditure. Recurrent budgetary surpluses,
together with grants, covered nearly half of the steadily growing capital
1/ Calculated by the Bank Atlas method.
2/ The Southern Africa Customs Union, comprising Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland
and South Africa, is administered by South Africa. Import duties and excise
taxes are levied and collected by South Africa, deposited into a common pool
and then distributed to the members based on each country's share in
production and trade.



- 2 -
expenditures, and since external borrowing exceeded requirements, the
Government became a net creditor of the banking system.  The economy also
showed overall surpluses in the balance of payments due primarily to the
rapid rise in exports and to large private capital inflows associated with
mining investments. By the 2nd of December 1980, net international
reserves had risen to about JS$261 million equivalent or more than five
months' merchandise imports.
5.        During 1981, the s ump in world demand for diamonds and metal
prices had major repercussions on Botswana's mineral-led, export-dependent
economy. Real GDP declined in 1981/82 and exports and foreign exchange
reserves fell sharply as the diamonid mines began stockpiling part of their
production.  Receipts from n:.ckel/copper exports also fell, causing severe
financial problems for the m:ning company. Total export receipts in 1981
declined by 21 percent, whereas imports continued to grow. The deficit in
the trade and service balance incre!ased sharply and was not sufficiently.
covered by inflows on the transfer and capital account. For the first time
in over a decade, Botswana recorded an overall balance of payments deficit,
amounting to US$71 million. Foreign reserves had fallen to about 3-1/2
months of imports by the end of December 1981. To cope with the economic
strains of reduced mineral exports and revenues, the Government sought to
control the growth of aggregate demand by raising interest rates,
restraining domestic credit expansion, imposing a general wage freeze in
early 1982, devaluing the pula by 10 percent in May 1982, and cutting the
Government's development budget for FY82/83 by over 15 percent.
6.        In mid-1982, the prospects for Botswana's economy started to
improve again following the opening of a third diamond mine. Although
Botswana continues to stockpile part of its total diamond production, the
opening of the new mine, at Jwaneng, led to higher export quotas and earn-
ings. By the end of 1982, a surplus in the overall balance of payments was
restored and foreign reserves covered almost 4-1/2 months of imports.
7.        The outcome of the 1982/833/ budget was more favorable than
expected because of higher mineral revenues and cuts in capital spending.
The overall budgetary deficit was equal to about two percent of GDP.  The
current account deficit on the balance of payments was reduced to just over
five percent of GDP from about 15 percent in the preceding year.
Disbursements from foreign loans covered over 75 percent of the deficit,
and foreign reserves at the end of ]L983 covered more than six months of
imports.
8.        Over the past two years, the long term development issues have
been considerably oveshadowed by the prolonged drought. The Government has
alleviated the adverse effects of the drought through a relief program
which includes the provision of rations to 20,000 people, labor projects
which offer short-term jobs for 15,000 and 20 kg free seed to all farming
households. Farmers also receive grants for de-stumping and draft power
for ploughing. The Government's relief program is continuing in 1983/84 as
the drought persists in most parts of the country.
3/ The fiscal year runs April 1 to March 31.



- 3 -
9.        Despite very rapid growth during the 1970s, Botswana's economy is
still at an early stage of development, extremely vulnerable to changes in
international mineral and metal markets and to drought and recurring out-
breaks of animal diseases. The mineral-led development has not encouraged
the building up of linkages within the economy and only modestly increased
the number of employment opportunities for Botswana's labor force.
Historically, Botswana's economy has been centered on livestock and, until
today, traditional agriculture and cattle raising have remained the main
economic activity for about 80 percent of the population. However, an
increasing concentration of cattle ownership, partly resulting from
drought which affected mainly owners of small herds, has reduced the
options for about 50 percent of the population to make a reasonable living
from agriculture alone.
10.       The major challenge for the Government in the present decade is
to provide the infrastructure and services required by the more labor-'
intensive productive sectors to foster linkages and to create lasting
employment opportunities for Botswana's labor force, which is growing at
over 3 percent a year, and is vulnerable to reductions in employment oppor-
tunities in South Africa.
11.       One of the most serious constraints on growth of the productive
sectors is the severe shortage of skilled technical, managerial and profes-
sional manpower, which greatly impairs the country's absorptive capacity,
encourages the use of capital intensive technology, raises production
costs, and stifles investment. A high proportion of skilled and profes-
sional positions is filled by expatriates and many posts in Government
(particularly in local government) and the private sector are inadequately
staffed. The manufacturing sector is further constrained by the small
domestic market, the country's limited raw materials base and landlocked
position, and competition from South Africa and Zimbabwe.
12.       The agricultural sector, particularly arable farming, is looked
upon as the main source of future employment. Crop farming, however, is
circumscribed by the limited availability of suitable land, sparse and
erratic rainfall, and frequent drought. The sector's ability to support
additional labor may therefore always remain limited. Ecological condi-
tions render most parts of the country more favorable to livestock than
crop production. However, the system of communal grazing, the traditional
values associated with cattle and the granting of substantial subsidies to'
cattle owners, have given rise to overstocking and progressive land degra-
dation.
13.       The Government is moving ahead with programs to deal with these
constraints. The Fifth National Development Plan accords high priority to
education, with emphasis on primary education, as a means of alleviating
the country's manpower constraint. Industry is being supported through
promotional activities by the Botswana Development Corporation, preference
in bidding for government contracts, and Financial Assistance Policy (FAP)
which includes the provision of tax holidays, favorable interest rates,
seed-capital for investors, and payroll and training grants. A Tribal
Grazing Lands Policy (TGLP) has been implemented since 1975 with the
primary aim of controlling overstocking and range degradation while



- 4 -
increasing incomes from cattle-raising by improving land quality, enhancing
range management and boosting operating efficiency. An Arable Lands
Development Program (ALDEP), a multi-faceted operation designed to raise
productivity in crop farming, was introduced in 1979. Both ALDEP and TGLP
are expected to permit more labor-intensive use of the land.
Population Status
14.       Botswana's population has been growing at an estimated 3.3 per-
cent a year, with urban populat.on almost tripling during the 1970s. The
growth rate may increase furthe^ as the crude death rate declines from
a level that is already among tie lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa.  Total fer-
tility4/ has remained close to L rate of 6.5, whi.ch is high compared with
the (1981) average of 4.5 for l)w-income and middle-income countries, but
below that in a number of Easte-n Africa countries (e.g., 8.0 in Kenya and
Zimbabwe, 7.8 in Malawi and 6.9 in Zambia). This has resulted in almost
half of the population being under the age of 15; so that, even if ferti-
lity declines, natural increase will remain high as these children reach
reproductive age. Projections show that Botswana's 1983 population of just
over one million could in the next 30 years reach levels ranging from 3.5
million (if fertility remains constant) to 2.0 million (if there is a
significant decline in fertility). The latter can only be achieved if an
effective population program is introduced in the present decade.
15.       The success of such a program would. significantly affect all
aspects of social and economic development: for example, a future school
population of some 740,000 under the high-growth scenario would be con-
tained at about 290,000 if the lower growth rate were achieved. Although
Botswana's total population is small, even by African standards, and pros-
pects for continued economic growth are favorable, unrestrained population
growth is not acceptable in face of the country's natural limitations, viz:
water and arable and habitable land are scarce, the ranges have reached
stock-rearing capacity, services and infrastructure are difficult and
costly to provide, and opportunitiLes for job-creation are limited.
Development Assistance
16.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have extended substantial
assistance to Botswana on highly concessional terms. The Bank Group has
been the main multilateral source, but the EEC, the African Development
Bank and OPEC sources have also been active. Bilateral assistance has come
from numerous sources. In 1978 almost two-thirds of Botswana's outstanding
bilateral debt was converted into grants. At the end of 1983, total exter-
nal debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at US$281 million, debt
service payments were US$29 million and the debt service ratio 3.6 per-
cent. Botswana's future external capital requirements will depend on the
state of the world mineral market and the outlook for diamonds in particu-
lar. While Botswana is expected to continue to receive substantial assis-
tance from bilateral and multilateral sources on grant or concessional
4/ The total fertility rate represents the number of children that would be
born per woman if she were to live to the end of her childbearing years and-
bear children at each age according to prevailing age-specific fertility
rates.



terms, these may have to be su2pieiie,tt1 by loans i rem c:r 0.ercLa  sources
should current account deficits rise.  However, diamond - ports are
expected to continue to recover and Botswana should remain creclitworthy for
the required borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOTSWANA
17.       The Bank Group began operations in what was then Bechuanaland in
1964, and has approved 16 loans (US$207.9 million, including US$43.5
million on Third Window terms) and six credits (US$15.9 million) for a
total of US$223.8 million (net of cancellations). These loans and credits
have financed five roads projects, three education projects, two livestock
projects, two urban projects, three water supply projects, two development
finance corporation projects, one thermal power project, and three opera-
tions to help provide infrastructure for mining development. The Bank's
most recent loan of US$12.3 million for a Second Development Finance Com-
panies Project is providing lines of credit for productive investments by
the Botswana Development Corporation and the National Development Bank, and
technical assistance to enable the latter institution play a leading role
in the promotion of medium- and small-scale enterprises. IFC has had one
investment in Botswana: an equity participation of US$370,000 in the
Botswana Development Corporation, approved in March 1979, was increased by
US$481,000 in 1983. Summary statements of Bank Group Operations in
Botswana are provided in Annex II.
18.       The Bank is considering further assistance to Botswana through
projects for livestock development, education and water supply. A
Government-Bank team last year carried out a comprehensive study of live-
stock marketing in Botswana, and the recommendations for reforms are being
discussed with the Government. Botswana's relative success in economic
planning and management has been studied by a special Bank mission, whose
draft report has been submitted to the Government for its comments.
19.       The Bank Group's share of Botswana's external debt (disbursed and
outstanding) at the end of 1983 was about 36 percent (IBRD - 30.5 percent,
IDA - 5.5 percent), and its share in debt service was about 30.5 percent.
The Bank's exposure in Botswana increased sharply following the conversion
of external debt into grants in 1979. Since then, it has fallen and will
continue to decline, as the Government's borrowings from both official and
commercial sources have been increasing sharply during the past three
years.
20,       Botswana's project planning and execution have been good, and
Bank-assisted projects have encountered relatively few complications. The
most problematical has been the Second Livestock Project (Loan 1497-BT for
US$6.5 million, 1978), which was not initially successful in increasing
commercial ranching undler controlled conditions. Good progress was even-
tually made on this front, as well as with the establishment of trek routes
and other infrastructure and the strengthening of credit for livestock
development.



- 6 -
21,       Another problematical operation with which the Bank has been
associated is the Shase copper/nickel mining complex based at Selebi--
Phikwe, the infrastructure for which was financed with the help of Bank
loans totaling US$37.5 million (loans 776-BT and 776-2-BT). Although the
infrastructure works were completed on schedule in 1976, the mining
operation itself has experienced a prolonged financial crisis, caused main-
ly by depressed metal prices. This has resulted in three financial
restructurings of the mining company, BCL Limited, which is indirectly con-
trol'ed by the Anglo-American Corporati}on of South Africa Limited and AMAX
Incorporated of the United States, with a 15 percent equity holding by the
Botswana Government. The latest restructuring, approved by the Bank's
Executive Directors in June 1982 (Memorandum R82-191), was intended to
reduce the mining company's debt burden by continuing deferrals of interest
and principal payments and zonverting a large proportion of senior debt to
subordinated debt. In addition, existing su'bordinated debt was converted
to preference shares. The restructuring aiso provided for injections of
working capital through 1982, and this financial support has continued from
Anglo-American, Amax and the Government. A Project Completion Report was
issued on June 9, 1983. A Project Performance Audit is being carried out.
22.       Botswana's overall disbursement performance has been quite good,
its annual rate of disbursement averaging 22 percent during 1980-83, com-
pared with a Regional average of 18.5 percent. The rate was affected by
the slow release of funds under the Second Livestock Project and delays in
a component for building materials subloans in the Second Urban Project,
although, in both cases, the Gove:rnment has taken satisfactory measures to
hasten disbursements.
PART III - THE HEALTH SECTOR 5/
General Health Status
23.       Botswana's populace is healthier than that of most Sub-Saharan
countries. Its dry climate inhibits such tropical diseases as malaria,
schistosomiasis and trypanosomiasis, so that they are limited mainly to the
wet northern parts of the country. However, respiratory diseases are wide-
spread and are the leading cause of death. By far the most serious is
tuberculosis, whose high incidence is probably due to a mobile population,
lack of genetic resistance and the relatively high proportion of miners in
the labor force. In 1979, tuberculosis caused 20.0 percent of institu-
tional deaths, the rate being significantly h'lgher for males than females.
24.       Diseases associated with poor sanitation and lack of safe water--
such as diarrhea, skin and eye infections--account for almost a third of
outpatient visits.  Sexually-transmitted diseases seem to be increasing
rapidly and spreading to lower age groups. Among children, perinatal
conditions--especially low birth weight--are the cause of a particularly
5/ Information in this section derived from the Bank Population, Health and
Nutrition Review, May 1982.



- 7 -
high proportion of deaths. Malnutrition is an important underlying factor,
to the extent that about a third of children under five are estimated to be
nutritionally at risk. The situation may worsen as a result of the drought
that has persisted since 1982/83.
Health and Population Policy
25.       At Independence in 1966, Botswana inherited a largely curative,
hospital-based system of health care. The Government adopted a more acces-
sible primary health care system, with the emphasis on rural and peri-urban
areas and on an integrated, comprehensive health service. This policy has
been reaffirmed in the Fifth National Development Plan (NDP V) 1979-85 and
has been supported by assistance from bilateral and multilateral agenciLes
such as NORAD, USAID, WHO, LNFPA, and UNICEF. With their help, district
hospitals have been rebuilt, health centers and clinics constructed and the
National Health Institute expanded.
26.       Although the Government has not developed a comprehensive popula-
tion policy, it has, since 1973, progressively introduced family planning
as an integral part of maternal and child health services. The Government
has recently proposed expansion and improved accessibility of services,
which, supported by current strengthening of maternal and child health ser-
vices, provide an excellent framework to develop an effective family plan-
ning program in Botswana.
Facilities
27.       The Government has iaade noteworthy progress in distribution of
health facilities, which cover 90 percent of the country (using a 15 km
criterion), while mobile services cover much of the remainder. Botswana
has 15 hospitals, 7 health centers, 112 health clinics and 227 health
posts, all generally well used.   Hospitals handle 90 percent of all in
patients. Health centers provide simple treatment while emphasizing mater-
nal and child health and family planning and serving as a backup for health
clinics. Every health center has at least two State Registered Nurses,
supported by four or five Enrolled Nurses. Each clinic covers a population
of about 5,000 to 10,000, and usually handles about 40 percent of
outpatient visits for the area it serves. Clinics are generally staffed by
one State Registered Nurse and two Enrolled Nurses. The lowest level of
health facility, the health post, serves 500 to 1,000 people in rural
areas, and is staffed by a Family Welfare Educator, who is a primary school
graduate chosen by the village development committees to provide motivation
and minor clinical services. Qualified nurses visit health posts
periodically to provide maternal and child health, family planning and
curative services.
28.       A particular problem is the Princess Marina Hospital in Gaborone,
which was built in 1966 when the population of Gaborone was only 6,000. It
now fails to provide adequate services for the 60,000 inhabitants of the
capital or serve as the national referral hospital. Its accommodation is
inadequate, equipment poor, administration weak and record-keeping inaccur-
ate, and it is lacking a patient referral system.



-8-
Organization and Management
29.        The Ministry of Health is responsi'ble for general health policy,
professional supervision of all health services and administration of gov-
ernment hospitals and health centers. The Ministry of Local Government and
Lands, acting through the district and town councils, provides basic health
services through the health clinics and healt:h posts. Religious missions
continue to have an important role, running t:hree hospitals and six health
clinics as part of the referral chain. Mining companies operate three hos-
pitals for their employees.
30.        The Ministry of Health has changed little since it was designed
before Independence for the management of a few curative institutions. The
Permanent Secretary is responsible for day-to-day operations, all units
reporting to him through the Chief Medical Officer. The structure has
expanded along professional rather than funct:ional lines, so that the
special interests of professional groups have obscured a rational approach
to improving health services and adapting thEem to the country's needs.  The
present organizational structure itself is not capable of meeting new chal-
lenges, especially the shift in emphasis fromt curative to basic health ser-
vices. The situation is complicatLed by weak administration and financial
management throughout the health system, a lack of effective health admin-
istrators, and weaknesses in coordination in the districts.
31.        Coordination with the Ministry of Local Government and Lands is
the responsibility of the Permanent Secretary at the Ministry of Health
through a central coordinating committee. District and town counci.ls coor-
dinate health services through their own local health committees. Techni-
cal supervision of health services is carried out by 12 regional health
teams, each consisting of the regional medical officer, health inspector,
public health nurse and health and nutrition education officer. These
teams are maintained by the Ministry of Health, although they coordinate
their activities with the Ministry of Local Government and Lands and the
district councils. The areas covered by the nine regional health teams do
not in all instances coincide with local government areas; and they vary
considerably in area, population size and density. Although they should be
a key to delivery of health services, the teams have not been fully effec-
tive because the line of command to the teams has not been clear. This
question would be addressed by the proposed project.
32.        Effective distribution of drugs has been hampered by administra-
tive deficiencies, poor procurement and financial procedures, lack of
proper stock-taking, overcentralization and wastage in the operations of
the responsible body, the Central Medical Stores. NORAD has helped the
Government make improvements, including updatiLng the accounting system,
developing a drug formulary, and using a central board for procuring drugs
through international competitive bidding.



-9-
Staffing and Training
33.       About 80 percent of Botswana's 142 doctors are expatriates, most-
ly on contracts of two to three years. The shortage of Batswana doctors is
expected to continue in the foreseeable future because few Batswana are
receiving medical training abroad. There are 548 State Registered Nurses
and Midwives and 530 Enrolled Nurses, who are trained at the National
Health Institute. A steady supply of trained nurses has reduced staffing
shortages although training is clinically-oriented with insufficient empha-
sis on preventive care or administration. Besides the Chief Health Inspec-
tor at the Ministry of Health, there are 15 health inspectors, trained in
Swaziland, who concentrate mainly on control of diseases; follow-up of
tuberculosis defaulters; sanitation; and the licensing and inspection of
food establishments. Health Assistants, numbering about 95, receive satis-
factory training at the National Health Institute. Finally, about 600
Family Welfare Educators (para. 27) work in health posts and other
facilities.
34.       Although some training targets have been set, a comprehensive
health manpower development plan is lacking, as is a central training unit
for planning and coordination of training programs. Shortcomings have been
found in the content of the training programs themselves: for instance,
State Registered Nurses aLre not provided with training to help them cope
with the responsibilities they are given for administration and manage-
ment. Appropriate training is also required to achieve a desired devolu-
tion of clinical responsibilities to Enrolled Nurses and Family Welfare
Educators. Training in family planning needs upgrading at all levels. A
further handicap is the Lack of health administrators.
Maternal and Child Healtla and Family Planning
35.       The maternal and child health program is planned centrally in the
Ministry of Health, and supervised by the regional health teams. Antenatal
care is provided by State Registered Nurses at health clinics or by visit-
ing midwives or Enrolled Nurses at health posts. Mothers are encouraged to
deliver under supervisicn of trained health staff at clinics, maternity
wards, health centers or hospitals, and 60 percent of all deliveries are
attended by midwives, which may be responsible for Botswana's low maternal
mortality. The program is responsible for monitoring the growth of pre-
school children, who are weighed monthly at well-attended clinics, and for
providing health education at schools. Two out of every three children are
fully immunized, due to rapid progress in the service since 1979.  This is
exceptional given the large size of the country and the scattered distribu-
tion of the population; and the World Health Organization has described
Botswana's immunization program as being among the best in the world.
36.       Family planning services are provided at clinics at limited and
specified hours. Contraceptives are offered there, while sterilizations
are performed routinely at hospitals. Termination of pregnancy is allowed
only for medical reasons. The program emphasizes the spacing of pregnan-
cies, although there are no quantified fertility-reduction goals. Demand



- 10 -
for family planning has increased substantially since 1981, but has not
been fully met largely because of staff shortages and inadequate supplies
of contraceptives.  In particular, disruptions in supply resulting from
delays in the provision of contraceptives pletdged by donors has adversely
affected the program.
37.        Statistics on family planning acceptance are incomplete and must
be interpreted with caution, as overreporting is suspected due to the
mobility of the population. In 1981, some 17,400 family planning first
attendances and 75,000 repeat visJits to facilities were reported. For ini-
tial acceptors the preferred method is the oral contraceptive (51 per-
cent). Unmarried acceptors accournt for about 70 percent of all active
acceptors; about 65 percent of total acceptors are between the ages of 20
and 29; and about 66 percent have had three pregnancies or fewer. Family
planning services are provided mainly by nurses, who are allowed to pre-
scribe oral contraceptives, whereais intra-uterine devices are inserted by
midwives. The family planning program is still essentially passive' promo-
tion being carried out mainly at health facilities, where some motivation
is provided by staff and where educational material is available. Attri-
tion is serious, about 60 percent of first visitors never returning.
38.       Health education programs are developed and coordinated by three
full-time health educators in the Ministry of Health and carried out by
health and nutrition educators in each regional health team. The health
education unit responds on an ad hoc basis to the demands of various pro-
grams.  Little emphasis has been placed on family planning, although excel-
lent opportunities exist. While the health ecducation unit has been streng-
thened in the past few years, a work plan based on established priorities
has not been developed.
Communicable Disease Program
39.       The most important program under this category is for tubercu-
losis control. It is designed cenitrally and implemented through the normal
health service network, and supervised at the technical level by the
regional health inspectors. An estimated 70 percent of tuberculosis cases
were under treatment in 1981, although default from the treatment is a
serious problem. Another drawback is an increase in resistance to drugs.
In particular, there is considerable scope to simplify treatment regimes,
which, partly because of inflexible regulations, require extended periods
in hospital, typically costing over US$1,250 per patient.
40.        Sexually-transmitted diseases are also a serious public health
problem, gonorrhea alone accounting for about five percent of the total
number of new outpatients recorded at health facilities. Despite the
objective to trace and treat all contacts, there are serious problems in
regard to diagnosis, treatment, laboratory facilities and follow up. Also,
a general lack of awareness of the problem amonag the population may be due
to the prevailing view that such diseases are best dealt with through
traditional medicine.



- 11 
Expenditures and Financing
41.       Total expenditures on public and private health services are
estimated to be about US$56 per capita in 1983/84, which is very high by
the standards of middle-income countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. Two-thirds
of these expenditures are by Government agencies, while non-government
expenditures -- by industry, voluntary organizations, and private house-
holds -- account for the remainder. Although the slow-down in the economy
reduced the high rate of real growth of recurrent and capital expenditures
experienced between 1979 and 1982, the Government has maintained the real
value of health expenditures and kept their share at about seven percent of
the country's total recurrent budget and five percent of the capital
budget.
42.       By the standards of developing countries, a satisfactory balance
has been achieved in the funding of medical activities.  Some 49 percent of
recurrent expenditures are on hospitals, compared with an average 75 per-
cent in developing countries as a whole; rural health services account for
about a quarter of the total; and the priority given to health training is
reflected in a level of nine percent.
43.       Recurrent costs are financed mainly by the Government, while most
capital expenditures are funded by multilateral and bilateral agencies.
Patient fees contribute little except in the towns, where patients' contri-
bution of about nine percent of total recurrent expenditure reflects the
Government's policy not to subsidize town services. Except for a 60 per-
cent increase in the private patient fee in 1979, the fees schedule has not
changed in nominal terms for 10 years. The problem is compounded by
inefficient collection, resulting in an estimated 60 percent of private
patients who are able to pay not being billed. Assisted by an advance
under the Bank's Project Preparation Facility, the Government is investi-
gating several options for improving cost recovery. The results of the
studies should be available for joint review by the Government and Bank by
September 30, 1984, and the Bank will seek assurances from the Government
that it will take the necessary measures to implement the studies' recom-
mendations as agreed to by the Government and the Bank (draft Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.08).
External Assistance in Sector
44.       Bilateral and multilateral agencies are active in the health and
population sector in Botswana, a total of about US$5.0 million being pro-
vided in 1981. The African Development Bank is supporting the construction
of the new Francistown Hospital in the northeast. Bilateral assistance has
been provided by Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway, the United Kingdom, the
United States and France, and WHO and other UN agencies have been active.
Norway has been particulary active in the sector. Voluntary agencies also
support health activities. External assistance is reasonably well
coordinated by the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning.



- 12 -
Bank's Role
45.       The Bank in February 1981 carried out a review of the population,
health and nutrition sector. The report's recommendations for wide-ranging
reorganization of the health sector and improvement of health and family
programs were accepted by the Government and are embodied in the proposed
project, which is the Bank's first operation in the sector in Botswana. The
Bank's strategy in the sector is to support these reforms in a number of
phased operations. A comprehensive food and nutrition study is planned for
FY85.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
46.       In May 1983, the Government submitted a project proposal based on
the findings of the Bank's Population, Health and Nutrition sector report
(para. 45). In the following month, the Bank approved an advance of
US$480,000 under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), to be refinanced
by the proposed loan. As broad agreement had been reached between the
Government and the Bank on the main issues, the project was appraised in
June/July 1983. The PPF advance is financing consultancy services to
prepare designs and cost estimates for proposed buildings; review health-
financing mechanisms and cost recovery measures and study the organization
of the Ministry of Health; and assist the National Health Institute to
review family planning curricula for various categories of health workers;
and develop a work plan for a proposed deomgraphic unit. It will also fund
short-term fellowships in health planning and family planning. An archi-
tectural planning team is being established for the preparatory work for
the buildings. Selection of the team's consultants is underway.
47.       The Government has already taken a number of steps essential for
the project. A project Coordinator has been appointed. With the help of
several task forces, the Government has reassessed the objectives of the
Ministry of Health and proposed a new organizational structure which has
been formally approved by the Cabinet. The role and function of the
regional health teams is under review. The Mi;nistry of Finance and
Development Planning has agreed to the introduction of functional budgeting
in the Ministry of Health and will study the method's suitability for other
ministries. The Bank has given high priority to the project because of the
Government's positive response to the Bank's recommended reforms to halt
the deterioration of the health services and irtitiate long-term
improvements throughout the sector.
48.       Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. between February 7 and
10, 1984, and cofinancing arrangements completed on March 23, 1984. The
Botswana delegation was led by Mr. Kenneth Matambo, Director of Economic
Affairs. Annex III contains Supplementary Project Data.



- 13 -
Project Objectives
49.       The project would support comprehensive reforms that have been
initiated by the Government in response to the Bank's sector study. These
aim at using scarce resources more effectively for the prevention and cure
of major diseases. The project would also give significant support to the
Government's progressive policies for developing family planning services,
so that these would be available on demand in most areas of Botswana.
Cost-effectiveness and cost-recovery would be enhanced, and extensive
training of Botswana would be provided.  Greater equity is likely to be
achieved through the wider coverage of relatively low-cost health services
and through the selective introduction of charges for those who can afford
them.
Project Description
50.       The proposed project would:
(a)  reorganize the health services and improve their management
and cost-effectiveness;
(b)  expand and improve population research, maternal and child
health care and family planning services;
(c)  improve urban health facilities and urban family planning
services; and
(d) establish manpower development and training programs.
Integration of Objectives
51.       The Government's reforms to be supported by the project would be
implemented on three levels that would ultimately converge: strengthening
existing health and family planning programs and support services to meet
immediate demand; reforming the health sector's organization, management,
planning and research to enable longer-term strategic development of pro-
grams to meet the country's evolving needs; and providing extensive train-
ing to prepare Batswana for carrying out the project's specific tasks and
enhancing their longer-term advancement to key administrative and medical
positions. These operations would be developed as follows: (i) Existing
health programs would be strengthened mainly through upgrading facilities
and revising programs in the rural and urban clinics, apart from improving
the national referral system. Three of the immediate tasks would be to
introduce effective lower-cost treatment, increase the availability of
family planning services, and improve the supply of drugs.  (ii) Reorgani-
zation of health services would be planned and executed as a parallel oper-
ation. Within four years, it is expected that strategic long-term programs
developed by project-financed units for community health services, liealth
education and demographic research would be adopted by the various health
facilities, and the quality of drug supply and prescription improved.
(iii) The training program would begin immediately by preparing staff for
the structural reorganization and skills required to implement the project,



- 14 -
while initiating the long-term development of local experience in medical
research and health management. Implementation of these activities would
involve the ministries responsible for health, local government, education
and finance and development planning and the Gaborone Town Council, all of
which would be represented on a coordinating committee to be served by a
full-time project coordinator in ithe Ministry of Health (para. 62).
Detailed Features
52.       Reorganization of Health Services.  The Ministry of Health has
outlined a new organizational structure for its headquarters which responds
to the recommendations of the Banlk's sector report and which would form the
basis for the proposed sector-wide refor-ins. The new structure is intended
to avoid the narrow professional factionalism that has plagued Botswana's
health administration and enable clear functional goals to be programmed
and budgeted for; thus the existing organizational structure based on pro-
fessional groupings (e.g. nurses, pharmacists, administrative civil ser-
vants) would be replaced by a system in which units are established
according to function (e.g. primary health care, technical support, man-
power development, planning and research). The new structure has received
broad support in Government, and has been adopted by the Cabinet. Within
this framework, it is proposed to improve the organization and management
of key units through a series of studies to be financed by the proposed
project, including the health-related activities of the Ministry of Local
Government and Lands. A complementary system of financial management would
be introduced to facilitate programming and budgeting of health plan objec-
tives, beginning with accounting categories for the major programs before
developing along more sophisticated lines. Sitmultaneously, a management
information system would be introduced to hell) link the various health and
family planning programs with each other and provide the necessary informa-
tion on program performance and costs to a monitoring and evaluation unit
to be established in the Ministry of Health.
53.       One of the key units to be developedl within this system would be
that for Community Health Sciences, which would develop, coordinate and
monitor programs for the control of communicable diseases. One of the
unit's first assignments would be to replace, where feasible, high-cost
inpatient care (para. 39) with more outpatient, and domicilliary treatment.
With the help of a consultant, the unit would also tackle the problems of
patients defaulting on treatment and of drug resistant disease.  The pro-
ject would provide the building, a vehicle and. technical assistance to
establish the unit. As part of thie Government's continuing policy of
decentralization in the health secltor, four existing rural health facili-
ties would be upgraded by the project in the large villages and district
centers of Letlhakane, Thamage, Mmadinare and Bobonong. Some 60,000 people
would be served by the improved facilities. The project would finance the
physical upgrading and equipment and four vehicles. The Government has
agreed that the facilities would each be staffed by at least one State
Registered Nurse and two Enrolled Nurses by September 30, 1986, when



- 15 -
the buildings are expected to be completed. (draft Loan Agreement, Section
3.07(a)). Distribution of medical supplies would be improved through the
project-financed expansion of the Central Medical Stores in Gaborone and
improved storage facilities; at Maun for the north-west.
54.       Expansion of Population, Maternal and Cnild Health Care and
Family Planning Services. At present, clinics provide family planning ser-
vices during specified hours, while most facilities limit the time allo-
cated to this function to about five percent of the total. With the sup-
port of the proposed project, substantially more clinic time will be
devoted to family planning at all permanent health facilities, equipment
and supplies will be improved, and family welfare educators (para. 27) will
be given greater responsibilities, especially in the supply of contracep-
tives. The expanded program would give priority to men and women most
exposed to the risk of unwanted pregnancy and venereal disease (e.g. stu-
dents, unmarried men and women and the younger married couples). About 90
percent of the population would have access to family planning and maternal
and child health services under the proposed expansion. The Government has
agreed that by September 30, 1984, it will submit for the Bank's approval
an implementation plan for revising clinic routines so that family planning
services can be provided during every working day.  Also by that date, the
Government would begin to implement a pilot program for expanded services
in the South-East District (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.05).
55.       The present marginal involvement in family planning of the health
education unit of the Health Ministry would be greatly increased throuigh
the project, so that the unit would develop a variety of general and tar-
geted programs for family planning and related topics. The programs would
include the introduction of family health education in schools; education
on sexually-transmitted diseases and family planning to be provided to some
5,000 men including miners, farmers, police and the military at their
places of work; programs for adolescents at clubs and community groups; and
instruction in family planning and maternal and child health care to be
provided through women's groups. The Government has agreed that a work
plan for health education activities in support of family planning will be
developed by December 31, 1984, for review by the Bank (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.06). Because of the high rate of school dropouts due
to unwanted pregnancy, the Government has given the highest priority to the
inclusion of family health in the curricula of primary and secondary
schools, to supplement a general curricula revision now being  carried out
by the Ministry of Education. The Government intends to introduce family
health topics into the primary and secondary schools curricula on a trial
basis by the beginning of the 1986 school year.
56.       Important non-formal support will be given to the health educa-
tion program by civil and religious groups such as the Botswana Christian
Council (BCC), whose women's groups extend into most areas in the country.
These and other interested groups will be trained by the professionals to
conduct workshops and seminars for parents and youth on the concepts of
family planning and family responsibility. The project would allocate
US$100,000 to support such activities.



- 16 -
57.       The project's assistance for education in family planning and
health education would consist of staff training, expansion and upgrading
of existing physical facilities, and equipment for production of
audio-visual aids. Sufficient contraceptives would be provided over a
four-year period to support a 10-12 percent increase in the prevalence
rate; and family planning teaching kits, pelvic models and intra-uterine
device insertion kits would be provided to all 360 clinics and health
posts. The quantity of contraceptives requited has been agreed to and the
Government has given assurances as to their supply (draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 2, Annex   ).  The Ministry will provide contraceptives to the
private retail trade at cost. The commodities component would be financed
by USAID. A demographic unit would be set up in the Central Statistics
Office to collect and disseminate population data and to give analytical
support to family planning activities, notably in providing reliable
population projections on a national and local scale and demographic data
to assist economic development planning. The unit's activities also would
form a basis for future censuses. The project would provide for the
appointment of a demographer to establish the unit and for computer
equipment and a demographic library and to train a local counterpart.
58.       Improvements to Urban Health Facililies and Urban Family Planning
Services.  There is an urgent need to upgrade Gaborone's Princess Marina
Hospital, which is the main medical facility for Botswana's administrative
capital (population 60,000) and its surrounding districts and the central
component of the country-wide referral system. The hospital was built when
Gaborone's population was 6,000 (para. 23), and its inadequate facilities
and services suffer from both inpatient and outpatient overcrowding, aggra-
vated by limited ability of the urban clinics to cope with outpatient
needs. The project would therefore finance: (a) a doubling of beds from
200 to 400; (b) establishment of an accident and emergency department; (c)
expansion of operating facilities; and (d) space and equipment for improved
medical and administrative functions. Physical upgrading would consider-
ably improve the effectiveness of the staff, which would increase gradually
as beds are added. At the conclusion of the project, about 80 percent of
the 90,000 outpatient visits made annually to the hospital would be trans-
ferred to the existing eight urban clinics in Gaborone, which would be
upgraded through the project and operate longer hours. This would enable a
more efficient use of the hospital's facilities, enhance its referral func-
tions, and result in savings because of the lower cost of outpatient treat-
ment at the clinics.
59.       Manpower Development.  Because of the! comprehensive nature of the
proposed reorganization of the health care system and improvements to ser-
vices and facilities, the project would provide substantial training to the
sector, ranging from a limited number of overseas fellowships to a series
of extensive local workshops. In particular, Batswana would be trained to
replace senior and middle-level expatriate managers as positions become
vacant and to replace expatriates employed through the project's technical
assistance. Retraining would be provided for staff involved in new or
improved health programs. The training program would acquaint central and



- 17 -
regional staff with the objectives of reorganization; develop planning
methods and management, hosp?ital administration and public health skills;
introduce program budgeting and cost-effectivness analysis; prepare
teachers for dealing with family planning topics in the revised curriculum;
develop local experience in microbiology and entomology; prepare health
teams for expansion of the control programs for tuberculosis and sexually-
transmitted diseases; and support improved methods in the supply of drugs
and other medical prerequisites. A major element would be the training of
staff, and of trainers themselves, to cope with the improvement of family
planning services. Because of the extended responsibilities of the family
welfare educators in this respect, 600 of them will be trained locally.
The Government would submit training plans covering all aspects of the pro-
ject to the Bank annually for review (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.10).
A study will be carried out to determine the Ministry of Health's long-term
manpower needs.
Costs and Financing
60.       The project's total costs, including contingencies and the PPF
advance of US$480,000, are estimated at US$26.6 million, of which US$17.4
million (or 65 percent) are foreign. Taxes and duties are likely to be
insignificant as they are not paid on imported goods and services purchased
within the Southern African Customs Union (para. 4) and domestic procure-
ment would be limited to small amounts of building materials. Capital
costs for civil works, equipmenit and vehicles and other capital items
account for 61 percent of base costs, technical assistance for 12 percent
and training for six percent. Incremental recurrent costs (for salaries,
supplies, vehicles and building maintenance) are included for the four-year
implementation period and amount to 19 percent of total costs. The base
costs of civil works, equipment and vehicles are calculated on the basis of
estimated mid-1984 prices. Physical contingencies have been estimated at
10 percent for civil works and 5 percent for vehicles and equipment. Local
price contingencies are included at 10 percent for FYs 85 and 86 and 9
percent for FYs 86 and 87. Foreign price contingencies are included at 7.5
percent for FY85 and seven percent thereafter.
61.       Official external financing of US$19.6 million is required,
representing 73 percent of total financing of US$26.7 million, which
includes the Bank's front-end fee. This financing would be provided by the
Bank loan (US$11.0 million) and grants by the Norwegian Government (US$7.2
million equivalent) and WHO (US$0.5 million) besides contraceptive
commodities worth US$0.9 million to be provided by USAID on a grant basis.
The Government would provide US$7.1 million equivalent. The proposed Bank
loan would finance 63 percent of foreign exchange expenditures or 41
percent of total financing required, and would be for construction and
equipment for new facilities, vehicles and technical assistance (para.
66). The Norwegian grant would finance selected sub-components of the
Rural Health Services (US$2.9 million), Urban Health and Family Planning,
excluding the Princess Marina Hospital (US$ 1.3 million), The Community
Health Sciences Unit (US$0.7 million), Manpower Development (US$1.4
million) and components of the program for population, maternal and child



- 18, -
health and family planning (US$0.9 million). WHO would provide parallel
finance for training. The Government would finance 77 percent of local
costs for civil works, technical assistance and 90 percent of incremental
recurrent costs (the remaining recurrent costs would be financed by
Norway).  Effectiveness of the Norwegian and USAID grant agreements are
conditions  f effectiveness of the Bank's loan (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 6.01(a) and (b)).
Project Execution
62.       The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Health would have
overall responsibility for project implementation, which is expected to
start in August 1984 and be completed in July 1988. He would chair a coor-
dinating committee (including representatives of the Ministries of Local
Government and Lands; Finance and Development Planning; and Education) that
would meet quarterly to review prcgress. Establishment of the project
coordinating committee is a condition of loan effectiveness (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01(d)). A project coordinator, a senior civil ser-
vant, has been appointed to function out of the Permanent Secretary's
Office, assisted by an accountant, whose main responsibility will be the
project accounts, and one other staff member. Specific aspects of the pro-
ject would be implemented and supervised by thie following:  Principal Medi-
cal Officer of Health (Community Health Sciences Unit and, with the Senior
Planning Officer, rural health services); Chief Pharmacist (Central Medical
Stores); Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
(demographic unit); and Chief Architect, Ministry of Works (civil works,
assisted by the architectural planning team). The component for maternal
and child health care and family planning would be implemented by the Prin-
cipal Medical Officer responsible for this function, assisted by a coordin-
ating sub-committee representing the key units involved, including the Cen-
tral Medical Stores and health education unit. A Manpower Development and
Utilization Department, responsible for administration and coordination of
all health manpower activities, has been established in the Ministry of
Health and will be maintained (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.09).  The
head of this department would be the training coordinator, whose
appointment is a condition of effectiveness (d:raft Loan Agreement, Section
6.01(c)). To help plan and supervise the administrative and medical
aspects of the improvement of urban health and referral facilities in
Gaborone, four medical officers would be appointed to the Town Council by
September 1985 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.07(b)).
63.       The project would also finance 378 staff-months of consultant
services at an average cost of US$7,000 per month and 321 staffmonths of
overseas fellowships at an average cost of US$2,300 a month, based on esti-
mated 1984 fees and other costs. Technical assistance for the proposed
reorganization would include the hire of four consultants (for a total of
32 staffmonths) in organization development and management training, to be
assigned to the Directorate of Personnel in the Office of the President,
which is responsible for reorganizat-ion of ministries; and two consultants
(for a total of 24 staffmonths) to facilitate the introduction of planning,
monitoring and evaluation. Other consultants would support the reforms in
financial management, the establishment of a laboratory for the Community



- 19 -
Health Sciences Unit, improvements to distribution of medical supplies, the
setting up of a demographic unit, revision of the school curriculum to
include family health topics and project evaluation. Most of the
consultants would have responsibilities for in-service training under the
Training Coordinator.
64.       The Government is at an advanced stage of drafting terms of
reference for the consultancies and technical assistance positions, and has
drawn up short lists of candidates and identified potential local counter-
parts. The appropriate unit heads would be responsible for the selection
and use of consultants, who would be recruited through the office of the
Project Coordinator to ensure consistency in criteria and procedures. The
quarterly reports on project progress would include an assessment of
consultancy performance.  Technical assistance appointments would be the
responsibility of the unit heads. Terms of reference for each consultancy
and technical assistance position would be approved by the Bank (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02).
Procurement
65.       Separate civil works contracts would be awarded through interna-
tional competitive bidding for the Princess Marina Hospital (US$7.4 mil-
lion); the Community Health Sciences Unit (US$0.7 million); urban clinics,
Central Medical Stores and upgrading of the health education unit (US$2.2
million); and rural health clinics (US$3.1 million). Furniture, equipment,
vehicles and supplies would be grouped as far as possible into contracts
valued above US$100,000 and procured through international competitiv,e
bidding (ICB). Contracts for miscellaneous equipment and supplies valued
at less than US$100,000 each would be purchased through local competitive
bidding provided that the aggregate cost of contracts so procured shall not
exceed US$500,000. Items of equipment and supplies of less than US$20,000
each may be purchased by shopping with at least three price quotations
provided the aggregate value of such purchases does not exceed US$100,000.
Contraceptive commodities, other than those financed in parallel by IJSAID,
would be procured through ICB. Works and supply contracts over US$100,000
each would be subject to the Bank's prior review. Other contracts would be
subject to selective post-award review. Procurement and hire of
consultants would be according to Bank guidelines. It is expected that the
Norwegian grant would be administered by the Bank under the Bank's
procurement guidelines and in accordance with its standard disbursement
procedures.
Disbursements
66.       Disbursements would be for 68 percent of total expenditures for
civil works for the Letlhakane Rural Health Center, the Central Medical
Stores and Princess Marina Hospital (US$6.2 million); 100 percent of
foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex factory) and 85
percent local expenditures (off the shelf) for equipment and vehicles
(US$1.9 million); and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for technical
assistance and consultant services (US$2.3 million). No recurrent costs
would be financed by the Bank loan. Disbursements would be made against



- 20 -
full documentation. The loan would refinance the US$480,000 PPF advance
(para. 46). It is expected that the loan wou:Ld be fully disbursed by March
31, 1989. The disbursement profile is based on that of the Kenyan
Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning Project.
Monitoring and Evaluation
67.       A proposed monitoring and evaluation, unit in the Ministry of
Health would prepare quarterly reports ona the project's progress that would
be approved by the coordinating committee before being submitted to the
Bank. A full-time evaluation officer has been appointed to help the Minis-
try of Health carry out audits of the various aspects of the project. The
Government would submit a Project Completion Report to the Bank six months
after the Closing Date of the loan (draft. Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(d)).
Audit and Accounts
68.       Project funds would be budgeted and administered by the office of
the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Health, except funds for the demo-
graphic unit, which would be administered by the Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning. The project's financial records would be maintained
by an accountant attached to the Project Coordinator in the Ministry of
Health. The project would be subject to normal Government accounting and
auditing procedures, which are considered satisfactory to the Bank. Pro-
ject accounts would be maintained, all project accounts audited by the
Auditor General or by independent auditors whose qualifications and experi-
ence are acceptable to the Bank, and all audited accounts, together with an
auditor's report, submitted to the Bank not later than six months following
the end of the fiscal year (Section 4.02 draft Loan Agreement).
Cost Savings and Recurrent Expenditures
69.       The project is expected to result in annual recurrent-cost sav-
ings of between US$2.6 million and US$3.5 million during the four years of
implementation because of the introduction of lower-cost alternative treat-
ment, further down the referral scale, for tuberculosis and other endemic
diseases; and the more efficient use and procurement of drugs. Additional
savings should be generated by the rationalization of manpower and improved
coordination of health programs. The financial studies being carried out
under the PPF advance will identify cost-recovery measures to be introduced
through the project. These are likely to include a new system of patients'
fees, with an element of cross-subsidy in favor of the poorest; greatly
improved fees collection; and health insurance for professional groups,
possibly beginning with employees and families in government, mining and
industry. It is difficult to quantify potential revenues from this source:
although, if it is assumed that revenues from cost recovery measures could
increase from the present level of 1.3 percent to seven percent of the Min-
istry of Health's expenditures, some US$2.5 million could be recouped by
the end of the project. The project's recurrent costs are likely to be
modest in relation to the Government's projected total recurrent costs for
health. Starting at about US$280,000 a year in ]FYs 85 and 86, they would
reach a sustained level of US$2.2 million a year by FY89 -- when they would



- 21 -
amount to six percent of the Government's total recurrent expenditures for
health. However, if the cost savings and cost recovery revenues envisaged
above are realized, the project would generate a surplus of almost US$3.0
million in recurrent revenue.
Benefits
70.       The project would result in a long-term improvement in the health
and welfare of Batswana through comprehensive reforms to the health care
system.  The content of health programs would be revised to deal more
effectively with Botswana's needs, notably control of tuberculosis and
sexually-transmitted diseases. Family planning would be extensively
integrated in an expanded program for maternal and child health, in support
of Government policies to reduce pressure of population in the first half
of the next century on limited arable and habitable land, services and
employment opportunities. Organizationally, health services would be given
a more rational structure, and coordination and management would be
improved. The resulting increase in cost-effectiveness would be enhanced
by a series of measures for cost-recovery. Particular benefits would be
felt by rural communities as a result of strengthening of district health
services. Through components for medical and demographic research and
evaluation, a sound base would be established for further improvement in
the quality of health and family planning services. Greater equity would
be achieved in the health services through broader coverage of the populace
and payment for services by those who can afford it. The Bank's
involvement in the project is desirable because of the knowledge it has
acquired through its review of population, health and nutrition in
Botswana, its experience in otlher countries in supporting broad-based pro-
jects in the sector, and its ability to provide an objective view of the
sector's organizational needs. The Bank's presence has attracted
significant levels of cofinancing.
Risks
71.       The success of the proposed reorganization of the health sector
is a prerequisite for the success of the overall project. The risk that
this reorganization will experience problems is greatly reduced by the
commitment of the Government, and there is every reason to believe that the
reorganization will be successfully completed. Politically, most of the
necessary decisions have been taken and priorities identified, and would be
confirmed before loan effectiveness. Reorganization of the Ministry of
Health has been approved by the Cabinet. At the administrative level, the
machinery for carrying out the project has been discussed within the
Government and has been accepted in principle. Direction of the
reorganization is strategically well placed in the Office of the President,
which is responsible for the reorganization of ministries. Progress of the
reorganization and the effectiveness of coordination would be reviewed
regularly by the Bank. During its implementation, the project would rely
heavily on expatriate technical assistance and consultancies because of the
serious shortage of trained manpower in Botswana. However, virtually all
expatriates will have clearly-defined additional responsibilities for
training counterparts and other Batswana staff. The risk that the



- 22 -
extensive training program will encounter difficulties in implementation
would be countered by the establishment of a training unit and the
appointment of a full-time training coordinator. Moreover, the Bank would
take part in an annual review of the project's training plans.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Botswana, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
73.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III of the report. Special conditions of effectiveness of the Loan Agree-
ment are: (i) establishment of the Project Coordinating Committee; (ii)
appointment of a training coordinator; and (iii) fulfillment of conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the Norwegian and USAID grant agreements.
PART VI -- RECOMMENDATIONS
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. T. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
April 25, 1984



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
T A B L E  3A
BOTSWANA                 - SOCIAL I:NDICATORS DATA SiELT
BOTSWANA                                REFElRENCi  GROUPS (WEIGUTITD AVERAGES) /a
IOST                       (.;OST RCEtNT iSTI. ATl) /b
RECENT              MIDDLE INCOiE           N IDULE INCOEL
1960/      1970- ESTIMlATE/S         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & i11D  ANT
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KN)
TOTAL                                 600.4        600.4        600.4
AGRICULTURAL                          428.0        439.7        453.6
GUP PER CAPITA (US$)                      90.0        180.0    900.0                 1147.9                      1340.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)           ..           ..        377.0              724.2                       810.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)       517.0        634.0     941 .0
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)           1.8          9.5         20.2               28.5                        47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                  1.9
t                         STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                     5.7
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                  2125
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           0.9          1.1          1.5               56.5                        36.0
PER SQ. I-M. AGRI. LAND               1.2          1.4          2.0              131.8                       449.0
POPULATION AOE SECOCTURL (U)
0-14 YRS                            45.9         48.7         50.5               45.9                        43.9
15-64 YRS                            51.4         4a.5         46.9               51.2                        52.8
65 AND AROVE                          2.7          2.8          2.6                2.3                         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (U)
TOTAL                                 1.7          2.0          3.5                2.8                         2.9
CRrSAJ                               17.9         i8.9         10.3                5.3                         4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)             ..           ..         50.5               47.6                        42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)             ..           ..         16.3               15.2                        12.u
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..           ..          3.2                3.2                         3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TUOUS)              ..           ..         11.3/c
USERS (% OF [[ARRIED WOMEN)            ..           ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                          91.0         96.0         70.0               95.7                        97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (U OF REQUIREMENTS)         87.0         85.0         90.0               97.1                       102.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             71.0         69.0         66.u               56.U                        72.0
OF WNICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           35.0         34.0         33.0/c             17.2                        17.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            22.6         18.7         13.8               23.6                        15.2
H EALTH
LEFE EXPECT. AT BlRTIt (YEARS)           ..           ..         51.2               51.9                        57.Z
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER TIrOUS)        114.4        100.1         61.6              117.6                       104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  ..         29.0         45.0/d             25.4                        59.3
URBAN                                  ..         71.0         95.0/d             70.5                        84.9
RURAL                                  .,         26.0         39.0/d             12.3                        37.5
ACCESS To EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(N OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            25350.0      15460.0       9970.0/d          12181.6                      3536.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              5480.0/e    1250.0        1320.0/d           2292.0                      1820.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               510.0        380.0        360.0/f           1075.4                       643.3
URBAN                                  ..           ..         60.0/f            402.3                       545.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..      4420.077            3926.7                     2462.0
ADIMISSIONS PER HiOSPITAL BED            ,,         15.3         27.0/d               ..                        26.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF tHOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..           ..          5,,.
URBAN                                  ..           ..4.8/
RURAL                                  ..           ..          5,0,
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
IOTAL                                   .           ..
URBAN                                                        ..                   ..
RURAL                                   .           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   .           ..           ..                 ..                        46.2
URBAN                                   .           ..           ..                 ..                        77.6
RURAL                                                                                                         16.1



- 24 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E   3A                                   Page  2  of  5
BOTSWANA                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BOTSWANA                                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RESTIMAl            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE  INCOFtE
EDDIAflON~~~~~~                                                        ~~~~~ 90- I7ObESMATE-1-  AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLM4EN'T RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      42.0         69.0        102.0               97.2                         89.6
MALE                      35.0         65.0         92.0               103.1                       104.8
FEMALE                    48.0         73.0        111.0                88.5                        72.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       1.0          7.0         22.0               17.2                         41.7
MALE                       1.0          8.0         20.0                23.5                        52.8
FEMALE                     1.0          7.0         23.0                14.2                        31.2
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)              4.2         19.4          8.6                 5.2                        10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               31.0         36.0         32.0               42.9                         31.9
SECONDARY                             12.0         15.0         18.0               23.7                         23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (7)                 20.0/h         ..         35.0                37.1                        43.3
CONSUMPT ION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              2.5          2.8          6.0/g              18.8                        18.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSANDD POP            4.1         31.5         74.4                97.8                       138.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..           ..           ..                18.6                        45.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                  .          20.5         19.6                18.2                        31.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..          0.2          0.1/d               0.6                         1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)              263.0        296.0        398.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      49.8         52.6         50.8               36.1                         10.7
AGRICILTURE (PERCENT)                 92.0         67.0         78.3                56.8                        42.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     3.0          4.0          7.7               17.5                         27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 50.9         46.7         42.8                37.0                        25.6
MALE                                  53.2         47.7         43.6               47.1                         45.4
FEMALE                                48.9         45.9         42.0               27.0                          5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1          1.2                 1.3                         1.8
INCOFE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..         28.1/i         ..
HICHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..         60.37          ...
'LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          1.6T          ...
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..          7.6/i         ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        284.0               534.2                       276.1
RURAL                                   ..           ..        154.0              255.9                        177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL 'US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        303.0              491.5                        400.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..       :303.0              188.1                        283.3
ESTLMSATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (7)
URBAN                                   ..           ..         40.0                  ..                        22.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..         55.0                  ..                        30.8
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted,  Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970  between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /I  1962; /f 1976; /g 1978; /h Prior to 1965; /i 1971-72, economically active population.
May 1983



- Z   -                                                                          ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEtFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the dat   redao  rttort  generally  judged  the eat  uhartosad relIable, It s1houldls  he roo-  that they .a  not ..he  .nternar.lo.all
-opayahle bertso   h   ako   tndrSeddfntooed rro                                     sdby diffare.t catnrls In coletngte   aa.  The data  art, nurahelees, usefl eo
des..eihe  _rde-   of iagllde, lad icte tr-ads  and choa-t-n- -otertr  rajar dhfferetoe  be- racro
Trhe  eeec   groups tee (L) tha  se I       ctorrrc grou.p of ths tuhj et cu-Erey oaf (2) .c ttp   et.p oath sorehot hOgh-coeg                          oeta   the c...rtry g.rtup of tha
oabf eon  o-eery loucpe for  faigh lat   IIfo rta'g- tp ther.                     ad"  " II...ee taot" "drlc a"d  '"Idlo "       eI' I  to  no hec.u. of s 'rua.r.u.-... ura
aff Isltias), .  O  the tlseerte  geoup d_r  ahe  --erg-  lee popolanuon ,Ight    eth.               ocec   for eoch Irdiceora-               ho o clyahs  e   _ cIty of the oa..te.e  to a
group hoeI dat  for that fndtaeor..  Saesettrg    fcoolsatgteldIattdpnso ....                                           aotIlahlIh,    cd oIaa and        - nor olfor , au do  eoe  he,
eserte-d to rotatiug anesge  of ate Idc toyaotr                         'thes  e_o-aes_oe ony   seu  IIn   oplgthet Ito  of ore undlc-cty at a r.e  onoa  the co.,tr  oaf
AsEA (huads.afPnoaurpthycon-Popol-onla  dl,tlde   by autho  uf proc tlolg
Total - Tos  sufc   ae           nr a   land tro  and Inland  -at-e    196h,                               pyLItn  qua It fled   Eo  andica1 school at  -i-u-rl p    -erI.
1970 sod 198f data.                                                                                   ytlta   e    usngpro-Ppht    dutldnd typjehe,r. of peatrtiele
cAri-alt-It  - Eornte- of ogrucltu...  area. used terpuc-ily ocpr aNc. at IIf                              aeadfraegautlyte     alotnre   pctla   nures  ad
fo    rps   eturs   -a-e  tad hir _e  gardens or t  lIe. fallow; 19th,                          -colagouuluohe
1970 erd 191dn.POu0                                                                                           o  r....... r.r..   Eted-ttl   ra,ldcra                     oo  o   ttl
rber, and curt1 di,fa   byteit  -toeclne  nueten of tospatal heft
IsP PER CAPITA, III) - lp per capIta esuareo   coreateakenplce                                                -nilblahl   ho putllc and  PrIiae  toerl1 ad specilier   haploloa
lalotlotf by ste canuer Ian nehod ta World Saub Atlas 11979-f  hel);-hobilltt ion crote-n.  LLsplt-1I.a er  et1hlihsheen e poutettly  statffed
1960, 1970, cud 19t1 date,                                                                                 by or leost ace phytucion.  tttbllsbhsr-  priudlog prlnfpol ly c-,.dial
care oel  not  hJU,         F Incld h_ Rual  usytal  .  c'ur  ucas   stthae
ENERGY COtSUIRPTIJN PtR CaPITA -AnnuAl ap,roret  asoya  adcserclcdlual hearer  cur Per--aatly atafel  yaphoo   (ttr by atd-cal1
eargaee       Isaalctltta7a  c aro    fto    5lels   e   a   o                                              rvd       lle   rangeof eaacol    offcter ipi. Ptsehotclproe
1960, 1900, and 1990 dots.                                                                                  rbeha   h        i-tloholda WHO.  rli-jpol!geocrale  hospitlsl, a-d enta
tooplrar, Iota  or rot1 ht            lotd t-d-c1 o-d aate-ntyotNenrce.
bPOPLATION  MDt VITAL STATISTICS                                                                             Spec- ledhaurl   r  c-cuddlal  cherual
fclPapola-l-, naf-fear (eh--caed_ - -Ae of Jtly II 19Sf, 1971, uadl 1991                               aacoaarr  h-irlro    e       oalSe      noeofdltootoo t   d-arharge
deta.                                                                         fine~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ !o hapu-lt diolded by the rooter of bafa.
yjrba   auaelohea             of  -teal   - RaIt of urban ato cral" ypola-a 
dtff1e-r  defhrlrIans  of ceba  ara..       yafc ...pa...bluhup of dana                             fpdSNlt
asta  conrha  1960, 1970, an   91dt.Ieag   lwo   luea SSietnoechntId)                                                                                                1oal   ra , ad rura
PapolatlnIc  ea  011  - Toren  poyalatton prjections ore ba-d an   f                                     ond their neic. -ra-   A hoarder or lodger say cr soy rthol bOrichded Ic
total pnpolati-e by age cad  e  aud theIr soolalhy and ferollcy                                      the h-uhld fu  acat latca   purposes.
raes. fojcho    arecetfor corrliSty  -ort  ccaco-ace                                                 urge ruher afjarsaro f Ft, a-c  o    ta,ard etel snc- e   oea
L-leastsaglItsprsa  orhrhucrsug                               th cnurary' eI peIfyrut   e   ue1  alorn    tdrrlaopied  --rorruaro
caItaI cselat   I_.     _    fyno   Iteepe..an. p Itahllleleg At P7.                                  dtl llrga , ra-petri-l .  Dtu-  Iu-f  eu -ladcaun-p-ynorerrt-eoteeea
peers   The paractereftc  trt I Iy car  also  tao-  ahtre heneI                                        o.n.cuplod  puer-
sotuetag detlhne  In ferailitnyacrdgrnt                n    .n.. ...  .a.. f..say                    Iccat  totttcce   Iecu  of d-11-ugs( - cucol, urban -ad rural -
pletairg   errareane.  lath   auatry  I  rut   ae e  ace of chose alat                      Ca-rrtonal d-Ilihngs althaec Iitr   c  lhirig quarter  us peererage
oath ettoan  of -aarithy aed f-riliry  ,treds far projo  illnprpsn                                    of tat1, urban, and eura IIIIaoetetl ly.
Srtaop.paplotlna  -, hr aster -.rai   pclaha c.'    hant:' to t  g,_th
since  tha thert rote  Is cqaal to the~~~~d deat  cle, lerA  also  the uge             tCAT ON
structure  reaais constant.  PhIs ut actlc..d naly efr-  fertIlIty  Roe                     dutdrtnle             Otatio
declinetoIh  cpacuer  cte  o  uitetdrncclaroe,  enPrtoyoc.n -otl...eoa  fa..hr                                                                                  ..coa.. tende.l
ouploi r tteaa  ct uacf  n  he bash s of tar p-ro-acdctrce-yieyscolaepplcIns   anlythlda  hlecoe   -
leaofaepopolanha  In te year dPR, oaf the rare of det - ce o                                   yara hut -cju-e  foe dfhf-,ra  leadtho nf prio-ry edac-tho; for
ts1rrhilia:feaeatnreoaI tse nttt...tourIhot-t    cntsldocarhaoer,nhlc.ntn-yeocesdllf  p--ree
Tea  ac-cl...rY potalsi.n It reahed - The Feoc thl,en t h-cay                                              IIrcan-   pupll  are tltor 01_cr et  uffhcuol ochauL ags
ynuatr    in  tilt ha reachd.                                                                   hecardary  -ch-1 - totl. atla and_ fe.ole - Cunputed at at oa;acody
Pen sq. les. - 5id-yeo     ,,e  p ...au. par snoae hul-unoter     0 lh --ecart   of                        genco   gae.l -      tcrhtal   n  mthr1   tea-Ing  it-r-utiara  far
totalate   19ftC,1970,  ad I 9h dare                                                                    pup~i t  otuoly of 11  -o 11, yor   of ago;  --raaaeccor                    re
Peest. .la.aaS               I-ualod  -Coapa...fos  abaceforralc-l-urullId                                 gane-alye-1udad.
raly; 1960. 1970 oaf 1980 dana                                                                     Cucoelnol -    rlloacI-cccnrnV.annarl    S                     2oh 1a i"ttoat -ioe
Pupalathor Age  tutr   pcat  - ChuLra-  ID- IIYe-e),  -uehun-oge tin-                                      Ialdrcnie    a                hl,n  other p.m gran  a,hhh aperat  Saea-
64 peaaf  aod retired  (60 pear  atd ..cer) as    - -cetge  onf aid-poor                              eal   5I   eateecc   of oru_d ryartulas
pplta;196,190,    ar,     10  dora.                                                            P.pil--aocer roti tt-pchocy Id  aetordtrTuoletder  enroled at
yopuha,ttan G-uth Rots . oca  - tasal  - la 1a groahrae   of -1o old-                                     prlaay oall-codary locale flnided up notur  ofotrocce
Year  .papltlto  fur 1950-t0, 19t0-70, oa   90 .rsspnndincg le-eI
Paplaia  htut  Pa_  (par-otl    ura            - cna  frnt1ete  of urban                          AMolt lIterc    sae  prcat                - Lt e adult  (ab.le to  -ca  etd hrite( 
papulothacs  oe 1957-61,lyhO-PO,Ioa  l9Pd-91.                                                 a perceanage If cnn l adult  opuplacin aged 15 years and  -ac.
Trde Slth lar    Ipe  thued   - Anoa  Lit-  bilhet   pe, rhuudof aId-
pear paplrhr  1961, 1970, aId 1991 data.                                                            CONSlaMPTlIO
feud  Oeoh catc (per rhousood) - Mcel le-ths pcc tlh.atod nf eid-yeur                                   P           Deee   Ct Ipecr tha-usIord  -aplor-r) - Poas erge   tars  ..P..o sc..r
Popalea;19,1fl r.91da.craa  log  les  than   qlgb  pert ...s; -uoldea  eh                                                                                           ha --  eoeaeaad
gross R teedcla  Sr -Aer-gs cu-be  of dough tees. sateat  ill bear Ic                                       I          hlay   abe
he  cotl  epadc ya pieriodIt  t   aprr      ca   ran   ag-psil                               toh   aedor    e I       hotr         r plarcr(- dd  tyef      f  rereofr_al
fertl Stytarts, usally  loe-roc ose agas erdl~nghr 19th  197fad                              broadcasts  ogcrlphi   e   huafo  pnpulotioa; ett-da cc
Faolty Plansitg-gcc-ptnrs, tAN-1 (thausaudsf - Aotual toter of acetr                                        esto  nfe 1dt  ferca    er  ea                      Ia ho copareble sine  os
af tirlt-catoh   e-ncta uudtr ausrucra of n-ilol. fanily platleag                                       ctrilouebd1 ...uthcg._
P,ograc.                                                                                              TVfeceuners  hprh_assdrapulcur- Tnrs-i-oe foraebeaadcastc
Fatill ylooring-se             ...en.n  of sachd eusec  -  scnag   Ptnrdgnral c'`bhfn  per tluaad pplscr  salfsooned T                                                                I- cIc'I...t
caeIf rhtlf-her'gI      gel   b-iyas)cnuehunhc                  Itnftln   IIcnIn_ncea  ad In _our  uun                                     tlsroI         I o  Tc oat  too I Inelet
all sorsIed  _-ae  In Ioeeae gtuop.                                                                                                                                      . u..r..cl.c pnccucdoyocc)hnnraurge
PiCdextOOl SuOdIO rcrculo,"2                                        +fo0ertcnI--t-  dl n.t payer', deIned  o aLp nu-adce-d
eladen  frnd2   uuctnp: aie  15-1-f PI-ilnda--f pro caycu                                                yulocc    icctf i rt nrIt In    s o fnun V          enuas    5i   cclea
feefod   Isd  o    1caedfr, rea  hebus   Cosnadlrhe. court prisry goods (e.g.                         Ccr_a  .tnu1 Arcanfanca_per _pu   pr  ao- iaeedo  the lu-hr of
ougerrat  utlerea   or sog-lhIt ace adIlhl  a.nd           Ituc .i cuts  te (e.g.                       cickeft  ol - ducu   rho rlar, i-luding afahe-ials  to dyln-Sa   I-. rlesad
caffaeaacce-ere  _tchudad).  pgregoteprndu..cahaoftoch rotrrya                                         c...... t..i
--a   a   ouutiorg    -educ-  prIce  -algur; IP6I-65, 1970d  and 19t1
Pertale  apea  f cOnOe  Ieren  or  -e7uirence      oprdfeeyclchr  ac   enanrl Docotrculy ac-a-  ga-oons ,                                                                             .a..lc    end
yog    Soinle    ofere  food  opplie   -nlahrt  carY pee capa   p                                    f oce r d   aslua   u Ialuig.crce,tudcs,ac,uefg
da.   An_lleI esop  ra  ceyu-   d-eisc P, p            -cuclc, le         ..t.ea                        poootoo   h    go               ao. aln   naoLcu    aar              r   o
esparte , orfcfueages  Ia  -ruk.  SeN sp      -hseldo   nua  feed, s-de ,                               rtaaa;1961, 1971  cod 19t1 dtts.
lcsn.. let ead i   ld   rcsa,sd  JatsIndarbtia.enl  occa     Peselloh-  fr e a  perue-cge afftal Labor force.
lequire...ntsae'eeetiaaef hdy FAO ra-d an, phyIinlugichI t-ds foe crte                                    ar-iur   pera   - lbor fte Ic .oag f... es... p.  bnshg   a
Icrhiey era hea1lt  carshde-itg  -an-urc-enas   t.eapecrore, hady aegtstlhing as per-elog   of  eul  ehsfrce; 1961, 1970  rd 1 9R1 deec.
aga end  -c  dl sceaborIan ofPuplta,afalon   10 p...clte foe                                             Tot rfac    prei  - Labr torte ha acntc            ...g ..con truct ...ion,   iaaorutg
or htooehld le-s; 1961-tO, 1970 and lPdaa                                                                  ard clct ,icty,-t aie.oa  gas os          Icne age of tatol lotte  toe-; 19bV,
Per  -elr   upl  of praeh  Igroc..per fop) - Peucilo nararna of per capita                                   1971 otd 1991 Iota 
uersuy,ptl  of food pee fop,  net ..pp.  of food Is ieftrtd at ahune                                  PrtiphaSteIacrt1-ralro ,onfaha-Partictpatlan 
teqcreaIt, fur Icl cnuctrial etrabhisbe   b Iti   yrodUaeanaDAcilc    os  ore   nprdatol,e,adfalo ourfors
alloaa...     aftgcatsa totl Proteto par dayanda) 9ran- fuh                  Voa                        Pae-ntageaa-frool.na             llcsdeoaeloalrlnuofLIag_scso tlr_Ly;
puOs  prutei   of ohchI  grat            _Inad he aIso-lPI prtin.  Thes                                 1:61,_l9fC, and 1991 data   7ee  or Ie Ibated an ILl e pccticlpatiar relee
ItI aroar   turthnthose of  O g-at  af total praltin aad 03 gross' ce cing a1 gese  structure  of the Ppltir   rd Iog  site, rred.A
of o-f-a  P-aela at on otn-ge Par rho world, yrtpooed by FAf an the                                     Pea  ta nc tat or  fra  ntoco    I_I_t
Thief World Food S-eny; 1961 -65, 19ff ard I9t0 data.                                                 E..n...  latdora,RtSor    - Rati.ora  ppoplation  order 10 usd to aed ans- e
ferted   insarlals  rd   alae  h  grss pe fp;  9thks,1910 atd 1977
Ctd(gs1Cletlaepechuof-   acdetspciosd   IinPrce -Sag  of  rNteIon   (both tn cash and bled) - Seceind by richest
ag  gus  1-4 years, to cbl1drrn  uc thts  se grt...; far oust fanaluplg                              pI'llnth* rhtbra  20 pe-en, p-ar-r  Of portent, dad paro-f AC paroe-   af
ta relsao dle. fa    ie  ois; I9hO, h97C sad 1991 data.                                               h.uah-d.
HtAISTHPOVEROTY TAGEuT hGRDUP
ac Slirrhl 1960, 1970 ad 19Sf dsta.                                                                     hb-ld he ioterprated aLtcasdaleotLuc
laat  athiyRte (pee thou-rd) -         -n1 deaths or hIlirt  unde  oae                          trineted Aholt  PaIet, y nateu               (S  peboprS-             o  eta  torhI
pea  o  age per thcoaaad line bithst; 1960, 1910 a,d 1991 dana -                                     Abs....ro  ocry  nosalnliEbtlaa   le                       _baatab  ht o alrl-1
access nfSafe  gata IrcaI'  of  rylatnn   -             rtota......hIr end   toral                       luteuridai    dqotde    lteantlctfo    aursash   u
tothee ad people  Irael.uron ab      to)niheooobaooscsd                                            tn     ble.
ucerspl  (l-cldere toeo   stIate- t-r-  or c-treoed hut                                              ttotdflt    Pooatylocee                   - lenl 1    H5 tcaP Ital  -orha  aa  rUrl-I
-ao nttdcar eu-h a-s aho  fete p-otccd b-cahal-, ephgt.ad                                      Soa   aalop-nrly fnro-e lee   ta th  do4nraeprcpt
-aitacys-11s(-tperrantafeeuIsheurrest c               Isn popolatotns.   Iran                           pers....Irtcunen frtctha- typ.  Urbhorlene  Lsdrri-edlIauthe  ruo1
ce   rsapub1l .anaru  star.p.e.I         la-td no  sor  fh.. 200h necara                         1-ae  iaha  edj-useentfoe ntfher -nt cf liotih  to orb,a,rct
fb_ctae.id raualro eseah   aureas 00 ~idh  -el .h.                 aancecf    radrua       eon   or p....pNoltrElonl (ubnenorel                                           r      cab oe.
ttYdyitftcig  h   f- -uly'saer.  oteds.          I h
cccessaecrlo  ispsolh rncaceolpnaloita  -  ona, thaf,2o
eural-Cunhcoofpaaplehtcral,uebaa,ondraell)  scrledtyeucneta~"                                                                   e
fIortl  s  o-raags  f  heInaspecin   ppuorhr.   ocrs  dops.
ooytnrlofeth...athoclonaddcapuhIetoloIpchochdicprperuei-n                      of.huouodatlftIls
-hh,eaaceat    at-ae    htoe-ta snesorheue uPp1tcascMlst ntfjaaln   s-pru
prlades and fatciorh fnst lloton   1,rtap  199



- 26 -                                      ANNEK I
Page 4 of 5
BOTxANA
E(DNIC INDICA1tS
GROSS NATIONAL PR(XUCT IN 1982/83                         ANI'UAL RATE OF GROW]I (% constant prices)
US$ Mln.                           1982/83
GNP at Market Prices               868                                +8.5
Gross Dnestic Investnent
Gross National Savirg               ..
Current Account Balance            -40                               -35.0
Exports of Goods, NFS              701                               +28.0
Imports of Goods, NFS              783                                +5.7
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND        Value Added             Lator Force 1/         V.A. Per Worker
__ _ucr_ _ IN 1982T83        Us$  ln.    %              MIn.    %              JUS$   % of Ave.
Agriculture                    89      11.1           0.3)0   62.4              297    17,8
Industry                      378      47.0           0.034    7.1           11,118   665.0
Services                      337      41.9           0.147    30.5           2,293    137.1
Unallocated                    -         -                ,.
Total/AveraW               804    100.0             0.481   100.0          1,672    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                      Certral Goverrment
(P, Mln.)            % of GDP
1982783    1982/83    1980/81 - 1982/83
Current Receipts                            346.5       35.4             36.3
Current Experditures                        226.3       23.1             23.9
Current Surplus                             120.2        12.3            12.4
Capital Expenditures                        156.6        16.0            14.9
External Assistance (net)                    59.0        6.0              3.3
MEY, CREDIT and PRICES                        1980      1981     1982      1983 (Sept.)
TilTion P OEstandingErKi Period)
Money anrl Quasi Money                       236.9    225.9    243.8          294.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector 2/               11.9      9.2        -            -
Bark Credit to Private Sector                 97.3    144.4    148.3          170.3
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GEP             32.7     30.1       28.5         29.4
General Price Index (August 1980=100)        100.0    115.9      131.2        142.9
Annual percentage changes in:
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  60.8    -23.0         -           -
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 12.6      48.4       3.0         14.8
1/ Labor force is defined as persons of 14 years anxl over ergaged either in family agriculture or in
cash employment. Migrant workers in South Africa are excluded.
2/ Excludes parastatals.
not available                                                           EADB
not applicable                                                        March 1984



27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAMMS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BAIANE OF PAYMNENS                                                 MERQAISE EnXPS 3
(AVERAGE 1981-83)
1981    1982    1983                          US$ MlIn.   %
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods 1                 403.0   464.3   645.5           Meat ad meat products    89.7   17.9
IWports of Goods 2                 689.8   584.4   593.5           DianuMs                  275.9   54.9
Balance of Trade (deficit=-)      -286.8  -120.1    52.0           Copper/nickel             74.2   14.8
All othr dcnmmities       62.5   12.5
Ncn-factor Services (net)          -79.2   -68.8  (       )          Total                  502.2  100.0
Factor Services (net)              -21.1     11.6  (-155.2)
Net Transfers                      139.6   117,4   111.4
Balance on Current Account        --205.3   -59.9    -8.2          EXTERNAL DEBT, DEC. 31, 1983
LIS$ Mln.
Direct Foreign Investment           88.9    21.2    27.4
Net MZ Borrwing                     13.6    55.8    18.3           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed    280.7
Disbursements                      ..       ..       ..          NonGuaranteed Private Debt
Anrtization                        ..       ..       ..          Total Outstandirg & Disbursed    280.7
Capital Grants                       ..       ..       ..
Other Capital (net) )               16.6      ..      58.4        ]EBT SERVICE RATIO FUR 1983 4
O(ther Items n.e.i.  )              22.9    23.9       6.4                                            Z
Increase in Reserves (-)            63.3   -41.0  -118.7
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed     3.6
Grcss Reserves (end year)          257.2   292.0   340.0          NDn-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbuirsed    3.6
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports 3                        796.7   689.0   712.1
of which: Petroleum            100.9    96.9   101.3             IBRD/IDA LENDING (March 31, 1984)
Exports 3                        400.1   461.1   645.5
of 4hich: Petroleum              -         -        -                                (Million US$)
IBRD   ID
RATE OF EXaGE 5                                                    Outstanding & Disbursed  88.6  15.3
1979  1980  1981   1982   1983              lUnisbursed              95.4
Outstanding incl.
US$1.00 = P         0.814  0.777  0.833  0.021  1.095               Wlisbursed            184.0  15.3
P 1.00  = US$       1.228  1.287  1.200  0.979  0.913
1 Recorded customs statistics adjusted for timing and coverage.
2 Recorded customs statistics adjusted for valuation (exclusive of duties, insurance and freight) and
coverage.
3 Unadjusted trade figures.
4 Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-factor Services.
5 Amial averages.
.. Not available
Not applicable
EAMB
March 1984



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GRaDUP OPERAT[INS IN BGISWA
A. STAIET OF BANK iDANE AND TDA cREDrrSl/
(as at March :31, 1984)
Amount
(less Cancellations)
--US$ Million-
Number   Year    Borroer            Purpose                         Bank  IDA Undisbursed
Six loans and six credits fully disbursed                          56.10  15.91
1408     1977    Botswana       Fourthb Road Project               19.10            1.96
1497     1977    Botswana       Second Livestock Project            6.50            1.23
1584     1978    Botswana       Second Urban Project                8.00           2.13
1763     1979    Botswana       Second 'Water Supply R7oject       4.40            0.23
1828     1980    Botswana       Second Education Project           10.00           7.82
1941     1981     Botswana      Fifth Road Project                 17.00           6.29
2057      1982    Botswana      Third Education                    20.00           16.43
2209      1983    Botswana      Power Project                      32.50           32.02
2333     1983    Botswana       Third Water Supply                 22.00           14.95
2384      1984    Botswana      Second DFC 3/                      12.30           12.30
Total                                                       207.90  15.91    95.36
of which has been repaid                                   22.42   0.61
Total now outstandirg                                       185.48  15.30
AmDunts sold                                         9.55
of which has been repaid                           8.70    0.85    Z
Total xow hald by Bank/IDA 2/                               184.60   15.30
of which is undisbursed                                             0.00   95.36
1/ The status of tIe projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and Ortober 31.
2/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/ Not yet signed.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. SrATE~M  OF IPC INVSIR4'
(as at Mardc 31, 1984)
Investnmnt                                                   UJS$ Milion Equivalet
Nlmber   Year  Borror          Type of Business            loan   Equity  Total
448--T    1979  Botswana        Development Finani
Deveopoent       Ccpny
Corporation                                  -      0.37   0.37
Total Gross Irvestments                                  -     0.37   0.37
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayuet aixd sales
Total now held by IFC                                          0.37   0.37



-- 30 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project        : 7 months
(b)  First Presentation to Bank           : May 1983
(c)  Appraisal Mission                    : June/July 1983
(d)  Negotiations                         : February 7-10,1984
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness        : August 1, 1984
11.  Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
III. SpeialCn i
(a) Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)    Project Coordinating Committee established and training
Coordinator appointed (para. 62).
(ii)   Effectiveness of USAID and Norwegian grant agreements
(para. 61).
(b)  Other Special Conditions
(i)    Bank and Government to agree on implementation of
health financing study recommendations (para. 43).
(ii)   Plan to be prepared, and pilot program begin, for revising
clinic routines revised to miake family planning services
available daily (para.e 54).
(iii)  Work plan for expanded health education program to be
developed (para. 55),
(iv)  Quantity anid supply of contraceptives to be adequate
(para. 57).



- 31 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(v)   Upgraded and new rural health facilities to be adequately
staffed (para. 53).
(vi)   Medical officers to be seconded to Gaborone Town Council (para.
62).
(vii)  Bank to review training program plans annually (para. 59).
t.






2D-A.i'                                                           \    ,                p              \                  25'                      f  4            25'                                       3Co   P B R D  I  3   R 9 5 R
N  A     N    G    O     L    A              --       i       KRzon%c  Z   A    M    B   I  A
-159  ---/-\---' R=t 9 \-i                           tr >                                  N                  >                         ~~~~~~~~B O T S W A N A5'
Sh            ehk, .,                                      H 0 B E             '                                                                         TN   A    OD
~~'~biK'- A
!S-hekfaw2.|X 'se voo IFED                                                    NSRCE
N c A 9Mf L A  N D*                                                                                                                                             D        ROAD
4K, 9 ~    ~      ~      ~ ~ 80Y
tA                                                                                                       <          /                X         4                            ,      t          Tu umc                       BeIawoVD                           5     sO    O0         20<0L  9D-
Z  A A! LAND        c0   RDD                                                                                                                                            0 A  N  Z0  ED N T R A I
S-roD2_    DO Di                                                                  OF   00
</ t \                K   ~~~~A  \                 A          H    A              R    Id .. gp e
,      f   \                                                                   ,        SldsElony        t    ; > / h   rwoOd Ronch~~~~~~(owoo                     ILE
t   _                            <gulilg           h  W~~~~~'  E  N  E  N  G                                                        <
- - --- ------- --:  / A-II- F-N                                            ' 
h G A L h G A D I         \>                                             - ------ .h f                                                   F
I   'l,                            t                  L        ,                   =,kT Hf? A S!  S                                            N  +                              i       sO'~0o<OC  I '4  00
\ A  oA    Ni                                                   CINRN. W AKF 0- -"B A
~la?                                                                                                                                             <2        Z I4  TAFIF - F.,O  s .WIDDRx)  '4-  \\,434y                                 4 r
C~~~~rlh,    R,,t                                                                                        A"i~~~~~~~~~~~~h RF
F                                      SIADORRg         SoFa 0CDF        1             ROORD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFR 






