Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2826 ALB
KESH Project Agreement
(Power Transmission and Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ALBANIAN ELECTROENERGETIC CORPORATION
Dated Marh 25, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2826 ALB
KESH PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 25, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association) and ALBANIAN ELECTROENERGETIC CORPORATION (KESH).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
ALBANIA (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR19,700,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition 
that KESH agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and KESH, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be relent to KESH on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS KESH, in consideration of the Association's entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have 
the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. KESH declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
carry out Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, 
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for Part A of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) KESH shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the KESH Project 
Agreement and Part A of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, and taking into account the provision of Section 3.03 of the 
Development Credit Agreement, KESH shall:
(i)
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between KESH and the Association, a plan, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, for the future operation of Part A of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with KESH on said plan.
Section 2.04. KESH shall duly perform all its obligations under the KESH 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KESH shall 
not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the KESH Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) KESH shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views 
with the Association with regard to the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the KESH Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
KESH shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part A of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by KESH of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the KESH Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of KESH
Section 3.01. KESH shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utility practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. KESH shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. KESH shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association, for insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Page  3
Section 4.01. (a) KESH shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
KESH shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year 
as so audited; and
(B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KESH shall 
produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
1995, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than  40% of the annual 
average of KESH's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that 
year, the previous fiscal year and the fiscal year following that year.
(b)
Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, KESH shall, on the basis 
of forecasts prepared by KESH and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such review 
upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that KESH would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for KESH's fiscal years covered by such review, KESH shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, reduction of 
power losses and reduction of accounts receivables) in order to meet such 
requirements.
(d)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net non-operating income and any reduction in 
working capital other than cash; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for depreciation and 
other non-cash operating charges), debt service 
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital 
expenditures.
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
Page  4
(iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at 
the end of each fiscal year.
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next 
fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then existing 
be called for payment within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer advances, debt service requirements, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on account 
of fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to operations.
(viii)Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, KESH shall 
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
KESH shows that the estimated net revenues of KESH for each fiscal year during the 
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at
least two times the estimated debt service requirements of KESH in such year on all 
debt of KESH including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of KESH maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred. 
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: 
 
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for such debt or for the modification of its terms 
of payment on the date of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; and
(B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
Page  5
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by KESH 
not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt 
in question, which both the Association and KESH accept as 
reasonable and as to which the Association has notified KESH of 
its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the 
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial 
condition or future operating results of KESH.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association. 
Section 4.04.  KESH shall:
(a)
take all actions required on its part to ensure that the outstanding 
amounts in its accounts receivable will, on average not exceed the equivalent of two 
months' billing; and
(b)
pay all bills owed by KESH within six weeks of billing.
 
Section 4.05.  KESH shall:
(a)
review with the Association, by September 30 of each year commencing in 
1996, KESH's proposed investment expenditures program for the following five years; 
and
(b)
take the Association's views into consideration in finalizing said 
program.
Section 4.06.  KESH shall:
(a)
carry out the Environment Management Plan with due diligence and 
efficiency;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Association reports in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
said Plan and the measures recommended to further such progress; and 
(c)
thereafter implement all such measures as are required to ensure the 
achievement of the objectives of the said Plan, taking into consideration the 
Association's views on the matter.
Section 4.07.  KESH shall:
(a)
undertake and, complete a study on the use of Polychlorinated Biphenyls 
in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association;
(b)
upon completion of the said study furnish a copy thereof to the 
Association for its comments and review; and 
(c)
discuss with the Association the follow-up actions, if any, recommended 
by the said study or the Association.
Section 4.08.  KESH shall take all necessary measures to reduce total 
distribution losses of electricity entering the distribution system to 42% in the 
calendar year 1996 and to 34% in the calendar year 1997.
Section 4.09.  KESH shall:
(a)
carry out the Implementation Plan with due diligence and efficiency;
Page  6
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Association reports in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
said Plan and the measures recommended to further such progress; and
(c)
thereafter implement all such measures as are required to ensure the 
achievement of the objectives of the said Plan, taking into consideration the 
Association's views on the matter.
Section 4.10.  KESH shall:
(a)
by January 1, 1996, establish an escrow account at a commercial bank;
 
(b)
thereafter deposit all cash not needed for payment of current liabilities 
(as such term is defined in Section 4.02(d)(v) of this Agreement) other than those 
under (c) hereof into said account at the beginning of each month; and
(c)
use the proceeds of the escrow account for payment of taxes and import 
duties, debt service, local costs of investments and such other purposes as may be 
agreed to by the Association.
Section 4.11.  By May 1, 1996, KESH shall appoint financial experts to its 
finance  department with functions, powers and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
KESH thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate 
in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
 
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association 
shall promptly notify KESH of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Page  7
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For KESH:
Albanian Electroenergetic Corporation
Biloku "Vasil Shanti"
Tirana, Albania
Telex:
2173 DPE AB
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of KESH may be 
taken or executed by Executive Director or such other person or persons as Executive 
Director shall designate in writing, and KESH shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
KESH ELECTROENERGETIC CORPORATION
By /s/ Lublin Dilja
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:
Procurement of goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
Page  8
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Limited International Bidding
 
Medium voltage cable and low voltage circuit breakers estimated to cost 
$1,200,000 each may be procured under two separate contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract and $1,000,000 
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for Part A of the Project shall be furnished 
to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to all contracts awarded under Parts B and C.1 of this Schedule, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981, (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such 
contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services 
issued by the Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have been
agreed by the Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be 
used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimate to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost  less tan $50,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignment of critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Association; (d)  amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
