Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2826 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(Power Transmission and Distribution Project)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 25, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2826 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 25. 1996, between  ALBANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund 
(OECF) a loan (the OECF Loan) in an amount equivalent to $29.5 million to assist in 
financing Part A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement 
(the OECF Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF;
(C)
the Borrower intends to contract from the Swiss Government a grant (the 
Swiss Grant) in an amount equivalent to $9.0 million to assist in financing Part A of 
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Swiss Grant 
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Swiss Government; and
(D)
Part A of the Project will be carried out by Albanian Electroenergetic 
Corporation (KESH), Part B of the Project will be carried out by Elbasan Power 
Corporation (Elbasan), Part C of the Project will be carried out by Shkoder Power 
Corporation (Shkoder), and Part D of the Project will be carried out by Vlore Power 
Corporation (Vlore), all with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to KESH, Elbasan, Shkoder and Vlore out 
of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, in the KESH Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
Page  2
and KESH, in the Elbasan Project Agreement of even date herewith between the 
Association and Elbasan, in the Shkoder Project Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Association and Shkoder, and in the Vlore Project Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Association and Vlore;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,  (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods procured in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United 
Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
(b)
"KESH" means Albanian Electroenergetic Corporation, a company established 
pursuant to the Borrower's Council of Ministers Decision No. 34 - dated August 12, 
1992.
(c)
"Elbasan" means Elbasan Power Corporation, a company pursuant to the 
Borrower's Law No. 7667 and its Articles of Incorporation, dated January 28, 1993.
(d)
"Shkoder" means Shkoder Power Corporation, a company established pursuant 
to the Borrower's Law No. 7667 and its Articles of Incorporation dated January 28, 
1993.
(e)
"Vlore" means Vlore Power Corporation, a company established pursuant to 
the Borrower's Law No. 7667 and its Articles of Incorporation, dated January 28, 1993.
(f)
"KESH Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and KESH pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
KESH Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(g)
"Elbasan Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and Elbasan pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to 
the Elbasan Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(h)
"Shkoder Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and Shkoder pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, 
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to 
the Shkoder Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(i)
"Vlore Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Vlore pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Vlore Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(j)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means collectively the Agreements referred 
to in Paragraphs (f), (g), (h) and (i) of this Section, and the term "Subsidiary Loan" 
means any of the Subsidiary Loans provided under any of the Subsidiary Loan 
Page  3
Agreements.
(k)
"KESH Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
Albanian Electroenergetic Corporation (KESH), of even date herewith, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the KESH Project Agreement.
(l)
"Elbasan Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association 
and Elbasan Power Corporation (Elbasan), of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Elbasan Project Agreement.
(m)
"Shkoder Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association 
and Shkoder Power Corporation (Shkoder), of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Shkoder Project Agreement.
(n)
"Vlore Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and 
Vlore Power Corporation (Vlore), of even date herewith, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to 
the Vlore Project Agreement.
(o)
"Project Agreements" means collectively the Agreements referred to in 
Paragraphs (k), (l), (m) and (n) of this Section, and the term "Project Agreement" 
means any of the Project Agreements.
(p)
"The Environment Management Plan" means the Environment Management Plan 
dated, November 13, 1995 setting forth a series of actions for environmental and 
resettlement monitoring and mitigation as agreed with the Association. 
(q)
"Implementation Plan" means the implementation plan, dated November 13, 
1995, setting forth a series of actions for the implementation of the Project agreed 
upon between the Association and KESH.
(r)
"Lek" means the currency of the Borrower.
 
(s)
"Category" means the Categories for the items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(t)
"The Electricity Tariff Study" means the study financed under the Drin 
River Cascade Rehabilitation Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to nineteen million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR19,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in the Bank of Albania on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30 , 2001 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  4
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 1 and September 1 commencing September 1, 2006 and ending March 1, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on March 1, 2016 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid.  If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall 
carry out Part E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative and financial practices and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such Part of 
the Project; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken 
all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable KESH, Elbasan, Shkoder and Vlore to 
perform their respective obligations under the KESH Project Agreement, the Elbasan 
Project Agreement, the Shkoder Project Agreement, and the Vlore Project Agreement, 
respectively, and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the credit: (i) the 
Page  5
amount allocated from time to time under Categories (1) and (5) to KESH; (ii) the 
amount allocated from time to time under Category (2) to Elbasan; (iii) the amount 
allocated from time to time under Category (3) to Shkoder; and (iv) the amount 
allocated from time to time, under Category (4) to Vlore, under Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements to be entered between the Borrower and each of KESH, Elbasan, Shkoder, and 
Vlore under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, 
which shall include the principal terms and conditions specified in paragraph (c) of 
this section.
(c)
The principal terms of the conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements 
shall be as follows: (i) the term of the Subsidiary Loan shall be fifteen years 
including a grace period of four years; (ii) interest on the amount of the Subsidiary 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be at a rate, adjusted every 
six months, equal to the average rate of the bi-weekly auctions of the Albanian 12 
months Treasury Bills over the preceding six months period plus a premium acceptable 
to the Association; (iii) the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in Lek; and (iv) 
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable to the Borrower shall be the 
equivalent in Lek of the amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding such 
equivalent to be expressed as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the 
Credit Account on account of expenditures incurred by each of KESH, Elbasan, Shkoder 
and Vlore in respect of Parts A, B, C and D of the project, respectively.
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under each of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the respective parts of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of the respective Schedule 1 to the KESH Project Agreement, Elbasan Project 
Agreement, Shkoder Project Agreement, and Vlore Project Agreement respectively and 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, and taking into account the provisions of Section 2.03 (b) 
of the respective Project Agreements, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land  acquisition, respectively) in respect of:  (a) Part A 
of the Project shall be carried out by KESH pursuant to Section 2.03 of the KESH 
Project Agreement; (b) Part B of the Project shall be carried out by Elbasan pursuant 
to Section 2.03 of the Elbasan Project Agreement; (c) Part C of the Project shall be 
carried out by Shkoder pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Shkoder Project Agreement; and 
(d) Part D of the Project shall be carried out by Vlore pursuant to Section 2.03 of 
the Vlore Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01.  The Borrower shall:  
(a)
take all actions required on its part to enable KESH to comply with its
obligations under Sections 4.02 and 4.04 of the KESH Project Agreement, including but 
not limited to raising the electricity prices;  
(b)
fix the distribution margins of Elbasan, Shkoder and Vlore to an initial 
level sufficient to allow them to cover the local costs of investment programs agreed 
with the Association subject to achieving minimum loss and financial arrears reduction 
targets acceptable to the Association; 
Page  6
(c)
adopt a mechanism, satisfactory to the Association, to provide for 
automatic adjustment of the distribution margins with respect to inflation and real 
changes in the bulk supply prices and efficiency improvements over a five-year period; 
and 
(d)
for the purposes of this Section, the term "distribution margin"means the 
margin between the sales quantity weighted average electricity retail price and the 
purchase quantity  weighted average bulk supply price. 
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part E of the project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible in carrying out said Part of the 
Project. 
(b)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
 
(c)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) and (b) 
(i) of this Section and those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03.  The Borrower shall: (a) by April 1, 1996, consult with the 
Association on the recommendations and proposed timetable for implementation of the 
tariff adjustments recommended in the Electricity Tariff Study, and promptly implement 
an action program based on acceptable recommendations from the Electricity Tariff 
Study in accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Association, taking into 
account the Association's comments;  (b) by June 30, 1996, carry out an
energy conservation and efficiency study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, and by January 1, 1997, begin to implement an action program based on 
acceptable recommendations of said study, which shall have been agreed with the 
Association,  in a manner satisfactory to the Association; (c) take all necessary 
measures to reduce non-technical electricity losses and carry out publicity campaigns 
on the necessity to pay for electricity consumption; and (d) ensure that all 
electricity bills owed by the public sector are settled within six weeks of billing.
Section 4.04.  The Borrower shall:  (a) by August 31, 1996 prepare an action 
plan, satisfactory to the Association, for the sale of its shareholding in the power 
distribution assets; and (b) thereafter implement the said plan, taking into 
consideration the Association's comments thereon.
Page  7
Section 4.05.  The Borrower shall by June 30, 1996 grant to KESH, the right of 
way for the Elbasan-Cerrik-Korce transmission line, the Elbasan 1 - Elbasan 2 line and 
the ring connection between Tirana, Selite and Traktori substations including all 
necessary environmental clearances.
Section 4.06.  The Borrower shall or shall cause: (a) to automatically adjust 
the sales quantity weighted average tariff on a minimum semi-annual basis from July 1, 
1996, according to movements in the Consumer Price Index (CPI); and (b) for the 
purpose of adjustment to the initial period the most recent increase in the CPI over 
one year will be used and thereafter the most recent increase in the CPI over six 
months will be used.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
KESH, Elbasan, Shkoder or Vlore shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the KESH Project Agreement, the Elbasan Project Agreement, Shkoder 
Project Agreement or Vlore Project Agreement, respectively. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that KESH, Elbasan, Shkoder or Vlore will be able to perform its 
obligations under the KESH Project Agreement, the Elbasan Project Agreement, Shkoder 
Project Agreement or Vlore Project Agreement, respectively.
(c)
The law, decree, charter, or other founding documents of KESH, including 
any legal or regulatory enactments upon which such instruments are based, or any 
licenses granted to KESH related to Part A of the Project shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of KESH to perform any of its obligations under the KESH Project Agreement.
(d)
The law, decree, charter, statutes, or other founding documents of 
Elbasan, including any legal or regulatory enactments upon which such instruments are 
based, or any licenses granted to Elbasan related to its ability to operate and carry 
out Part B of the Project, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of Elbasan to perform any 
of its obligations under the Elbasan Project Agreement.
(e)
The law, decree, charter, or other founding documents of Shkoder, 
including any legal or regulatory enactments upon which such instruments are based, or 
any licenses granted to Shkoder related to Part C of the Project, have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of Shkoder to perform any of its obligations under the Shkoder Project 
Agreement.
(f)
The law, decree, charter, or other founding documents of Vlore, including 
any legal or regulatory enactments upon which such instruments are based, or any 
licenses granted to Vlore related to Part D of the Project, shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
ability of Vlore to perform any of its obligations under the Vlore Project Agreement.
(g)
The Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution and disestablishment of KESH, Elbasan, Shkoder and Vlore or 
for the suspension of its operations.
(h)
The OECF Loan Agreement and the Swiss Grant Agreement shall have failed 
to become effective by April 30, 1996 or such later date as the Association may agree; 
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(i)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
 
(A)
The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
Page  8
providing thereof, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have 
been given by the Association to the Borrower;
(b)
any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (i)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (i)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that, the KESH Subsidiary Loan Agreement has 
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and KESH.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
that the KESH Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
KESH, and is legally binding upon KESH in accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Elbasan Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Elbasan, and is legally binding upon Elbasan in accordance with its terms;
(c)
that the Shkoder Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Shkoder, and is legally binding upon Shkoder in accordance with its terms;
(d)
that the Vlore Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Vlore, and is legally binding upon Vlore in accordance with its terms; and
(e)
that the KESH Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or 
ratified by the Borrower and KESH and is legally binding upon the Borrower and KESH in 
accordance with its terms;
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  9
Ministry of Finance
Bulevardi "Deshmoret e Kombit"
Tirana, Albania
Telex:
4295 Komplan AB
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ALBANIA
By /s/ Lublin Dilja
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                                 Credit              % of
                                Allocated        Expenditures
                              (Expressed in          to be
      Category               SDR Equivalent)       Financed
(1)   Goods under               3,200,000      100% of foreign
      Part A of the                            expenditures,
      Project                                  100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               cost) and 85%
                                               of local
                                               expenditures for
Page  10
                                               other items
                                               procured locally
(2)   Goods under               3,660,000      100% of foreign
      Part B of the                            expenditures,
      Project                                  100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               cost) and 85%
                                               of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items
                                               procured locally
(3)   Goods under               3,600,000      100% of foreign
      Part C of the                            expenditures,
      Project                                  100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               cost) and 85%
                                               of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items
                                               procured locally
(4)   Goods under               3,400,000      100% of foreign
      Part D of the                            expenditures,
      Project                                  100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               cost) and 85%
                                               of local
                                               expenditures for
                                               other items
                                               procured locally
(5)   Consultants'             2,600,000       100%
      Services under
      Part A of the
      Project
(6)   Technical                  270,000
      Assistance
      under Part E
      of the Project
(7)   Unallocated              2,970,000
      TOTAL                   19,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR1,730,000, may be 
made in respect of Categories (1) and (6) on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after May 1, 1995;
(b)
expenditures under Category 2, unless the Elbasan Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement has been executed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association 
and the Association has received a legal opinion or certificate, satisfactory to the 
Page  11
Association, of counsel acceptable to the Association, showing that the said agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the 
parties thereto and is legally binding upon the parties in
accordance with its terms;
(c)
expenditures under Category 3, unless the Shkoder Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement has been executed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association 
and the Association has received a legal opinion or certificate, satisfactory to the 
Association, of counsel acceptable to the Association, showing that the said agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the 
parties thereto and is legally binding upon the parties in
accordance with its terms; and
(d)
expenditures under Category 4, unless the Vlore Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
has been executed on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association and the 
Association has received a legal opinion or certificate, satisfactory to the 
Association, of counsel acceptable to the Association, showing that the said agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the 
parties thereto and is legally binding upon the parties in
accordance with its terms.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and services under 
contracts not exceeding $300,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) improve the standard, reliability and 
efficiency of the electric power supply; (ii) encourage energy conservation and 
efficiency in electric appliances and buildings; (iii) establish a regulatory 
framework for the power sector; (iv) begin the process of privatization of the 
Albanian power system; and (v) ensure the financial viability and institutional 
strength of KESH, Elbasan, Shkoder and Vlore.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A
1.
(a)
Construction of a new single-circuit 200 kV line of about 4 km 
interconnecting Elbasan 1 and Elbasan 2 substations; (b) construction of a new 
single-circuit 110 kV transmission line of about 105 km between Elbasan, Cerrik, and 
Korce, and addition of reactive power compensation capacity in the system up to about 
30 MVAR; (c) reconstruction and reinforcement of the 110 kV ring connection between 
Tirana, Selite and Traktori substations; (d) construction of a 220/110 kV substation 
in Durres; (e) rehabilitation and reinforcement of two 220 kV, and sixteen 110 kV 
existing primary substations; (f) upgrading of system control facilities (including 
the National Dispatch Center and Remote Terminal Units); (g) rehabilitation of 
distribution networks in major cities and load centers, including Tirana, Durres, 
Fieri, Berati, Diber, Lac and Sarande; and (h) the provision of spares and special 
tools for transmission and distribution systems.
2.
The provision of technical assistance to:  (a) manage KESH's financial 
department; and (b) carry out engineering studies and project implementation 
management and staff training. 
Part B
The rehabilitation and upgrading of distribution networks in Elbasan 
distribution area.
Part C
The rehabilitation and upgrading of distribution networks in Shkoder 
distribution area.
Part D
Page  12
The rehabilitation and upgrading of distribution networks in Vlore distribution 
area.
Part E
The provision of technical assistance to assist the Borrower in carrying out the 
privatization plans and the establishment of the regulatory framework for the power 
sector.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association.  Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimate to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignment of critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Association; (d)  amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to 
contracts for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to 
$50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),(2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $3,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
Page  13
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On 
the basis of each such request, the  Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment 
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
Page  14
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
