o10 F F~ Gi AL
CREDIT NUMBER 2826 ALB
Shkoder Project Agreement
(Power Transmission and Distribution Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SHKODER POWER CORPORATION
Dated  H1- eCiA s2Sf ,1996


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2826 ALB
SHKODER PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       M 44 4                          1996, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and
SHKODER POWER CORPORATION (Shkoder).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between ALBANIA (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to nineteen
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR19,700,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition
that Shkoder agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth
in this Agreement;
(B)    by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and Shkoder, a portion of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be relent to Shkoder on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS Shkoder, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have
the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Shkoder declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall
carry out Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and shall


﻿2
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for Part C of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of
the goods required for Part C of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Shkoder shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Shkoder Project Agreement and Part C of the
Project.
(b)    For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and without
limitation thereto, and taking into account the provisions of Section 3.03 of the
Development Credit Agreement, Shkoder shall:
(i)    prepare and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between Shkoder and the Association, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of Part C of the
Project; and
(ii)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with Shkoder on said plan.
Section 2.04. Shkoder shall duly perform all its obligations under the Shkoder
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Shkoder
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving the Shkoder Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Shkoder shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of Part C of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Shkoder Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)    Shkoder shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Shkoder of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Shkoder Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿3
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Shkoder
Section 3.01. Shkoder shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial and public utility practices under the
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. Shkoder shall at all times operate and maintain its plant,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed,
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
Section 3.03. Shkoder shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
make other provision satisfactory to the Association, for insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Shkoder shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)    Shkoder shall:
(i)     have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(i i)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than six months after the end of each such year: (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said records, accounts and financial statements as well as the
audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿4
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Shkoder shall
produce, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1995,
funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than an amount equal to the local costs
of Shkoder's capital expenditures estimated in advance at a level satisfactory to the
Association.
(b)    Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, Shkoder shall, on the
basis of forecasts prepared by Shkoder and satisfactory to the Association, review
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year
and the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such
review upon its completion.
(c)    If any such review shows that Shkoder would not meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a) for Shkoder's fiscal years covered by such review, Shkoder
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, reduction of
power losses, and reduction of accounts receivables) in order to meet such requirements.
(d)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)     The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference
between:
(A)    the sum  of revenues from  all sources related to
operations, consumer deposits and consumer contribu-
tions in aid of construction, net non-operating income
and any reduction in working capital other than cash;
and
(B)    the sum of all expenses related to operations, including
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for
depreciation and other non-cash operating charges),
debt service requirements, all cash dividends and other
cash distributions of surplus, increase in working
capital other than cash and other cash outflows other
than capital expenditurts.
(ii)    The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(A)    revenues from all sources other than those related to
operations; and


﻿5
(B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A)
above.
(iii)   The term   "working capital other than cash" means the
difference between current assets excluding cash and current
liabilities at the end of each fiscal year.
(iv)    The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be
converted into cash within twelve months, including accounts
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-paid
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the
next fiscal year.
(v)     The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will
become due and payable or could under circumstances then
existing be called for payment within twelve months, including
accounts  payable,  customer  advances,  debt   service
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and
dividends.
(vi)    The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(vii)   The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures on
account of fixed assets, including interest charged to
construction, related to operations.
(viii)  Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Shkoder shall
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of
Shkoder shows that the estimated net revenues of Shkoder for each fiscal year during the
term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least two times the estimated debt service


﻿6
requirements of Shkoder in such year on all debt of Shkoder including the debt to be
incurred.
(b)    For the purposes of this Section:
(i)     The term "debt" means any indebtedness of Shkoder maturing
by its terms more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.
(ii)    Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
(A)    under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of its
terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and
(B)    under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii)   The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)    the sum  of revenues from all sources related to
operations and net non-operating income; and
(B)    the sum of all expenses related to operations including
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)    The term "net non-operating income" means the difference
between:
(A)    revenues from all sources other than those related to
operations; and
(B)    expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of
- - -taxes, incurred in the generation of revenues in (A)
above.
(v)     The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if
any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.


﻿7
(vi)    The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by
Shkoder not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence
of the debt in question, which both the Association and
Shkoder accept as reasonable and as to which the Association
has notified Shkoder of its acceptability, provided that no event
has occurred since such notification which has, or may
reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse
effect on the financial condition or future operating results of
Shkoder.
(vii)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary
to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable
for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of
such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.04. Shkoder shall:
(a)    take all actions required on its part to ensure that the outstanding
amounts in its accounts receivable will, on average, not exceed the equivalent of two
months of sales; and
(b)    pay all bills owed by Shkoder to the public sector within six weeks of
billing.
Section 4.05. Shkoder shall take all necessary measures to reduce total
distribution losses of electricity entering the distribution system to 42% in the calendar
year 1996 and to 34% in the calendar year 1997.
Section 4.06. Shkoder shall:
(a)    review with the Association, by September 30 of each year commencing
in 1996, Shkoder's proposed investment expenditures program for the following five
years; and
(b)    take the Association's views into consideration in finalizing said
program.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of
Shkoder thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)    the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)   the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)    If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify Shkoder of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such
party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:


﻿9
- the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:              Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Shkoder:
Shkoder Power Corporation
Shkoder, Albania
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Shkoder may be:
taken or executed by Executive Director or such other person or persons as Executive
Director shall designate in writing, and Shkoder shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /IS   J   N 1N ME~      Li~i
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SHKODER POWER CORPORATION
ByAuthrize Rep rL-Je                       a
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE
Procurement of Goods
Part A: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B: International Competitive Bidding
1.     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 11 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of the Appendix I thereto.
2.     Preference for doniesticallv manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C: Other Procurement Procedures
1.    International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract and $1,000,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for Part C of the Project shall be furnished to
the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph I of Appendix I to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.


﻿12
2.     Prior Review
With respect to all contract awarded under Part B of this Schedule, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.     Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


