RESTRICTED
FILE      COPYRESTRICTED
Report No. P-719
This report was prepored for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
FOR A
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
June 4, 1969



INTER3IATIONrAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECCQvfIENDATION OF TIE PM'SIDENT
TO THE, EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ONl A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE ISLA1IIC REPUBLIC OF AIAURITANIA
FOR, A HIGHIAY ilAIINTENANCE PROJECT
1.   I submnit the following report and recaT'nendation on a proposed develop-
ment credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$3.0 million
to the Islamic R'epublic of M4auritania to assist in financing a highluray
maintenance project.
PART I - HIISTOIICAL
2.   In 1964, IDA extended a $6.7 million credit to ;Iauritania for the
engineering and construction of the ;'fouakchott-RIosso road and for the
preparation of a road maintenance study. Ti-is study, carried out by the
French consulting firm, BCECM, was completed in 1967. In Septenber 1968,
the Government requested IDA assistance in financing a 4-Year program to
improve highway maintenance. * he project was appraised in December 1968.
3.  Ilegotiations on the proposed credit wzere completed on May 16, 1969,
with a delegation of the Government led by .Ir. 1. Limam, Director of Tech-
nical Services, Ministry of Equipment.
4.   The followring is a sumnary statemont of Bank loans and IDA credits
to Mauritania as of April 30, 1969:
lm'olunt (US $ imillion)
Loan or Credit hNumber Year Borrower   Puropose  Banlc  IDA  Undis:.ursed
249 -FR       1960 I4IFER IA    Iron      66.0
mining
69- iAU       1964  Republic of .Loads           6.7   *-lh.6
Ielauritania
66.0    7 
Total (less cancellations)
of whiich has been repaid to Bank
and others                              15.6
Total now- outstanding                    50.4
Amount sold:                63.4
of which has been repaid  15.6          47.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA             2.6    6.7
* Execution of the road project was delayed because the original technical
specifications had to be modified. The project is now proceeding in
accordance with a revised schedule, with ccmpletion expected by the end
of 1969.



- 2 -
5.     I1 1968, IFC agreed to invest US`20 million (14AU-132), US$3.45 million
in equity funds and US$16 55 million in a loan, in Societe Miniere de Mauri-
tanie (SCKJT1A), the company which will cperate a copper mine at Akjoujt. The
amount disbursed on these investments as of April 30, 1969 was about $3.5
million.
6.     There are no other projects ready for consideration by the Bank Group
in Mauritania in the near future but a livestock project and an agricultural
pilot project have been identified and arrangements are now being made to
assist in their preparation.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CPZDIT
7.     Borrower:          Islamic Republic of Mauritania.
Amount:            Various currencies equivalent to $3.0 million.
LI_Tose:           To assist in financing a four-year road improvement
and maintenance program.
Amortization:      In 50 years including a 10-year period of grace,
through semi-annual installments of 1/2 of 1J frcr.
December 1, 1979 through June 1, 1989 and of 1-1/2i
from December 1, 1989 through June 1, 2019.
Service charge:    3/14 of JHo per annum on the principal-amount of
the credit disbursed and outstanding.
Estimated
economic return: 11,.
PART III - THE PROJECT
8.     A report entitled "Appraisal of a Highway Ma_intenance Project -
MIauritania" PTR-9a,dated June 4, 1969 is attached.
9.     The IMauritanian road system, aside from dirt tracks serving local needs,
comprises about 3,200 kms, mostly in poor condition. This includes two im-
portant laterite roads which are being upgraded to bituminous surface: the
200 kas Nouakchott-Rosso road, partly financed by the 1964 credit and ex-
pected to be completed by the end of 1969, and the 300 kms Nouakchott-Akjoujt
road, presently being built to provide a year-round link with the copper
mining site and expected to be completed in 1971. Otherwise, there are only
600 ikms of all-weather laterite roads, the remaining 2,100 Ins of the national
road network consisting of rudimentary earth roads. Road transport in the
relatively densely populated southern part of the country, where most of the
population is concentrated, is interrupted from July to November, after heavr
rain or during seasonal flooding by the Senegal River.



-3 -
1.0    Under the proposed project which will be carried out over 4 years,
the national road netwiork wiill be improved to a condition where it can
be properly maintained. In addition, more substantial betterment works
will be started, including the surfacing with laterite of some 500 kas of
the eorth road nEtt'ork.  The project provides for:
(i)           the purchase of maintenance and shop equipment;
(ii)          improvement of the efficiency of maintenance
operations; and
(iii)         training of personnel at all levels.
11.    The Department of Public Works, assisted by consultants acceptable
to the Association,, ill be responsible for the execution of the project.
A contract between the Iblazaic Republic of Hiauritania and the French
consulting firm BCEOI was negotiated in May 1969, the effectiveness of the
Credit Agreement being subject to signature of the contract.
1?.    Of the $3.8 million dollars total cost of the project, $3.0 million
(79%) would be financed out of the-proposed IDA credit, representing all
the foreign exchange cost of the project and some $160,000 of local subsist-
ence costs for the consultants. The balance of the local expenditure
including duties and taxes on imported equipment and parts and all recurrent
expenditures during the program period estimated at $L4.8 million would be
borne by the Govern-ment. All procurement wiould be on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with standard procedures.
13.    Substantial benefits would result from a general improvement and
regular maintenlance of the unpaved road network, particularly in the
southern part of the country.  About 85% of the proposed expenditure on
equipment and tec'bnical services can be directly related to these objectives,
the balance being applied to the requirements for maintenance of the paved
Nouakchott-Rosso road after its ccmpletion at the end of 1969. The
quantifiable benefits from the proposed investment, based on savings on
vehicle operating cost alone, would yield an economic return of about ll%
over the eight-year life expectancy of the equipment.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRU1=14TS AND AUTHORITY
1h.    The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Islamic Republic
of hauritania and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement and
the text of a Resolution approving the proposed Credit are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
15.    The provisions of the draft Development Credit Agreement follow
the usual pattern in similar projects.



-h1 -
PAIRT V  - TIE EC0UMHY
16.    A report entitled "Guidelines for a Four-Year Development Program"
S3C-iI 69-2, has been distributed to the Executive Directors on January 3,
1969.  This report was prepared by a Banic technical assistance mission
which visited the country in 1967 at the Government's request to assist in
preparing the next four-year development plan.
17.    In the early sixties, Mauritania experienced extremely high GDP
grow¢th rates (over 10 percent a year until 1964), mainly as a result of
the opening of the I4IFEIMA iron mines and to a lesser extent the esta-
blishment of an industrial fisheries complex in Port Etienne. Further
growth, although at a slower rate, is likely when the Akjoujt copper
mines come into operation in 1971.
1B.    These developments have tended to reinforce the dual character of
the economy. The remarkable growth of the modern or "enclave" sector
over the last 10 years has had lhardly any impact on the traditional sector
which has remained by and large stagnant. This sector comprises approx-
imately 90 percent of the population. Per capita GNP is estimated at $110
but the distribution is very uneven and incomes in the traditional sector
are far below this level.
19.    In recent years the Government has pursued with determination sound
financial policies.  The high current budget deficits experienced before
1965 have given way to small surpluses. This achievement is due in part to
a systematic reduction in laoer priority expenditures as well as to a
substantial growjth in revenues.
20.    The strategr underlying the first Development Plan, 1962-66, put
too much emphasis on the expansion of infrastructure.  The possibilities of
achieving production increases in the traditional sector were generally
underrated and insufficient funds were allocated to this purpose. In 1967
the Government requested guidance fram the Bank on drafting guidelines for
the second Development Plan nowz under preparation.  A Bank technical assist-
ance mission recoltmeended a basic reorientation designed to raise output in
traditional livestock and crop cultivation, wihere considerable gains could
be expected with comparatively small capital investment.  Concurrently,
most of the investment proposed for transport would be aimed at improved
maintenance and rehabilitation, while in the field of education most of
the effort would be concentrated on qualitative improvement and administrative
reforms. The Government has generally endorsed these rocommendations and
they are being incorporated in the Plan.



21.    To carry out these investments plans the Government- will have
to rely mainly on external financing on concessional terms. Service on
existing external debt is equivalent to about 5 percent of export earnings.
Because of the countryts poverty and correspondingly low public savings,
a further increase in debt service obligations wJould soon create difficult
budgetary problems despite current efforts by the Government to mobilize
additional internal resources.  Mauritania is therefore well qualified
for additional IDA assistance.
PAIZT VI - COMAINLICE TIITH A 7&ICLZS OF AC-PLEZEN\T
22.    I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - PRCOi-IEqlATIOLI
23.    I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. lIcNamara
President
Attachment
Washington,) D.C.
June 4, 1969



