CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 159 MAU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 159 MAU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 26, 1969


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 26, 1969, between the ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association dated January 31, 1969 (said General Condi-
tions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements being
hereinafter called the General Conditions), with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein.
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions have the respective meanings there-
in set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to three million dollars
($3,000,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Credit Account the amount of the
Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in and subject to the rights


﻿4
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and in accordance with the alloca-
tion of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such allocations shall be modified
from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule 1 or by further agreement between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account such amounts as shall have
been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, shall be
required to meet payments to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed under this Development Credit
Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account
shall be made on account of expenditures for: (i) goods
produced in, or services supplied from the territories of
the Borrower and to be financed under Categories I and
II of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement; or (ii) taxes imposed
by the Borrower or any of its political subdivisions on or
in connection with the importation or supply of, goods or
services required for the Project and to be financed under
this Development Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.05. The currency of the French Republic is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount
of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
I


﻿5
SECTION 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and
December 1 commencing December 1, 1979 and ending June
1, 2019, each installment to and including the installment
payable on June 1, 1989 to be one-half of one per cent
(/ of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (11/2%) of such
principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this
Development Credit Agreement to expenditures on the
Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in February 1968, and
in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively in carrying out the Project, and thereafter
for road maintenance works in its territories.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity


﻿6
with sound engineering, administrative and financial prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) In carrying out the Project, the Borrower: (i) shall
employ competent and experienced Consultants acceptable
to the Association to an extent, and under such contracts
and terms of reference, as shall be satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation; and (ii) shall not amend, assign, waive, suspend
or terminate any contract entered into pursuant to this
paragraph so as to substantially affect the carrying out of
the Project, without the prior agreement of the Association.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to
disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the prog-
ress of 'he Project (including the cost thereof) and to re-
flect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices the operations and financial conditions,
in respect of the Project, of the ministries or departments
of the Borrower, including the Directi.n des Travaux
Publics, responsible for the carrying out of the Project
or any part thereof; shall enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to inspect the Project, the goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit, the Project, the goods and services,
and the operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the ministries or departments of the Bor-
rower, including the Direction des Travaux Publics, re-
sponsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part
thereof.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to ensure that the purposes of the


﻿7
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information
shall include information with respect to financial and eco-
nomic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and
the international balance of payments position of the
Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower undertakes to insure the im-
ported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit against marine, transit and other hazards incident
to acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause all its equip-
ment for road maintenance to be adequately maintained
and repaired and shall maintain sufficient and adequate
workshops in suitable places for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the primary highways in-
cluded in its highway system and such other roads as are
included in the Project to be adequately maintained in ac-
cordance with sound engineering practices, and shall pro-
0


﻿8
vide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
SECTION 4.06. The Borrower shall establish and main-
tain facilities adequate to collect and record, in accordance
with appropriate statistical methods and procedures, such
information concerning road traffic, road construction and
maintenance costs as shall be reasonably required for
proper planning of maintenance, improvements and ex-
tensions of its public roads system.
SECTION 4.07. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without dedetion for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.08. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Asso lation, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower, declare the principal
of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable im-
mediately, together with the service charges thereon, and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with
such charges, shall become due and payable immediately,
anything in ±his Development Credit Agreement to the
contrary notwithstanding.


﻿9
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an ad-
ditional condition to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions, namely, that the consultants
referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement have been retained.
SECTION 6.02. The date October 1, 1969 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
SECrIoN 6.03. The Ministre des Finances of the Bor-
rower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.05 and 4.06 of this Agreement shall terminate on
the date on which this Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date 10 years after the date of this De-
velopment Credit Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1974
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Le Ministre de 1'Equipement
Ministere charge de 1'Equipement
Nouakchott
Islamic Republic of Mauritania


﻿10
Cable address:
Miniequipement
Nouakchott
For the Association:
International Development Associatio-
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and.
year first above written.
IsLAMIC REPUBLIC OF MAURITANIA
By /s/ ABDALLAHI OULD DADDAH
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed
Category                           in Dollar Equivalent
I. Procurement of maintenance and
shop equipment                           1,800,000
II. Consultants' advisory services:
salaries, air fares, transport,
office furnishings, reports and
bidding documents                       640,000
III. Subsistence allowances for
Consultants                               160,000
IV. Unallocated                               400,000
Total                              3,000,000
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in the
Categories I, II and III shall decrease, the amount of
the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association
to Categor- IV.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in the
Categories I, II and III shall increase, an amount equal
to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such
Category from Category IV, subject, however, to the
requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of the cost of the items in the
other Categories.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The Project consists of a Four-Year Road Improvement
and Maintenance Program, to be implemented with the
assistance of consultants, providing for:
(a) the purchase of maintenance and shop equipment;
(b) the improvement of the efficiency of maintenance op-
erations; and
(c) the training of personnel at all levels.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30,
1973.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement of Goods
1. With respect to goods included in Category I of the
allocation of proceeds of the Credit set out in Schedule 1
to this Development Credit Agreement, the time interval
referred to in Section 3.1 of the "Guidelines for Procure-
ment under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated
February 1968 (hereinafter referred to as the Guidelines),
between the invitations to bid and bid opening, shall be no
less than sixty days.
2. Prior to inviting bids with respect to items or groups
of items expected to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more,
information concerning the advertising coverage, as well
as the bidding documents and the draft contracts shall be
submitted to the Association for its approval. Such bidding
documents shall state that the bidder must submit sepa-
rately one schedule of unit prices excluding duties and taxes
levied on the import of goods into the territory of the
Borrower, and another schedule of unit prices including
duties and taxes levied on the import of such goods.
3. Before awards of contracts are made with respect to
items or groups of items expected to cost the equivalent
of $10,000 or more, the Borrower shall send to the Associa-
tion for its approval an evaluation of the bids received
and the Borrower's proposals concerning the contract and
the award. The evaluation of bids shall be made on the
basis of c.i.f. landed cost plus all payable duties levied on
the import of goods. All bids must indicate separately the
c.i.f. landed cost and the amount of duties payable. If the
Borrower proposes to award the contract to other than the
bidder offering the lowest evaluated bid, the reasons for
such an exception to Section 3.9 of the Guidelines shall be
stated. One conformed copy of the contract for such goods,
items, or groups of items, shall promptly be sent to the
Association.


﻿14
4. Before placing orders for items or groups of items
expected to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000, the
Borrower shall periodically send to the Association, for
its approval, lists of such items intended to be procured
without resort to competitive bidding, indicating the ex-
pected price of such goods and the intended suppliers
thereof. One conformed copy of the contract for such goods,
items, or groups of items, shall promptly be sent to the
Association.
5. Whenever a contract under the Project is awarded
to a supplier not registered in the Islamic Republic of
Mauritania, the Borrower shall facilitate the accomplish-
ment by such supplier of all regulatory formalities which
may be required to enable it to carry out such contract.


