Report No. PID9582
Project Name                     China-Liao River Basin Project (@)
Region                           East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                           Urban Environment
Project ID                       CNPE51859
Borrower(s)                      PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Implementing Agency
Address LIAONING PROVINCE, AND THE
RESPECTIVE 3 PROJECT CITIES
Liaoning Provincial Government
Address: Liaoning Urban Construction and
Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO)
19 Caita Street, Shenyang, China 110015
Contact Person: Mr. Zhao Xin Liang, Vice
Governor, Liaoning Provincial
Government
Tel: (024) 2384-2898
Fax: (024) 2392-2290
Email: Lucrpoa@pub.sy.lnpta.net,cn
Environment Category             A
Date PID Prepared                updated May 23, 2001, to reflect appraisal &
negotiations
Projected Appraisal Date         March 15, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 21, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The principal sector issue is the rapid deterioration in both surface and
groundwater quality that has occurred throughout China, and in the quality
of the urban environment, as urbanization increases. This has occurred as
a result of (a) inadequate framework for water resources management; (b)
ineffective regulatory control: and (c) financial weakness of municipal
providers of environmental services. Demands for water for industry,
agriculture and domestic use have been steadily increasing, and this has
imposed increasing pressure on water resources, in particular in the areas
of limited resources in the north of China. Quantities of wastewater have
increased rapidly as have the associated pollution loads, since only in
the order of 10 percent of wastewater is treated to comply with discharge
standards, largely a result of ineffective enforcement of environmental
regulations. The discharge of these increasing quantities of inadequately
treated wastewater to rivers with limited dilution and assimilative
capacity has resulted in severe water quality problems. In the latter half
of the 1990s the focus of river basin management in China changed from the
traditional hydraulic approach to that of attaching a greater importance
to environmental protection. Pollution control as part of water resources
management is listed as one of the top priorities in China's tenth
Five-Year Environmental Protection Plan. Among the most significant
features is the attention paid by the highest levels of central government
to the severe environmental degradation in China's major river and lake
basins and the formulation of the priority "Three Rivers, Three Lakes"



environmental program within the overall national environmental strategy,
of which the Liao River is one of the targeted rivers. Fundamental parts
of the overall strategy include the integration of municipal and
industrial wastewater treatment, where appropriate, and the establishment
of efficient wastewater utilities with sound cost recovery, both to ensure
sustained facilities operations and to contribute to capital investment.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the proposed project is to assist the
environmental recovery of the Liao River Basin (LRB) in Liaoning Province
(LP) and to enhance water quality management decision-making on the basis
of an integrated river basin management approach. The objective would be
pursued through (a) provision of facilities for collection and treatment
of wastewater; (b) establishment of competent municipal utilities capable
of managing these facilities; (c) upgrading basin-wide water quality
management, modeling and monitoring capabilities; (d) infrastructure
upgrading; and (e) technical assistance and training.The project water
quality objective is to reduce pollution in the LRB in order to achieve a
minimum of Class V (agricultural water supply or general amenity use)
water quality throughout the basin by 2010. The objective would be
achieved through a combination of measures, including: (a) regulation and
reduction of pollution from industries; (b) priority wastewater treatment
works in all cities in the river basin; (c) improved collection and
disposal of sludge from wastewater treatment plants; (d) protection of
water used for agriculture and aquaculture; (e) measures to improve water
quality in the Bohai Sea; and (f) other initiatives that may include basin
transfers, reduction of overall per capita water demand, the adoption of
water conservation measures (e.g., low-volume water closets), demand
management through economic pricing of water and wastewater, and
restriction of water use for certain activities. Depending on dilution
available in the receiving waters, treated effluent may require treatment
better than Class V, including nitrification.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank brings considerable international experience in terms of
assisting policy formulation and investment program design. Bank
assistance will also draw upon our growing experience in addressing
regional environmental issues through ongoing projects in Liaoning and in
other priority environmental improvement projects in China, including the
cleanup of Dianchi Lake (as part of the Yunnan Environment Project) and
the Huai River Basin, both included in the priority "Three Rivers, Three
Lakes" program.Bank assistance in the project design phase will enable the
basin municipalities to formulate and evaluate a more programmatic
approach to the provision of urban environmental services and to introduce
the principles of integrated river basin management into planning of water
resource and pollution management strategies.
4. Description
Panjin Wastewater Interception & Treatment
Yingkou Industry Wastewater Treatment
Yingkou Wastewater Interception & Treatment
Jincheng Industry Wastewater Treatment
Jinzhou Wastewater Interception & Treatment
Environmental Water Quality Monitoring
-2-



Environment Revolving Fund
Institutional Strengthening and Training
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 203.6
6. Implementation
At the provincial and municipal levels, leading groups have been
established to give policy direction to the environmental recovery of the
LRB. The provincial leading group is headed by the Vice-Governor of the
province; municipal leading groups are headed by mayors or vice mayors.
The leading groups have established project management offices to
coordinate the implementation of their policy decisions. At the provincial
level there are (a) the project office of the Liaoning Integrated
Environmental Program (LIEP) under the Liaoning Environmental Protection
Bureau (LEPB); and (b) the Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project
Office (LUCRPO) under the Liaoning Provincial Construction Commission. In
order to expedite the preparation of the proposed Liao River Basin Project
(LRBP) LPG has brought together LIEP, LUCRPO and the Provincial Water
Conservation Department within the offices of LEPB. Each municipality has
set up a project management office, either within the municipal government
structure or within its designated implementing wastewater agency.The
municipal wastewater components of Jinzhou, Panjin, and Yingkou would be
implemented by the cities' recently created financially autonomous
wastewater companies.. The environmental water quality monitoring
component would be implemented by LEPB through provincial and municipal
monitoring stations. The urban management information system (UMIS)
component would be managed by the Liaoning Provincial Construction
Commission (LCC), in affiliation with the LEPB. The Environment Revolving
Fund would be managed jointly by the LEPB and the Liaoning Finance Bureau
(LFB).Procurement agents yet to be finalized would be retained as the
procurement agencies for all aspects of civil and electrical and
mechanical works requiring bidding through international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures. Construction supervision services and
institutonal and financial strengthening would be provided by
international firms collaborating with joint international/national
supervision teams.Onlending Arrangements: The proposed loan of $100
million would be made to the People's Republic of China. The loan would be
for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans. The proceeds of the
loan would be onlent to LP on the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan to China, including passing on the Front-End Fee and a commitment
charge of 0.75 percent a year. LP would onlend part of the proceeds of the
Bank loan to the municipalities of Jinzhou, Panjin, and Yingkou on the
same terms and conditions as it received from China. The municipalities
would onlend proceeds of the Bank loan to their wastewater companies for
15 years including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate not less than the
Bank's rate to China plus the municipalities' portion of the Front-End Fee
and a commitment charge of 0.75 percent a year. Jinzhou and Yingkou
Municipalities would onlend Bank loan proceeds to their respective paper
mills at not less than the Bank rate to China plus a spread of 1.5 percent
a year, and a commitment charge of 0.75 percent a year. The maturity of
the loans would be up to 10 years including up to 3 years of grace. Under
Liaoning's environmental revolving fund facility LP would onlend to small
- 3 -



and medium-size industries at an interest rate not less than the Bank rate
to China; the maturity of the loans would be for 3 to 5 years, including a
1 to 2-year period of grace. Financial Management: An assessment of
project financial management including an assessment of the relevant
revenue-earning implementing agencies would be carried out during
appraisal, to ensure that the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02 are met. It is anticipated that
traditional disbursement techniques would be used in accordance with an
agreement reached between the Bank and the Ministry of Finance (MOF). To
facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened with an
authorized allocation of $8.0 million, equivalent to the estimated average
expenditures to be financed by the Bank over about a four-month period;
the account would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to the Bank
and be managed by LFB.Auditing Arrangements: As with other Bank
Group-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investment Audit Bureau of
the China National Audit Office (CNAO), established in 1983 under the name
of State Audit Administration, would have overall responsibility for
auditing the accounts of the project. The actual auditing work would be
conducted by the Liaoning Provincial Audit Department under CNAO's
supervision. The Bank currently accepts audits performed under the
responsibility of CNAO. Audits of the project accounts and the financial
statements of implementing agencies and audits of the Special Account
would be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the
financial year. During appraisal, LPG would be requested to confirm that
the audit reports of the implementing agencies would include opinions on
whether the agencies were in compliance with their respective financial
covenants, and whether these agencies had taken out adequate insurance on
goods and works financed from loan proceeds.Monitoring and Evaluation
Arrangements: The project would be supervised through Bank missions
scheduled for twice a year. Headquarters and country office staff would
cooperate in this activity. During implementation, project performance,
including the achievement of project outputs and progress toward the
attainment of development objectives, would be monitored through the use
of semiannual progress reports prepared by the LUCRPO. The first such
monitoring report would be submitted by January 31, 2002, and the last by
July 31, 2007. A mid-term review would be undertaken jointly with LPG in
2004 to evaluate the project's achievements and identify any corrective
measures needed. An Implementation Completion Report, reviewing the
planned objectives and the achievements of the project, including costs
and benefits derived, and performance and contribution of all parties
associated with project execution, would be prepared by LUCRPO and
submitted to the Bank within six months of the project closing date.
7. Sustainability
The project is expected to be sustainable in three respects: (a)
financially; (b) institutionally; and (c) in achieving its development
objectives. Tariff reforms would enhance the financial viability of the
municipal service providers. Institutionally, the creation of financially
autonomous wastewater companies and continued technical assistance for the
participating institutions would strengthen utility management and water
quality monitoring capacity. Finally, the project addresses an issue of
high priority to both the local and the national government: vital
self-interest in achieving environmental conditions necessary for
sustained economic growth, which are a strong motivation to continue
implementing the long-term water resource mamagement and protection
- 4 -



strategy.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Greater Reliance on User Charges. A major finding from the Operations and
Evaluation Department (OED) review of Bank water and sanitation projects
has been a generally good achievement of physical targets but less success
in sustaining the financial viability of municipal service providers.
Preliminary indications from an ongoing OED review of the Bank's China
water supply and wastewater program appear to confirm these findings.
Recent sector work on China ("Urban Environmental Service Management,"
Report No. 13073-CHA) notes the need for greater reliance on user charges,
which are presently levied at unsustainable levels. Hence, tariff reforms
will be a centerpiece of the policy dialogue with the LRB municipalities,
and adjustments of tariff levels are an integral part of the project
design.Timing of Tariff Increases. Previous urban environment projects in
China have frequently encountered difficulties implementing agreed tariff
increases in a timely manner, sometimes delaying project implementation by
six months or more. Tariff increases often represent politically difficult
decisions for local governments, but are critical for the sustainability
of the project. To avoid such delays after loan effectiveness, and to
ensure that changes meet the approval of all relevant authorities, this
project design requires that tariff adjustments be implemented during the
preparation stage, as early as project appraisal.Experience with Pollution
Control in River Basins. Experience with pollution control projects in
river basins, e.g., in Brazil (Guarapiranga/Sao Paulo, Parana, and Minas
Gerais, as well as in an upcoming project in Paraiba du Sul River Basin)
have shown the importance of adequate monitoring and databases, as well as
the need to link the data to investment planning with regard to wastewater
treatment. Support for Institutional Management. The establishment of
financially autonomous utility enterprises to develop and manage urban
services is a long-standing Chinese practice, and avoids many of the
management difficulties of publicly-owned utilities in other countries.
However, wastewater collection and treatment has only recently been given
the same autonomy, generally by absorbing the existing drainage bureaus
and construction management units already active in the sector into
separate enterprises. The prior experience of these bureaus will
undoubtedly allow a smoother transition, but high levels of technical
assistance will be needed to strengthen the new enterprises' financial,
managerial, and technical capacities. Tariffs, charges, and reallocation
of existing taxes and urban construction charges would help ensure
adequate funds for operation and management. The establishment of
financially autonomous utilities prior to project implementation would
allow sufficient time for management and operational issues to be
clarified.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The Liao River Basin is one of the three priority
river basins recognized by China's State Council as requiring urgent
attention to water resource management and quality improvements. The lack
of water resources in the basin means that an integrated approach to water
quality planning will be necessary rather than the previous application of
uniform concentration based standards regardless of the receiving
environment. An environmental assessment (EA) has been carried out for
- 5 -



LRBP. During its preparation and evaluation, national procedures,
including those indicated in the "Circular on Strengthening Environmental
Impact Assessment Management for Construction Projects Financed by
International Financial Organizations (June 1993)" as well as those
required by the Bank Group, were diligently followed. A comprehensive set
of EA documents including an Environmental Assessment Report, an
Environment Management Plan (EMP) and an Executive Summary were prepared;
these were reviewed by the Bank, comments incorporated, and the revised
documents found satisfactory. A detailed annex covering environmental
assessment and impact has been prepared in the Project Appraisal Document
(Annex 12), summarizing the findings of the Chinese EAs prepared for the
various components.Potential Impacts. The environmental impact of the
project is on balance substantially positive and the benefits greatly
outweigh the adverse impacts. The city wastewater treatment components,
particularly those for Shenyang, substantially reduce the pollution loads
to the rivers in the Liao River Basin and make a significant contribution
towards achieving the desired water quality objectives for these
rivers.Mitigation Measures. The EA specified the appropriate mitigation
measures, environmental monitoring plans, institutional arrangements and
training and equipment requirements, together with cost estimates for
implementation of the mitigation measures. Major mitigation measures
include controls on construction practices, careful siting of facilities
with appropriate buffer zones and controls on noise.Public Consultation
and Feedback. During the 12 months leading up to the delivery of the
provincial consolidated EAs and RAPs, many meetings took place with
LUCRPO, city PMOs, utility companies, city EPBs, and other affected city
organizations to discuss the proposed project and the preparation of the
sub-component environmental assessment reports. These meetings took place
monthly at a minimum and resulted in full collaboration of local officials
and community representatives leading to the full support of the project
and the EA process. In addition, the Terms of Reference (TOR) for the EAs,
the Draft EAs and the Final EAs were made available publicly in each of
the project municipalities.Information Disclosure.      Extensive details of
the information disclosure actions taken are set out in the PAD.
Information disclosure has been comprehensive, and is also described in
detail in the Environment Assessment Report. This has been in accordance
with OD 4.01, OD 4.30, and BP 17.5.Social Aspects: The project is
expected to have a significant positive social impact, once the
project-financed clean up of the water and land resources in the Liao
River basin has been completed. Adverse social impacts of the project are
minor in nature, related to land acquisition (some 19 hectare) and
structure demolition required for implementation for the construction of
the wastewater treatment plants, affecting some 125 people. The
construction and rehabilitation of the interceptors would result in the
temporary lease of linear strips of land, including in some instances the
removal of both residential and commercial structures. About 1,375 people
would be affected through removal of residential structures.    154 shops,
vendors and government institutions would be affected of whom 110 are
street vendors.  Altogether about 418 employees would be affected through
relocation or temporary cessation of their commercial operations. The
city project offices carried out resettlement planning. Planning
activities included a census of affected people, the inventory of affected
assets and a sample socioeconomic survey in the directly affected areas
and extensive consultations with the affected groups on the rehabilitation
strategy. As a result, a comprehensive rehabilitation strategy has been
- 6 -



developed for the affected population. No minority issues of concern have
been identified during project preparation; minority groups in Panjin were
consulted and it was concluded that correct proceedures had been
followed.The perception by local communities of project outcomes are
expected to be increasingly positive, as the river clean up is achieved
over the long term. Negative reaction to wastewater tariffs may be
experienced initially by the Municipal governments, but these will in all
likelihood be counterbalanced by the increasingly high priority given by
citizens to the demend for an improved urban environment- during project
preparation there was much anecdotal evidence of the high social value
placed on urban livability, and a hankering for an improved environment.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Geoffrey Read
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 458 4078
Fax: 202 522 1787
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 7 -



