Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21860
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF USS100 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FORA
LIAO RIVER BASIN PROJECT
May 21, 2001
Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange R.ate Effective May 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00 = US$0.12
USSLOO = Y8.3
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- Decernber 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC   Average Incremental Cost             LFD      Liaoning Provincial Finance Department
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy          LIEP    Liaoning Integrated Environment Program
CITC  China International Tendering        I.P      Liaoning Province
Company                           LPG      Liaoning Provincial Government
CNAO China National Audit Office           LRB       Liao River Basin
COD   Chemical Oxygen Demand               LRBP   Liao River Basin Project
DRA   Design Review & Advisory             LUCRPO Liaoning Urban Construction & Renewal Project
(Consultancy)                               Office
EA    Environmental Assessment             MOC    Ministry of Construction
EMP  Environmental Management Plan         MOF    Ministry of Finance
EPB   Environmental Protection Bureau    i NCB    National Competitive Bidding
ERSF  Environment   Revolving   Subloan   NGO    Nongovernmental Organization
Facility                            OED    Operations Evaluation Department
ES    Environment Subloans                 PAP      Project-Affected Persons
EU    European Union                       PDMC   Panjin Municipal Drainage Management Company
FMS  Financial Management System           PMO    Project Management Office
GPN   General Procurement Notice           PRC      People's Republic of China
ICB   International Competitive Bidding    RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
IPCAP Industrial Pollution Control Action  SDPC    State Development and Planning Commission
Plan                                SEPA    State Environmental Protection Agency
IST   Institutional Strengthening & Training   SOE  Statement of Expenditures
JDMC Jinzhou Drainage Management           TOR    Terms of Reference
Company                             UMIS   Urban Management Information System
JPMC  Jincheng Paper Making Company        WTP    Willingness to Pay
LCC   Liaoning Provincial Construction     YDC    Yingkou Drainage Company
Commission                          YPMC   Yingkou Paper Making Company
LCHB Liaoning Cultural Heritage Bureau
LEP   Liaoning Environment Project
LEPB  Liaoning Environmental Protection
Bureau
Vice President:    Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassurn, EAPVP
Country Director:    Mr. Yukon Huang, EACCF
Sector Director:    Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
Task Team Leader:    Mr. Geoffrey Read, EASUR



CHINA
LIAO RIVER BASIN PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  3
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       7
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           13
2. Financial                                                                           14
3. Technical                                                                          15
4. Institutional                                                                       15
5. Environmental                                                                      16
6. Social                                                                             18
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     20
2. Critical risks                                                                     20
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     21



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            21
2. OtherDisbursement condition; Implelentation & Financial covenants                  21
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          23
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    26
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         32
Annex 4: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary                                             38
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               52
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       57
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   73
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  75
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            79
Annex 11: Project Implementation Schedule                                                80
Annex 12: Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Measures Summary                       84
Annex 13: Resettlement                                                                   96
Annex 14: Project Financial Management Review                                            99
MAP(S)
IBRD 31284



CHINA
Liao River Basin Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
EASUR
Date: May 21, 2001                                Team Leader: Geoffrey Read
Country Manager/Director: Yukon Huang             Sector Manager/Director: Keshav Varma
Project ID: P051859                               Sector(s): US - Urban Environment
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Urban
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[X] Loan    [ ] Credit    [ ] Grant    I ] Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 100.0
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                          Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75%                            Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m): Source                               Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       0.00           0.00           0.00
IBRD                                                          34.00          66.00         100.00
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING             84.80           18.80        103.60
COUNTRY
Total:                                                       118.80          84.80         203.60
Borrower: PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
Responsible agency: LIAONING PROVINCE, AND THE RESPECTIVE 3 PROJECT CITIES
Liaoning Provincial Govemment
Address: Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO)
19 Caita Street, Shenyang, China 110015
Contact Person: Mr. Zhao Xin Liang, Vice Govemor, Liaoning Provincial Govemrnent
Tel: (024) 2384-2898               Fax: (024) 2392-2290                Email:
Lucrpoa@pub.sy.lnpta.net,cn
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005       2006       2007       2008
Annual    7.60       31.30      27.60      20.90      9.60       1.70       1.30
Cumulative    7.60      38.90      66.50      87.40      97.00     98.70     100.00
Project implementation period: December 2001 - December 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 11/01/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2007
,CS PAn F . 2Ow



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective of the proposed Liao River Basin Project (LRBP) is to assist the environmental
recovery of the Liao River Basin (LRB) in Liaoning Province (LP) and to enhance water quality
management decision-making on the basis of an integrated river basin management approach. The objective
would be pursued through (a) provision of facilities for collection and treatment of wastewater; (b)
establishment of competent municipal utilities capable of managing these facilities; (c) upgrading
basin-wide water quality management and monitoring capabilities; and (d) technical assistance and
training.
The project represents the first stage of LP's efforts toward meeting its objective with World Bank support.
The main investments would be in (a) two cities and one paper-making company in the lower reaches of
LRB; and (b) one city and one paper-making company in an adjacent river basin close to the Bohai Sea.
The second stage is expected to commence in about a year's time and would focus on Shenyang City,
situated on the Hun River, a tributary of the Liao River. Shenyang would use the intervening time to refine
its wastewater treatment processes and designs, to develop further its urban upgrading proposals, and
arrange financing.
The project water quality objective, taken from the Liao River Basin Plan adopted by the Provincial
Government, is to reduce pollution in the LRB in order to bring quality up to at least a minimum of Class
V (agricultural water supply or general amenity use) water quality throughout the basin by 2010. The
parameter used for tracking water quality is COD (chemical oxygen demand), a standard measure that
synthesizes the scale and impacts of the major industrial and domestic pollutants. The water quality
objective would be achieved through a combination of measures, including: (a) regulation and reduction of
pollution from industries; (b) priority wastewater treatment works in all cities in the river basin; (c)
improved collection and disposal of sludge from wastewater treatment plants; (d) protection of water used
for agriculture and aquaculture; (e) measures to improve water quality in the Bohai Sea; and (f) other
initiatives that may include reduction of overall per capita water demand, the adoption of water
conservation measures and public outreach programs. This project supports many of these measures and is
one of a number of activities in the Basin aimed at achieving water quality improvement, in the context of
overall improved water resource management.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The development objectives of the project would be monitored through key perfomiance indicators in terms
of: (a) improvements in water quality in the LRB; and (b) efficiency of the new urban utilities in providing
wastewater treatrnent and disposal services.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R98-107           Date of latest CAS discussion: 05128/98
CAS Memorandum of April 22, 1999 and Country Program Matrix (FY99-0 1)
Improving the environment, and in particular water quality in the major river basins, is one of the major
focal points of the Bank's strategy in China. Within this overall strategy, the project would contribute to
upgrading water quality in the LRB and help reduce the incidence of red tides in the Bohai Sea.
- 2 -



Specifically, the project would assist in the development of an integrated river basin management approach
to water quality planning and decision-making and provision of wastewater treatment facilities, and in
meeting urban environmental infrastructure needs. It will strengthen and, where necessary, establish new
institutions.
Strategic planning of river basin management has also been identified as a key part of the ongoing
long-term European Union (EU)-funded Liaoning Integrated Environment Program (LIEP) in which a
Water Resources Management component is focusing on the Liao River Basin in Liaoning Province. The
proposed investments arose from the analysis of a prioritized list of interventions and investment projects
identified through the EU-funded program.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The principal sector issue is the rapid deterioration in both surface and groundwater quality that has
occurred throughout China. This has occurred as a result of: (a) an inadequate framework for water
resources management; (b) ineffective regulatory control; (c) rapid and uncontrolled growth in the
industrial and agricultural production sectors, coupled with increased urbanization; and (c) financial
weakness of municipal providers of environmental services.
Demands for water for industry, agriculture and domestic use have been steadily increasing, and this has
imposed increasing pressure on water resources, in particular in the areas of limited resources in the north
of China. At the same time, quantities of wastewater have increased rapidly as have the associated
pollution loads. Less than 10 percent of wastewater flows are treated and comply with discharge standards,
largely a result of ineffective enforcement of environmental regulations. The discharge of these increasing
quantities of inadequately treated wastewater to rivers with limited dilution and assimilative capacity has
resulted in severe water quality problems in many river systems in China.
In the latter half of the 1990s, the focus of river basin management in China changed from the traditional
hydraulic approach to that of attaching a greater importance to environmental protection. Pollution control
as part of water resources management is listed as one of the top priorities in China's tenth Five-Year
Environmental Protection Plan. Among the most significant features is the attention paid by the highest
levels of central government to the severe environmental degradation in China's major river and lake basins
and the formulation of the priority "Three Rivers, Three Lakes" environmental program within the overall
national environmental strategy, of which the Liao River is one of the targeted rivers. Fundamnental
components of the overall strategy for addressing this continuing degradation include the integration of
municipal and industrial wastewater treatment, where appropriate, and the establishment of efficient
wastewater utilities with sound cost recovery, both to ensure sustained facilities operations and to
contribute to capital investment.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The "Three Rivers, Three Lakes" program encompasses six separate environmental protection programs
coordinated by the State Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA); it was conceived in response to a
national outcry over a major pollution incident in the Huai River in 1994. The Liao River was confirmed in
1996 as one of the three river basins to be included in the program. The LRB is located in northeastern
China and lies within the two provinces of Jilin and Liaoning and the autonomous region of Inner
Mongolia. It comprises two separate rivers, the Liao and the Daliao, the latter basin being located entirely
within LP.
-3-



The LRB as a whole is a water-scarce region, with total resources on a per capita basis of only 20 percent
of the national average. The water resources of the LRB are already heavily developed with a number of
dams on the upper tributaries (within LP) and major abstraction of the groundwater resources, which
underlie the central, more urbanized part of the Basin. Much of the water is abstracted for agricultural use
in the fertile areas of the plain adjacent to the cities but the basin, particularly within LP, is also a major
center of industry in northern China and subject to high industrial and urban demands for water. The
problems of water shortage are made significantly worse by the high discharges of urban domestic and
particularly industrial wastewater. As a consequence, a large part of the river system in the Basin within
the Province fails to comply with even the lowest defined (Class V) water quality standard. The poor
quality of water at this level makes it unacceptable for domestic or agricultural use and causes severe
degradation of the natural ecosystems. The close physical interconnections between the rivers and the
groundwater in the central basin result in the pollution impacting the available groundwater, to the extent
that some wellfields are being abandoned. The negative impact of this pollution is felt also in the Bohai
Sea, into which the Liao Basin rivers ultimately discharge, and which is an important fisheries and
aquaculture resource. There are reports of a significant decline in the fishing industry in the Bohai Sea,
likely linked to the pollution load.
In spite of limited water resources in LRB and the increasing impact of pollution on the availability of
resources, initial water demand projections used in project formulation for basin cities showed ambitious
increases in use for domestic and industrial purposes. Those projected levels of water consumption in the
basin are likely to be unsustainable, and a major basin-wide demand management and water conservation
program will be necessary, in addition to the efforts to reduce pollution and the damage that it is causing to
the available resources.
Water Resource Management in the Basin. There are a number of activities under way in the Basin to
address the overall water resource management issues. The issue of integrated river basin management has
been under discussion by Bank and Provincial officials for several years but progress has been slow. A
significant institutional step has been the bringing of groundwater management under the authority of the
Department of Water Conservancy, who have responsibility for surface water. An Aquifer Study is planned
to help better understand the relationship between surface and groundwater and to begin to address the
effects of pollution at this interface. Currently the EU is supporting a Water Resources Management
component as part of the four-year technical assistance under LIEP. This work will develop a Basin
Planning Strategy, outlining an integrated water resources and pollution control plan for the Liao River
within the Province. Preparation of this current project has been coordinated closely with the EU team
(based in the Liaoning Environmental Protection Bureau). The LIEP, which is presently in the first half of
its work plan, will address water use and demand management in the Basin as well as review proposals for
expansion of the water supply system, and this work will inform the development of the wastewater
systems in the Basin. At the same time, it is understood that Liaoning is one of the provinces selected as a
pilot under a national water conservation program, supported by the UK Government Department for
Intemational Development (DflD) which is due to commence shortly.
Management of water demand, across all sectors (agriculture, industry and domestic), is essential for the
long-term development of LP and will impact the scale and costs of the ultimate wastewater system. In the
short to medium term, the scale of wastewater infrastructure required is not sensitive to water usage, since
it is primarily dealing with a backlog or deficiency in the current system. Nevertheless, preparation of the
project has specifically addressed water use and wastewater projections in the project cities. Current
projections are significantly lower than those first offered because they now take into account more realistic
estimates of industrial water use following industry reform and restructuring. In Shenyang, where overall
demand projects are still high, the Water Company has made considerable progress in introducing realistic
-4 -



tariffs and in reducing unaccounted-for-water but the heavy use of "self-supply" by industry from
groundwater is still a concern. The water resource fee currently charged is very low and-offers little
incentive to economize. This is one of the issues being addressed in the EU work.
Wastewater Systems. Liaoning Province comprises 14 municipalities, 8 of which are within LRB. Of
these, only two municipalities currently have functioning wastewater treatment plants, and two further
plants are under construction as part of the Liaoning Environment Project (LEP, Ln. 3781-CHA). The
existing Liao River Basin Plan defines water quality objectives for all river reaches within the basin in LP,
and proposes an ambitious program of reduction of COD loads from all eight municipalities, the aggregate
reduction by 2010 being 77 percent. The project would support priority wastewater treatment investments
in Panjin and Yingkou, providing the maximum environmental benefit (in terms of improvement in water
quality in the basin, evaluated on an integrated river basin management approach) for a given level of
expenditure. The project would also support priority wastewater treatment investments in Jinzhou located
in the Xiaoling River Basin to reduce pollution loads entering the Bohai Sea.
Many municipalities in LRB rely on groundwater for urban water supply. Water supply aquifers are under
threat from overexploitation and also from pollution as a result of inadequately controlled disposal of
municipal and industrial solid wastes. The Liaoning Provincial Government (LPG) recognizes that
additional funding will be necessary in order to finance a range of investments to complement those
included in the proposed project. These would include investments in solid waste management and/or
sludge treatment or disposal facilities, and further urban upgrading. LPG expects to commence preparation
of, and seek funding for, these investment programs after launch of the LRBP and the expectd follow-up
investments in basin clean-up focusing on Shenyang.
The establishment of wastewater companies is a relatively recent innovation in China, and in LP.
Experience with them is limited and mixed. The project would provide technical assistance to LRB
municipalities to determine appropriate tariff levels and user charges. In order to ensure sustainable and
sound wastewater management practice in cities, a central government decree issued in September 1999
stipulated that financially autonomous wastewater enterprises shall be established, and that wastewater
tariffs shall be charged and collected to cover operation and maintenance of sewerage networks and
wastewater treatment plants. This decree, therefore, envisages full cost recovery in principle, although this
might be achieved only over time, commensurate with a progressive and sustained program of tariff
adjustments.
Project investments are designed to assist in meeting the objectives of improvement of water quality in LRB
to Class V standard, and protection of water resources. In the first stage, these objectives would be
achieved through treating all municipal wastewater in LRB, and treating all industrial discharges at source.
The immediate planned investments under the proposed project would concentrate on two cities in two river
catchments within LRB: Daliao River-Yingkou and Liao/Shuangtaizi River-Panjin. In addition, pollution
prevention measures for Jinzhou City and the Jincheng Paper-Making Company on the Xiaoling and Daling
Rivers, respectively, would reduce the pollution load to the Bohai Sea.
Industrial Pollution Control. Without a significant effort to control industrial wastewater pollution,
expected environmental benefits from municipal investments would be marginal. LPG has agreed to
address this issue by: (a) implementing an Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan (IPCAP); and (b)
providing environment subloans to small- and medium-size industries to carry out environmentally focused
subprojects, upgrading in-plant processes, with support from the project. The operating regulations of this
subloan facility, which is similar to the revolving fund facility currently being operated under the ongoing
- 5 -



LEP, are included in the Project File (see Annex 8).
The IPCAP would reduce pollution loads discharged from the key polluting sectors: fertilizer, pulp and
paper, food, chemicals, steel and mining, by means of a program of investments in wastewater treatment
and clean technology, covering process improvements and materials substitution. In the case of pulp/paper
production, the IPCAP would adopt a sector-wide approach based on restructuring and rationalization to
ensure affordability of pollution control and sustainability for the sector. The initial phase of the IPCAP
would involve local investments at 133 large polluting enterprises in the fertilizer, chemicals, paper and
steel sectors. Implementation of the IPCAP would be funded from govemment and industry sources.
Integration with Region-wide Water Resource Management. The establishment of water pollution
control as a fundamental and integral component of water resources management is ranked as one of the
highest priorities in the National Tenth Five-Year Environmental Protection Plan. However, Liaoning
currently lacks analytical tools and management support systems to integrate the water quality and quantity
data from various sources to pennit an integrated basin approach to water quality planning and
decision-making. The project would support the development of a modem geographic information-based
urban management information system (UMIS) for the government and for utilities to project demand for
infrastructure and services, assess their impact on the environment, and monitor trends. This would
complement the current EU-supported technical assistance initiative to develop a water resources
management strategy for the LRB in Liaoning.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Indicative            Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)   Total    (US$M)  financing
Panjin Wastewater Interception &   Pollution Control    39.50     19.4     14.80       14.8
Treatment                          / Waste
Management
Yingkou Industry Wastewater        Pollution Control    17.00      8.3     13.50       13.5
Treatment                          / Waste
Management
Yingkou Wastewater Interception &  Pollution Control    46.30     22.7     21.40       21.4
Treatment                          / Waste
Management
Jincheng Industry Wastewater       Pollution Control    14.00      6.9     10.10       10.1
Treatment                          / Waste
Management
Jinzhou Wastewater Interception &  Pollution Control    32.80     16.1     15.60       15.6
Treatment                          / Waste
Management
Urban Management Information       Urban               6.50        3.2      5.70        5.7
System                             Management
Environmental Quality Monitoring   Other               5.60        2.8      4.90        4.9
Environment
-6 -



Environment Subprojects             Urban               20.00        9.8       9.90        9.9
Environment
Institutional Strengthening and Training  Institutional  3.10        1.5       3.10        3.1
Development
Total Project Costs                  184.80       90.8      99.00       99.0
Interest during construction                  17.80        8.7      0.00        0.0
Front-end fee                      1.00       0.5       1.00        1.0
Total Financing Required                    203.60      100.0    100.00       100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The policy and institutional reforms would concentrate on: (a) integrated river management; (b) utility
enterprise operational and financial efficiency improvements; (c) resource mobilization and cost recovery
measures; (d) underpinning of long-term financial and economic sustainability; and (e) industrial pollution
control reduction through a focused time-bound action plan with respect to pollution, principally from
fertilizer, pulp/paper, food/beverage and mining. The institutional strengthening and training (IST)
component would enhance policies and operational experience in environmental protection and water, and
wastewater management, and emphasize sustainability of services over the economic life of the utilities'
assets. Support for these initiatives has been grouped into a number of main composite packages for the
various executing agencies, covering institutional development, financial management improvement,
construction supervision and training. The component would also support provincial and sector city
agencies, a public outreach program, an aquifer study, future project preparation and other programs of
assistance to be defined.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits: The project would help the Liaoning Provincial Govemment (LPG) to put in place the policies,
institutions, and infrastructure to sustain environmental quality and improve urban services. The proposed
project would generate benefits in terms of improvements in environmental quality, health, municipal
services and institutional capacity:
*   Environmental Benefits: improved ambient water quality in rivers currently highly polluted;
*   Health Benefits: reduced incidence of water pollution-related diseases as a result of improved sewer
systems and reduced surface and groundwater pollution near water intakes;
*   Improved Municipal Services: expanded coverage of wastewater collection, treatment and disposal
for the urban populations of Jinzhou, Panj in and Yingkou;
* Institutional Reforms: strengthened financial and management autonomy would enable utilities to
sustain and expand the provision of essential services for a growing population. Support for
institutional development would ensure the long-term sustainability of the organizations and of the
physical investments.
Target Population: The project targets the urban populations of the principal polluting cities and their
industries in the Liao River Basin within Liaoning Province, specifically Jinzhou, Panjin and Yingkou. The
urban population in these cities is expected to reach 1.7 million by 2010, an increase of about 13.3 percent
over the current level of 1.5 million.
Liaoning is a coastal province in the northeastern part of China and is a key link between China's northeast
economic zone and the Bohai Sea Rim economnic zone. It is also a communications hub, connecting the
- 7 -



Eurasian rail-bridge into Russia with China's northeast, and for the conduct of foreign trade. LP covers an
area of 145,900 square kilometers (km2), with a population of 41 million. It is rich in natural resources
with more than 100 varieties of minerals, including oil and gas. These resources have been exploited with
little regard up to the present on any environmental impact. The water resources within LP have, as a
result, been badly depleted and polluted by the heavy industries that have been established to take
advantage of the proximity of their required raw materials. One of the worst affected areas is the Liao
River Basin, covering 42,000 km2, which is now considered one of the most environmentally polluted in
China. In 1995, the gross annual output of LRB was Y305 billion, representing about 60 percent of LP's
total output. LRB is also a major grain producer, with about 2 million hectares (ha) of land, or 29 percent
of the total basin area, under cultivation. Irrigation for paddy rice is the principal user of surface water
within LP accounting for up to 70 percent of the total water used. Archaeological discoveries have shown
that LP has been occupied by humans for over 5,000 years and is rich in cultural relics.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
At the provincial and municipal levels, leading groups have been established to give policy direction to the
environmental recovery of the LRB. The provincial leading group is headed by the Vice-Govemor of the
province, and municipal leading groups are headed by mayors or vice mayors. The leading groups have
established project management offices to coordinate the implementation of their policy decisions. At the
provincial level there are (a) the project office of the EU-funded LIEP under the Liaoning Environmental
Protection Bureau (LEPB); and (b) the Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office
(LUCRPO) under the Liaoning Provincial Construction Commission. In order to expedite the preparation
of the proposed Liao River Basin Project (LRBP) LPG has brought together LIEP, LUCRPO and the
Provincial Water Conservation Department within the offices of LEPB. Each municipality has set up a
project management office, either within the municipal government structure or within its designated
implementing agency.
The municipal wastewater components of Jinzhou, Panjin and Yingkou would be implemented by the cities'
recently created financially autonomous wastewater companies. The environmental water quality
monitoring component would be implemented by LEPB through provincial and municipal monitoring
stations. The urban management information system (IMS) component would be managed by the
Liaoning Provincial Construction Commission (LCC), in affiliation with LEPB. The Environment
Subprojects (ES) component would be managed jointly by LEPB and the Liaoning Finance Bureau (LFB).
LUCRPO would be responsible for coordinating the Institutional Strengthening and Training (IST)
component.
The China International Tendering Company (CITC) and the Shenyang Tendering Center has been retained
as procurement agents for all aspects of civil and electrical and mechanical works requiring bidding
through international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Institutional and financial strengthening and
construction supervision services would be provided by international firms using joint international/national
supervision teams.
Onlending Arrangements: The proposed loan of $100 million would be made to the People's Republic of
China. The loan would be for 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's standard interest rate for
LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans. The proceeds of the loan would be onlent to LP on the same
terms and conditions as the Bank loan to China, including passing on the front-end fee and a commitment
charge of 0.75 percent a year. LP would onlend part of the proceeds of the Bank loan to the municipalities
of Jinzhou, Panjin and Yingkou on the same terms and conditions as it received from China. The
municipalities would onlend proceeds of the Bank loan to their wastewater companies for 15 years
- 8 -



including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate not less than the Bank's rate to China plus the municipalities'
portion of the front-end fee and a commitment charge of 0.75 percent a year. This onlending rate is
considered appropriate, considering that the companies are new and inexperienced; these arrangements are
also consistent with other Bank Group-supported sector projects. Jinzhou and Yingkou Municipalities
would onlend Bank loan proceeds to their respective paper-making companies at not less than the Bank rate
to China plus a spread of 1.5 percent a year, and a commitment charge of 0.75 percent a year. The
maturity of the loans would be up to 10 years including up to 4 years of grace. Liaoning would use part of
the loan proceeds to onlend to small and medium-size industries at an interest rate not less than the Bank
rate to China; this rate is considered appropriate for environment investments which have high social or
public good benefits. The maturity of the subloans would be for 3 to 5 years, including a I to 2-year period
of grace. Repayments of subloans would be deposited into Liaoning's existing Enviromnental Revolving
Subloan Facility (ERSF) for future onlending for subprojects.
Financial Management: An assessment of project financial management including an assessment of the
relevant revenue-earning implementing agencies was carried out during appraisal, to ensure that the Bank's
minimum financial management requirements as stipulated in OP/BP 10.02 are met. Traditional
disbursement techniques would be used in accordance with an agreement reached between the Bank and the
Ministry of Finance (MOF). To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account would be opened with an
authorized allocation of $8.0 million, equivalent to the estimated average expenditures to be financed by the
Bank over about a four-month period. The account would be opened in US dollars in a bank acceptable to
the Bank and be managed by the Liaoning Finance Department (LFD).
Auditing Arrangements: As with other Bank Group-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investment
Audit Bureau of the China National Audit Office (CNAO), established in 1983 under the name of State
Audit Administration, would have overall responsibility for auditing the accounts of the project. The actual
auditing work would be conducted by the Liaoning Provincial Audit Department under CNAO's
supervision. The Bank currently accepts audits performed under the responsibility of CNAO. Audits of the
project accounts and the financial statements of implementing agencies and audits of the Special Account
and statements of expenditures (SOEs) would be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of
the financial year. During appraisal, LPG confirmed that the audit reports of the implementing agencies
would include opinions on whether the agencies were in compliance with their respective financial
covenants, and whether these agencies had taken out adequate insurance on goods and works financed from
loan proceeds.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The project would be supervised through Bank missions
scheduled for twice a year. Headquarters and country office staff would cooperate in this activity. During
implementation, project performance, including the achievement of project outputs and progress toward the
attainment of development objectives, would be monitored through the use of semiannual progress reports
prepared by the LUCRPO. The first such monitoring report would be submitted by January 31, 2002, and
the last by July 31, 2007. A mid-term review would be undertaken jointly with LPG in 2004 to evaluate the
project's achievements and identify any corrective measures necessary. An implementation completion
report, reviewing the planned objectives and the achievements of the project, including costs and benefits
derived, and performance and contribution of all parties associated with project execution, would be
prepared by LUCRPO and submitted to the Bank within six months of the loan closing date.
-9-



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
A management plan has been prepared for each administrative area in LRB, initially at a municipal level
and combined into a provincial plan formning the basis of the "Liao River Basin Water Pollution Prevention
under the "Ninth Five-Year Plan" and Planning for the Year 2010". This was approved by the State
Council in 1999 and forms the basis of the current and ongoing work of the authorities in the basin. The
four stated principles that underlie the planning are: sustainable development; water resource protection;
total load control of pollutants; and priority to major polluting sources.
The focus of the plan, however, is specifically directed at the reduction of COD loads by means of the
control of urban and industrial wastewater discharges. The details of the load reductions required in the
plan were determined by distributing the overall load reduction required between the basin municipalities.
These allocated load reductions were then further distributed by the municipalities between specific
industries and urban wastewater discharges to generate a list of projects for implementation under the plan.
Water quality objectives for river catchments within LRB have been specified, as have program targets
covering the period 2000-10. The linkages between the load reductions and the water quality objectives
have been modeled, and the pollutant load reductions calculated using simple linear techniques. In view of
the limited dilution available in LRB, it will be necessary in the future for wastewater treatment to include
also the removal of ammonia. Moreover, the plan considers only point source loads of a single pollutant,
whereas other pollutants may be significant, as also may be discharges from sources not as yet considered,
such as agricultural runoff, air pollution fall-out and wastewater discharges from small-scale industry.
Considering the seriousness of the water resource pollution, and the outcome of the modeling, it was
considered optional for this stage to concentrate on the highest impact municipal systems, adopting a
"worst first" approach (see Annex 12, which sets out the detailed impacts); further, to meet China's project
and loan processing goals, MOF advised that it would be optimal to implement the basin plan in stages, the
first of which would have World Bank support, focusing on 3 cities, Jinzhou, Panjin and Yingkou. A
follow-on stage which would be important for LRB clean-up is planned by Liaoning focusing on Shenyang.
The plan at this time considers quality in the surface waters of LRB. However, many cities and towns rely
upon groundwater for urban supply, and, therefore, protection of groundwater quality is critical. A basin
plan should therefore also consider the need for groundwater protection, including the possible need to
improve standards of disposal of municipal solid wastes and the control of hazardous wastes from industry.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue            ]          Project                   (PSR) Ratings
___________________________________    __________________________ _  0(Bank-financed   projects  only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                      Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Urban Environment: Water,           Yunnan Environment Project          S             S
wastewater, sanitation, solid waste,    (Ln 4055/Cr 2892-CHA)
industrial pollution
- 10-



Urban Environment: Water,        Guangxi Urban Environment         S             S
wastewater, sanitation, solid waste,    Project (Ln 4348/Cr
industrial pollution             3097-CHA)
Urban Environment: Wastewater &  Second Shanghai Sewerage         HS            HS
tariff reform policy             Project (Ln 3987-CHA)
Urban Environment: Water,        Shandong Environment Project      S             S
wastewater, district heating, industrial (Ln 4237-CHA)
pollution
Urban Environment: Water,        Shanghai Environment Project     HS            HS
wastewater, solid waste, pollution  (Ln 371 1-CHA)
mitigation
Urban Environment: Water,        Sichuan Urban Environment         S             S
wastewater, sanitation, solid waste,    Project (Ln 4496/Cr
industrial pollution             3251-CHA)
Urban Environment: Water,        Chongqing Urban Environment       S             S
wastewater, solid waste           Project (Ln 4561-CHIA)
Urban Environment: Water,        Hebei Urban Environment           S             S
wastewater, industrial pollution  Project (Ln 4569-CHA)
Urban Environment: Industrial    Chongqing Industrial Pollution    S             S
pollution management and control  Control & Reform Project (Ln
4045-CHA)
Urban Environment: Water,         Liaoning Environment Project     S             S
wastewater, solid waste, industrial  (Ln 378 1-CHA)
pollution, environmental rehabilitation
and reconstruction, Environment
Revolving Subloans
River Basin Pollution Control:    Huai River Pollution Control
Wastewater, industrial pollution in two Project (Ln 4597-CHA)
provinces
Other development agencies
The Asian Development Bank (ADB)  Reported to have been generally
has supported a range of investment   successful investment
programs in the urban sector of China, programs. Expansion of ADB
mainly supporting urban environmental support to the urban sector is
services, in provinces that do not  under way.
overlap with World Bank-supported
programs.
Bilateral support from a number of    These investments have
sources, including KfW and the    generally been successfully
Governments of Austria, Australia,    implemented, though attention
Finland and Denmark, has financed    has not been paid to
equipment for urban water supply,    institutional and financial
wastewater and industrial waste   matters. Finance has been
treatment plants.                 available mainly to support
equipment sourced
(restrictively) from the lending
country. -i



The Department for International   Performance has been reported
Development--DFID (of the United    to be satisfactory.
Kingdom) has focused support on
institutional and financial development
needs of urban utilities, and on broad
aspects of environmental management.
The Government of Japan remains a    Performance is reported to be
major source of international finance   satisfactory. Financial policies
for equipment for urban water supply,  and conditionality are not
wastewater and industrial waste    developed, however.
treatmnent plants.
IP/D0 Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Greater Reliance on User Charges. A major finding from the Operations and Evaluation Department
(OED) review of Bank water and sanitation projects has been a generally good achievement of physical
targets but less success in sustaining the financial viability of municipal service providers. Preliminary
indications from an ongoing OED review of the Banks China water supply and wastewater program
appear to confirm these findings. Recent sector work on China ("Urban Environmental Service
Management," Report No. 13073-CHA) notes the need for greater reliance on user charges, which are
presently levied at unsustainable levels. Hence, tariff reforms will be a centerpiece of the policy dialogue
with the LRB municipalities, and adjustments of tariff levels are an integral part of the project design.
Timing of Tariff Increases. Previous urban environment projects in China have frequently encountered
difficulties implementing agreed tariff increases in a timely manner, sometimes delaying project
implementation by six months or more. Tariff increases often represent politically difficult decisions for
local governments, but are critical for the sustainability of the project. To avoid such delays after loan
effectiveness, and to ensure that changes meet the approval of all relevant authorities, this project design
requires that tariff adjustments be implemented during the preparation stage, as early as project appraisal.
These tariff adjustments were implemented prior to appraisal.
Experience with Pollution Control in River Basins. Experience with pollution control projects in river
basins, e.g., in Brazil (Guarapiranga/Sao Paulo, Parana, and Minas Gerais, as well as in an upcoming
project in Paraiba du Sul River Basin) has shown the importance of adequate monitoring and databases, as
well as the need to link the data to investment planning with regard to wastewater treatment. The project
includes an environmental water quality monitoring component to adequately monitor river water quality.
Further, the urban management information systems component would address the issue of linking the data
to urban investment planning with regard to wastewater treatment and environmnental management.
Support for Institutional Management. The establishment of financially autonomous utility enterprises
to develop and manage urban services is a long-standing Chinese practice, and avoids many of the
management difficulties of publicly owned utilities in other countries. However, wastewater collection and
treatment have only recently been given the same autonomy, generally by absorbing the existing drainage
bureaus and construction management units already active in the sector into separate enterprises. The prior
experience of these bureaus will undoubtedly allow a smoother transition, but high levels of technical
assistance will be needed to strengthen the new enterprises' financial, managerial, and technical capacities.
Tariffs, charges, and reallocation of existing taxes and urban construction charges would help ensure
- 12 -



adequate funds for operation and management. The establishment of financially autonomous utilities prior
to project implementation has provided additional time for management and operational issues to be
clarified. During project formulation and preparation, detailed analyses of institutional strengthening and
training (IST) needs were undertaken; this led to the design of a comprehensive IST component to be
included in the project that would assist the project utilities address the challenges described above.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The high-level commitment to the project is evidenced by the inclusion of the Liao River within the priority
"Three Rivers, Three Lakes" program. Provincial and municipal commitment to the project is demonstrated
by the formation of dedicated project offices and the identification of candidate projects within an overall
plan framework and commitments in writing to implement the long-terrn Liao River Basin clean-up
program. Liaoning has substantial experience in implementing Bank-financed projects.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank brings considerable international experience in terms of assisting in policy formulation and
investment program design. Bank assistance will also draw upon our growing experience in addressing
regional environmental issues through ongoing projects in Liaoning and in other priority environmental
improvemnent projects in China, including the cleanup of Dianchi Lake (as part of the Yunnan Environment
Project) and the Huai River Basin, both included in the priority "Three Rivers, Three Lakes" prograrn.
Bank assistance in the project design phase has enabled the basin municipalities to formulate and evaluate a
more programmatic approach to the provision of urban environmental services and to introduce the
principles of integrated river basin management into planning of water resource and pollution management
strategies.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV-US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
X Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The project will provide economic benefits to the Liao River Basin area by improving the quality of surface
and groundwater and thus protecting a range of activities which rely on the water in the Basin. LUCRPO
has made estimates of the economic benefits of the project and its components, based on identification of
avoided costs, productivity improvements and health benefits. These estimates suggest considerable
benefits but the uncertainties in the estimates are such that an ERR for the project cannot be estimated with
confidence.
The pollution loads are large in relation to flows in the basin and are degrading existing water sources.
Consequently, reductions in pollution will have benefits in terms of postponing new water supply
investments. Estimates have been made of the marginal costs of new water supply but it is not yet possible
to define a relationship between pollution reduction and delay in water supply expansion and so the
economic value of the pollution reduction cannot be valued on this basis. (The impacts of price increases
and other demand management measures have been included in the design of individual schemes but these
measures do not avoid the need for large scale wastewater treatment to protect existing resources.)
The investmnents are therefore evaluated on a cost-effectiveness basis, using an average incremental cost
(AIC) approach, and compared with each other and with comparable figures for other schemes in China.
- 13-



The key parameter for water quality in the Liao is COD which can be both a measure of loads of pollution
(as tons of COD) and a measure of ambient quality (as concentration in the river). In the. long term,
achievement of the water quality goals will be measured by reductions in COD concentrations (since this is
basis of formal classification) but since very large reductions in COD loads are required to achieve this,
pollution management efforts at this stage are focused on load reduction. Cost effectiveness of COD
pollution load reduction (either by prevention or by treatment) is therefore the key parameter in comparing
approaches and individual projects. There are various industrial interventions that could achieve COD
reduction at relatively low cost and the AIC for COD removal is one of the criteria for support of any
industrial interventions. However, industrial pollution load reduction alone would not be sufficient to
achieve the target quality improvements and it certainly could not be implemented in a reasonable period so
that municipal treatment is also required. The estimated AICs for the municipal schemes proposed are
comparable with each other and with figures from other schemes, indicating that they are consistent with
good practice.
Results from an affordability and willingness to pay study analysis for urban environmental services show
generally low elasticity for different levels of tariffs and household income, indicating the need for a
concerted campaign of awareness raising and education about water use and wastewater treatment. The
proposed tariffs appear affordable to the population, on the basis of these analyses.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The base cost estimates of the project reflect preliminary engineering designs and price levels prevailing in
March 2001. The unit prices were derived from the following sources: (a) quotations obtained from
manufacturers and suppliers; (b) prices of goods and works from recent contracts; and (c) construction
costs according to prices published by the Central and Liaoning governments, all adjusted for inflation.
Physical contingencies have been applied to civil works base costs at the rate of 15 percent, and to other
costs at the rate of 10 percent. Construction supervision services costs, estimated at 2.5 percent of the civil
works and I percent of the materials and equipment costs of the wastewater component have been included
in the project cost estimates. Project management and engineering overhead costs of 10 percent are also
included. Price contingencies have been applied to expenditures at projected global foreign and local
inflation rates, as follows: local: 2 percent in 2001 and 3 percent thereafter; foreign: 3.6 percent in 2001,
3.7 percent in 2002, 2.6 percent in 2003 and 2.2 percent thereafter. The dollar/yuan exchange rate has been
assumed to vary in order to maintain purchasing power parity.
The financial objectives set by LPG for its wastewater utility companies are to achieve at least full cost
recovery on their operations. The tariff adjustments necessary to meet these financial objectives were
executed prior to appraisal. Financial projections have been completed for each utility company indicating
the levels of tariffs required annually to meet the stated objectives. However, in practice, wastewater
companies' tariffs are adjusted only every two or three years, taking into account the tariff requirements of
other utilities, e.g., water, power, gas and telephone. It is possible, therefore, that in the intervening years
between tariff adjustments, the agencies may not be able to meet their annual targets. In such eventualities,
the agencies' operating revenues would need to be supplemented from the general revenues of the parent
municipality in order to remain financially viable.
Paper-Making Companies. Financial assessments of the industrial wastewater treatment investments
proposed for the Jincheng Paper-Making Company (JPMC) and Yingkou Paper-Making Company
(YPMC) were carried out on the basis of the financial soundness (as measured by minimum thresholds for
debt service coverage ratio, current ratio and quick ratio) of their operations. The companies are forecast to
be able to maintain adequate current and quick ratios and a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.4
- 14 -



during the projection period. Copies of the financial projections of JPMC and YPMC are included in the
Project File (Annex 8).
Fiscal Impact:
Liaoning Province's on- and off-budget receipts and expenditures in 2000 both totaled about Y73 billion
($8.8 billion equivalent). Jinzhou, Panjin and Yingkou's on- and off-budget receipts and expenditures in
2000 totaled about Y2.4 billion, YI.7 billion and Y2.4 billion, respectively. Provincial receipts and
expenditures are projected to grow at about 3 percent per year in current terms; municipal receipts and
expenditures are projected to grow at about 5.5 percent per year in current terms. LP expects to pass on
about 74 percent of the Bank loan proceeds to the municipalities and their subborrowers. Should the cities
and their subborrowers be unable to fulfill their obligations, LP would have no difficulty in covering debt
service through its own resources as the debt services represented by the project is small compared to total
provincial receipts. LP would provide all funding not met by (a) the proceeds of the Bank loan; (b)
municipal contributions; and (c) funds generated intemally by the implementing agencies. LFD has
independently assessed the municipalities' ability to generate their required counterpart funds from assured
sources and found these satisfactory.
3. Technical:
The proposed physical investments were designed by first-class Chinese design institutes, taking into
account the latest Ministry of Construction (MOC) design standards. The engineering designs and bid
documents were reviewed by intemational consultants and found to be satisfactory. The technologies
involved are proven and within the capability of Chinese contractors and manufacturers if successful in
winning bids.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The self-funding, self-accounting state-owned wastewater companies of Jinzhou, Panjin and Yingkou were
established during project preparation; this represents a major step in utility reform, consistent with stated
national policy. The staff of these companies were transfered from the existing municipal engineering
administration departments responsible for sewerage and drainage services. Therefore, while the
wastewater companies would start with operational experience, they as yet lack a "corporate" culture. They
would therefore benefit from technical assistance to be provided under the project to help them improve, as
necessary, their business planning, financial management and operational skills, again stressing the positive
steps taken and planned in utility reform and underpinning tangible moves to market pricing.
4.2 -Project management:
LUCRPO, working closely with LEPB, LIEP other interested agencies and its Design Review and
Advisory (DRA) consultants, has arranged for project preparation work to be completed to the satisfaction
of LPG and the Bank. LUCRPO will be strengthened and the personnel mix adjusted to reflect the needs of
the implementation and construction phases of the project. Each city has formed, budgeted and staffed a
project management office (PMO), which has been involved throughout project formulation and
preparation. It is expected that these PMOs, with support from LUCRPO, would significantly enhance
project launch and subsequent implementation.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The Procurement Capacity Assessment (see Project File, Annex 8) found no concerns of substance.
- 15-



Attention would be given to procurement matters listed in its Action Plan during project supervision,
building on the experience of Liaoning as an existing borrower from the World Bank Group.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The task team conducted a financial management assessment of the adequacy of the financial management
arrangements of the Liao River Basin Project (the project). The information presented in Annex 14, more
fully describes the financial management arrangements for financial management.
The Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO) has overall responsibility for the
preparation, training and implementation of the Project. The Project implementation will be undertaken at
the municipal level. The Project will use "Accounting Sandards for State-owned, Infrastructure-oriented
Projects" during the initial construction stage and switch to "Accounting Standards for Industrial
Enterprises" afterwards. In terms of disbursements, the Project will be producing project financial
management reports in line with the format and content agreed to between the Bank and the Government. In
addition, traditional disbursement techniques will be used as opposed to the PMR-based disbursement.
In line with other Bank-funded projects in China, the Project will be audited in accordance with
Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China. The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau
of the China National Audit Office (CNAO) will have the overall responsibility for auditing the project
accounts and the required entity financial statements. Liaoning Provincial Audit Bureau has been identified
as the auditors for the Project. Auditors' reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the
end of each reporting year, with separate opinions on the statement of expenditures and on the special
account. There is no noncompliance with audit covenants for existing Bank-financed projects in Liaoning,
though the auditors raised a few issues relating to Jinzhou Water Supply Company which is not a project
implementing agency for the Project (section 8 of Annex 14).
There is clearly a risk that tariffs collected by the water supply companies may not be fully turned over to
the wastewater companies, who are ultimately responsible for the repayment of the Bank loan. This risk
could be mitigated if ring-fenced controls are established to safeguard the interests of the wastewater
companies. Please refer to section 8 of Annex 14 for further discussion.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The Liao River Basin is one of the three priority river basins in China for water quality improvement. The
general lack of water resources in the basin means that an integrated approach to water quality planning
wilf be necessary rather than the previous application of uniformn concentration based standards regardless
of the receiving environment.
An environmental assessment (EA) has been carried out for LRBP. During its preparation and evaluation,
national procedures, including those indicated in the "Circular on Strengthening Environmental Impact
Assessment Management for Construction Projects Financed by Intemational Financial Organizations
(June 1993)" as well as those required by the Bank Group, were diligently followed. The Comprehensive
EA documents such as Environmental Assessment Report and Executive Summary were prepared,
incorporating Bank conmments. The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is an integral part of the EA.
A detailed annex covering environmental assessment and impact has been prepared (Annex 12),
summarizing the findings of the Chinese EAs on the various components.
- 16-



Potential Impacts. The environmental impact of the project, is on balance, substantially positive and the
benefits greatly outweigh the adverse impacts. The city wastewater treatment components substantially
reduce the pollution loads to the rivers in the Liao River Basin and make a significant contribution towards
achieving the desired water quality objectives for these rivers.
Mitigation Measures. The EA specified the appropriate mitigation measures, environmental monitoring
plans, institutional arrangements and training and equipment requirements, together with cost estimates for
implementation of the mitigation measures. Major mitigation measures include controls on construction
practices, careful siting of facilities with appropriate buffer zones and controls on noise.
Public Consultation and Feedback. During the 12 months leading up to the delivery of the provincial
consolidated EAs and RAPs, many meetings took place with LUCRPO, city PMOs, utility companies, city
EPBs, and other affected city organizations to discuss the proposed project and the preparation of the
subcomponent environmental assessment reports. These meetings took place monthly at a minimum and
resulted in the full collaboration of local officials and community representatives leading to the full support
of the project and the EA process. In addition, the Terms of Reference (TOR) for the EAs, the draft EAs
and the final EAs were made available publicly in each of the project municipalities.
Information Disclosure. The EA was reviewed during January 2001, and found to be satisfactory, and
sent to the Infoshop on January 25, 2001. The EA was approved by the Provincial authorities in late 2000,
and approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) in March 2001.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Under the EMP, an environmental protection management system has been established for the purpose of
implementing existing laws and regulations in each of the municipalities, with contractors and the utility
companies being responsible for carrying out environmental management and monitoring activities during
construction and during plant operations respectively. Information gathered will be made available to
LEPB and the municipal EPBs, as well as to the public. An Annual Safeguard Compliance Report will
summarize the previous year's environmental and social indicator data. The EMP is assessed to be
appropriate for the project.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: December 2000
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Consultation was carried out in three ways: bulletins to the press, public opinion questionnaires and
surveys. LUCRPO published detailed environment and project infornation in the following newspapers:
Jinzhou Evening, Panjin Daily and Yingkou Daily. Surveys were undertaken of the public, the
project-affected people; willingness-to-pay surveys wee also conducted. Further, a public opinion survey
was carried out in the project cities, seeking stakeholders' opinions, and sirnultaneously informing them
about the project, its benefits and implications. (See Annex 12 which also contains details of the public
consultations).
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Besides regular environmental reviews to be carried out during supervision missions, the Annual Safeguard
Compliance Report (see Section 5.2) will provide a year-by-year snapshot of progress on the environmental
- 17 -



front. Project monitoring indicators (see Annex 1) will systematically measure the environmental impact of
the project.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project is expected to have a significant positive social impact, once the project-financed clean-up of
the water and land resources in the Liao River Basin has been completed. Adverse social impacts of the
project are largely related to land acquisition and structure demolition required for implementation. The
project would require the acquisition of 18.7 hectares of land for the construction of the wastewater
treatment plants, affecting about 175 people. The construction and rehabilitation of the interceptors would
result in the temporary lease of a large amount of land, including the removal of both residential and
commercial structures. About 1,375 people would be affected through removal of residential structures. A
total of 154 shops, vendors and government institutions would be affected, of which 110 are street vendors.
Altogether about 418 employees would be affected through relocation or temporary cessation of their
commercial operations. There are no land acquisition requirements or resettlement for the two
paper-making companies.
With assistance from the project consultants, the city project offices carried out resettlement planning.
Planning activities included a census of affected people, an inventory of affected assets, a sample
socioeconomic survey in the directly affected areas and extensive consultations with the affected groups on
the resettlement strategy. As a result, a multiprong resettlement strategy has been developed for the affected
population.
For farmers who lose farmland to the wastewater treatment plants, the livelihood rehabilitation strategy is
land- and agriculture-based. All affected farmers would be allocated farmland within the village, and land
compensation funds would be paid to the village and used collectively in the villages for agriculture and
sideline development.
For people losing houses, two options are planned, i.e., cash compensation and replacement housing. Urban
residents could choose to find and buy their own replacement housing with the cash compensation. For
those who do not want to find and buy their own replacement housing, the project would provide ownership
of a replacement housing unit in government-built apartments. For relocating rural residents, the project
would provide compensation at replacement cost with no depreciation, and any salvageable materials would
belong to the affected residents. They would receive alternative housing plots within their villages to build
replacement housing.
Most of the shops, vendors and institutions would be affected temporarily during the construction of the
interceptors and would resume business after the construction. Compensation would be paid for business
loss and the employees' salary during the construction period. A few government agencies and shops would
require relocation and new sites have been planned for them. The project would also impact some public
infrastructure. Compensation at replacement cost would be paid to the relevant government agencies to
restore the affected infrastructure and services.
On the basis of these, a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) was prepared for each of the three project cities in
line with local laws and World Bank OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement. The RAPs contain the details
of (a) the census, (b) inventory, (c) the socioeconomic survey, (d) the legal framework and resettlement
principles, (e) organization, (f) grievance mechanism, (g) implementation schedule, (h) budget and (i)
monitoring arrangements.
- 18-



The proposed investments in Panjin City would affect some ethnic minority households as defined by the
government. A survey to identify ethnic minority groups found that, of the 1,354 relocating population in
the city, 208 people belong to officially defined ethnic minority groups, including 83 Manchurian, 121
Korean and 4 Mongolian persons. The survey and interviews found that all the affected persons were urban
residents, scattered throughout the project area, and the project would not have specific impact on ethnic
minority communities. Project information was disseminated among them during the consultation sessions.
Their feedback has been incorporated into the RAPs and the consultation session concluded that the
resettlement and rehabilitation measures planned under the RAPs, would be adequate to address and
mitigate any project impact on such ethnic minority groups.
Environment subloans would be made available under the project. The specific investment subprojects
would be selected during the course of implementation, drawn from the existing candidate list. A
resettlement policy framework has been developed for application in the event an environment subproject
necessitates loss of land or assets.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The major beneficiaries would be the majority of the population of the cities of Jinzhou, Panjin and
Yingkou, who would enjoy a cleaner environment through wastewater collection, treatment and disposal.
The implementing agencies would also benefit through the IST incorporated into the project. The cities
would benefit, overall, through benefits emanating from improved city management, and from the
implementation of cost-effective tariffs and charges for these services.
All the affected households and communities have been identified through the census and inventory. Project
information was provided to the affected population through newspapers, posters and public meetings.
Focus group discussions and key informant interviews have been extensively conducted with local
government officials and the affected communities to (a) further disseminate project information, (b) collect
people's concems and suggestions, and (c) consult the affected people over the resettlement and
rehabilitation strategy.
Information dissemination and consultation are designed to continue into implementation. A resettlement
information booklet would be distributed to the affected people prior to resettlement implementation. Both
internal and independent monitoring of the resettlement program would be conducted regularly during
project implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
A number of meetings took place between project proponents and representatives of local communities to
solicit views and concerns. In the absence of local nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) in China, the
interests of most communities are represented by both elected and appointed representatives. The entire
process of resettlement planning has been participatory. Census and socioeconomic surveys were conducted
with the full participation of the affected persons. The National Resettlement Research Center has been
contracted as the independent monitor for the implementation of the resettlement program. Annex 12
contains details of public consultations.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Financially autonomous consumer/beneficiary-oriented entities have been formed that would, in line with
current China policy, be responsible for project implementation and urban service delivery. This would
- 19-



enable a strong customer orientation, since consumers would be in direct contact with the service provider
due to the regular payment of tariffs. Resettlement offices have been set up to implement the resettlement
programs. The institutional arrangements are detailed in the RAP.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in tenns of social development outcomes?
Wastewater services improvement and river water quality would be regularly monitored, and reported
through the project progress reporting arrangements. A public outreach program to be undertaken through
the EU-funded Liaoning Integrated Environment Program (LIEP) has been designed. The outreach program
will conduct annual surveys to monitor performance in terms of social impacts. The project also includes
investments for water quality monitoring. See Annex 12.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
[  : ff   jif :    Sti;00  0Pok#.iffu::ia;j:A :  t00X000TiT i0000:::  i;   :j O olicability t    i
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              * Yes 0 No
Satural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                      0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.3a  W                                     0 Yes 0 No
Pes Maaeet O409)                                                 0Yes 0No
|Cultural Proert   P  11.03)                     =                     Yes *9 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20                                     * Yes O No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                * Yes O No
|Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 437)jLj 0X   Yes *D No
|Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50_GP 750         O Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Compliance would be monitored during routine supervision and the Annual Safeguard Compliance Report
would provide full details annually.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is expected to be sustainable in three respects: (a) financially; (b) institutionally; and (c) in
achieving its development objectives. Tariff reforms would enhance the financial viability of the municipal
service providers. Institutionally, the creation of financially autonomous wastewater companies and
continued technical assistance for the participating institutions would strengthen utility management and
water quality monitoring capacity. Finally, the project addresses an issue of high priority to -both the local
and the national government: vital self-interest in achieving environmental conditions necessary for
sustained economic growth, which are a strong motivation to continue implementing the long-term water
resource strategy.
- 20 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk    _                 Risk Rating               Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Complementary pollution reduction in            M         Monitoring and resource management
industry and agriculture delayed                           information system that clearly tracks sources of
pollution and nonattainment of quality targets
Pollution abatement action plan incorporated
into the project
From Components to Outputs
Autonomy of wastewater organizations            M          Companies created before appraisal
Financial sustainability of wastewater          M          Tariffs established, implemented and
services                                                   covenanted; financial performance to be core
activity of project supervision
Overall Risk Rating                             M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Public reaction to wastewater tariff increases to maintain the financial viability of the wastewater
companies.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   Execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the project municipalities (Jinzhou, Panjin and Yingkou)
and their wastewater companies, satisfactory to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Disbursement condition:
* The signing of contracts with consultant firms for (a) institutional and financial technical assistance, and (b)
construction supervision services and quality control, as a condition of disbursement of the civil works
category;
*   The adoption of an Operational Manual acceptable to the Bank for environmental subloans as a condition of
disbursement of this category; and
*   The execution of subsidiary loan agreements between Jinzhou and Yingkou and their paper-making
companies, satisfactory to the Bank, as a condition of disbursement of the goods subcategories for Jincheng
-21 -



and Yingkou.
Implementation covenants:
At negotiations, assurances were obtained from Liaoning Province (LP) that it would:
*   carry out, or cause to be carried out, the resettlement of persons affected by the project in a manner and
according to the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) satisfactory to the Bank;
*   cause the Jincheng Paper-making Company to demolish, by December 31, 2006, its mercury electrolysis
facility and clean up the demolition site in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;
*   cause the project agencies to carry out, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the findings of the Environmental
Assessment (EA) and related implementation program;
*   maintain the Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO) and the city project
management offices (PMOs), and urban management information system (UMIS) centers throughout
implementation, with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, and with competent staff in
adequate numbers for the duration of the project;
*   carry out, or cause to be carried out, the time-bound Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan (IPCAP) for the
Liao River Basin in accordance with a schedule acceptable to the Bank and discuss and agree any revisions
with the Bank; and
*   arrange for each project city to fumish to the Bank, by December 31, 2001, a time-bound investment program,
acceptable to the Bank, to strengthen its wastewater collection systems, and begin implementation of said
program by July 31, 2002, taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
Financial covenants:
At negotiations, assurances were obtained from LP that it would:
*   make subloans to small and medium-size industries on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and use
the repayments of such subloans to finance additional subloans through its Environment Revolving Subloan
Facility (ERSF);
*   cause Jinzhou, Panjin and Yingkou to onlend part of the loan proceeds to their respective wastewater
companies, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
*   cause Jinzhou and Yingkou to onlend part of the loan proceeds to their respective paper-making companies, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
*   cause financial management to be carried out in accordance with the guidelines set out in the Financial
Management System (FMS) Manual, and arrange for the following annual audits to be submitted to the Bank
within six months after the end of the financial year, commencing with fiscal year 2002: (a) audit of the
project accounts maintained by the Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO),
Liaoning Provincial Construction Commission (LCC), Liaoning Environmental Protection Bureau, (LEPB),
Urban Management Information System (UMIS); (b) audit of the Special Account; (c) audit of statements of
expenditures (SOEs); (d) audits of the financial statements of the wastewater companies of Jinzhou, Panjin and
Yingkou; and (e) audits of the financial statements of Jincheng Paper-making Company (JPMC) and Yingkou
Paper-making Company (YPMC);
*   commencing with fiscal year 2001, cause the wastewater companies of Jinzhou, Panjin and Yingkou to (a)
produce revenues from their respective wastewater operations sufficient to cover operations and maintenance
costs (including depreciation), and the amount by which debt service requirements exceed the provision for
depreciation; and (b) incur no additional debt without the Bank's agreement, unless a reasonable forecast
shows that the entity would have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times; and
*   cause the wastewater companies of Jinzhou, Panjin and Yingkou to prepare, before September 30, 2002, and
in each of the following fiscal years, forecasts satisfactory to the Bank, (a) to review whether they would meet
- 22 -



the covenanted requirements set forth above in such year and the following fiscal year, and (b) to furnish the
results of such reviews to the Bank; if any such reviews would show that the entity would not meet the
requirements set out above, the entity would take all necessary measures, including adjustments to the
structure of its tariffs and charges, in order to meet the requirements; and
*   commencing with fiscal year 2001, cause Jincheng Paper-making Company and Yingkou Paper-making
Company to (a) maintain a quick ratio of 0.8; (b) maintain a current ratio of 1.5; and (c) incur no additional
debt without the Bank's agreement, unless a reasonable forecast shows that the entity would have a debt
service coverage of at least 1.4 times.
Reporting and Monitoring:
At negotiations, assurances were obtained from LP that it would:
*   cause each implementing agency to prepare semiannual project progress reports; and LUCRPO to send a
consolidated report to the Bank by January 31 and July 31 of each year, beginning on January 31, 2002; and
*   carry out with the Bank a mid-term review of the project by December 31, 2004, and implement, or cause to be
implemented, agreed recommendations.
H. Readiness for Implementation
3 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Ii 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[ 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
C 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Dl 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
ffreyRead                              v  airna                        ukon Huang
Team Leader                          Sector Manager/Director              Country ManagerlDirector
- 23 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project                      _
A414~~~<S]Sia"5qu                      itno lo fi n
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:             Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Safeguard the environment and   Ambient environmental      EPB statistics for environmental
public health through alleviation  conditions in LRB improved  quality
of urban environmental
infrastructure constraints
Environment-related health   Bureau of Public Health
problems reduced
Urban environmental           Statistics of the Construction
infrastructure supply meets  Commission
demand
Project Development          Outcome / Impact              Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                   Indicators:
Protect quality of LRB and its    Reduction of pollution load from  Statistics of LEPB   Parallel efforts to manage
tributaries to ensure water  urban sector                                                industrial wastewater pollution
supplies are protected                                                                   are successfully implemented
Improvement of financial     Audited financial statements,    Funds availability to finance
viability of city wastewater  annual financial projections  sewer network extensions
companies
Timely authority to adjust tariffs
to maintain viability
Output from each             Output Indicators:            Project reports:              (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Market-oriented pricing and  Ratio of actual tariff to     Wastewater company statistics;   Government maintains tariffs at
financial management introduced recommended cost recovery tariff project supervision mission  cost recovery levels
in participating municipal   increased
wastewater companies in the
LRB
Infrastructure capacity for  Volume increased for wastewater Liaoning and company statistics  Connections made to wastewater
wastewater increased         collected and safely disposed  and periodic reports         networks
Cost-effective wastewater     Small and medium industries    Statistics of Liaoning EPB.  Pilot experience disseminated
pollution abatement measures    adopt clean technology, and  IPCAP is implemented in     and adopted throughout
undertaken in industry       implement end-of-pipe treatment accordance with scope and timing Liaonings industry sector;
agreed                       effective regulation
Water quality monitoring and    Long-term water quality    Liaoning EPB; draft and final    Long-term strategy is being
management capacity          monitoring strategy developed    strategy documents         implemented.
strengthened                 and staff trained in water quality
monitoring
- 24 -



Project Components I         Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                  Outputs)
Wastewater management        Achievement of planned        Project Progress Reports,     Wastewater companies are
objectives (see Annex 3)     supervision missions, data of    established and sustained
companies and EPB
Environmental quality        Water and air quality to comply  Project Progress Reports,  Laboratory staff resource levels
monitoring                   with Chinese Drinking Water and supervision missions, data of    increased or sustained, laboratory
Air Quality Standards        companies and EPB             operating budgets increased/
sustained as required, training in
Increase in level of monitoring--  Laboratory records for industrial use of equipment provided
number of sampling points,   wastewater and environmental
number of samples analyzed,    quality analysis
number of parameters monitored
Urban management information   Development of operational  Project Progress Reports,     Sharing of data by interested
systems                      systems, improved base mapping supervision missions         agencies, avoidance of
duplication
Environment subprojects      Subloans made to approved small Project Progress Reports, data of Reduction of polluting discharges
and medium-sized industries    industries, LEPB and LFD
Institutional strengthening and   Improvements in organizational,  Project Progress Reports,  Government commitment to
training                     managerial and financial      supervision missions          financing "intangibles"
capability; numbers of
management and staff trained in
system operations, financial
management and business
planning
General                      Achievement vs. Target reviewed
Benchmarking to be undertaken, through Progress Reports
and agreed at the Project Launch
Workshop (PLW)
- 25 -



Project Monitoring Indicators
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
The effectiveness of the project in meeting its Development Objectives would be assessed through
the regular monitoring, recording and reporting of key performance indicators. Monitoring indicators were
discussed and agreed with LUCRPO and are given in the table below. The baseline and targets would be
reviewed and updated during the Project Launch Workshop.
Indicator                                          2001    2005    2007        2010
1. Water quality in Hun, Taizi, Liao and Daliao rivers  -    50       70        90
meets Class V standards for COD (% of time)
2. Aggregate quantity of wastewater treated at project  N/A  30       60        80
city wastewater treatment plants (% of system flow)
3. Industrial wastewater meeting river discharge    50       70       75        80
standards (% of total flow)
4. Industrial water use per unit of output (m3/Y10,000)    120  100   80        60
Indicator                Baseline at    Intermediate    Achievement and
Project Start    Achievement          Date
and Date
Liaoning Provincial Government    Draft Plan                        Approved June 2002
approval of the River Basin Plan
2001 (Y/m3)      2003 (Y/m3)      2005 (Y/m3)
Wastewater tariffs implemented to    Panjin: 0.34  Panjin: 0.49    Panjin: 0.72
meet financial projections       Yingkou: 0.25    Yingkou: 0.46    Yingkou: .77
Jinzhou: 0.29    Jinzhou: 49      Jinzhou: 0.85
Completion of wastewater interception Zero                         3 (December 2006)
and treatment plants
Class V river water quality achieved   No                          Yes (December
in Daliao and Liao                                                 2006)
Paper-making companies                             2004: 50% of    December 2006:
financial       80% covenanted
targets         financial targets
- 26 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
Background
The Province, Water Resources and Pollution. The Liaoning Province overlooks the Bohai and Yellow
Sea in the south, and faces the Korean Peninsula and the Yalu River to the southeast. Liaoning is a
communications hub, connecting with the Eurasian rail bridge into Russia, and a vital industrial and
commercial link for foreign trade. Liaoning Province has a total area of 145,000 square kilometers, a
population of 41 million, and comprises of 14 cities, 17 county-level towns and 17 counties. Shenyang is
the provincial capital. Liaoning is rich in mineral resources including iron, boron, magnesite, diamond, jade
and solvent-grade limestone, and oil and gas reserves. The exploitation of these abundant resources has
taken place at a rapid pace, with serious impacts on the environment.
Water resources within the province have been both badly depleted and polluted by the heavy industries.
The Liao River Basin has now been recognized as one of the most environmentally degraded within China,
and the State Council has included this basin in its "Three Rivers and Three Lakes" environmental clean-up
initiative. The Liao River Basin covers an area of 42,000 square kilometers, of which 27,000 square
kilometers form the Hun-Taizi-Daliao Rivers catchment, and the remaining 15,000 square kilometer form
the Liao river catchment.
In 1995, the gross annual output of the Liao River Basin totaled Y305 million ($36.1 million), representing
about 60 percent of the total provincial output, with heavy industries contributing more than half the
output. The remainder is from over 900 large and medium state enterprises located in the basin. The Liao
River plain is very fertile, and has been a major grain producer for many years. Two million hectares (29
percent of the basin area) within the Liao catchment are under cultivation, and the 1995 agricultural output
was about Y20 million.
Despite Liaoning Province being a water-scarce region, per capita consumption is typically between 100
liters per capita per day (lpcd) and 300 Ipcd, and increasing. Outdated production processes have resulted
in high water utilization in industries. Raw water for both municipal and industrial supply is obtained from
impounding reservoirs located within the upper catchment of the Liao River basin or from groundwater
abstraction. Irrigation for paddy rice is the principal user of surface water between May and September,
accounting for 70 percent of water use.
Only 6 percent of surface water achieve the national standards for drinking water. Recorded primary
pollutant indices include COD, ammonia, potassium permanganate, copper and cyanide. The Taizi River
near the city of Benxi is the most polluted. It is evident that at least 216,000 hectares of paddy rice is
currently irrigated with surface water that exceeds Category V classification prescribed for irrigation.
Pollution is worsened by wastewater discharged by Tieling and Panjin further downstream. The major
sources of pollution are wastewater discharges from Fushun and Shenyang. Below Shenyang, water quality
exceeds Category V classification. Above Yingkou, the water quality within the Daliao River is generally
poor as a result of upstream discharges, but is made worse by municipal wastewater from Yingkou and
industrial wastewater form the Yingkou Paper Factory.
The Liao River Basin flow statistics indicate wastewater discharges exceeding 10,000 cubic meter per day,
with major industrial discharges exceeding 3 tons of COD per day. Within Liaoning Province, Chemical
Oxygen Demand (COD) has been identified as the key pollutant indicator.
- 27 -



Pollution Control Strategy. The key objectives of the 2010 Program for Prevention and Cure of Liaohe
River Valley Water Pollution are: (a) protection of sources of domestic water supply, (b) regulation of
pollutants discharged by industry, (c) protection of the sources used for agriculture and aquaculture, and
(d) construction of wastewater treatment facilities designed to reduce the critical pollutant loads. The Plan
details the allowable COD discharges into the surface water between the years 2000 and 2010, as indicated
below.
Location                 Allowable Maximum COD Discha ge (tons/year)
2000               2005                 2010
Whole Liao River Valley          271,200            208,800             193,200
West Liao River                   31,700              29,000              10,300
East Laio River                   34,900              25,400              16,800
Within Liaoning Province         207,000             169,600            166,100
The Ninth Plan identifies a number of quality control targets that should be attained by the years 2000,
2005 and 2010, together with a series of policy objectives. These policy initiatives include: (a) introduction
of regulations to control pollution, based on total load control rather than concentration, (b) pollution load
allocation based on low river flow conditions, (c) economic pricing of water and tariff reform, (e)
protection of water resources, (f) closure or reform of inefficient industries, and (g) improved monitoring.
The Liao River Basin Environmental Improvement Program, financed under a comprehensive technical
assistance package from the European Union, has prepared the Basin planning framework for pollution
control, water resource management and priority investments required to reduce pollution from both
municipal and industrial wastewater in the next 20 years. Thirty critical and high-priority projects for
wastewater treatment have been identified for implementation in the next 20 years, and include Shenyang,
Yingkou, Panjin, Tieling, Liaoyang, Qingyuan, Changfu, Haicheng, Xinbin, Kalyuan, Anshan and Xinmin,
in that order.
At present there are only three operational wastewater treatment plants within the Liao River Basin. These
are: 400,000 m3/day and 100,000 m3/day plants in Shenyang, and a 220,000 m3/day plant at Anshan
serving Angang Steel Manufacturing Plant. A third plant of 200,000 m3/day for Shenyang, and other
wastewater treatment plants are under construction for Fushun and Benxi. Pollution control regulations
require treatment of wastewater at source, and a number of state-owned industries have constructed
treatment facilities, while some industries have been closed.
In the short to medium term, the primary wastewater treatmnent objective focuses on the removal of COD
throughout the river basin, with no consideration given to ammonia removal. In the long term, facilities
may be required to provide for flexible nitrogen removal with a view to moving toward greater compliance
with Class V River Water Quality Requirements. The requirements for wastewater treatment have been
based upon the Class V Water Quality Objective for COD under river flow conditions consistent with 75
percentile flow in April, on the assumption that water quality will generally not be expected to meet Class
V requirements during the winter months (January to March) or when river flows are less than the design
condition. Based on the above, a COD standard of 100 mg/l has been adopted for municipal wastewater
discharges.
An Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan will be implemented by the Provincial Govemment, as a
complementary activity in parallel with the implementation of the LRBP.
- 28 -



Liao River Basin Project (LRBP) Investments
Summary project costs are provided in the table below. A detailed description of project components
follows.
Y million/a $ million/a %of total
1. Panjin Water Interception and Treatment                       323.3     39.5         21
2. Yingkou Paper Mill Industrial Wastewater Treatment (red liquor  138.4    17.0         9
treatment and evaporation)
3. Yingkou Wastewater Interception and Treatment                 378.6    46.3          25
4. Jincheng Paper Mill Wastewater Treatment (change of electrolysis  114.2    14.0       8
process to prevent mercury pollution}
5. Jinzhou Wastewater Interception and Treatment                  267.3    32.8         16
6. Urban Management Information System for the three cities        53.0     6.5          4
7. Environmental Water Quality Monitoring                         45.7      5.6          3
8. Environment Revolving Fund                                     166.0    20.0         11
9. Institutional Strengthening, Construction Supervision and Training  25.6  3.1         3
Total Project Cost (March 2001 prices)                          1,512.1    184.8       100
L/ May be errors due to rounding.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$39.50 million
Panjin Wastewater Interception and Treatment (Y323.3 million).
Existing Conditions. Panjin is located in the southwest of Liaoning Province, inland from the Bohai Sea.
The Shuangtaizi River divides the city into two districts--the Shuangtaizi district north of the river and the
Xinglongtai district south of the river. The proposal in the project relates to the Xinglongtai District, which
has a wastewater collection system that serves about 70 percent of the 200,000 urban population. Septic
tanks are widely used. It is reported that by 2005, wastewater produced by the four major industries
(petrochemical, asphalt, chemical and thermal industries) equal to about 26,640 m3/d will be treated at
source and discharged to the Panxie Ditch. The city has no treatment facility. All wastewater is discharged
to the Panxie Ditch, which conveys wastewater to the Shuangtaizi River. The masterplan indicates
development of wastewater treatment for the Xinglongtai district in the first phase, with Shuangtaizi
scheduled for the next phase.
Component Description. LRBP investments would serve the Xinglongtai district south of the Shuangtaizi
River, and would include: construction of 10.1 km of interceptor sewers comprising 3.0 km of 2.8m x 2.Om
and 2.4m x 2.Om reinforced concrete box culvert, and 7.1 km of reinforced concrete pipeline DN 1200 and
DN1400; two new pumping stations (5,951 m3/hr and 6,757 m3/hr); modification of 13 existing pumping
stations; a 100,000 m3/day wastewater treatrnent plant located west of Panjin; sanitary landfill for sludge
disposal, and provision of equipment necessary for operations. (A section of the box culvert, estimated to
cost Y20.0 million, is currently under construction, financed with funds from the Panjin Municipality.)
Project Component 2 - US$17.00 million
Yingkou Industry Wastewater Treatment (Y138.4 million)
Existing Conditions. The Yingkou Paper-making Company produces 100,000 tons/d of sulfite pulp from
reed as part of the paper and paperboard production. The pulping process is highly polluting, carrying
- 29 -



some 80 percent of the mills' discharge of pollutants to the Daliao River, with the rest coming from paper
manufacture. Wastewater is discharged to the Daliao River upstream of Yingkou City, and accounts for
two third of the pollutant load in this stretch of the Daliao River. Improvement in the river water quality at
Yingkou can be achieved only if wastewater from both the paper mill and the city are treated. There is the
additional concem regarding the potential effect on drinking water sources, and pollutants entering the
Bohai Sea. The mill proposes to undertake modifications to its process to treat white liquid and red liquor,
and improve efficiency in water use, to comply with the Liao River Basin pollutant reduction requirements.
White liquid treatment, through coagulation and filtration for recovery of fiber and talc, would be carried
out with the assistance of Austrian funding and technology.
Component Description. The LRBP would finance the treatment of concentrated process liquor from
pulping operations (red liquor) comprising: wastewater treatment, recycling and process modifications,
which includes as by-products the recovery of process raw materials and production of lignosulfonate
binder material, primarily for zinc manufacture.
Project Component 3 - US$ 46.30 million
Yingkou Wastewater Collection, Interception and Treatment (Y378.6 million)
Existing Conditions. The city of Yingkou (current population of 463,000) is located in the south of
Liaoning Province, near the estuary of the Daliao River with the Bohai Sea. The wastewater collection
system is a combined sewerage system, and comprises open sewers. There is no wastewater treatment
facility, and municipal wastewater is discharged from a series of outfalls into the Daliao River. The
existing sewerage system covers about 60 percent of the central urban area, which is divided into the
southwest and northeast catchments by the Renzaosi Flood Ditch. High levels of nutrient pollutants
entering the Bohai Sea originating upstream of Yingkou are thought to be responsible for the increasing
incidence of red tides that have had considerable impact on fish yields. The two dominant industries within
Yingkou--the Yingkou Paper Mill and the Power Development Company--together produce a large
proportion of the municipal pollutant load discharged to the Daliao River. Untreated wastewater from the
Yingkou Paper Mill produces a COD loading equivalent to a population of 1.25 million. The development
of Yingkou wastewater collection and treatment facilities over the next 20 years is planned to occur in two
phases. This includes interception and treatment of wastewater (100,000 m3/day capacity) from the
southern and western areas of the city up to 2010 in the first phase. The second phase (2010 to 2020)
includes the expansion of this plant to 150,000 m3/day, a new interceptor, and a 100,000 m3/day
wastewater treatment plant to serve the northern and eastem districts of the city above the Renzaosi Flood
Ditch. It is also anticipated that the plants would be upgraded for nitrification by 2020.
Component Description. LBRP investments would serve the southern and western drainage catchments of
Yingkou. They would include: construction of 12.8 km of interceptor sewer, upgrading of five existing
pumping stations, construction of three new pumping stations, upgrading of the sewer network,
construction of a wastewater treatment plant of 100,000 m3/day capacity at Xipaotai, located west of the
city, sanitary landfill for sludge disposal, and equipment necessary for operations.
Project Component 4 - US$14.00 million
Jincheng Industry Wastewater Treatment (Y1 14.2 million)
Existing Conditions. The chlorine-alkali plant, with an annual capacity of 8,500 tons of chlorine and
10,000 tons of caustic soda, consumes some 700 grams of mercury per ton of caustic soda produced,
resulting in a loss of about 600-700 kg of mercury per year. It is estimated that the wastewater discharge
from the plant contains about 65 to 130 kg of mercury, discharged directly into the Daliao River. The
- 30 -



mercury level in the wastewater varies from 0.1 mg/i to 2.0 mg/I, representing 5 to 10 times pernitted
discharge levels. This wastewater discharge has serious impacts on the Dalinghe river water quality, the
water resources for Jinzhou, and marine life in the Bohai Sea, which also receives flows from the Hun,
Taizu, Daliao, Liao, Xiaoling and Dalinghe Rivers. It poses a health hazard to humans through mercury
accumulation in the food chain. As the Daliao River feeds the groundwater aquifer providing water to
Jinzhou, there is a risk of direct impact on the health of the population of the city.
Component Description. LRBP investments would finance the replacement of the mercury cell process for
production of chlorine. The component includes the construction of a new chlorine production facility based
on modem ion membrane cell technology, and remedial measures to recover mercury in the plant and in the
surrounding grounds. Disbursement of funds for construction of the new plant will be subject to production
of an action plan for demolition of the mercury electrolysis facility and the satisfactory completion of the
remedial measures for cleaning up waste mercury.
Project Component 5 - US$32.80 million
Jinzhou Wastewater Interception and Treatment (Y267.3 million)
Existing Conditions. The city of Jinzhou (current population about 600,000) is located along the banks of
the Xiaoling River near the coastline of the Bohai Sea. Xiaoling River is the only river outside the Liao
River Basin. It is contiguous with the Liao River Basin, is highly industrialized, and the municipal and
industrial wastewater have a significant impact on drinking water sources, and on the Bohai Sea. At
present, there are no wastewater treatment facilities, and untreated domestic and industrial wastewater from
industrial complexes, located within the central urban area, is discharged to the public sewerage system,
and ultimately to the Xiaoling River. The north bank of the Xiaoling River has II outfalls, and south bank
has 5 outfalls. Current industrial discharges to the public sewer system include: Power Plant No. 1: 10,000
m3/day; Power Plant No. 2: 10,000 m3/day; Brewery: 3,000 m3/day; and Oil Refinery: 20,000 m3/day.
Industries are expected to install on-site treatment, and discharge their effluents directly to the Xiaoling
River. Future plans for wastewater collection and treatrnent includes a first phase (up to 2010) to serve the
districts north of the Xiaoling River.
Component Description. LRBP investments would include interception and treatment of wastewater from
the districts north of the Xiaoling River, in this initial phase. The interceptor would be sized to receive
wastewater flows from the southem districts in the next phase. Works and equipment to be financed
include: 10 km of reinforced concrete pipe and triple-cell box culvert interceptors along the north bank of
the Xiaoling River, a wastewater treatment pant of 100,000 m3/day capacity, located at Dishuihi, initially
to serve the northem part of the city, sanitary landfill for sludge disposal, central control equipment, and
vehicles and equipment necessary for operations.
Project Component 6 - US$6.50 million
Urban Management Information System (Y53.0 million)
The component would (a) support updating urban mapping in the project cities, and (b) strengthen the
urban management information center by developing a GIS-based engineering management system for
infrastructure planning, especially water and wastewater, preparing a provincial urban information system
to facilitate policy and strategy formulation and implementation, formulating and implementing a strategy
for cities and the province to provide urban and environmental information on the Intemet for public
access. Four provincial cities would take part in this broad urban management component, namely Jinzhou,
Panjin, Shenyang and Yingkou.
- 31 -



Project Component 7 - US$5.60 million
Environmental Quality Monitoring (Y45.7 million)
The Government provides environmental monitoring services to all levels of govermment, with technological
support, supervision and service, in environmental management. Over the years, environmental stations in
the Province have undertaken environmental tasks in environmental quality, industrial pollution source,
abrupt pollution accidents, and arbitration over pollution disputes. With the start of the Pollution Control
Program of the Liao River Basin, the tasks of environmental monitoring have become heavier than before,
and expanding and strengthening the environmental monitoring has become a priority.
The project would support the Liaoning Environmental Protection Bureau to expand and strengthen
environmental water quality monitoring and limited air quality monitoring through provision of equipment
to improve provincial and city monitoring stations.
Project Component 8 - US$20.00 million
Environment Subloans (Y166.0 million)
The  component would  comprise  the  provision  of short-term  subloans for focused, high
environmental-impact investments in in-plant clean technology process change, supporting core investments
in air and wastewater management. Subloans repaid would be used to make additional subloans through
Liaoning's existing Environment Revolving Subloan Facility (ERSF).
Project Component 9 - US$3.10 million
Institutional Strengthening and Training (Y25.6 million)
The component would provide support to the recently formed wastewater companies to strengthen their
financial, institutional, operational and management capacities in the areas of (a) corporate strategy and
business planning; (b) financial management; (c) tariff setting, billing and collection; (d) operational skills;
and (e) informnation and data management. These areas are identified as critical for the wastewater
companies to become autonomous and ensure sustainability of investments. The component would also
support provincial and municipal govermment agencies to strengthen their (a) financial management
capacities, including the operation of the ERSF; and (b) management of infrastructure projects, through
technical assistance, training and study tours. The project would also finance (a) construction supervision
and quality control of the wastewater companies' components; (b) an aquifer study; and (c) feasibility
studies for future project preparation.
- 32 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
CHINA
LIAO RIVER BASIN PROJECT                                                                             %      % Total
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary            (Local)                      (US$)            Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                              339.2   145.4       484.6    40.9    17.5    58.4         30       37
B. Equipment & Materials                    284.8   153.2      438.0    34.3    18.5    52.8          35       34
C. Land Acquisition & Resettlement           54.8        -      54.8      6.6        -      6.6        -        4
D. Technical Assistance & Training            8.4    31.8       40.2      1.0      3.8      4.8       79        3
E. Construction Supervision Services
& Quality Control                            7.9    12.3       20.2      0.9      1.5      2.4       61        2
F. Engineering & Management                  91.3        -      91.3    11.0         -    11.0         -        7
G. Environmental Pollution Control           33.2   132.8      166.0      4.0    16.0    20.0         80       13
Total BASELINE COSTS                          819.6   475.5    1,295.1    98.7    57.3   156.0          37      100
Physical Contingencies                       92.3    40.1       132.4    11.1      4.8    16.0        30       10
Price Contingencies                          58.7    25.8       84.6      8.9      3.9    12.8        31        8
Total PROJECTCOSTS                            970.6   541.5    1,512.1    118.7    66.0   184.8         36      118
- 33 -



TaLL-.P~3Vajl  irFb epfrn&Tmirat
DCat
2DO   2XP   20D   200  2I    310B   TS   2D1   Z1X2   2O    Z04  2M5  2M6  Tdc
ACNIOVO\
RWU)1D1 1O Xflt\as   TenraFt                   -   120   1a0   18.0   90    60   6)0        -   143   184   227   11.7   ao   752
RW MTcRT pSoepErs                               -    1.8   35    26    Q9       -   s.8      -   21    4.3   33    1.1        -   109
11W.03  uoqbxradRdPUnd
EftRTp                                        25   123   172   14.7    25      -   49.0   28   14.6 21.0 16          32      -   602
RW\       1.y lzf ifD3                          -     -      -    15    1.5     -   30       -     -      -    1.9   20      -   3.8
OMM klEptr                                    2ao0    -      -     -      -         20  0           -                             20
SU*WCki9iMbl                                   225   2&0   3S7   358   138    60  14Q8   228   310   4a7   465   1.0    ao  170.1
BEWOt&NWa
RMhQ101 E ErtrVAe AEb   TTrtrtrt                -   10.0  150   2D.0   50       -   500      -   114   17.6  242    62       -   594
WPV2 (SQipToxfrW-ts                             -     -      -    18    02      -   20       -     -      -   20    02       -   22
RW1 03 E4rEft b b  rii:i
hct4 sr    Tai                                 -      -    13    0.1     -     -    1.4     -      -    15    Q2      -      -    1.6
R a4                                            -     -      -   28    03       -   a1       -      -     -    34    04      -    a8
aftw4p.eia&is                                    -   100   163   24.7   55        -565         -   114   19.1  297    68       -   67.0
oitactm3mt&     Sapn                          0Q1    03    03    04    03    02    1.6   01    04    04    05    04    Q2    1.9
DLa-dAcmn&Rsrft                                222   11.1  11.1      -     -      -   444   24.7  126   130       -     -      -   5Q3
&adilyGoild
Qvi VUbt                                      06    07    09    09    03    02    35    0.6   0.7   1.0   1.1   Q4    02    4.1
&vmrfft&wd3vds                                  -   02    03    0.5   01        -    1.1     -    02    0.4   Q6    Q1    -    13
&1dtyCr                                        06    08    12    14    05    02    4.6   0.6   10    14    1.7   06    02    54
FEEeiy &MNE3%pTut
GAVVlt6                                       22    26    a6    3.7   1.4   06   14.1   25    ao    42    45    1.7   (8   16.6
Eqxmat&Ml3EJs                                   -    1.0   1.6   25    06       -   5.7      -    1.1   1.9   ao    07       -    67
Caukrisa3m3                                   00    00    00    00    00    0O    02    0.0   00    00    0O    00    00    02
La-dAal&lTErt                                 22    1.1   1.1      -      -     -   44    25    13    13        -      -     -    50
sjtds Kjm* Ubet"m                               45    47    63    62    20    06   243    50    54    74    7.5   24    Q8   285
Tda                                              49.8  5ao   709   636   221    69  2722   532   617   85A1   859   252    92  333
aim2Yru kityV\Tn
ICois
MM 2X    2XB   2M4  2M5   2M    Tci   2MI   2KR  2am    2004  200   2B -Tc
ACWIY\bl
OaAWits RxfiL4tacfn                           -    26      -      -     -      -    26      -    3.1     -      -      -     -    a1
BE     Erat&N
ZQ1 11 E     trFoR  L4.rPfak
nieiTaJtJAqt&Tai-g                            -   43D    4.8     -      -     -   478      -   49.0   56       -      -     -   54.6
'YRQ1f2 Fbd L4Er qrdnEaiT01
iTiToT  As&Targ                              -   46.1   51       -      -     -   512      -   525    6D       -      -     -   585
M4Ql0O3VVabrPbnWnEqVTel                       -    7.5   08                   8-     3           8.5   1.0      -                 95
SJ3lcWEqmert&M*                                -8  96.6   10.7    -      -      -  1073      -  1100   126       -     -      -1226
2yR01 Ay       s rWV At                       -    01    0.1      -      -     -    02      -    0.1   01       -      -     -    02
Dnuakg&Nbgiut
CM VYIW1                                           03      -                        03      -    0.3      -                       03
43TErt&lVek3is                                -    97    1.1      -      -          107     -   110    12       -      -     -   123
Tcd                                               -  1092   11.9     -      -     -  121.1      -  1245   140       -     -      -  1384
- 34 -



UAO RNER BASIN PROECT
Tabb a Yn$qu Wastwl IrIMepDon & TmaInet
Dealed Costs
Ol)                                                                               Base Cost                                       Todals hckK  g Can cles
2001    2002   2003    20C4    2005   2D05T   obl   2001    2002    2D03    2004   2005   2006T    oa
L Int  Costs
A CMI Works
YWM)01.01      .eofr08 n HuoXIr6a Rd-LaWege                  -     4.6    7.7      9.2    6.1    3.1    30.7         -     5.5     9.4    11.6    8.0    4.1    38.6
YWAN1.02WeptomLaoyegeTorernit                                -     2.6    4.3      5.1     3.4    1.7    170         -     ao      5.2     6.4    4.4    2.3   21.4
YW 101X03dUp9ackV d   aed"g9i5es                           0.7      3.6    5.0    4.3       0.7      -    14.4    0.8    4.3       6.2      5.5    0.9       -    17.7
YWW1           ioofhoS                                      1.6    7.8    10.9    9.4       1.6      -    31.2      1.8    9.3    13.4    11.8    2.0        -    38.3
YWW,01.05 UpgraiPut5 pStakb                                  -     2.7    4.5      5.4     3.6    1.8    17.9        -     3.2     5.5     6.8    4.7    2.4    22.5
YWW01.06 Lay & Upgae S5s
Cadc3Paico3 nvS5bimr                                        -     5.1     8.6    10.3    6.8    3.4    34.2         -     6.1    10.5    130      8.9    4.6   43.0
YWMW1.07 SteeWors riWaterSuppy                             0.5     1.5       -       -       -       -     2.0     0.6     1.8       -       -       -       -     2.4
WYWW,01.03100     ,000TasywatTreertRrt                       -    12.0   15.0    180       9.0    6.0    80.0        -    14.3    184    227    11.7       ao    75.2
WWV1.01 Sa0        arSzyLa forSudgeDepo                      -       -       -     1.5      1.5      -     3.0       -       -       -      1.9    2.0       -     3.8
SdutdICM Works                                               2.8    39.9   55.9   63.1    32.7   16.0   210.4        3.2   47.5   6856    79.7   42.6   21.4  263.0
B, Eqipnwt & MateIs
YWN/21.01 PassaenVeies                                       -       -     1.4     0.2       -       -     1.5       -       -     1.4     0.2       -       -     1.6
YNWQI1 02 OI    E uqorrmt rd EquTwt
bbek iDdetog T Cwc sh ert                                   -       -      1.9    0.2       -       -     2.1                     2.2      0.3      -       -     2.5
YWWV/21 O3 Sudge Vd*es&Loade                                         -       -      1.4    0.2       -      1.6      -       -       -      1.6    0.2       -     1.8
YVW1V21.04 Ec        orWasleaerTearnPr                       -    100    15.0   20.0        5.0      -    50.0       -    11.4    17.6   24.2    6.2         -    59.4
YVWVf21.05LaatyEcqTft                                                -       -     2.8      0.3      -     31        -       -       -     34      04              338
PaS."*                                                       -       -       -     25      0.3             28        -       -       -     30      0.3       -     34
&9telEqu & b_ert&MateWs                                        -    10.0    182    27.1      5.8            61.1       -    11.4    21.3    326      7.1       -    72.4
C. Constails Services
0YWW,MG     1 cau        t andSU                           e1      03      0.3     04      03      02       .6     01      04      04      0.5    04       02      1.9
D. LandkAi n,&Rese6emert                                     0.4     02      0.2       -       -       -     08      04      02      02        -       -       -     0.9
E. Corsrudtorn 5p4slon Serviwes
& 0u^ Cor*d
CM Works                                                  0a1       1.0    1.4      1.6    0.8    0.4      5.3     0.1    1.1       1.6     1.9    1.0    0.5    6.3
Equp-  t &Matnals                                            -     02      03      0.5    0.1        -     1.2       -     02      0.4     06      01        -     1.4
3bDt Cmorb S;oni SWAMk
& QulayCCbdv                                                0.1      12     17      21      09      0.4     6.4    0.1      1.4     2.0     2.5    1.2      0.5    7.7
F. ErBnirerk & Maageel
CM Works                                                   0.3     40      5.6     6.3     3.3    1.6   21.0       0.3     45      6.6     7.6    4.1      2.0   25.2
Equiprnert & Mmalis                                          -      1.0    1.8     27      0.6       -     6.1       -     1.1     2.1     3.3    0.7        -     7.3
Ccnsutris Saervs                                           0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0     0.0    ao       0.2     0.0     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0     0.2
LridrA   A nim&RResdue                                     0.0     0.0    0.0        -       -       -     0.1     0.0    0.0      0.0       -       -       -     0.1
SubEJaleeing  &Ma dgeit                                     03      5.0     7.5    9.1      3.9    1.6    27.4      04      5.7     8.8    109      4.8    2.1   32.7
Tctw                                                            3.7   56.6    63.9   101.8    43.6   18.2  307.7       4.2    66.5   101.2   126.3   56.1    242   378.6
- 35 -



CHA
LoAMRARMEN RrEU
Tab4 JhH- hisy\AbAt
MM    2n2   20B   2M4   2005   a 0    Tod    21M)   an2   20M    24  -2M            26   TcW
A C4I.\i
.IPD10 1NW*                                     24    7.1                                  94    27    84        -      -      -      -   11.1
SFY     2 1mricnfBtrs Facy                      4.0    40              -      -      -    8.0    46    4.8                                  9.4
9a   OAJ is                                       64    11.1     -      -      -      -   17A    7.4   132         -      -      -      -
.RV1   DCHoddPcoE%EqpTvt                          -   556    62        -      -      -   618       -   633    72        -      -      -   706
w1i2m aitrVVF*ktn                                 -    7.5    08       -      -      -    83       -    &5    1.0       -      -      -    95
IBIy&         yCEq*m                              -    27       - _           -      -    27       -    31       -      -      -      -    a1
S     EU  lt&M ms                                  -   658    70        -      -      -   728        -   749    82        -      -      -   83.1
.RD1AdySatsfrWVV            iRrn                0.1    01       -      -      -      -    02    01      0.1      -      -      -      -    02
D5qowi&Nbmgwrt
GA VV6                                          0.6   1.1       -      -      -      -    1.7   0.7    1.3       -      -      -      -    20
Eai&lV      ds                                   -    66    0.7        -      -      -    7.3      -    75    08        -      -      -    &3
J&B#M*& M39Wut                                    0.6   7.7    0.7      -      -      -    9.0   0.7    8.8    08         -      -      -   103
Td1J                                                7.1   B46    7.7      -       -      -   994    82    9&9    90         -      -      -  1142
Taf5rkUVTW             tlr , &TMIErt
OlCS
(IXa4                                                                   hk                                      T~~db*guBrc
201   2         _2 2M    -4   2M5   2   Tcdi   2M1  2DM    MM   2M4   2)05  aZo6  TcS
LkshtCosb
A CW W cs
WWYD1 2dTfW         pPUeQkv I                         0   10D   14D   1Z0    20         -   40D0   23   119   172   152    26          -   492
f)1J2 1O(OT ETcnCY,sk Tanrtabrt                       .   10D0   125   150    7.5   5.0  50D          -   119   153   189    98    67   6Z6
JMOl       yLfr9Do                                   -      -      -    53    5.3      -   106      -      -      -    67    69       -   136
av.SIBV wb6:TraPbrtS                                  -   128       -      -     -      -   128      -   152       -      -     -      -   15.2
S&alCw 06                                             20   328   265   323   14.8   5.0  11a4    23   391   325   408   193    67  14a6
J4101 lrtrV\rTMr8tPt                                  -   10.0   15.0  20.0   5.0       -   S0       -   114   176   242    62         -   934
.WY         n1re3Vi &          lEt                    -      -      -    6.9   0.8      -    7.7     -      -      -    7.6   0.9      -    a5
Q1DJ03PMarV                                           -      -    1.6   02       -      -    1.8     -      -    1.7   02       -      -    19
D               4M   VE                                           23    03       -      -    2.5     -      -    24    03       -      -    27
Q        1a       5                                   -      -      -    1.4   02       -    15       -     -      -    1.6   02       -    18
XWA106Orjd E2M  Twt                                   -      -      -    39    04       -    43      -      -      -    4.7   0.5      -    52
bbet Itot1STCnprt                                     -     -    1.4   02        -     -    16       -     .    1.7   02        -     -    19
RbW 4                                                 -      -      -    3.1   03        -  34              -       -          0,4     -    4.1
SIb               s Ecipm IMAMS-   10.0  23   358    67                                   -   72B      -   11.4   234   424    82       -   855
c camkiSVss
1 Gr*aw          lwt&&4a6i                           0.1   0.3   03    04    03    02    1.6   0.1   04    0.4   05    0.4   02    19
Lad      n & M                                       48    24    24        -      -      -    9.6   53    27    28        -      -      -   109
E Coit       9p  mSom
&QCa*d
CAVVUs                                               0.1   OB    0.7    08    0.4   0.1    28    0.1    09    0.8   1i    05    02    34
EVqnat&M1\1                                           -    02    0.4   0.7   0.1        -    1.4     -    02    0.5   OB    02         -    16
& Oy*Caikd                                            01    1.D   1n    1S    0.5   0.1    42    0.1   12    12    1B    0.6    02    5.0
FB4mmig &Mhgvt
0ci1v                                                02    33    27    32    15    05   113    02    37    31    39    18   06   135
&          1xnert & M*A*                              -    1i    2D    3.6   0.7        -    7.3      -    1.1   24    43    08        -    &7
Ca bLiartswAces                                     OL0   0.    0.    0.0   0.0  .OD    02    ao    OD    0.0   0.0   On0 ao    Q2
LarjAoh   n&MA                                       0.5   02    02        -     -      -    ID    0.5   03    03         -     -      -    1.1
Sa      -gi  &hBMW,                                   0.7   46    5.0    69    22    05   197    OB    52    sB    83    27    0.7  234
TcU                                                     7.6  51.1   555   768   245    58   2214    a6   9s9   661    3.8   312    7.7  2673
- 36 -



cod
IPOR\ERB^9NR~E
Q^)                                                                  BtSo                                     T           ;9k%ktmk3k
2DI   23    20M    2DI   2005   20M   Tdh   23I   MM    MM            M     MM    MM   TcW
AEt& lIA
LMS2l0Zl0 TprsFIde&S:ee                            -    65    33    1.1              -   109       -    7.4    38    13        -      -   126
LMS21DElaOfc                                       -    7.1    7.1     -      -      -   14.1      -    80    83        -             -   163
"liaerpkI-ae&SJae                                  -    08       -             -           08      -    Q9       -      -      -      -    09
AmhmA(afhOJec1cn                                   -    1.7  1             -               1.7     -    19                                  19
9a    a ma4t&hU                                     -   161    103    1.1       -      -   275       -   183   121    13         -      -   31.7
BTed &Asr&Tmft
UvAS2MW    TedTB1P9tE&TEaT9
Agn lSdLae                                        -    42    125       -      -      -   166       -    47    146       -     -      -   193
TalriTEiis&9*^ae                                   -    1.7      -     -       -           1.7     -    1.9      -      -      -      -    19
TOW                                                   -   219   22B    1.1        -      - 458         -   250   2&7    13         -      -      0
LFORRB6E1SNRE
Tdb7.IBikrudQ * Mr*g
t                     _ TM MIih g5                                 T
231   31  23 2lB      4   20!i  23]  TcU   23)1  3112   2XB   23)4  21}   2311   Td1
LhwsimtOl
AETiwt&M*"
VWMM1  rViTr&QivbtbgE t                               -   36D    4.0      -      -     -   4D        -   410    4.7      -      -     -   457
Tdo                                                      W- 36       40       -     -      -   40       -   41D    4.7      -      -      - 457
CHINA
UAO RNVER BASIN PRQJEC
Table 8. Envitnniert S4bAoar
Detailed Costs
(Local)                                           Base Cost                                          Totals includi CoringenAies
2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    Total    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    Totl
1. Investment Costs
A Subbans                    -    16.6    41.5    41.5    58.1        8.3   166.0        -    16.6    41.5    41.5    58.1         8.3   166.0
ToWl                            -    16.6    415      41.5    58.1       8.3   166.0        -    16.6    41.5    41.5    58.1        8.3   166.0
LIADRVR BASNPIRECr
Tstie9. TWTvicAs ce&Tmg
DetdCosts
(UxB eCrst                                                                                               TdWi5   9    Coe* rces
2101   2012   23)32   004   2006   20D6   Tda    23)1   20m    2003          04   2106   2006   Tci
L  swt Cos
A C u   ySrv     s & T,ds*
PRie A                                  -    4.1    4.1    4.1    4.1         -    164       -    4.7    4.8    5.0    5.1         -    19.5
PaegB                                   -    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8         -    3.1       -    0.9    0.9    0.9    1.0         -    3.7
PReC                                    -    0.5    0.5    05        0.5             Zo      -    0.6    0.6    06        06       -    24
Tdal                                        -    5.4    5A       5.4    5.4       -   21.5       -    6.1    6.3    6.5    6.7          -    25.6
- 37 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
The Liao River Basin
Liaoning Province is a key crossroads in northern China, overlooking the Bohai and Yellow Seas,
bordering the Korean Peninsula, and on the main rail line from Beijing into northeast China and eastern
Russia. Liaoning was the original seat of the Qing Dynasty which ruled China from 1644 to 1911. The
province covers an area of 145,900 km2 and has a total population of about 41 million. It includes 14
cities, including Shenyang, the capital. Liaoning is rich in mineral resources, including large deposits of
iron, boron, magnesite and oil. Recent development of the Liaohe oil field has made this one of the largest
producers in China. Exploitation of the mineral resources has resulted in the development of a large
industrial sector in Liaoning but the pace of development has had very severe impacts on the environment.
Much of the development and accompanying pollution and other impacts have occurred in the Liao River
Basin, which is the heart of the province, draining into the Bohai Sea. The Basin covers about 42,000 km2
and contains 23 million people, representing a little over half the total population of the province. There are
three main rivers (Liao, Hun and Taizi) which flow northeast to southwest and the central part of the Basin
is the large Liaohe plain which overlies significant groundwater resources. The central river plain area
covers about 27,900 km2. The Tertiary sediments (which include the petroleum resources) are up to 1,000
m thick. Above this are Quaternary sediments up to 420 m thick, which form the most important aquifers.
Gross Regional Domestic Product was Y413 billion in 1999. Annual growth was over 10 percent a year
through the period 1983-97 but slowed to 6.5 percent in 1999. In 1998, the proportions of primary,
secondary and tertiary industry were 14, 43 and 43 percent respectively. Total provincial government
expenditures were about Y39 billion, of which Y4.7 billion went for capital construction.
Average per capita income in 1998 was Y4,617 in urban areas and Y2,580 in rural areas. These figures
represent cash income and do not include housing subsidies and other benefits that are often provided by
the work unit. The Statistical Yearbook shows that 45 percent of incomes is spent on food and 15 percent
on clothing.
Half the land area in the Basin is used for agriculture, mainly in the central plain, since the eastern region is
dominated by forest while the western area has thin soils with little potential for sustainable agriculture.
Maize (90 percent rainfed) is the dominant crop and produces two-thirds of the Province's output. Half a
million hectares of irrigated rice (mainly in Panjin and Shenyang Municipalities) provide a quarter of the
Province's grain. Agricultural patterns are shaped by the short growing season; less than half the year is
frost-free in most areas.
Total inves ment in fixed assets was Y105 billion in 1998, of which municipal investments were Y6 billion,
including about Y400 million each on water supply, drainage and sanitation. Details are given for the
project cities for 1998 in Table 1, but it should be noted that levels of investment vary considerably from
year to year.
- 38 -



Table 1: Municipal Investments in 1998 (Y million)
Total          Water Supply         Draina e          Sanitation
Shenyang                 1,539               135                164                43
Jinzhou                   195                7.4                1.5                18
Yingkou                   138                4.3                19                 18
Panjin                    743                89                 14                 40
Liaoning Province        6,092               409                446                445
Water Resources in the Basin
Availability. The Liao Basin is a water-scarce area, with annual rainfall varying from 450 mm in the
northwest of the basin to about 800 mm in the southeast. The heaviest rainfall is in the months of July and
August, accounting for half the annual total. For 10 months of the year, evaporation exceeds rainfall and
average runoff into the rivers ranges from over 300 mm in the upper Taizi to about 20 mm in the upper
Liao (the section in Liaoning). At the same time, direct abstraction and/or groundwater drawdown have
reduced flows in the Hun (with average runoff of about 160 mm) to about 20 percent of the natural flows.
The average per capita availability of surface water is 535 m3, which is about one fifth the national
average.
In 1998 the total surface water resource in the province was 35.23 billion m3 from 22 large surface water
reservoirs, and total groundwater resource was 10.95 billion m3. The most significant groundwater
resources is the Quatemary aquifer which reaches 400 m thickness near Bohai Bay. There is also an
extensive deep aquifer at about 500-1,000 m depth, which is probably fossil groundwater, although it may
be linked to the shallow aquifer.
The surface waters are heavily regulated, with nine major reservoirs, providing about 8,000 million m3 of
storage, and many smaller ones. They are operated conjunctively with the groundwater resources, including
providing releases for the recharge of bankside wellfields. The main surface water reservoirs are along the
western slopes of the basin, upstream of the urbanization and the surface waters are used for irrigation
across the basin and for supply to Fushun and Benxi, both of which are relatively far upstream. The
principal groundwater resources are in the central area of the basin, underlying the major urban areas of
Shenyang, Liaoyang, and Anshan. There are a number of other river regulation structures, and although
average flows in the basin's rivers are low, peak flows can be high and there is an extensive flood control
system, based on the reservoirs and on levees.
Water Utilization. Calculation of the total available water resources in the basin is difficult because of the
complex interactions between surface water and groundwater, where the aquifers provide a balancing
storage from year to year. The Liaoning Integrated Environment Project (LIEP) has a Water Resources
Management subproject which has estimated water balances for years 1996-98.
The estimated water balance for 1998 (a reasonably typical year) shows:
* Roughly two-thirds of overall rainfall is lost to evaporation.
* About one-sixth of the net rainfall goes to direct groundwater recharge (the remainder is runoff).
* About one-sixth of the river flows also goes to groundwater recharge.
* Surface water abstractions are evenly shared between direct abstraction and reservoir releases.
* Most of the groundwater abstraction is from the shallow aquifer.
- 39 -



The estimates show that total water utilization in the Basin is about 10 billion m3 a year, on a net basis,
with about 60 percent of abstractions returned to the system as effluents or drainage. Agriculture takes
about 64 percent of the total and urban (including industry) takes 31 percent, with the remainder going for
other rural uses. The source of this water is about evenly split between surface and groundwater, although
over the period 1995-98 the contribution of groundwater was an increasing proportion (43 going to 52
percent). It is estimated that utilization is now running at about 60 percent of total available resources.
Estimates made for the Water Resources Management component of the LIEP (supported by the EU)
indicate that overall water utilization is reasonably steady (see Table 2) but a clear shift from surface to
groundwater sources can be seen, much of which occurs in agriculture. Some of this shift in agriculture is
believed to be associated with improved irrigation, where the lack of solids in groundwater allows more
sophisticated and efficient equipment to be used.
Table 2: Water Utilization, 1995-98 (units: Million m3 a year)
Year                   RURAL                               URBAN                 TOTAL
Domestic      Industry      Agriculture    Domestic      Industry
Surface Ground Surface Ground Surface Ground Surface Ground Surface Ground Surface Ground
water  water  water  water  water  water  water  water  water  water  water  water
1998     28    317      53     66  3,608  2,833    333    745    872  1,205  4,894  5,166
1997     23    320      30     95  4,336  2,511   248    605    938  1,320  5,575  4,851
1996     22   301        1     30  4,078  2,381    370    518  1,084  1,187  5,555  4,417
1995     45    196       0     82  4,332  1,826    323    614    832  1,435  5,532  4,153
Source: LIEP WRM Report.
The largest urban demand is at Shenyang, where the water utilization is about 650 million m3 a year, of
which 85 percent is municipal supply and the remainder is self-supply by industry. It is estimated that up to
80 percent of the domestic water supply for Shenyang is obtained from groundwater resources. Continued
overabstraction has resulted in substantial depression of the groundwater level, reported in places to about
33 m below the natural groundwater level.
In recent years, the water table has been lowered in the plains due to overabstraction of groundwater and it
is reported than an area of 389 km2 is affected by excessive drawdown. The groundwater level is typically
2-4 m deep over much of the basin but there are major cones of depression at the major municipal
wellfields, especially at Shenyang and Liaoyang, with drawdown of more than 20 m, and increasing in
places at more than a meter per year. However, over the basin as a whole, recharge on average still exceeds
abstraction.
Pollution Impacts. The major pollution sources on the Liao river system are located in the industrial
regions of Liaoning Province. Data from 1995 showed that there were 900 medium/ large state-owned
enterprises contributing 43 percent of industrial output in the basin. Many of these were constructed in the
1950s and 1960s with limited attention to environmental impacts. They are polluting and water- and
energy-inefficient, but they are important in terms of employment and production. Data from 1995 also
showed a large number of small town and village enterprises (TVEs) which contributed 28 percent of
industrial output. Many of these TVEs are also inefficient and polluting and are understood to have been
shut down by local envirom-nent protection bureaus. Current estimates are being made by LIEPJLEBP of
municipal and industrial pollution loads.
- 40 -



A significant feature of the water resource patterns and an increasing problem is the impact of urban and
industrial wastewater on the water cycle. For example, wastewater from Fushun (where a treatment plant is
being constructed under LEP) enters the Hun and impacts both the river at Shenyang and the groundwater
systems fed by the Hun. In addition, pollution, particularly industrial, is believed to be entering the
groundwater at many points although the details of the impacts are not clear. Similarly, effluents from
Benxi impact the Taizi downstream, with particular problems at the Shenwo Reservoir where accumulated
polluted sediments are seriously threatening the water supply. Most main river reaches fail to meet Class V
for COD and NH4-N. Monitoring of surface water quality in the cities shows average COD levels in the
range 50-100 mg/l in most places, with the Xihe (in Shenyang) averaging 240. (The Class V COD standard
is 40 mg/I.). Ammonia levels are typically in the range 2-10 mglI, although the Xihe averages 40 mg/I. In
this context, COD can be seen both as a problem in its own right, because of the oxygen demand, and also
as an indicator of levels of industrial pollution and the probable existence of other pollutants of concern,
such as oils, phenols and other chemicals.
Recharge by polluted water has also resulted in the contamination of the groundwater. Few specifics are
available, but the government has identified 4.35 million people in the Province who are exposed to
contaminated shallow water. It is reported that about 25 percent of the groundwater sampled in Shenyang
in 1999 did not meet national potable water standards. Areas of polluted groundwater can have elevated
ammonia and heavy metals levels. A disturbing example is that groundwater near the heavily polluted Xihe
was clearly polluted and outside the standard, obviously as a result of recharge from the river. One area
contaminated by chromium was associated with a specific point source. In response to these problems,
Y300 million is being spent on 1,690 deep wells, going to the lower layers in the main Quatemary aquifer.
There is intensive agriculture in the lower basin, including large areas of irrigated rice. These areas use
both surface and groundwater for irrigation. The surface waters are often quite heavily polluted and,
although groundwater is used to supplement and replace the surface water in some uses, there are reported
appreciable impacts on agricultural productivity from the pollution. At the same time, agriculture is itself a
significant source of pollution throughout the basin, particularly through nutrient runoff from
overapplication of fertilizer and from pesticide in the drainage water. The nutrients are a problem
particularly in Bohai Bay where eutrophication is a serious and increasing problem. The Bohai Bay at
Liaoning is highly degraded and near shore fisheries have declined to very low levels. The major problems
are COD and especially nutrients. Estimates suggest that agriculture and mariculture are the largest
sources of nutrients.
The Project EA provides anecdotal examples of problems due to pollution of the river water. However, no
data are provided on the extent of the different problems reported. According to this source:
*   In many rural villages, the surface water is no longer suitable for driniking water and the local
population has to turn to groundwater. As overabstraction of the groundwater continues, wells have to
be drilled deeper to ensure supply for domestic use and for irrigation.
*   Groundwater resources that are no longer suitable for drinking water have to be abandoned and new
water sources found. In some cases, moderately polluted wells can be directed to industrial uses.
*   Long term use of heavily polluted surface water for irrigation has resulted in significant increases in
levels of toxic substances in the soil and in the extreme, farms have been abandoned.
- 41 -



Management of Basin Water Resources. In China, responsibilities for water resources management are
shared between provincial and municipal authorities, within a framework set nationally. At the provincial
level, the key organizations with a direct interest in water resources are the Department of Water
Conservancy which is responsible for the development of surface water resources and which has recently
also been given responsibility for groundwater; and the Provincial Construction Commission, which is
responsible for all urban infrastructure, including water supply and wastewater (as well as solid waste,
drainage and a range of other functions). The Provincial Planning and Finance Commissions have key roles
in the approvals and financing of investments. The Provincial Environmental Protection Bureau is
responsible for environmental planning, regulation and monitoring.
The Provincial Department of Water Conservancy increasingly manages water conjunctively, using aquifer
storage to cope with dry years. This approach is based on operational experience and basin-wide analysis
and modeling and has not yet been developed as a standard tool.
In general, water and wastewater facilities are constructed by the Construction Commission, at provincial
or municipal level and transferred to a Bureau or a Water Company (or Wastewater Company) for
operation. Tariffs typically cover only operation and maintenance and any major works are funded directly
by government.
The policy framework for pollution control activities in the basin is the Ninth Five-Year Plan and 2010
Program for the Prevention and Cure of Liao River Basin Water Pollution. The document identifies COD
as the critical pollution indicator and adopts a total load approach to pollution control. Overall, the targets
are for COD loads in the basin to drop from 271,000 tons in 2000 to 193,000 tons in 2010.
The four objectives of the Plan are:
*   Protection of the sources of domestic water supply;
*   Regulation of the pollutants discharged by industry;
*   Protection of sources used for agriculture and aquaculture; and
*   Provision of wastewater treatment facilities to reduce pollutant loads.
The State Government asked the Bank to support Liaoning Province in addressing the fourth of these
objectives.
The Departrnent of Water Conservancy is introducing a range of demand management measures, including
leakage reduction, metering and tariff increases, reuse of treated effluents, education and awareness, and so
on. However, many of these efforts are in the early stages and their impacts are limited so far.
From the economic point of view, considering the impacts on the natural and financial resources of
Liaoning Province, it is essential to take an integrated approach to managing the water cycle, addressing
water supply, water usage and wastewater disposal aspects. In this context, the River Basin Management
work under the Liaoning Integrated Environment Project, funded by the European Union, has prepared a
Draft Basin Planning Report which can be used as a basis for comprehensive discussion of the issues with
all interested parties.
The idea of establishing a river basin management agency in the Liao Basin has been under discussion by
Bank and Provincial officials since the early stages of planning for the first Liaoning Environment Project
in the 1980s. The issue is now under review by the LIEP team and a draft institutional strengthening report
is being prepared. The approach being proposed by the LIEP consultants is the inclusion of the objective of
- 42 -



river basin management in the coming Tenth Five-Year Plan, together with a cooperative interagency
agenda that is allocated specific funding. On this basis it may then be possible to establish a Leading Group
at provincial level, together with a (specially funded) coordinating group that would negotiate with the
responsible agencies at provincial and municipal levels to ensure the joint implementation of the agenda.
Such an approach could evolve into a practical coordination mechanism if sufficient enthusiasm can be
generated for dealing with the increasingly urgent problems of the basin.
Economic Costs of Pollution
It is clear that the high levels of pollution (from both municipal and industrial sources) have direct
economic impacts on rural and urban water supply and on agricultural and fisheries productivity. Some
estimates of these economic costs have been made but figures need to be reviewed and refined.
Productivity of Agriculture and Aquaculture. Agriculture is an important economic activity in the
province. Two million hectares are currently cultivated, with a substantial portion of the area being
increasingly irrigated. Wastewater is increasingly being used to irrigate croplands, either directly or as a
result of drawing from heavily polluted drains and watercourses. It has been estimated that at least 216,000
ha of rice paddy are currently irrigated with surface water whose quality is worse than Class V. Many
farmers have switched to groundwater for irrigation but these sources are increasingly becoming
contaminated by infiltration from the heavily polluted surface waters.
There is increasing evidence of decreased yield in areas irrigated with wastewater. There are even anecdotal
accounts of areas being irrigated with wastewater that is so contaminated that the produce becomes unfit
for human consumption. A 1998 technical report on the Hai River Basin notes that raising water quality in
the Hai, the most polluted main river of China in terms of percentage of tributaries below Class V standard,
to the level mandated by the Government would raise the agriculture production by at least 5 percent using
an earlier water resource model.
It is reported that a study by the Agricultural Environmental Protection Institute concluded that farmlands
irrigated with wastewater yield 210 kg less per hectare compared with those irrigated with clean water.
However, there are some doubts over the methodology and results. The same study further estimated that
livestock death due to wastewater contamination in Liaoning Province amounted to Y580 million in 1992
but this is clearly a very high figure and must be questioned.
The fisheries sector is an important industry in the Province with 1998 output valued at over Y15 billion.
River pollution affects freshwater fisheries, particularly aquaculture, because surface water is used for
ponds.
Productivity of Bohai Bay. Environmental factors have been estimated to contribute as much as 50
percent to the existing resource pressure on the Bohai Bay. The influence of environmental pollution is
principally manifested in nutrient enrichment and possibly the frequency of red tide, and mortality rates
observed in nearshore mariculture (primarily shellfish). Environment-related pressure may be associated
with production losses through the mid to late 1 990s amounting to some $75 million. This does not include
possible ecosystems and biodiversity losses.
The major sources of pollution of inshore coastal waters around Bohai Bay include: a large zinc smelter in
the Jinxi area southwest of Jinzhou; industrial pollution from petrochemicals and discharges from the city
of Yingkou. Coupled with overfishing, pollution results in large declines in finfish and shellfish
populations. Despite extreme resource depletion, the coastal area is still considered an important spawning
- 43 -



area for a number of species, including jellyfish, small pelagic shrimp, prawn, and the Chinese crab.
Impacts on Water Supply. There are also impacts on the costs and availability of surface and
groundwater supplies, although it is very difficult to put definitive figures on these because of the
complexity of the natural water systems. Groundwater is the main source of municipal water supply in the
Project area and contamination has already reached shallow groundwater aquifers and is affecting over 4
million individuals in the basin. Urbanization has modified natural hydrological cycles with the
construction of drainage canals that now function as artificial recharge sources.
There are indications that the poor water quality may be contributing to a relatively high incidence of
water-related health problems, although the evidence is indirect. There is no specific linkage to increasing
pollution levels in the water but that is obviously a possible explanation for at least some of the increase.
Maurer et al. (1999) reported that untreated urban wastewater in China typically contains large numbers of
pathogenic microorganisms such as schistosomial ova, cercaria, and ova of parasitic flukes and worms.
Further, the majority of urban river sections are also polluted to varying degrees by chemicals and toxic
compounds including volatile phenol, petroleum, permanganate and mercury. The possible impacts on
health from pathogen-laden waters include morbidity and infant mortality from diarrheal diseases, cholera,
and viral hepatitis.
Mortality and morbidity as a result of cancer and/or other chronic diseases can stem from drinking water
contaminated with substances such as PCBs, lead and mercury. A study (Xia Guang, 1999) has shown that
the incidence of liver and stomach cancer in areas reliant on polluted drinking water were six times higher
than in areas using unpolluted water. A World Resources Institute (1999) study documents the case of
incidences of liver cancer correlating to the extent of contamination of drinking water in Jiangsu and
Guangxi. It also documents that since the 1970s, there have been significant increases in cancer rates and
deaths, as well as birth defects in areas that rely on wastewater for irrigation.
In the Province, a study by Xiong et al. (1999) shows that 76.8 percent of municipal water and 19.6
percent of self-provided water are contaminated (73.2 percent biological and 26.8 chemical contaminants).
The same study shows that rates of intestinal diarrheal diseases in the Province is 27 percentage points
higher than the national average. PMOs report increases in diarrhea, dysentery and gastroenteritis by 50 to
200 percent since 1990.
Despite the well-established links between poor water quality and a range of diseases, it is very difficult to
quantify these links in any given set of circumstances and therefore it is not possible to estimate the health
damages with any level of accuracy.
Biodiversity and ecosystems impacts have not been valued. The province contains important freshwater,
wetland, and marine ecosystems. There are 119 freshwater species. There are also rich biological resources
near shore--107 species of plankton, 280 species of benethic species and 137 pelagic species. Except for
prawn and crab, most marine species are migratory. In recent years, marine resources have been changing,
with traditional economically important species disappearing.
Estimates have been made of the overall economic costs of pollution and the likely benefits in each of the
project cities. These estimates suggest that the net present value (NPV) of the benefits that could be
achieved by the project is of the order of Y1-2 billion. These figures are highly uncertain but do show that
the present pollution control measures and pricing systems seriously undervalue the impacts.
-44 -



Costs of Water in the Basin
It is very difficult to put an economic value on reducing pollution in the basin. However, consideration of
the unit costs of both water supply and wastewater collection and treatment provide important insights into
the way in which the direct and indirect values of the water resources are reflected in the prices paid and the
choice made at both the macro and micro levels.
Although the Liao River Basin is a water scarce area, the present water charges are low and there is little
incentive to economize on water use. The average costs of supply are not high, reflecting the relative
simplicity of the current system, based on providing storage on the upper river reaches and sinking wells
into the shallow aquifers in the central plain.
Domestic water tariffs in 1999 for the larger cities in the basin range from YO.70/m3 to Y1 .20/m3, with the
wastewater tariff (where applied) normally YO.20/m3, applied to a volume of 80 percent of the water
supplied. The effective tariff then is about YO.9-1.41m3 of water used. In fact, the average figure for
Shenyang last year was Y1.62/m3. Different tariffs normally apply to domestic, industrial, institutional,
commercial and special high volume uses.
However, the current water supply system is not adequate, and shortages and restrictions are occurring
more frequently. The province must deal with a number of trends that make future water resources
development more complex and more expensive:
*   Water demands are increasing and water shortages occur more frequently.
*   The pollution of the water resources continues to get worse and is affecting the groundwater as well as
the surface water.
*   The easiest and cheapest resources have been developed and the marginal costs of expanding supply
are starting to rise.
Average Costs. Estimates have been made of the average and marginal costs of water supply [using the
Average Incremental Cost (AIC) approach]. These costs represent both the actual cost of expanding the
supply and also the value of the resources that are being lost because of the high levels of pollution.
In Shenyang, the present average tariff for water supply (total supply divided by total billings) is
Y1.42/m3. The Water Supply Company estimates that an increase of about Y1/m3 is required to cover
O&M and some depreciation. This puts the average cost of supply to Shenyang at about Y2.5/m3, on a
basis which covers some but not all of the costs of capital. Details are not available on the costs of bulk
supply versus distribution but since 80 percent of Shenyang's supply is from local groundwater, which is
relatively cheap, it is a reasonable assumption that supply costs would be about one-quarter to one- third of
the total, or YO.6-0.8/m3. (There would include the "Water Resource Fee" for groundwater abstraction
which is currently YO.20/m3.) On this basis, distribution costs for the water is about Yl.7-1.9/m3.
There are few data available on the incremental costs of supply to urban areas in the Liao River Basin, but
pollution of groundwater is requiring replacement of convenient sources with wells that are deeper and/or
further from the system. The costs of water from these sources will be greater than the assumed average
cost of about YO.8/m3.
Expansion of Water Supply. There are 13 schemes under consideration by the Provincial Urban
Construction Commission to increase the available water supply in the upper part of the Liao Basin.
Collectively these would provide up to 16 billion m3 a year for a reported construction cost of Y8. 1 billion.
- 45 -



Details of these schemes are not available but they include water transfers, dam augmentation, increased
diversion and so on. It is not clear whether the increased yields are water available in the river for
agricultural and other purposes or whether they include augmentation of specific urban supplies. On the
basis of these simple numbers, a rough estimate has been made of the AIC (financial) of the schemes and
depending on the assumptions, the figure would be around YO.2-0.3/m3. (This appears to be a very low
number but may represent the costs of expansions to large irrigation schemes.)
Some information has been obtained on the "East-West Transfer" scheme proposed by the Provincial
Department of Water Conservancy. This is a major interbasin water resources project under consideration
for the Tenth Five-Year Plan as a way to solve the water supply problems in the urban areas. The key
element of the scheme is an 80 km long tunnel from below Huairen Reservoir to existing rivers and
eventually to Dahuofang Reservoir. The capacity of the scheme would be 1.8 billion m3/a and the basic
costs would be Y6.7 billion. A further YI0 billion would be required to distribute the increased flows to the
urban centers for which the supply is intended. A rough estimate of the AIC for this scheme is Yl .5-3.0/m3
(however, the figures are sensitive to assumptions about the rate at which the demand is taken up and the
O&M costs).
For comparison, the AIC costs for water supply augmentation in two cities in Hebei have been estimated at
Y1.34 and Yl.66/m3.
There are no data available at present on the price or costs of irrigation water supplies.
The difference between the present actual tariffs recovered and the real costs of water supply represents, in
broad terms, the magnitude of the indirect support that the governments (at all levels) provide to water
users. There is not enough information on usage patterns to allow an estimation to be made of the demand
curve and therefore an approximation to be made of the real levels of support being provided.
Analysis of AIC estimates can provide insights into the overall water resources challenge but does not bring
out the problems of peaks in demand, which are critical both to system design and to the reliability of the
supply. Since some of the key components of the costs of water supply schemes are related to capacity to
deal with peaks in supply or to provide security in infrequent droughts, a more sophisticated analysis would
have to take these into account.
The broad conclusion from these figures is that the costs of augmenting urban water supply are somewhere
in the range of YO.6/m3 to more than Y3.0/m3. Pollution of the groundwater-affecting the cheapest and
most accessible source--will continue to drive up the costs of water supply, and therefore effective
measures to reduce that pollution can provide benefits in terms of water supply costs. However,
measurement of these benefits is complicated and uncertain.
Range of Interventions and Cost Effectiveness
The water resources problems in Liaoning Province are particularly complex because of the overall
pressures on resources; the close connection between surface and groundwater; and the relatively high
volumes of wastewater discharged in urban areas, in relation to typical river flows. Dealing with these
problems and ensuring adequate supplies of water for human, productive and ecosystem requirements will
need an integrated and sustained effort. The Province is beginning to come to grips with these issues and
the LIEP Water Resources Management Project is providing an analytic basis for determining priorities but
progress is still slow.
- 46 -



The recent inclusion of groundwater resources under the responsibility of the Department of Water
Conservancy was a significant step in achieving a comprehensive approach. A proposal has been put
forward for an aquifer study, to be financed under this project and carried out in conjunction with the
Department of Water Conservancy, which would examine the impacts of pollution on water resources. The
study could also examine the feasibility of increasing groundwater recharge at key locations.
Any integrated approach must deal with a number of key issues including: more efficient use of water in
agriculture and reduced demands in industry and urban uses; improved conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater resources in order to deal with peak demands; significant reductions in pollution loads from
industry and from urban areas; and careful economic justification of any major expansion of supply
systems. Varied progress is being made on these issues, some of which are of direct concern to this project.
Demand Management. There are a number of different long-term demand projections for the province,
which provide different results. It is understood that these differences are under review by the Provincial
Government and that Liaoning will be included in a national Demand Management Pilot Project starting in
2001, with support from the UK Department for Intemational Development. Overall, domestic demand
projections are reasonably consistent with national figures but there are variations that need to be examined
carefully in the projected agricultural and industrial demands.
Per Capita Demands. All the project cities have made projections of water use, which provide a basis for
the design estimates of wastewater flows. However, reliable information is lacking for accurate water
demand and wastewater flow projections.
Domestic Water Demand Projection
Total
Core Urban   Per Capita    Domestic
City     Year    PopUlan  Consumption    Demand
Population                   Demand
Vlc/d        (m31d)
2010        640,000       138             88,320
Ji.zhou    2025        740,000       150            111,000
Panjin    2010          550,000       130            71,500
2025        691,200       160            110,592
2010       4,540,000      171            776,340
Shenyang   2025        4,780,000       174            831,720
.gkou    2010        520,000       120             62,400
Yingkou    2025      600,000       130             78,000
Note: Shenyang included for comparison purposes.
- 47 -



Wastewater Flow Projection
Domestic    Industrial        Total
City     Year   Wastewater  Wastewater  Wastewater
m3/d          m3/d      Demand m3/d
Jinzhou    2010           70,656        82,800        153,456
2025          88,800        87,120        175,920
Panjin    2010           57,200       146,160        203,360
2025          88,474       151,920        240,394
2010         621,072       896,880      1,517,952
Shenyang   2025          665,376       922,480       1,587,856
2010          49,920       187,280        237,200
2025          62,400       246,720        309,120
These estimates have been discussed at each stage of project development and in most cases, the figures
have been revised downward, to reflect the increasing pressures on water supply and projected changes in
industry structure toward more efficient and less water-intensive firms. It is to be expected that the industry
restructuring and productivity improvements will keep down growth in industrial usage, especially if water
tariffs continue to rise as anticipated. However, there is still concern that the current and projected water
use figures for Shenyang are high in comparison to other major Chinese cities, particularly in such a
water-scarce area.
The uncertainties in the projections of water demands and wastewater flows cannot be resolved in the near
term. It is important therefore to strengthen measures to bring water demands into line with the available
resources, taking into account the increasing real costs of expanding the overall water supply. It is also
essential to allow sufficient flexibility in water supply and wastewater planning to adjust to changes in the
type, size and location of future demands.
Demand Management Efforts. Population and industrial output will continue to grow in Liaoning but
gross per capita usage must be reduced. The figures for purely domestic use are reasonable and consistent
with Chinese design figures. However, major efficiencies in industrial demand must be achieved as industry
pattems change and the high "institutional" usage needs to be reduced. The difficulties in assessing the
impact of the floating population makes per capita figures unreliable but there is clearly, a need for strong,
ongoing efforts to reduce water and wastewater volumes.
It is essential for water and wastewater tariffs to be set at levels which ensure financial viability and
promote conservation, in accordance with State Government principles. The Bank intends to review of the
success of the water conservation component in Dalian in the LEP and of lessons that may be applied
generally. The socioeconomic survey demonstrated a weak understanding by the population of the
importance of conservation. Increased efforts should be put into providing the public with information on
water conservation and pollution reduction and an amount has been included under the Institutional
Strengthening technical assistance for this.
All industrial pollution control interventions should support efforts to move toward less water-intensive
industry and should promote cleaner production, water conservation and waste minimization. Specific
criteria and conditions will be included in the different components.
- 48 -



Understanding the Costs of Increasing Water Usage. Although some of these costs are broad estimates
and will need to be refined, they do indicate that the real costs of expanding water use in the Liao River
Basin will be high. Adding the costs of treatment (at 0.8 of the quantity) to the costs of supply show that
the average financial costs of water in the central basin area will be of the order of Y3.8/m3 once
wastewater treatment is provided and that these costs will continue to increase as the marginal costs of
supply go up.
Since typical tariffs at present (for water plus wastewater) total less than Y2/m3, and the current combined
demands in the project cities are about 3.3 million m3 a day, the potential financing gap is of the order of
Y2 billion a year, unless demand falls or tariffs increase.
Benefits of Reclaiming Water. In the circumstances of the basin, opportunities for recycling or reclaiming
water need to be pursued as strongly as possible. (Recycling refers to reuse of water within a process or
plant; reclairned water is wastewater which is treated to a degree which allows it to be used again, typically
for industrial or agricultural purposes.)
The use of reclaimed water in the basin is increasing. For example, the Angang Steel Plant is Anshan has
constructed a reclamation plant, with the support of LEP, from which all the water is used in the plant for
slag quenching and other low-grade uses. The city of Tieling (which was initially in this project) is now
understood to be redesigning its wastewater plant to provide reclaimed water to supply the nearby power
station. A reclaimed water plant at Benxi will provide water to the Bengang Steel Works, supplying over
100,000 m3/day at an estimated average cost of YO.6/m3, including depreciation. This figure is below the
estimated marginal costs of increased supply to Bengang, particularly since there are no distribution works
required.
In practice, there is also considerable "informal" reuse of water in the basin, especially in agriculture, since
at times the lower reaches of the rivers consist predominantly of wastewater flows. The figures quoted
above for the impacts of wastewater on agricultural and aquaculture productivity clearly demonstrate that
this type of informal reuse has significant costs.
Wastewater Interception and Treatment. In the conditions of Liaoning Province, the impacts of
untreated wastewater discharges are severe and treatment is clearly necessary. In contrast to other
situations in China where the discharges are to large watercourses which have the capacity to cope with
such loads, at least in the short to medium term, the Liao River system is already heavily overloaded by
wastewater, to the point where discharges from some of the major cities are greater in volume than the
rivers to which they discharge for large parts of the year. The provincial requirements for secondary
treatment with ammonia removal appear to be appropriate in this context. However, the investments under
this project are focused on the removal of COD, with ammonia removal as a later stage of treatment. The
most useful basis for evaluation of the schemes proposed is therefore the incremental costs (measured as
AIC) of COD removal and of wastewater treatment.
To some degree, improvement of the levels of wastewater being discharged will protect the existing surface
water and groundwater resources (particularly the latter) and therefore could in theory be costed at the
shadow price of new water sources. However, there is currently no basis for establishing the relationship
between reduced pollution and volumes of groundwater protected, although this is one of the issues that
should be addressed in the aquifer study proposed under the project. For the present, therefore, the key
criterion is the cost effectiveness of pollution removal from the system.
- 49 -



Unit Costs. Estimates have been made of the AIC of the wastewater interception and treatment components
proposed under this project. On the basis of the figures presently used for project costs, the figures are as
follows.
Table: AIC Estimates
COMPONENT                           AIC COD                 AIC flow
(Y/ton)                 Y/m3
Jinzhou                              3,420                    0.99
Panjin                               3,301                    0.89
Shenyang                             2,703                    0.83
Yingkou municipal                    2,765                    0.91
Yingkou industrial                    261                 Not applicable
The variability in the AIC for COD removal relates mainly to the different assumptions on influent quality,
as well as site-specific factors. The figures compare satisfactorily with the figure of Y3,600/ton estimated
for secondary treatment in the Chongqing Urban Environment Project.
The low costs of COD removal at the Yingkou Paper Mill reflect the technical efficiency of treating
concentrated waste streams and reinforce the importance in the river basin context of also tackling the
major industrial point sources. In discussions on the proposed expansion of the EPB's Revolving Fund for
Industrial Pollution Control, it has been recommended that the AIC of COD removal should be one of the
basic criteria for evaluating proposals.
The AICs for flow are consistent with the range of Y0.73-1.25/m3 calculated for plants in the recently
approved Hebei Urban Environment Project.
Since there are no ongoing Wastewater Companies in the project, there is no baseline for the real average
costs of operating the sewerage system, including collection, interception and treatment. Estimates were
provided of the basic cost of running the existing Northern Treatment Plant in Shenyang, giving a figure of
about YO.4/m3, which does not include depreciation or sludge management. Allowing a reasonable amount
for these factors, the real costs would probably be about Y0.8/m3, which is consistent with the estimates
for the new investments. The costs associated with the collection system and interceptors, as a first
approximation, would be of the same order, giving an estimated average cost of the system of Y1 .6/m3.
- 50 -



Willingness to Pay and Affordability
Wastewater tariff levels needed to cover the cost of existing operations and new services are estimated in
financial analysis. Recommended tariff increases are step by step until 2006 to achive a break-even positio
in 2007. Tariffs remain constant in real terms after 2006. The recommended tariffs for residential users
range from 0.57 to 1.50 per cubic meter in 2006. They vary across project cities due to differences in
project costs, distribution of users, and population. On average, household expenditure on wastewater
treatment will range from 0.27 to 1.05 percent of average household income. Analysis by income group
shows that for the poorest 10 percent of each project city's population, expenditure on wastewater treatment
will be 0.6 to 2.2 percent of household income. This broadly refects that the tariff rates are affordable.
Initial conclusions from the socioeconomic survey show that most of the households are willing to pay
wastewater tariffs at 0.40 Yuan per cubic meter. The results also broadly indicate that neither households
nor industry would reduce their usage much if water prices double or even triple. A surprisingly high
percentage, up to 20 percent in the Shenyang sample, buy bottled water or install filters because of
concems about water quality. The results also show a broad acceptance of the need to pay for wastewater,
even at prices above the current level. The overall conclusion is that affordability is not a general issue,
although it is of course more of a concem for those without regular incomes.
Summary of benefits and costs:
Addressed in the above text.
Main Assumptions:
Addressed in the above text.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
See AIC data quoted in the above text.
- 51 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
Main assumptions:
Provincial and Municipal Finances
1.     Assumptions for Financial Projections. The assumptions made when calculating the projections
of the on-budget revenue and expenditure statements of (a) Liaoning Province; and (b) Jinzhou, Panjin, and
Yingkou Municipalities for the period 2001-06 are set out below. On-budget revenues are those arising
from taxes levied on enterprises operating in these areas; off-budget revenues consist of special fees to
enterprises and are used chiefly for capital expenditures.
2.      Revenue Forecast. The actual (1998-2000) on-budget revenue figures have been derived from
data provided by the provincial and municipal governments. Between 1998 and 2000, the average annual
increase in revenue was between -1.5 and 5.6 percent in current terms. To estimate future revenues, an
overall conservative average annual increase of about 3 percent for Liaoning Province and 5.5 percent for
the municipalities in current terms has been assumed using 2000 as the base year.
3.      Expenditure Forecast. Historically, on-budget expenditures have registered between 95 to 100
percent of on-budget revenues. To estimate future expenditures, an overall average annual increase of
about 100 percent in current terms has been assumed using 2000 as the base year.
4.      The following tables summarize projected revenue and expenditure data from 2001 to 2006 for
Liaoning Province and the participating municipalities. Projected project expenditures are also included.
Table 1: Liaoning Provincial Finances
(Y billion, current terms)
Actual  Actual  Actual   Proj.   Proj.   Proj.   Proj.   Proj.   Proj.   Proj.
1998    1999    2000   2001   2002    2003    2004    2005   2006   2007
Receipts             62.05   72.69   72.98   65.21   69.22   73.64   78.49   76.79   81.96   87.65
Expenditures         61.43   72.69   72.98   65.21   69.22   73.64   78.49   76.79   81.96   87.65
Project Expenditures     -       -       -    0.08    0.50    0.35    0.34    0.17    0.05      -
Project as %ofReceipts   -       -       -    0.12    0.72    0.48    0.43    0.22    0.06
- 52 -



Table 2: Municipal Finances
(Y million, current terms)
Actual  Actual  Budget    Proj.   Proj.   Proj.   Proj.    Proj.   Proj.   Proj.
1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005    2006    2007
Jinzhou
Receipts               2,260    2,300    2,403    2,520    2,642    2,775    2.918    3,073    3,529    3,728
Expenditures           2,260    2,300    2,403    2,520    2,642    2,775    2,918    3,073    3,239    3,728
Project Expenditures       -        -       -       21      152      73       80       23       8        -
Project as % of Receipts   -        -       -    0.83      5.75     2.63    2.74     0.75     0.23       -
Panjin
Receipts               1,793    1,900    1,714    1,630    1,694    1,765    1,853    1,939    2,043    2,156
Expenditures           1,783    1,903    1,667    1,630    1,694    1,765    1,853    1,949    2,043    2,156
Project Expenditures       -        -       -       53       62      83       85       27       9        -
Project as % of Receipts   -        -       -    3.25      3.66     4.70    4.59     1.39     0.44       -
Yingkou
Receipts               2,074    2.275    2,386    2,536    2,697    2,870    3,054    3,252    3,463    3,690
Expenditures           1,971    2,228    2,327    2,473    2,630    2,798    2,978    3,170    3,377    5,597
Project Expenditures       -        -       -        4      191     113      125       55      24        -
Projectas%ofReceipts       -        -       -    0.16      7.08     3.94    4.09     1.69     0.69
Public Utility Financial Analysis
5.      Wastewater Companies. Prior to the establishment of the wastewater companies of Jinzhou,
Panjin, Shenyang and Yingkou during project preparation, wastewater collection, treatment and disposal
were the responsibility of the Municipal Engineering Departments of the cities. Budgetary allocations were
made to fund these services. As is the practice in departmental operations, no provision was made for
depreciation. The financial objectives of the municipalities for their wastewater companies are that they
should be permitted to set and maintain their tariffs at levels that, at the least, would pennit them to break
even (i.e., wastewater revenues to cover operating costs and the greater of depreciation and debt service).
The wastewater companies would incur no additional debt without the Bank's agreement unless reasonable
forecasts show they would have a debt service coverage of at least 1.3 times.
6.      All participating wastewater companies have recently introduced wastewater tariffs, to be based on
80 percent of water consumption for both domestic and nondomestic consumers. Wastewater tariffs will be
collected by the water supply companies and the proceeds passed to the wastewater companies, less
handling charges. Industries with self-supply but which discharge to the sewer system will be billed by the
water-saving department in each city. The proceeds of the collections will be passed to the wastewater
companies.
7.      The actual and projected tariffs over the implementation period of the project are given in Table 3.
They include the portion (30 percent of the tariff rate) to be turned over to LFD for the financing of
wastewater investments in the province. The assumptions used in the financial projections are set out
below. The projected operational and financial statements are included in the Project File (see Annex 8).
- 53 -



Table 3: Actual and Projected Tariffs
(Y/m3, current prices)
Actual  Actual   Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.  Proj.
2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009
Jinzhou WW          0.17   0.29   0.40   0.47   0.56   0.68   0.88   0.92   0.95   0.99
Panjin WW           0.16   0.34   0.39   0.47   0.52   0.60   0.62   0.64   0.66   0.68
Yingkou WW          0.16   0.25   0.34   0.46   0.62   0.77   1.03   1.07   1.11   1.14
ASSUMPTIONS TO UTILITY FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Wastewater Companies
8.     Assumptions to the projections of the main financial statements of Jinzhou Drainage Management
Company (JDMC), Panjin Drainage Management Company (PDMC) and Yingkou Drainage Company
(YDC) for the period 2001-15 have been prepared.
9.     Inflation and Exchange Rates. Yearly general domestic inflation rates used in the projections are
2.0 percent in 2001 and 3.0 percent thereafter. Foreign price increases are estimated at 3.7 percent in 2002,
2.6 percent in 2003 and 2.2 percent thereafter. The exchange rate used to convert foreign costs to local
currency, where applicable, was Y8.3 per $1.0. It is assumed that exchange rate adjustments would, on
average, maintain purchasing power parity over the projection period.
Income Statement
10.    Sales. Projections of sewage quantities are based on "minimum demand" and maximum capacity
figures, and at the equivalent of 80 percent of water bills.
11.    Tariffs. Tariffs quoted in Table 3 above are gross average tariffs, and prices are expressed in yuan
per m3.
12.    Operating Costs. Salaries, wages and staff benefits are assumed to increase at the rates given in
para. 9 above. Energy, materials and other costs are assumed to increase in line with general inflation also.
For JDMC, PDMC and YDC, the following depreciation rates have been applied to (a) assets over 15
years: 2.5 percent per year, and (b) assets under 15 years: 7.0 percent per year. The entities will be exempt
from sales and income taxes.
13.    Interest and Amortization Expenses. The proceeds of the IBRD loan are assumed to be onlent to
JDMC, PDMC and YDC at 6.0 percent a year. Amortization of loans would be on the basis of equal
payments of principal and interest. The companies would bear the foreign exchange risk. The
municipalities would provide the local capital counterpart funds as capital grants.
Balance Sheet
14.    Inventories. Inventories have been projected to take into account general inflation as well as any
expanded levels of operations and construction.
15.    Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable is assumed to be as follows: JDMC--72 days;
PDMC--72 days; and YDC--72 days.
- 54 -



Source and Application of Funds
16.   Working Capital Needs. Working capital needs represent the excess, or otherwise, of the current
year's current assets (net of cash), less the excess of the previous year's current assets (net of cash) over
current liabilities.
17.   Change in Cash. Change in cash (which includes short-term investments) calculates the balance
sheet cash balance for the current year.
Paper-Making Companies Financial Analysis
Yingkou Paper-Making Company
Financing Plan. The table below shows the financing plan for the Yingkou Paper-Making Company (YPMC).
The proceeds from the World Bank loan would cany a LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loan interest
rate plus a spread of 1.5 percent per year, a commitment charge of 0.75 percent, and a front-end fee of 1
percent, which would be financed under the loan. The maturity would be 10 years, including 4 years of grace.
YPMC would.carry the foreign exchange risk.
Y million    =
Project cost                138.4     100
Local bank loan             26.4       19
World Bank loan             112.0      81
Total                       138.4     100
Financial Performance. The company has not made a profit for the last four years. However, reforms begun
in 2000 which focus on controlling costs and expenses, post-efficiency salary system, reduction in staff, etc.,
are expected to make YPMC profitable from 2001. Ten-year projections prepared by YPMC show a profit
from 2001 onward, with the company generating substantial cash surpluses from about 2003 onward. Between
2001 and 2002, most of the profit arises from pulp sales, which show about a two-and-a-half-fold increase in
tons produced. From 2003, sales of binder would substantially increase profits. The company has so far
financed its operation and expansions mainly through short-term and long-term debt.
In order to ensure financial viability of the Yingkou Paper-Making Company, agreement would be reached at
negotiations that Yingkou Municipality would ensure that commencing in fiscal year 2001, YPMC: (a)
achieves a quick ratio of 0.8; (b) maintains a current ratio of 1.5; and (c) maintains a debt service coverage of
1.4 times.
The risk of nonrepayment of Bank loan proceeds is minimal as Yingkou Municipality (a) being the company's
owner, would repay in the event of default by YPMC; (b) is willing to absorb the financial responsibility; (c)
intends to operate the company for some time as it has just begun major reforms to ensure its long-term
profitability; and (c) recognized that YPMC is a major employer within the city.
Jincheng Paper-Making Company
Financing Plan. The table below shows the financing plan for the Jincheng Paper-Making Company (JPMC).
The proceeds from the World Bank loan would carry a LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loan interest
- 55 -



rate plus a spread of 1.5 percent per year, a commitment charge of 0.75 percent, and a front-end fee of 1
percent, which would be financed under the loan. The maturity would be 10 years, including 4 years of grace.
JPMC would carry the foreign exchange risk.
Y million     
Project cost               114.2      100
Local bank loan             30.2       26
World Bank loan             84.0       74
Total                      114.2      100
Financial Performance. Financial statements from 1996 show that JPMC made net profits of about 9 percent
per year on turnover. Ten-year projections prepared by JPMC continue to show healthy profits, with the
company generating substantial cash surpluses in the outer years. Sales of binder from about 2002 would
account for the increased profits. The company has so far financed its operations and expansions through a
combination of short-term and long-term debt and intemal cash generation. From 2004 onward, JPMC's
projections through 2010 show no more long-term borrowings.
In order to ensure financial viability of the Jincheng Paper-Making Company, agreement would be reached at
negotiations that Jinzhou Municipality would ensure that commencing in fiscal year 2001, JPMC (a) achieves
a quick ratio of 0.8; (b) maintains a current ratio of 1.5; and (c) maintains a debt service coverage of 1.4
times.
The risk of nonrepayment of Bank loan proceeds is minimal as Jinzhou Municipality (a) being the company's
owner, would repay in the event of default by JPMC; (b) is willing to absorb the financial responsibility; and
(c) intends to operate the company for some time as it is a major employer within the city.
- 56 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
Procurement
1.    Procurement Capacity Assessment. Two sets of procurement laws and regulations exist
in China for procurement administration--Chinese bidding regulations, and procedures for
procurement financed by external donors. This status is expected to continue until a National
Procurement Law is adopted. This law is under preparation with the assistance of ADB.
However, Bank-financed procurement has been carried out satisfactorily through exemptions to
the domestic bidding requirements.
2.    All Chinese agencies using own funds are required to operate within the framework of
Chinese procurement regulations issued by the MOF, MOC and other sector ministries. Some
provisions in these regulations that are inconsistent with Bank procurement guidelines and
procedures include: preferential bid notification, short bidding period, preferential prequalification
methods, and bracketing and merit point system for bid evaluation. Since the last Bank CPAR
review of 1997, a number of changes in procurement practices have taken place in China: (a) the
Government has adopted the Construction Law of PRC (November 1997), and the PRC Bidding
Law (January 2000), (c) the State Development and Planning Commission (SDPC) has mandated
national newspapers for notification of ICB bid invitations, and (d) the Ministry of Foreign Trade
and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC) has recommended contract award for mechanical and
electrical equipment to lowest evaluated bidders.
3.    Special provisions in the Chinese Public Procurement Regulations specifically exempt
Bank-fnanced procurement from the requirement to observe Chines bidding regulations. In other
past and ongoing Bank-financed projects, Bank procurement guidelines and procedures have been
used without exception, satisfactorily, with two exceptions. These relate to the practice of
notification of bid invitations in provincial newspapers, and updating the General Procurement
Notice (GPN) annually. The SDPC has issued instructions in 2000, regarding bid invitation
notifications in designated national newspapers.
4.    The primary coordinating agency, LUCRPO, has acquired experience of World Bank
procurement procedures through implementing three urban infrastructure projects during the last
15 -years. LUCRO has a solid core of procurement staff with considerable experience in
procurement management. LUCRPO is responsible for preparation and issue of bidding
documents on behalf of all project agencies, incorporating bills of quantities and drawings
provided by project cities. The cities are responsible for opening bids, evaluation, award, and
signature of contracts and administration of contracts. LUCRPO performance in all stages of
procurement administration has been satisfactory. One project agency has had experience with
Bank financed projects. Procurement staff in the project agencies has limited experience in
Bank-financed procurement. The Liaoning Provincial Government has reaffirmed that all
Bank-financed procurement will be carried out in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines.
- 57 -



5.    The agreed action plan of the Procurement Capacity Assessment Report (a copy is in the
Project File; see Annex 8) includes: (a) implementing a an intensive training program on
procurement for staff of project agencies; (b) updating of GPNs annually; (c) completing 20
percent detailed engineering design and bid documents by appraisal (achieved); (d) appointing an
international tendering company for ICB procurement activities, by negotiations (achieved); and
(e) inserting bid invitation notifications in national newspapers as instructed by SDPC.
6.    Procurement Methods  (Table  A). Procurement procedures and  arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank, as reflected in Table A, were agreed upon with the Liaoning Urban
Construction Renewal Office (LUCRPO) and the implementing agencies. All procurement would
be undertaken in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines--"Procurement Under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996,
September 1997 and January 1999, and "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999. If none is
available, procedures shall be consistent with Bank Guidelines and approved by the Bank.
7.    The China NCB procedures for works have been reviewed by the World Bank Group and
found some deviations in the internal procurement procedures, such as bracketing and merit point
system used in prequalification and bid evaluation. The Implementation Agencies are fully
committed to strictly comply with the Bank's procurement procedures/policies for the
Bank-financed contracts. In case there are any discrepencies between local policy and the Bank's
requiremeent, the Bank policy and guidelines will prevail. The Liaoning Municipal Government
shall pay particular attention to ensure that the following procedures are followed:
(a)   all invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper of national
circulation in the Borrower's country;
(b)   such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to obtain
prequalification or bidding docuemtns and prepare and submit their responses; and in any
event a minimum of 30 days shall be given to bidders between the date of advertisement in
such newspaper and the deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and
bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such submission;
(c)   qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the qualification of
- each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding documents;
(d)   all bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient to protect the
Project Municipality in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding
documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security;
(e)   the time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such bids;
(f)   all bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an opportunity to be present
(either in person or through their representatives) at the time of bid opening; but bidders
shall not be required to be present at the bid opening;
- 58 -



(g)   no bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside any standard
contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids established by the Project
Municipality; and
(h)   each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder, that is to say, the bidder
who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose bid has been
determined (i) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents and (ii) to offer the
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a condition of award,
to undertake responsibillities for work not stipulated in the bidding documents or
otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted.
8.    Procurement Arrangements. LUCRPO has appointed China International Tendering
Company(CITC) and Shenyang Tendering Center (STC) to provide assistance in ICB
procurement activities. Both companies have been engaged in procurement activities of past
World Bank-financed projects in Liaoning Province. CITC, a specialized procurement agency, is a
subsidiary of the China National Technical Import & Export Corporation (CNTIC), and was
founded in 1984. Up to 1998, the total value of ICB procurement managed by CITC had reached
$16.2 billion. The Shenyang Tendering Center was found in 1986 and it was authorized by the
State Economic and Trade Commission in 1989 to handle the international procumbent for the
World Bank financed projects in China. It has managed 94 ICB contracts with a total value of
$146 million since 1989. Both tendering companies are competent procurement agents
experienced in international competitive bidding (ICB) work on Bank Group-financed projects.
The General Procurement Notice (GPN) was published in the UN Development Business, No 546
dated November 16, 2000; it would be updated annually. Tender documents to be used for ICB
would be those agreed between the World Bank and the Government, and other standard bidding
documents of the World Bank. Tender documents to be used in the project for international and
national competitive bidding (NCB) would be based on Model Bidding Documents (MBDs) (May
1997), agreed between the World Bank Group and the Government and where these are not
available, Bank Standard bidding documents would be used. All works contracts will be grouped
whenever practical into contract packages of estimated value equivalent to $6.0 million or more
each, and all goods contracts will be grouped whenever practical into contract packages of
estimated value equivalent to $300,000 or more each, which would be procured through ICB
procedures.
9.    Civil Works. Total value of civil works is estimated at about $73.0 million, of which
about $17.6 million (24 percent) would be procured through ICB procedures. ICB procedures
would be used for all civil works contracts of estimated value more than equivalent of $6.0 million
each. Civil works that are small, scattered, scheduled too far apart to be packaged into larger
contracts, or would not attract the interest of foreign bidders, estimated to cost about $50.7
million (69 percent), would be awarded through NCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. NCB
procurement to be used in Liaoning for Bank-financed procurement have been reviewed by the
Bank recently, and were found to be satisfactory. Interested foreign bidders would be allowed to
bid for NCB contracts. Post-qualification of contractors would be adopted as appropriate.
Domestic preference would not apply for works contracts.
- 59 -



10.   Goods. Excluding equipment to be procured under environment subloans, the total value
of goods is estimated at about $62.4 million, of which about $58.6 million (some 94 percent)
would be procured using ICB procedures. All goods contracts of estimated value more than the
equivalent of $300,000 each, would be procured using ICB procedures. Goods estimated to cost
less than $300,000 equivalent for each contract, would be procured using NCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank, up to an aggregate amount of $1.5 million. Post-qualification of suppliers
would be adopted as appropriate. Domestic preference would apply for goods contracts.
Contracts for goods costing $ 50,000 equivalent each or less, up to an aggregate amount of $0.5
million, would be procured through national shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank, based
on comparison of priced quotations obtained from at least three suppliers with award to the
lowest evaluated responsive bidder in accordance with Articles 3.5-3.6 of the Guidelines.
11.   Environment Subloans. Goods financed under subloans would be procured in
accordance with established local private sector or commercial practices, which have been found
acceptable to the Bank. Such practices include price comparisons from at least three qualified
suppliers whenever possible. Services (e.g., design and supervisory consultants services) less than
$200,000 equivalent would be procured in accordance with commercial practices, which have
been found to be acceptable to the Bank.
12.   Technical Assistance and Training. All consultants to be engaged under the project
would be procured in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, and revised in September
1997 and January 1999. Contracts estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $200,000 or
more would be procured using Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures, seeking
expressions of interest through notification in the UN Development Business. For contracts
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent, national consultants may be engaged using QCBS
or Quality Based Selection (QBS) procedures. For contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent for firms or $50,000 for individuals, single-source selection may be used, with the prior
agreement of the Bank. Consultants would be engaged using the Bank's Standard Form of
Contract for Consultants' Services--July 1997. Drafts of Letters Invitation and Terms of
Reference for Financial and Institutional Support (Package A) and Construction Supervision
Services (Package D) would be reviewed at negotiations. Details of Packages A, Package B
(Other-Studies and Future Project Preparation), Package C (Training and Study Tours) and
Package D, are sumnrnarized in Annex 2. The signing of contracts for Package A and Package C
is a condition of disbursement for civil works. Terms of reference for Packages A and D are in
the Project File. The estimated value of technical assistance is $9.3 million.
13.   Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing of up to $6 million would be applied to
expenditures incurred after March 21, 2001, for (a) Panj in: interceptor and two pump stations, (b)
Yingkou: (i) interceptor; (ii) sewer upgrading; (iii) reinforced double-box culvert; and (c) Jinzhou:
reinforced double-box culvert.
14.   Reserved Procurement. Expenditures not financed by the Bank loan will reserved for
procurement by the Liaoning Provincial Government using direct contracting procedures. These
- 60 -



include: (a) expenditure of about $7.6 million on land and resettlement, and (b) expenditure of
about $4.7 million for civil works in Panjin (for the interceptor) and Yingkou Paper Mill (red
liquor abstraction and evaporation), and for goods for electricity supply to pump stations and
treatment plants, computer hardware and sofware, and data collection under the Jinzhou UMIS
component. Single-source selection would be utilized for contracts for staff training and studies
costing less than $100,000 per contract in the case of firms, and less than $50,000 per contract in
the case of individuals. Standard Request for Proposals, dated July 6, 1997, revised in April 1998
and July 1999, will be used to procure consultant services.
15.    Engineering  and  Management Costs. Engineering and management overhead of
implementing agencies, not financed under the project is estimated at $10.8 million equivalent.
Procurement Contract Packaging
16.    Contract Packaging. Contract packaging for the project is provided in Tables D and E,
showing the works, goods and services contracts proposed for each component.
17.   Procurement Schedule for Civil Works and Goods. (Table E). This schedule is in the
Project File (Annex 8); a summary is shown in Annex 11
Procurement methods (Table A)
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in $ million equivalent)
Total Cost
Expenditure Category                    Procurement Method                    (including
_____________________________  ICB        NCB         Other       NBF        Contingencies)
1. Civil Works                     17.6        50.7                     4.7          73.0
(7.1)      (20.3)        -          (0.0)        (27.4)
2. Goods                           58.6          1.5        0.5          1.8          62.4
(51.6)       (1.3)       (0.4)       (0.0)        (53.3)
3. Subloans                                                20.0                       20.0
(10.0)                   (10.0)
4. Services                                                  8.3         0.4           8.7
(8.3)       (0.0)        (8.3)
5. Miscellaneous                                             -         20.7           20.7
-  -        -          (0.0)         (0.0)
6. Interest during construction                  -           -          17.8          17.8
-  -        -          (0.0)        (0.0)
7. Front-end Fee                                 -           1.0          -            1.0
(1.0)                    (1.0)
Total                       76.2        52.2        29.8        45.4         203.6
(58.7)     (21.6)       (19.7)       (0.0)       (100.0)
Note:  Other = procurement through national shopping, (also for subloans under the Environment
Revolving Subloan facility), consultant services and training, and front-end fee.
NBF = Non-Bank-financed includes land acquisition and resettlement, reserved procurement,
(e.g., power supply contracts), project agency costs for design and administration, and interest
during construction.
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be finance d by the Bank loan.
- 61 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
4Expedtre Category   QCBS    QBS      SFB     LCS      CQ      Othher   N.8.F. Total Cost'
A. Firms              8.10    0.20    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.40      8.70
(8.10)  (0.20)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (8.30)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
Total  8.10    0.20    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.40      8.70
(8.10) , (0.20)  (0.00) - (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (8.30)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
(Not all selection methods currently anticipated)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 62 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Prior Review Thresholds (Table B)
18.   Prior review procedures would be used for (a) all civil works contracts (2 contracts,
representing about 24 percent of value of works) estimated to cost the equivalent of $6.0 million
or more per contract, (b) all goods contracts (about 16 contracts, representing about 94 percent
of value of goods), estimated to cost $300,000 or more per contract, and (c) consultant services
contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more per contract for finns, and the
equivalent of $50,000 or more per contract for individuals. In the case of consultant services, all
terms of reference and single-source selections, regardless of their value, would be subject to
prior review.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subject to
Threshold               Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category                                   Method
1. Works                 More than $6.0 million           ICB                    2 contracts
$14.4 million subject to
prior review
NCB                   16 contracts
$39.7 million not subject to
prior review
2. Goods                 More than $0.3 million           ICB                   16 contracts
$58.6 million subject to
prior review
Between $0.3 million and         NCB                    5 contracts
$0.05 million                               $1.3 million not subject to
prior review
Up to $0.05 million      National Shopping     $0.4 million not subject to
prior review
3. Services              More than $0.10 million      QCBS or QBS           $6.2 million subject to
for firms, more than $0.05                              prior review
million for individuals
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $70.1 million (62%)
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
- 63 -



Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-64 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
19.   Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C). Allocation of loan procceds is shown in Table
C.
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category    Loan Amount          Financing Percentage
in $ million
Civil Works                     25.0      40% of expenditures
Goods                           51.0      100% of foreign expenditures or 100%
of local expenditures for locally
manufactured goods or 75% of local
expenditures for other items pro cured
locally
Subloans                        10.0     95% of amounts disbursed
Consultancy Services &           8.0      100% of expenditures
Training
Front-end Fee                    1.0      100%
Unallocated                      5.0
Total                   100.0
20.    Use of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Withdrawal from the loan amount would be made on
the basis of SOEs for expenditures for: (a) civil works under contracts costing less than $6.0 million; (b)
goods under contracts costing less than $300,000; (c) training; (d) services provided by consulting firms
under contracts costing less than $100,000; (e) amounts disbursed under subloans and (f) services provided
by individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000.
21.    Authorization, Allocation and Operation of Special Account. To facilitate disbursements, a
Special Account would be opened with an authorized allocation of $8 million equivalent, the estimated
average expenditures for about a four-month period.
- 65 -



Annex 6, Table D: Procurement Contract Packaging La
Pan jin: Wastewater Interception and Treatment                                             |
Contract No.   Item Description                                        Procurement Method
Civil Works
PWW/01.0       Wastewater treatment plant of 100,000 m3/d capacity,          ICB
including provision for extra foundation costs
PWWi01.02      Two new pumping stations: PS #1: Q=5951 m3/hr, and PS #2:      NCB
Q=6757 m3/hr
PWW/01.03    Interceptor: 3.0 km box culvert, 2.8m x 2.0m, 2.4m x 2.0m;       NCB
7.14 km pipeline: DN 1200 and DN 1400, and rehabilitation of
existing PSs
PWW/O1.04      Sanitary landfill for sludge disposal, adequate for at least 100  NCB
tpd for 3 years
Materials and Equipment
PWW/21.01      Supply and installation of equipment for WWTW                  ICB
PWW/2 1.02     Sludge transport vehicles                                      NCB
PWW/21.03      Equipment to be identified through IST Component             NCB/NS
Consultants Services Contracts
Contract management and supervision                            NBF
Utility Contracts
Power supply                                                   NBF
Other
Interceptor: 4.7 km box culvert 2.8 m x 2.0 m (under           NBF
construction)
Land cost including resettlement                               NBF
Yingkou Industry Wastewater Treatment                                                      |
Contract No.   Item Description                                        Procurement Method
Materials and Equipment
YPK/2 1.01     Supply and installation of red liquor abstraction equipment,   ICB
including technical assistance and training
YPK/2 1.02     Supply and installation of red liquor evaporation equipment,   ICB
including technical assistance and training
YPK/2 1.03     Equipment for process modification to reduce water use         ICB
Consultant Services Con tracts
YPK/22.01      Advisory services for process modifications to reduce water    QBS
use
Other
Civil works for red liquor abstraction and evaporation works   NBF
/a The detailed arrangements of the implementation of the first year's construction/activities are shown in
the Project Summary, including the Project Implementation Plan. See Annex 8.
- 66 -



Yingkou: Wastewater Interception and Treatment
Contract No.   Item Description                                        Procurement Method
Civil Works
YWW/01.01    Interceptor, 4.52 km. From Huochang Road - Laoyege-               NCB
Treatment plant, of DN 1400 to DN2400 of reinforced
concrete/ductile iron pipe
YWW/01.02    Interceptor, 3.00 km. From Laoyege Tre atment Plant, of           NCB
DN 1400 to DN2400 of fiberglass reinforced pipe/c oncrete box
culvert.
YWW/01 .03    Sewer upgrading in Shachangchaogu, 2.23 km. of reinforced        NCB
concrete culvert of size 3.6 m x I.8 m.
YWW/01.04    Reinforced double box culvert (sewer) in Xichaogu, 3. 1 km        NCB
long, of size 5.7 mx 2.0m, and 3.8 mx 2.Om
YWW/01.05    Upgrading five pump stations of capacities 3, 5, 6, 8, and I      NCB
m3/hr.
YWW/01.06    Urban sewer upgrading, including 3 pumping stations               NCB
YWW/0 .07    Site works at treatment plant site, including water supply 3.5   NCB
km. of DN 200
YWW/01.08    Wastewater treatment plant of capacity 100,000 m3/d,              ICB
including provision for outfall including extra foundation costs
YWW/01.09    Sanitary landfill for sludge disposal, adequate for at least 100  NCB
tpd for 3 years
Materials and Equipment
YWW/21.01    Passenger vehicles: I car, I four-wheel drive, I minibus, I bus   NCB
YWW/21.02    Office equipment including equipment to be identified through   NCB/NS
IST Component
YWW/21.03    Four sludge vehicles and loader                                   NCB
YWW/21.04    Supply and installation of equipment for WWTW                     ICB
YWW/21.05    Laboratory equipment                                              ICB
Consultants Services Contracts
YWW/22.01    Contract management and supervision                               QBS
Utility Contracts
Power supply                                                    NBF
Other
Land                                                            NBF
- 67 -



Jinzhou Industry Wastewater Treatment
Contract No.   Item Description                                           Procurement Method
Civil Works
JPM/0I.01      Civil works for new works                                         NCB
JPM/01.02      Demolition of electrolysis facility including remedial work s for  NCB
mercury recovery
Materials and Equipment
JPM/21.01      Supply, installation and commissioning chloro-alkali process       ICB
equipment
JPM/21.02      Equipment for process modification to reduce water use            ICB
JPM121.03      Laboratory and office equipment                                    ICB
Consultant Services Contracts
JPM/22.01      Advisory services for process modifications to reduce water       QBS
use
Jinzhou: Wastewater Interception and Treatment
ContractNo.   Item Description                                             Procurement Type
Civil Works
JWW/01.0      Interceptor, comprising 10.0 km reinforced concrete pipe          NCB
comprising 1.83 km. DN 1000mm, 16.92 km. DN 1600mm,
and 0.33 km of 2.2m x 2.Om triple cell culvert
JWW/01.02      Wastewater treatment plant of capacity 100,000 m31d               NCB
JWW/01.03      Sanitary landfill for sludge disposal, adequate for at least 100  NCB
tpd for 3 years
Materials and Equipment
JWW/21.01      Supply and installation of equipment for WWTW                      ICB
JWW/21.02      Sludge vehicles and landfill equipment                             ICB
JWW/21.03      Passenger vehicles (car, bus, eleven-seater van, jeep,            NCB
maintenance vehicle, water sampling car)
JWW/21.04      Sewer maintenance vehicles (1-sewer jetting vehicle, I-           ICB
vacuum tanker)
JWW121.05      Laboratory equipment                                            NCB/NS
JWW/21.06      Control Center equipment                                           ICB
JWW/21.07      Misc. office equipment including equipment to be identified     NCB/NS
through IST Component
Consultants Services Contracts
JWW/22.01      Contract management and supervision                               QBS
Utility Contracts
Power Supply                                                     NBF
Other
Site Works at Wastewater Tre atment Plant site                   NBF
Land acquisition including resettlement                          NBF
- 68 -



Urban Management Information System                                                       |
Contract No.    Item Description                                      Procurement Method
Materials and Equipment
UMIS/2 1.01      Computer hardware and software for:                          ICB
Liaoning clearing house [Y 1.7 m]
Shenyang [Y 3.3 m]
Panjin [Y 3.7 m]
Yingkou [Y 2.2 m]
UMIS/2 1.02      Data collection for:                                         ICB
Shenyang [Y 10.8 m]
Panjin [Y 1.2 m]
Yingkou [Y 2.1 ml
Consultant Services Contracts
UMIS/22.01       Advisory technical assistance, training and application     QCBS
software
Shenyang [Y 10.8 m]
Panjin [Y 3.3 m]
Yingkou [Y 1.5 m]
Liaoning clearing house [Y 0.8 m]
Other
Jinzhou- computer hardware and software                      NBF
Jinzhou- data collection                                     NBF
Jinzhou- advisory technical assistance, training and         NBF
application software
Environmental Q ality Monitoring
Contract No.    Item Description                                       Procurement Method
__ Materials and Equipment
WQM/22.01        Supply miscellaneous water and air quality monitoring    ICB/NCB/NS
equipment for water quality monitoring stations at Liaoning  (slice and package)
(Central), Dalian, Shenyang. Fuxin, Yingkou, Panjin,
I Chaoyang, Dandong, Tieling and Fushun
Environment Subloans
Contract No.    Item Description                                       Procurement Method
Subloans to Industries
Not applicable    Loans administered by Liaoning Environmental Protection     Other
Bureau and Liaoning Finance Department to industries for
pollution reduction
_  Counterpart contribution by industries                     NBF
_______ _ 0 Construction Supervision & Quality Control
Contract No.    Item Description                            Cost (Y million)  Procurement
Method
Package D        Construction supervision & quality control for       20.2      QCBS
wastewater                                      (see Note)
Note: Includes Y2.0 million for technical assistance to help improve local construction industry standards,
technical specifications and bills of quantities.
- 69 -



Annex 6, Table E: Institutional Strengthening, Studies and Training
TA    Description of Assignment                          TA Person      Training    Base cost
Ref.                                                      Months        Y million   Y million
National  Int'l
A    PACKAGE A:
FINANCIAL/INSTITUTIONAL
SUPPORT/TRAINING
Al. Panjin Drainage company                       52        9        1.2
A2. Yingkou Drainage Company                      52        9        1.3
A3. Jinzhou Drainage Management Company           50       9         1.2
A4. Panjin Municipality                           12       2         0.4
A5. Yingkou Municipality                          12       2         0.5
A6. Jinzhou Municipality                          12       2         0.4
A7: Assistance to LEPB and LFD to improve         10       2
operations of Environment Revolving Subloan
facility
Subtotal AI to A 7/a                    200       35       5.0         16.4
Procurement Method: QCBS
B      Package B: OTHER
BI. Aquifer study                                40         8
B2. Future project preparation                    5         3
Subtotal Package B                      45       11                    3.1
Procurement method: QCBS
C   PACKAGE C: TRAINING AND STUDY
TOURS
Training for provincial and municipal agencies on                                2.0
project administrati on
Subtotal Package C                                                               2.0
Procurement method: QCBS
D   PACKAGE C: CONSTRUCTION
SUPERVISION
Dl. Panjin Drainage Company                      115       15
D2. Yingkou Drainage Company                     115       15
D3. Jinzhou Drainage Management Company          115       15
[t hie Resi.ler.lf n i   el
W\V\'-[ W     .(Equip ',ltl'i 1.Xpr''gt
N,kl,chamn-a 1 I.nfi-ineer
D4. LUCRPO, and improvements to local             25       15
construction industry standards, specifications
and bills of quantities                                                        Costed
Subtotal Package D                    370/b      60                 elsewhere
Procurement Method: QCBS                                                          /b
/a This package would be managed by LUCRPO. The consultants to be retained, would make their services available to
each city according to the city's schedule of technical assistance, training and equipment procurement
/b Construction Supervision Services and Quality Control calculated as follows: Civil works @2.5 percent of
investment cost, and Equipment and Materials @ 1.0 percent of investment cost.
- 70 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
IProject Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       24                           15
First Bank mission (identification)              07/11/2000                   07/11/2000
Appraisal mission departure                      03/05/2001                   03/12/2001
Negotiations                                     05/07/2001                   05/08/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    06/21/2001                   10/31/2001
Prepared by:
Liaoning Urban Construction & Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO), under the direction of the Liaoning
Municipal Government Leading Group, and the Liaoning Construction Commission. Supported by
Liaoning Environmental Protection Bureau.
Preparation assistance:
Formulation of the River Basin Strategy and the development framework assisted by a European
Union-supported program. PHRD funds, provided by the Government of Japan; trust fumds from the
United Kingdom; loan funds from ongoing Liaoning Environment Project (3781-CHA) also utilized.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Nancy Chen                        Financial Management
Vellet Femandes                   Program Assistant
Rune Franzen                      Paper Specialist
Jack Fritz                        Environmental Assessment
Chandra Godavitame                Municipal Engineering
David Hanrahan                    Project Economics
Rajagopal Iyer                    Institutional Development
Jeffrey Lecksell                  Cartography
Bobo Lu                           Procurement
Patrick McCarthy                  Financial Analysis
Margaret Png                      Legal Counsel
Geoffrey Read                     Task Management
Keiko Sato                        Institutional Analysis
Chongwu Sun                       Environmental Assessment
George Taylor                     Water Quality & Wastewater Treatment Strategies
Chaogang Wang                     Resettlement
Dawei Yang                        Procurement
Chaohua Zhang                     Resettlement
Ming Zhang                        Urban Planning & Land Management, Task Management
- 71 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. See Item 29 below, supplemented by Items 20 and 25 below.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Bank Mission Reports, July 1999 through March 2001.
2. "Liao River Basin Overview Report," M. Warwick, October 1999.
3. Supervision Report for Liaoning Environment Project (Loan 3781 -CHA), July 1999 and subsequent.
C. Other
1. "Draft Feasibility Report, Volume 1: Summary Report," Montgomery Watson, September 2000.
2. "Draft Feasibility Report, Volume 2: City Reports (Jinzhou, Panjin, Shenyang, Yingkou),"
Montgomery Watson, September 2000.
3. "Environment Impact Assessment for the Liao River Basin Project (Final)," Liaoning Urban
Construction and Renewal Office, Liaoning Provincial Scientific Research Institute for Environment
Protection with assistance from Montgomery Watson, February 2001.
4. "Environmental Assessment Summary Report," LUCRPO and Montgomery Watson, January 2001.
5. "Environment Management Plan for the Liao River Basin Project (Draft)," Liaoning Urban
Construction and Renewal Office, Liaoning Provincial Scientific Research Institute for Environment
Protection with assistance from Montgomery Watson, January 2001.
6. "Assessment Report on Institutional Strengthening and Training Needs (Second Draft)," Consultant
Team, Tsinghua University, October 25, 2000.
7. "Resettlement Action Plan for Jinzhou Wastewater Treatment Project (Draft)," Jinzhou Drainage
Management Company, October 2000.
8. "Resettlement Action Plan for Panjin Wastewater Treatment Project (Draft)," Panjin Wastewater
Treatment Project Construction Headquarter, December 2000.
9. "Resettlement Action Plan for Shenyang Wastewater Treatment Project (Draft)," Shenyang Urban
Construction Project Office, December 2000.
10. "Resettlement Action Plan for Yingkou Wastewater Treatment Project (Draft)," Yingkou Drainage
Company, October 2000.
11. "World Bank Mission 10/30/00-11/09/00 Extracts from Draft Feasibility Study Report, Sumnmary of
WWTW Uniform Process Engineering Design and Cost Estimates," October 2000.
12. -"Report on Applying to the World Bank for the Revolving Fund Loan in Liaoning Environmental
Control (Feasibility Study for Using the Revolving Fund)," Environmental Protection Bureau of
Liaoning Province, July 2000.
13. "The Proposal of Environmental Monitoring Capacity Building in Liaoning Province (The Parts for
Applying World Bank Finance) (New Project Proposal)," Liaoning Provincial Environment Protection
Bureau, November 2000.
14. "List of Direct-Discharge Industrial Enterprises in Liao River Basin," October 2000.
15. "Assessment Report on Institutional Strengthening & Training Needs", Consultant Team, Tsinghua
University, April 2001 (Chinese and English).
16. Jincheng Paper Making Company Financial Projections, March 20011.
17. Yingkou Paper Making Company Financial Projections, March 2001.
18. Feasibility Study Report for Environment Revolvirg Fund, prepared by LEPB, February 2001.
- 72 -



19. Summary of Proposed Optional Projects Under Environment Revolving Fund Component, prepared by
LEPB, February 2001.
20. Procurement Plan Summary, prepared by LEPB, February 2001 (see Project Implementation Plan,
Item 29 below).
21. Financial Projections dated March 21, 2001 of:
* Jinzhou Drainage Management Company
* Panjin Drainage Management Company
* Yingkou Drainage Company
22. "Resettlement Action Plan for Jinzhou Wastewater Treatment Project (Draft)," Jinzhou Drainage
Management Company, March 2001; final version (English and Chinese), March 31, 2001.
23. "Resettlement Action Plan for Panjin Wastewater Treatment Project (Draft)," Panjin Wastewater
Treatment Project Construction Headquarter, March 2001; final version (English and Chinese), March
31, 2001.
24. "Resettlement Action Plan for Yingkou Wastewater Treatment Project (Draft)," Yingkou Drainage
Company, March 2001; final version (English and Chinese), March 31, 2001.
25. "Procurement Capacity Assessment Report," dated February 15, 2001, updated April 10, 2001.
26. "Final Feasibility Report, Volume 1: Summary Report," Montgomery Watson, April 2001.
27. "Final Feasibility Report, Volume 2: City Reports (Jinzhou, Panjin, Yingkou)," Montgomery Watson,
April 2001.
28. "Liao River Basin Project: Information Glossary for Project Negotiations," LUCRPO/Liaoning
Provincial Government, May 7, 2001.
29. Liao River Basin Project: Final Feasibility Report; Executive Summary and Project Implementation
Plan," LUCRPOlMontgomery Watson, April 2001.
30. "Liaoning River Basin Project: Urban Management Information System (UMIS), Appraisal
Document," LUCRPO/Meixner Consulting Engineers, March 2001.
31. Liaoning Draft Final, "Environmental Monitoring Capacity Building," Liaoning Environmental
Protection Bureau, LIEP-EU China, May 2001.
32. Draft PAD and legal documents, May 7, 2001.
Including electronic files
- 73 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project tO    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD          IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Revd
P056516       2001 WATER CONSERVATION                                 74.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      74.00       4.60      0.00
P056596       2001 SHIJIAZHUANG URBAN TRANSPORT PROJECT              100.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     100.00       0.00      0.00
P047345        2001 CH-HUAI RIVER POLLUTION CONTROL                  105.50       0.00                 0.00       0.00     105.50       0.00      0.00
P045915        2001 URUMOt URB.TRANSP                                100.00       0.00                 o.00       0.00     100.00       3.73      0.00
P058843        2000 GUANGXI HWY Project                              200.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     192.00      13.67      0.00
P042109        2000 CH-BEIJING ENVIRONMENT 11                        349.00       0.00                25.00       0.00     373.02      37.22      0.00
P058844       2000 3RD HENAN PROV HWY                                150.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     142.50      -4.83      0.00
P056424       2000 TONGBAI PUMPED STCRA                              320.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     320.00      15.23      0.00
P045264       2000 SMALLHLDR CATTLE DEV                               93.50       0.00                 0.00       0.00      83.24      21.24      0.00
P049436        2000 CN-CFIONGQING URBAN ENVIRCNMENT                  200.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     200.00       7.00      0.00
P045910       2000 CH-HEBEI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                        150.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     142.52       0.52      0.00
P064730        2000 Yangtze Dike Strengthening Project               210.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     198.90      26.40      0.00
P050036        1999 ANHUI PROVINCIAL HWY                             200.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     139.88      17.72      0.00
P051705        1999 FUJIAN 11 HWY                                    200.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     175.44      55.94      0.00
P043933        1999 CH-SICHUAN URBAN ENVIRONMENT                     150.00       2.00                 0.00       0.00     101.90      14.77      0.00
P051856        1999 ACCNTG REFORM & DEV                               27.40       5.60                 0.00       0.00      25.61      20.14      0.00
P049665        1999 ANNING VALLEY AG.DEV                              90.00      30.00                 0.00       0.00      77.08       4.74      0.00
P041268        1999 NAT.HWY4-HUBEI/HUNAN                             350.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     271.10      30.77      0.00
P046051        1999 CN-HIGHER EDUC. REFORM                            20.00      50.00                 0.00       0.00      39.45      25.32      0.00
P046829        1999 RENEWABLE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT                     100.00       0.00                35.00       0.00     100.00      17.50      0.00
P046564        1999 WESTERN POVERTY RED                               60.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00     128.42      25.17      0.00
P051888        1999 GUANZHONG IRRIGATION                              80.00      20.00                 0.00       0.00      80.79      24.24      0.00
P041890        1999 LIAONING URB TRANSP                              150.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     117.48      49.98      0.00
P058308        1999 CN-PENSION REFORM PJT                              0.00       5.00                 0.00       0.00       4.68       4.19      0.00
P036953        1999 CN-HEALTH IX                                      10.00      50.00                 0.00       0.00      52.68       7.92      0.00
P057352        1999 CN-RURAL WATER SUPPLY IV                          16.00      30.00                 0.00       0.00      40.79       9.42      0.00
P056216        1999 LOESS PLATEAU II                                 100.00      50.00                 0.00       0.00     119.52      40.25      0.00
P060270        1999 ENTERPRISE REFORM LN                               0.00       5.00                 0.00       0.00       4.80       6.22      0.00
P003653        1999 CONTAINERTRANSPORT                                71.00       0.00                  0.00      3.13      59.83      60.93      0.00
P042299        1999 TEC COOP CREDIT IV                                10.00      35.00                 0.00       0.00      40.38      -2.37      0.00
P063123        1999 YANGTZE FLOOD EMERGY                              40.00      40.00                 0.00       0.00      10.00       8.95      7.62
P045788        1998 TRI-PROVINCIAL HWY                               230.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00     143.19      63.43      0.00
P036414        1998 CH-GUANGXI URBAN ENVIRONMENT                      72.00      20.00                 0.00       0.00      83.93      32.16      0.00
P035698        1998 HUNAN POWER DEVELOP.                             300.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     297.00     159.50      0.00
P036949        1998 NAT.HWY3-HUBEI                                   250.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00     131.77       5.11      0.00
P046563        1998 TAR1M BASIN II                                    90.00      60.00                 0.00       0.00      99.27      43.04      0.00
P051736        1998 E. CHINAtJIANGSU PWR                             250.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     193.59     184.73    127.30
P003591        1998 STATE FARMS COMMERCI                             150.00       0.00                 0.00      80.91       8.45      40.63      2.61
P003566        1998 CN-BASIC HEAL1H (HLTH8I)                           0.00      85.00                 0.00       0.00      60.88      18.62      0.00
P037859        1998 EGY CONSERVATON PRO                                0.00       0.00                22.00       0.00      10.99      18.93      0.00
P040185        1998 CH-SHANDONGENVIRONMENT                            95.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      50.57      32.07      0.00
P003539        1998 SUST COAST RES DEV                               100.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      67.95      22.13      0.00
P049700        1998 IAIL-2                                           300.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     160.14      34.40      0.00
P003614        1998 GUANGZ.CITYCRT.TRP                               200.00       0.00                  0.00      0.00     130.81     105.43      0.00
P046952        1998 FOREST. DEV. POOR AR                             100.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00     142.21      -2.91     47.84
P003619        1998 2ND INLAND WATERWAYS                             123.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     107.50      60.50      0.00
P003606        1998 ENERGY CONSERVATION                               63.00       0.00                22.00       0.00      57.08      10.08      0.00
P038988        1997 HEILONGJIANGADP                                  120.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      45.83      26.13      0.00
P003654        1997 HUNAN/GUANG HWY2-NH2                             400.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     169.60     109.60      0.00
P036405        1997 WANJIAZHAI WATER TRA                             400.00       0.00                 0.00      75.00     103.69      79.36      4.36
P034081        1997 XlAOLtAGDI MULTI. II                             430.00       0.00                 000        0.00     158.23     165.22      0.00
P035693        1997 FUEL EFFICIENT IND.                                0.00       0.00                 32.80      0.00      11.20      32.79      0.00
P044485        1997 SHANGHAI WAIGAOOIAO                              400.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     349.21     124.38     27.09
P003643        1997 XINJIANG HWY II                                  300.00       0.00                  0.00     60.00     111.11     145.45      0.00
- 74 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 and actual
disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                       IBRD          IDA                    GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Fnr  Revd
P003637       1997 CH-NATIONAL RURAL WATER IlIl                        0.00      70.00                 0.00       0o00      41.42      27 32      21.58
P003590        1997 QINBAMTS. POVTY RED                               30.00     150.00                 0.00       000       97.85      75.67       0.00
P003650       1997 TUOKETUO POWER/INNER                              400.00       0.00                 0.00     102.50     226.04     290.68       7.34
P036952        1997 CN-BASIC ED. IV                                    0.00      85.00                 0.00       0.00       5.24      -1.33       0 00
P003635       1997 CN-VOC. ED. REFORM PROJ                            10.00      20.00                 0.00       0.00       2.88       2.34       0.00
P040513        1996 2ND HENAN PROV HWY                               210.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     129.66     105.33       0.00
P036950       1996 CN-BASIC ED. POOR III                               0.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00       0.46       8.34       0.00
P003646        1996 CN-CHONGOING IND POL CT                          170.00       0.00                 0.00     164.82       3.88     159.03      36.70
P003563        1996 ANIMAL FEED                                      150.00       0.00                 0.00     127.50       4.82     132.32       4.82
P003569        1996 SHANGHAI-ZHEJIANG Hi                             260.00       0.00                 0.00      53.34      22.98      76.32      15.37
P003599        1996 CH-YUNNAN ENVIRCNMENT PROJECT                    125.00      25.00                 0.00       0.00     118.39      82.37      13.97
P003638        1996 SEEDS SECTOR COMMER.                              80.00      20.00                 0.00       9.40      28.90      26.17       0.00
P003589        1996 CN-DISEASEPREVENTION(HLTH7)                        0.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00      24.16      34.39       0.00
P003594        1996 GANSU HEXI CCRRIDOR                               60.00      90.00                 0.00       0.00     101.95      49.60       0.00
P003602        1996 CH-HUBEB URBAN ENVIRONMENT                       125.00      25.00                 0.00      28.32      70.28      96.44      22.22
P034618        1996 CN-LABORMARKETDEV.                                10.00      20.00                 0.00       0.00      15.82      18.12       0.00
P003652       1996 2ND SHAANXI PROV HWY                              210.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      66.62      62.62       0.00
P003507        1996 ERTAN HYDRO 11                                   400.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00       6.69      12.33       0.00
P003648        1996 CH-SHANGHAISEWERAGE PROJECT 11                   250.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00     114.82     100.65       0.00
P003649        1996 SHANXI POVERTY ALLEV                               0.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00      18.56      14.61       0.00
P003600        1995 TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPME                             200.00       0.00                 0.00       3.02      54.49      49.41       0.00
P003603        1995 CH-ENTERPRISEHOUSING&SOCSECREF                   275.00      75.00                 0.00      20.00     115.99     134.75      28.40
P003598       1995 CH-LIAONING ENVIRONMENT PROJECT                   110.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      30.44      30.34       0.00
P003402        1995 NATURERESERVE MGMT                                 0.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00       1.27       2.56       0.00
P003493       1995 INLAND WATERWAYS                                  210.00       0.00                 0.00      15.00       6.41      21.41       4.01
P003571        1995 RAILWAYS VII                                     400.00       0.00                 0.00      29.00     204.42     192.92     100.15
P003585        1995 SHENYANG IND REFORM                              175.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      46.21      43.21       0.00
I\003596       1995 YANGTZE BASIN WATER                              100.00     110.00                 0.00       0.00       4.49       5.62       0.00
Py03634        1995 CN-MATERNAL CHLO HEALT(HLTH6)                      0.00      90.00                 0.00       0.00       6.78      10.06       0.00
P0 3639        1995 SOUTHWEST POV. REDUC                              47.50     200.00                 0.00       0.00      34.38      55.16       0.00
P003642        1995 ZHEJIANG POWER DEVT                              400.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      72.22      55.06       0.00
P003647       1995 ECONOMIC LAW REFORM                                 0.00      10.00                 0.00       0.00       4.93       5.65       0.00
P036947        1995 SICHUAN TRANSMISSICN                             270.00       0.00                 0.00      65.00      45.50     110.50      10.50
P036041        1995 FISCAL & TAX REF. &                               25.00      25.00                 0.00       0.00       6.23       8.65       0.79
P003586        1994 CH-SHANGHAI ENVIRCNMENTPROJECT                   160.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      40.93      40.93       5.49
P003626        1994 FUJIAN PROV HIGHWAY                              140.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      32.02      32.02      25.70
P003641        1994 YANGZHOU THERMAL POW                             350.00       0.00                 0.00       0.00      16.95      16.95      -3.71
P003540        1994 LOESS PLATEAU                                      0.00     150.00                 0.00       0.00       5.22      -6.94       0.00
P003557        1994 FOREST RESOURCE DEV                                0.00     200.00                16.40       0.00       7.65      11.63     -24.09
P003644        1994 XIAOLANGDI RESETTLEMENT                            0.00     110.00                 0.00       0.00      16.69      14.92       0.00
P003609       1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV & CONSERVATiON                    255.00       0.00                10.00       0.00      60.44      57.98       0.00
P003595        1994 RED SOILS II DEVELCP                               0.00     150.00                 0.00       0.00      15.82      12.54      10.37
P003404        1994 SICHUAN GAS DEV, CON                               0.00       0.00                10.00       0.00       0.21       0.96       0.00
P003593        1994 SONGLIAO PLAIN ADP                                 0.00     205.00                 0.00       0.00       7.74       2.39       0.00
P003623        1993 FINANCIALSECTORT.A                                 0.00      60.00                 0.00       0.00      19.13      13.73      13.27
P003473        1993 CH-ZHEJIANG MULTICITIES DEVELCPMENT                0.00     110.00                 0.00       000       10.23      10.26       7.50
P003616        1993 TIANHUANGPING HYDRO                              300.00       0.00                 0.00      17.00      25.30      38.80       0.00
P003559       1993 AGRIC.SUPPORTSERVI                                  0.00     115.00                 0.00       0.00       2.95      -2.72       0.00
P003627        1993 GRAIN DISTRIBUTiON P                             325.00     165.00                 0.00       0.00     111.39     112.22      58.89
P003632        1993 CN-ENVIRONMENTTECHASS                              0.00      50.00                 0.00       0.00       7.53       8.29       7.97
P003592        1993 REF. INSTL.& PREINV                                0.00      50.00                 0.00       0.00       4.78       5.39       0.00
P003597        1993 TAIHU-BASIN FLOOD CO                             100.00     100.00                 0.00       0.00       4.71       0.40       0.40
P003580       1993 CH-SO. JIANGSU ENVMTPROT.                         250.00       0.00                 0.00       8.49       1.26       9.69       0.00
P003570        1993 RAILWAY VI                                       420.00       0.00                 0.00       2.82      19.61      22.43      10.79
P003624        1992 CN-INFECTIOUS DISEASES (HLTH5)                     0.00     129.60                 0.00       0.00       4.95       1.38       1.34
Total:   15101.90     3597.20              175.20      865.25     8467.39    4565.23    596.57
- 75 -



CHINA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1999/00           Bank of Shanghai              0.00    3.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.84    0.00    0.00
1996              Beijing Hommel                3.57    0.50    0.00    3.30    3.57    0.50    0.00    3.30
1998/00           CIG Holdings PLC              0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Caltex Ocean                 21.00    0.00    0.00   40.91   21.00    0.00    0.00   40.91
1998              Chengdu Chemical              7.40    3.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Chengxin-IBCA                 0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.36    0.00    0.00
1987/92/94        China Bicycles                0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              China WaldenJV                0.00    3.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.86    0.00    0.00
1994              China Walden Mgt              0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.01    0.00    0.00
1994              Dalian Glass                  0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00
1999              Dujiangyan                   25.59    0.00    0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              Dupont Suzhou                17.13    4.15    0.00   26.00   17.13    4.15    0.00   26.00
1994              Dynamic Fund                  0.00   10.01    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.35    0.00    0.00
2000              Elkem Carbon                  6.30    1.70    0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Hansom                        0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.10    0.00    0.00
1996              Jingyang                     40.00    0.00    0.00   92.31   40.00    0.00    0.00   92.31
1998              LeshanScana                   6.10    1.35    0.00    0.00    4.50    1.35    0.00    0.00
1996              Nanjing Kumho                 9.74    3.81    0.00   27.68    9.74    3.81    0.00   27.68
2001              New China Life                0.00   30.70    0.00    0.00    0.00   23.32    0.00    0.00
1995              Newbridge Inv.                0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.13    0.00    0.00
1997              Ningbo                        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Orient Finance               12.38    0.00    0.00   15.48   12.38    0.00    0.00   15.48
1997/00           PTP Holdings                  0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.00    0.00
1997              PTP Hubei                    12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38   12.63    0.00    0.00   25.38
1996              Pacific Ports                 0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.64    0.00    0.00
1998              Rabobank SHFC                 1.58    0.00    0.00    1.58    1.58    0.00    0.00    1.58
2000               SSIF                         0.00    6.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Shanghai Krupp               30.00    0.00    0.00   68.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Shanxi                       19.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Shenzhen PCCP                 3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00    3.76    0.99    0.00    0.00
1995              Suzhou PVC                   18.33    2.48    0.00   18.50   18.33    2.48    0.00   18.50
1998              WIT                           5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996              Weihai Weidongri              3.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.03    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Yantai Cement                10.39    1.95    0.00    5.54   10.39    1.95    0.00    5.54
1998              Zhen Jing                     0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:      252.93  104.21    0.00  361.48  166.34   81.27    0.00  256.68
- 76 -



Approvals Pending Comrmitment
FY Approval      Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
2000             SBCF I                           0.00     0.00     15.00     0.00
2001             Sino-Forest                     25.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2000             Wan lie Hospital                15.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2000             CIG Zhapu                        6.00     5.00      0.00     0.00
2000             CIMIC Tile                      15.00     5.00      0.00    15.00
1997             Chinefarge                      12.80     0.00     0.00    20.00
2000             Jinfeng                          9.00     0.00      0.00     7.30
1998             Orient Fin A Inc                 3.33     0.00      0.00     0.00
1998             PTP Hubei BLINC                  0.00     0.00     0.00      1.50
Total Pending Commitment:      86.13    10.00     15.00    43.80
-77 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
East   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Asia &   middle . .
China    Padltic   Income       Development diamond'
1999
Population. mid-year (millions)                       1.253.6     1,837      2.094                  Life expectancy
GNP Per capita (Atlas method, US$)                       780      1,000      1.200
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       977.8       1,833     2.513
Average annual growth. 1993-99
Population (X)                                            1.0        1.2       1.1      GNP
Labor force (1)                                           1.0        1.3       1.2      GNr                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable. 1993-99)                                   capita                        enrollment
Poverty (X of population below national poverty line)      5
Urban population f% of total Populati0n)                  31         34         43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          70         69         69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                  31         35         33
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                16         22         15                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (ff of population)        83         84         86
Illiteracy (f1of population age 15.)                      17         15         16
Gross Drimarv enrollment (%Of school-aQepopulation)      123        t19        114            China
Male                                                   123        121       114                Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 123        121       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1959       1998      1999       _ .s  _ _: :_    _   _ _ _     _
Economic ratios'
GOP (USS billions)                            175.6    342.3      938.3      996.3
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                  36.5      36.0      38.8       38,3                      Trade
ExDorts of goods and services/GOP               6.4      12,7       21.9      22.1
Gross domestic savinqslGDP                     35.3      35.3      43.2       41.2
Gross national savinqs/GDP                     35.5      35.4      41.9       39.9
Current account balance/GDP                    -t.4      -0.9       3.1        1,6      Domestic
Interest DaymentslcOP                           0.0       0.7       0.6        0.6      Savings                      Investment
Total debtlGOP                                  1.2      13.1      16.5       12.8      Savigs                        Ie n
Total debt servicelexports                      0.4       9.6       8.5        5.8
Present value otdebt/GDP                          .        ..     t14.4           : 
Present value of debtlexPorts                    ..        ..      63,3
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99      199S      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   10.3     10.5       7.8       7,t        7.2                China
GNP Per capita                        8.9       9.0       6,7        6.3       6.2                Lower-middle-income group
ExDorts of goods and servicees        19.6     14.0       7.3      13.9       10.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(I% of GOP)                                                                            30
Agriculture                                    31.2      25.0      18.6       17.3
Industry                                       47.4      43.0      49.3       49.7     20
Manufacturing                                40.2      34,5       37.6      37.8      l         _
Services                                       21.4      32.0      32.1       32.9
Private consumption                            49.5      52.7      44.7       45.8             94   95   96   97   98   99
General qovernment consumption                 15.2      12.0      12.1       12.9               -G01             P  GDP
Imports of goods and services                   7.5      13.5      17.5       19.1
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                     6.0       4.4        3.5       2.8    30
Industry                                       11.3      14.2       B.9        8.1    20
Manufacturinq                                10.5      13.6        8.7       7.7
Services                                       14.0       9.0        8.3       7.5    10
Private consumption                            10.1       8.7       6.2        8.3
General aovernment consumotion                  9.9       9.8       8.4        7.9      0
Gross domestic investment                      11.0      12.0       7.6        3.8            94   95   96   97  9s   99
Imports of goods and services                  20.4      12.2       3.0       20.7             -     Exports        Imports
Gross national Product                         10.5      10.2       7.8        7.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) comDared with its income-qroup average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 78 -



China
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflatton (%)
Domestic pHces                                                                    30
(% change)
Consumer prices                                ..    18.0       -0.8     -1.4    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         3.9      8.8      -2.4     -2.2    10
Government financeia
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       94   95   96   97
Current revenue                                ..    19.3       13.0     14.2    -10
Current budget balance                         ..      2.8       1.4      1.2            -GDP deflator   CPt
Overall surplus/deficit                      -3.4    -0.9       -1.2     -2.1
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                        13,658   52,551   183,529  194,931     200,000
Food                                         ..   6,145    10,619    10,459
Fuel                                               4,321     5,181     4,646     150,000L
Manufactures                                  ..  37,460   163,157  175,003
Total imports (cif)                            ..  59,140   140,166   165,718       .00_
Food                                         ..   4,192      3,793    3,618      50s0000   11111
Fuel and energy                                    1,650     6,773    8,912
Capital goods                                 ..  18,207    56,768   69,469
93  94  95  96  97  93  99
Export price index (1995=100)                 25       38        88        81
Import price index (1995=100)                 24       38        89        84                 U Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                    104      100        99        97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (0/o)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services              15,046   57,101   207,586  218,711     4
Imports of goods and services              17,842   60,655   165,899  189,799
Resource balance                          -2,796   -3,554    41,687   28,912
Net income                                  -319  229 -16,645 -17,973   L 1m                                ii1
Net current transfers                        626      381      4,278    4,943
Current account balance                    -2,489   -2,944    29,321    15,882    0.
L  94   95   96   97   9    99
Financing items (net)                       2,489    2,386   -23,073    -7,377                
Changes in net reserves                        0      558    -6,248   -8,505    -2 
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..       ..  149,811   158,337
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)              2.3      4.9       8.3      8.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(USS millions)                                                                     Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        2,183   44,932   154,603   127,639
IBRD                                         0    2,330      9,644    10,639                      G  4
IDA                                          0    2,296      8,693    8,907                       .   A: 10,639
Totaldebtservice                              61    5,650    18,186    13,204
IBRD                                         0      223       941     1,161              D/ 4,
IDA                                          0       14        97       118
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            -30      143        91       201                                     E: 24,238
Official creditors                         199    2,277      2,288    3,913       F: 798,76
Private creditors                         1,580    3,801     1,642   -2,945
Foreigndirectinvestment                     57    2,613    41,118   38,752
Portfolio equity                             0     -180    -3,927    -9,836
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0    1,760      2,636    2,311     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                0    1,111      2,066    1,780      8- IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                         0       62       434       558     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                     0    1,049      1,632    1,222
Interest payments                            0      175       604       720
Net transfers                                0      874      1,028      502
Development Economics                                                                                                _
- 79 -



Additional
Annex 11
Proposed Implementation Schedule
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
Year  2001    2002    2003    2004   2005   2006
PROJECTCOMPONENT              1|213|41|2|3|4 1|2|314 12134 1|2131411 2|3|4
T. Panjin Wastewater Management
Design and Documentation   . _ m m  . * .
Tender Procedure    *
Construction _ _   _       .     _       _     _
2. Yingkou Wastewater Management
Design and Documentation  _ U U * U * m U  m
Tender Procedure    **** m             *
Construction ___          .   . _ _ ___ __             .
3. Yingkou Paper Making
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction                           m _ _ _ _
4. Jinzhou Wastewater Management                                             - - -
Design and Documentation        m m U    m U
Tender Procedure           _ *  . _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Construction  _ _ _ ___
5. Jincheng Papoer Making
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction,
6. U-rban Mgt Information Systems
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Implementation
7. Environmental Quality Monitoring
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Implementation         P                 mee Anex8
8. Environm-ental Subprojects
Subloans made i-                      MMM        u*E
9. institutional Strengthening,
Construction Mgmt Supervision,
and Studies
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Implementation,M       EMMM M
Note: The detailed arrangements of the implementation of the first year's construction/activities are shown in the
Project Summnary, including the Project Implementation Plan. See Annex 8.
- 80 -



Additional
Annex 12
Environmental Assessment and Mitigation Measures Summary
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
A. Background
The Liaoning Provincial Scientific Research Institute for Environmental Protection carried out the
Environmental Assessment (EA) of the proposed Liao River Basin Project (LRBP) in accordance with
Chinese national and Bank procedures, with support from independent international consulting specialists.
Various drafts were reviewed and discussed in detail during project preparation. The draft EA documents
were submitted to the Bank in January 2001 and reviewed by the Bank during a mission in March 2001.
The final EA Report, Environmental Action Plan (EAP) and Executive Summary (ES) were submitted to
the Bank January 17, 2001 and found to be satisfactory. The EA Report was sent to the Bank's
Information Center January 25, 2001. During the EA work, the local people were consulted, and their
opinions have been reflected in the project design and environmental mitigation measures, as appropriate.
The policy and administrative requirements for environmental assessment of development projects in China
were followed during preparation and evaluation of the EA, as well as the Bank's policy. Major laws and
regulations applied to the EA are as follows: (a) Environmental Protection Law of the People's Republic of
China; (b) Atmospheric Pollution Control Law; (c) Environmental Noise Control Law; (d) Water Pollution
Control Law; (e) Cultural Heritage Protection Law; (f Notice of Strengthening the EA Management Work
of Construction Projects financed by International Financial Organizations; and (g) Technical Guidelines
for Environmental Impact Assessment.
B. Brief Project Description
The LRBP includes the following components for which EAs have been completed:
*   Panjin
Wastewater treatment and associated sewerage in Panjin
*  Jinzhou
Wastewater treatment and associated sewerage in Jinzhou
*  Yingkou
Wastewater treatment and associated sewerage in Yingkou
*  Industry
Cleaner production investments at two large pulp and paper mills
Central to the project are capacity- and institution-building measures, urban information systems
development, training and environmental and water quality impact monitoring.
C. Baseline Environmental Description
Natural Environment
Liaoning Province is located in the north east of China and bounded by the Jilin Province and the
autonomous region of Inner Mongolia to the North, by DPR Korea to the east, by the Bohai Sea to the
south and by Hebei Province to the west. The LRB lies within Liaoning and also within Jilin Province and
- 81 -



Inner Mongolia; some 44 percent of the total basin area of 95,500 km2 is within Liaoning, occupying 28.8
percent of the area of the Province. It comprises two separate rivers, the Liao and the Daliao, the latter
basin being located entirely within Liaoning. The Xiaoling River Basin is located entirely within the
western part of Liaoning and to the west of the LRB. The Liao Basin rivers and the Xiaoling discharge into
the Bohai Sea. This is a semi-enclosed water body connecting with the Yellow Sea only by the Bohai Strait.
The provincial capital Shenyang is located in the upper reaches of the Hun River, a tributary of the Daliao,
some 58 km downstream of the large multipurpose Dahuofang Reservoir. The other project cities within the
LRB are Panjin, located on the Liao River, and Yingkou, located on the Daliao estuary. The remaining
project city Jinzhou is located on the Xiaoling River.
The basin topography generally slopes from north to south and from east and west toward the center. The
elevations of the more inland cities of Shenyang and Panjin are 30-60 m above sea level, with those of the
coastal cities of Yingkou and Jinzhou being 4-7 m. Liaoning has a rich and complex geology. The
mountainous areas of east and west Liaoning are composed of a diverse assemblage of igneous,
metamorphic and sedimentary rocks that are hosts to mineral deposits of national importance. The Liao
River valley forms a low flat plain between the mountainous areas and erosion products of the mountains
have been deposited in the river rift valley to form a sedimentary sequence containing significant petroleum
resources.
The climate of the basin is characterized by distinct seasons. Spring and summer are mild and the winter
period from November to March is extremely cold, with minimum temperatures in January as low as -30
C. This is reflected in the long frost periods for the project cities, ranging from 130 to 151 days. Annual
average precipitation in the project cites ranges from 550 mm in Yingkou to 800 mm in Panjin. There is a
pronounced wet season lasting from June to September and accounting for 80 percent of annual
precipitation.
Socioeconomic Situation
The total population of Liaoning province is approximately 41 million, of which 56 percent (approximately
22.8 million) reside in the basin. The province comprises 14 municipal areas of which 8 basin
municipalities lie within the basin; these municipalities generate 63 percent of the provincial Gross
Regional Domestic Product (GRDP). The average per capita GRDP of Liaoning was Y9,415 (1998),
which is almost 50 percent higher than the national per capita GDP of Y6,404.
The principal cities in the basin are major centers of industry in China, and the industrial sector is based on
heavy industry processing and manufacture, principally oil, chemicals, steel and machinery production. The
portion of the river basin in Liaoning (29 percent of the total) accounts for 93 percent of the gross
industrial output of the basin as a whole. The establishment of much of the industry in Liaoning occurred in
the early part of the 20th century and many of the enterprises are more than 50 years old. Many are based
on the use of machinery and equipment that is outdated and inefficient, much dating from the 1 950s.
In spite of the harsh climate the basin is also an important agricultural area, with farmland accounting for
approximately 20 percent of the total basin area. In 1995 the gross agricultural product was Y47 billion.
The estuary and the Bohai Sea coastal zone are used for capture fisheries and increasingly for aquaculture,
principally prawns.
- 82 -



Water Resources
The LRB is limited in terns of its water resources. The surface water resource is equivalent to only 535 m3
per capita, which is about 20 percent of the national average, and the average water quantity available for
agriculture is only 220 m3/mu (3,300 m3/ha), which is only 12 percent of the national average. In the
Xiaoling River there is little or no flow during the dry season. The limited water resources of the basin are
heavily exploited, with utilization rates of 81 percent and 43 percent for surface and groundwater
respectively. As a consequence municipal wastewater accounts for a substantial proportion of overall river
flows downstream of cities during the dry season.
The situation is particularly acute in the case of the Hun river downstream of Shenyang, where wastewater
from Fushun and Shenyang represents the majority of the river flow. The situation appears less acute in the
case of Yingkou but in addition to the city wastewater there is a discharge of highly polluting wastewater
from a pulp and paper mill.
Water demands are dominated by agriculture, which accounts for 64 percent of total demands. Industry
accounts for a further 21 percent and municipal use in urban areas for about 11 percent. Most cities in the
basin use groundwater for municipal supply. The aquifers from which supplies are derived are recharged at
least in part by the rivers in the basin, and are therefore at risk of pollution.
Water Quality
The limited water resources of the basin, which result in extremely low river flows during the dry season,
and the extensive exploitation of water resources result in poor water quality in the basin rivers. This is
exacerbated by the generally low degree of municipal wastewater treatment. Of the river sections regularly
monitored more than 90 percent fail to meet the Category V standard of water quality, the least stringent of
the water quality classifications. All river sections in the province cities fail to meet the Category V
standard.
The impact of the poor surface and groundwater quality has been widespread both throughout the basin and
in the Bohai Sea as follows:
* Poor drinking water quality in urban areas--in many cities aquifers have been abandoned due to
pollution
* Poor drinking water quality in rural areas--pollution of surface water has forced rural communities
to use groundwater for potable supply
* Pollution of irrigation water--poor quality surface water had increased pollution of soils, in extreme
cases leading to farms being abandoned
*   Virtual extinction of fisheries in basin rivers--fisheries almost entirely restricted to reservoirs
*   Pollution of coastal waters of the Bohai Sea--in particular the high nutrient loads carried by the
basin rivers have resulted in increased incidence of "red tides."
In addition there has also been degradation of the Shaungtaizi wetland near the Daliao River estuary about
30 km from Panjin. This wetland has been designated a National level Natural Protection Zone because of
its significant ecological value. There are 321 resident species including 236 birds and the wetland is an
important habitat for migratory birds of which some hundreds of thousands stay temporarily at the wetland
during migration. The wetland is at risk from pollution from the city of Panjin and the Liao River Oilfield.
- 83 -



Future Water Quality Objectives
Pollution of the LRB has reached such a level that it was included in national priority "Three Rivers Three
Lakes" program. Management plans had been prepared for each administrative area in the basin, initially at
municipal and combined into a provincial plan. This formed the basis of the "Liao River Basin Water
Pollution Prevention under the Ninth Five-Year Plan and Planning for the Year 2010," and was approved
by the State Council in 1999. the objectives of this plan were:
*   Targeted reductions in COD loads ,both in the basin as a whole and from individual administrative
areas; and
*   Compliance by all basin rivers with the requirements of Category V of the national environmental
quality standard.
The first objective relates to a single pollutant, whereas the second implies a need to reduce the loads of
other pollutants of which the most important is ammonia. Achievement of both plan objectives will require
substantial levels of expenditure over many years and the focus of the project is the first phase of
wastewater treatment investment targeted at reducing wastewater COD loads. This will result in important
improvements both in terms of river water quality and protection of groundwater quality.
A complication arises in terms of the criterion of compliance with the environmental quality standards. In
the dry season there is little natural flow in the basin rivers and therefore very limited dilution and
assimilative capacity.
Compliance with standards on a year round basis implies a very stringent wastewater discharge standard,
probably unachievable in the harsh winter climate of the basin. Moreover, during the driest winter months
the basin rivers are largely subjected to ice cover and have limited beneficial uses. An approach was
therefore derived during project preparation based on compliance with standards on a seasonal basis
reflecting the desired beneficial uses of the basin rivers, principally agricultural irrigation and aquifer
recharge. On this basis the wastewater treatment interventions were targeted at achieving Category V
standards for COD in the basin rivers based on a 75 percentile low flow in April, the beginning of the
irrigation season.
D. Environmental Benefits
The project municipal wastewater treatmnent investments will reduce the annual COD loads to the Liao
basin by approximately 143 000 tons and will result in a significant improvement in water quality in the
basin rivers as may be seen in Figures 1-3. These show the concentrations of COD along the Liao and the
Daliao tributaries the Hun and Taizi both with and without the project municipal wastewater treatment
investments. The improvement in water quality in the Hun river as a result of wastewater treatment at
Shenyang is particularly important because of the very low level of dilution of the large Shenyang
wastewater flow.
However, from Figures 1-3 it is clear that the project, although dealing with a number of major pollution
loads including that from Shenyang, the largest individual municipal wastewater pollution load in the basin,
will not of itself achieve the overall desired improvement water quality throughout the basin as a whole. To
meet the Category V water quality objective on a basin-wide basis will require much greater reductions in
COD loads (in the order of 600,000 tons/year) and it will therefore be necessary also to provide effective
wastewater treatment both in the other cities in the basin and equally importantly for the major industries
that discharge wastewater direct to the basin rivers. This is particularly the case for the Yingkou pulp and
- 84 -



Liao Rliver Modelled COD Concentration                                                    Hun River Modelled COD Concentration
COD conoantralion (mgII)
COD ConmentratIon QngAj                                                  0      0 
0                                  w                                                      6
0  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
RI 
*                                                                                      I~~~~~~Fgr IFgr 



175
ONgy.h 1.ng  H2  Fh.n.n CO
L~~~oo*t, #2  &   ~      ~      4~~105 
Q.ngy..,g #1      Ang}g #2 -: I
4   9 3     3                        _       -1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25 8 'C
|Go0,oh.ngllng      A n Ann #1 & i!..C 
3=_ _ ___ SR_____   -__ ___     _-               ---__-         -     50   5
450     400      350      300     250      200      150      100      50       0
Chlnag. ({km)
- Yer 20C05 No.WWTWs           Year 2005 - Only Word Bank WWTWs    -Year 2025 - All WWTWB & No Ind-sy WWVTW
-  Yea, 2025 - All WWTW. & All IndosIry WWTWM -  '  COD Cla.s V init (40 mgfl)
The improved surface water quality will bring other environmental benefits to the project regions. These
will include reduced risk of groundwater contamination, compliance or approach to compliance with
irrigation water standards, improved sanitation and hygiene for residents near LRB rivers and enhanced
environmental aesthetics to communities of the project areas.
The treatment of the red liquor from pulp production at the Yingkou Paper-Making Company will reduce
the COD load to the Daliao by up to 80,000 tons/year and in addition will result in the production of
200,000 tons/year of a lignosulfonate binder product for tuse in the metallurgical industries in Liaoning. At
the Jincheng Paper-Making Company the replacement of the existing mercury-based electrolytic process
for production of chlorine (for use in pulp bleaching) by a more energy-efficient membrane-based system
will both eliminate the discharge of mercury in the wastewater from the mill and will reduce electricity
consumption per unit of chlorine (and hence of pulp) by about 40 percent.
E. Potential Environmental Impacts and Their Mitigation Measures
The project as a whole is substantially positive in environmental terms, with the benefits greatly
outweighing the negative impacts. Nevertheless some negative impacts have been identified in the EA
process for all components, and these require mitigation measures. The principal impacts and their
appropriate mitigation measures are described below.
Sludge Production. Treatment of wastewater at the treatment plants proposed will generate substantial
quantities of sludge. The aggregate quantity of sludge produced at the treatment plants will be on the order
of 300 tons of dewatered sludge cake per day. Sludge management plans have been produced by the project
cities, but although composting is proposed in some cases, the dominance of industrial wastewater in the
- 86 -



urban wastewater stream will restrict the use of the sludge in agriculture. Moreover, the harsh winter
climate would preclude the use of sludge for a major portion of the year. Disposal of at least part of the
sludge will therefore have to be by landfill, and dedicated environmentally secure landfill facilities will be
provided for at least three years until longer-term sludge management systems and facilities have been
provided.
Construction Spoil. Substantial quantities of spoil will be generated as a result of excavation for pipeline
installation and for the construction of wastewater treatment plants. Most of the material will be reused on
site, and spoil disposal plans have been prepared for each project component where excess spoil will be
generated. It is expected that all spoil will be beneficially used in other local construction activities and
therefore spoil disposal will not be problematic.
Impact on Agriculture. Where the routes of pipelines crosses agricultural land, the fertility of land will be
protected by the careful separate storage and stockpiling of topsoil and subsoil for subsequent replacement.
Other Construction Impacts. Other impacts of construction include noise from construction machinery,
generation of dust and disruption of local traffic. These will be minimized by appropriate restrictions on
working hours and operational procedures of the contractors concemed.
Other Operational Impacts. The other significant potential impacts of the operation of wastewater
treatment plants and pumping stations are noise and, in the case of wastewater treatment plants, odor.
These will be minimized by the siting of the plants and by the provision of buffer zones and landscaping.
Where there are sensitive noise receptors close to the facilities, the noise emissions will be minimized by
appropriate acoustic insulation of machinery.
F. Public Consultation and Information Disclosure
The following approaches were adopted for public consultation: (a) meetings with city Project Management
Offices (PMOs), utility companies, municipal EPBs, and other affected city departments; and (b) surveys
to gauge the public perception of the positive and negative impacts of each of the proposed schemes. All
schemes proposed were well received by the public.
The public participation exercise was undertaken in three forms: bulletins in the press, public opinion
questiornaires and surveys of the public. The phasing of the public participation exercise is shown in the
following table.
Public Participation Phasing and Goals in the Four Cities
Round          Round separation                    Major participation goals
I st round    Environmental screening  Identify stakeholder groups; secure proponent commitment
(screening)                             to public participation program; agree on extent and mode
of participation
2nd round    Shortly after environmental  Identify stakeholders; disclose relevant project
screening, before the EA TOR    information; determine stakeholder concerns and include
finalized                  them in the TOR.
- 87 -



3rd round    After EA report (draft) is  Disclose information on study methods and findings; agree
prepared                    on proposed mitigation measures with stakeholders; let
stakeholders determine whether their concerns are
adequately addressed
* Bulletins in the press: Bulletins were published in the local press in the project cities containing the
general pollution situation in the basin rivers and the objectives of the project investments.
* The Willingness-to-Pay Surveys: These surveys were carried out at an early stage of the project
preparation to assess the overall acceptability of the project to the people of the project cities in the
light of increased tariffs.
* Public Opinion Questionnaire: Opinion polls were carried out in the districts affected by the project in
the various cities. The questionnaire obtained written individual opinions of the project.
*   Survey of the Public: The survey invited 4167 individuals, 76 government agencies, 65 NGOs, 89
corporations and 10 villages, whose opinions were considered and inquiries answered.
-   Survey of the Project-Affected People: 1262 primarily rural residents of villages adjacent to the
project sites.
The Environmental Assessment and Resettlement Action Plans were made public locally in the project
cities; this availability was advertised through the local press. Following submission to and review by the
Bank, the documents were sent to the Bank's Public Information Center.
Details pertaining to the public consultations and information disclosure for each of the project cities are
provided in the following tables.
- 88 -



Panjin Wastewater
Public Consultation
Substance             By whom and with       When           Where           Bank's requirement
whom
Interview during field social  By Liaoning ESRI     Jul 2000    Wangjia village   OD 4.20; OD 4.30 and OP
economic survey and the first    With affected villagers                          4.01
public meetings              and the general public
RAP outline consultation
Draft EA TOR consultation    By Liaoning ESRI       Aug 2000   Wangjia village    OP4.0 1: consultation
With affected villagers                              during TOR stage (their
and the general public                               work done before OP
requirement)
EA TOR consultation                                                               OP4.01: consultation
during TOR stage (their
work done before OP
requirement)
Distribution of questionnaires    By Liaoning ESRI  May 2000   Along interceptors
and key EA and RAP messages  To affected villagers              and around the
in bullet point format       and the general public            treatment plant
construction site
Distribution of project      By Liaoning ESRI       Dec 2000   Wangjia village    OP4.01:
information and draft EA and    To affected villagers                             Consultation prior to
RAP in second public meetings  and the general public                             finalization of draft report
Final EA
Final RAP
Information Disclosure
Document              Date of Disclosure            Location               Bank's Requirement
Copies of EA and TOR and RAP       May 2000        Panjin Env. Monitoring Stn.     OP 4.01; OD 4.20;
outline                                             107 Sheyou St.                 OD 4.30; BP 17.50
Questionnaires and key EA and       Jun 2000       Villages and affected
RAP messages                                       communities
Draft EA and RAP reports            Sep 2000       Villages and affected
communities
Final EA and RAP reports          Jan 15, 2001     Panjin Env. Monitoring Stn.
107 Sheyou St.
Notice for availability of EA and  Dec 12, 2000     Panjiin Evening News (prime
RAP reports at PMO and CDC                         local newspaper)
Resettlement information booklet                              _
-89 -



Jinzhou Wastewater
Public Consultation
Substance             By whom and with        When            Where            Bank's requirement
whom                        ________
Interview during field social  By Liaoning ESRI       Jul 2000    Dishuilu village   OD 4.30 and OP 4.01
economic survey and first    With affected villages
public meetings              and the general public
RAP outline consultation
Draft EA TOR consultation    By Liaoning ESRI        Aug 2000   Dishuilu village     OP4.0 1: consultation
With affected villages                                 during TOR stage
and the general public
EA TOR consultation                                                                  OP4.01: consultation
during TOR stage
Distribution of questionnaires   By Liaoning ESRI    May 2000   Along interceptors
and key EA and RAP           With affected villages              and around
messages in bullet point     and the general public              treatment plant
format                                                           construction site
Distribution of project      By Liaoning ESRI        Nov 2000   Dishuilu village     OP4.01:
information and draft EA and    With affected villages                               Consultation prior to
RAP in second public         and the general public                                  finalization of draft report
meetings
Final EA
Final RAP
Information Disclosure
Document              Date of Disclosure              Location               Bank's Requirement
Copies of EA and TOR and RAP        May 2000         Jinzhou PMO                     OP 4.01; OD 4.30;
outline                                                                              BP 17.50
Questionnaires and key EA and        Jun 2000        Neighborhood committees
RAP messages                                         Village meeting room
Draft EA and RAP reports             Sep 2000        Jinzhou PMO
Final EA and RAP reports           Jan 15, 2001      Jinzhou PMO
Notice for availability of EA and  Dec 11, 2000      Jinzhou PMO
RAP reports at PMO and CDC
Resettlement information booklet
- 90 -



Yingkou Wastewater
Public Consultation
Substance            By whom and with        When           Where           Bank's requirement
whom
Interview during field social    By Liaoning ESRI  July 2000    Yingkou Utility   OD 4.30 and OP 4.01
economic survey and first   With affected villages             Bureau
public meetings             and the general public
RAP outline consultation
Draft EA TOR consultation   By Liaoning ESRI       Aug 2000    Yingkou Utility    OP4.0 1: consultation
With affected villages             Bureau             during TOR stage (their
and the general public                                work done before OP
requirement)
EA TOR consultation                                                               OP4.01: consultation
during TOR stage (their
work done before OP
requirement)
Distribution of questionnaires   By Liaoning ESRI  May 2000   Along interceptors
and key EA and RAP          With affected villages             and around the
messages in bullet point    and the general public             treatment plant
format                                                         construction site
Distribution of project     By Liaoning ESRI       Dec 2000    Yingkou Utility    OP4.01:
information and draft EA and    With affected villages         Bureau             Consultation prior to
RAP in second public        and the general public                                finalization of draft report
meetings
Final EA   X                                =       ___ X_X__
Final RAP
Information Disclosure
Document              Date of Disclosure            Location               Bank's Requirement
Copies of EA and TOR and RAP   May 2000            Yingkou PMO, 37 Qinjian St.     OP 4.01; OD 4.30;
outline                                                                            BP 17.50
Questionnaires and key EA and    Jun 2000          Neighborhood committee
RAP messages                                       Village meeting room
Draft EA and RAP reports      Nov 2000             Yingkou PMO, 37 Qinjian St.
Final EA and RAP reports
Notice for availability of EA and   Nov 28, 2000   Yingkou Daily (prime local
RAP reports at PMO and CDC                         newspaper)
Resettlement information booklet        .
- 91 -



Additional
Annex 13
Resettlement
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
Project Description
1.     The proposed project consists of (a) three wastewater treatment plants, (b) industrial pollution
control schemes at two paper mills, (c) institutional strengthening and (d) several nonphysical components
related to environmental management. The project schemes are located in two cities in the Liao River Basin
and one city in the adjacent Xiaoling River Basin.
Resettlement Planning
2.     The three city project offices, together with contracted resettlement specialist and the foreign
consultants, carried out the resettlement planning. These resettlement planning activities provide a detailed
record of project adverse impacts, including land, houses, industries, institutions, and the number of people
affected. Socioeconomic surveys were conducted through questionnaires, interviews and focus group
discussions as part of the resettlement planning process. Different methods of construction have been
explored to reduce adverse impacts. Three resettlement action plans (RAPs) were prepared.
Project Impacts
3.     The project components will require land acquisition, temporary leasing of land, relocation of
houses and business. Land acquisition is only required for the wastewater treatment plant and pumping
stations while the interceptors mostly require only leasing of land for the construction period. The
interceptor component will require demolition of residential houses. The details of impacts are as follows.
Summary of Project Impacts
Component                Land        Businesses
Acquisition PAected                  PAPs (No.) 
Ha           No.         Land      House   Employee
Jinzhou City
Wastewater Treatment Plant       10.0            1            36                  23
Interceptors
Panjin City
Wastewater Treatment Plant        S.2                         60
Interceptors                                    1 6                   1,354       182
Pumping stations                  0.4                         29
Yinkou City
Wastewater Treatment Plant
Interceptors                                   137                               213
Pumping station                   0.1                                    21
Total                  18.7          154           125      1,375       418
* Exclusive of state-owned land to be allocated and land to be temporarily leased.
Legal Framework
4.     The RAP was prepared in line with relevant Chinese laws, regulations and World Bank
Operational Directive 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement. The following basic principles were adopted for
resettlement planning:
* Compensation will be paid at replacement cost without depreciation
- 92 -



* Land compensation will be paid before acquisition
*   House compensation will be paid before construction of the new house
*   Compensation rates will be finalized through consultation
*   Lack of legal title will not bar a PAP from his or her entitlements
*   The objective of resettlement is to enable the PAPs to improve or at least restore their living standard
Rehabilitation Strategy, Ethnic Minorities and Action Plan
5.     For farmers who lose farmland to the wastewater treatment plants, the livelihood rehabilitation
strategy follows the traditional Chinese approach, which is land and agriculture based, and depends on
village collectives for livelihood restoration. All affected farmers will be allocated farmland within the
village and the land compensation fund will be paid to the village and used collectively in the villages for
agriculture and sideline development.
6.    About 1,375 people in 324 households will lose their residential houses to the project. The majority
of these households are urban residents. After extensive consultations with the affected population, the
project has planned to offer two options for their rehabilitation, i.e., cash compensation and replacement
housing. Urban residents could choose to find and buy their own replacement housing with the cash
compensation. For those who do not want to find and buy their own replacement housing, the project will
provide ownership of a replacement housing unit in government-built apartments. For relocating rural
residents, the project will provide compensation at replacement cost with no depreciation, and any
salvageable materials will belong to the affected residents. They will receive alternative housing plots
within their villages if they want to build replacement housing by themselves.
7.     One hundred fifty-four shops, stalls and government entities will be affected. The number of
employees affected is 418. Most of them will be affected temporarily during the construction of the
interceptors and will resume business after the construction. Compensation for business loss has been
provided for in the RAP. A few government agencies will require relocation and new sites have been
planned for them. The project will also impact some public infrastructure. Compensation based on
replacement value will be paid to the relevant government agencies or local governments to restore the
affected infrastructure and services.
8.    The proposed investments in Panjin City would affect some ethnic minority households as defined
by the government. A survey to identify ethnic minority groups found that, of the 1,354 relocating
population in the city, 208 people belong to officially defined ethnic minority groups, including 83
Manchurian, 121 Korean and 4 Mongolian persons. The survey and interviews found that all the affected
persons were urban residents, scattered throughout the project area, and the project would not have specific
impact on ethnic minority communities. Project information was disseminated among them during the
consultation sessions. Their feedback has been incorporated into the RAPs and the consultation session
concluded that the resettlement and rehabilitation measures planned under the RAPs, would be adequate to
address and mitigate any project impact on such ethnic minority groups.
Management Organization
9.     A multilevel organization has been established for the implementation of the RAPs. This
organization includes the Project Resettlement Office, four city leading groups and offices for resettlement,
and project offices in the drainage companies. An independent monitor has been selected for resettlement
implementation. Details of staffing and their responsibilities are provided in the RAP.
Public Consultation And Participation
10.   Public consultation and participation has played a key role in formulating the RAP. The affected
farmers, village leaders and local governments participated in the census, inventory and they have been
- 93 -



widely consulted through the socioeconomic survey and social assessment on the project alignment,
compensation rates, livelihood rehabilitation strategy and relocation sites. Their feedback has been
incorporated in the RAP. The RAP contains a list of major consultation sessions.
11.    Public consultation and participation will continue in the RAP implementation. Affected people
will play a key role in farmland allocation, new site identification and new house construction. Project
information will be provided to the affected people through television, radio broadcast, newspapers,
bulletins and posters. The RAP will be summarized into a resettlement information booklet (RIB) and
distributed to every affected household. Regular consultation meetings will be held in villages. The RAPs
were placed in the Bank Info Shop on January 26, 2001 and in all county/city libraries on September 5,
2000. The availability of these reports in these libraries was advertised in four local newspapers.
Grievance Redress Mechanism
12.    A mechanism has been designed for grievance redressal under the project. All grievances can be
filed in both written and verbal forms. The redressal channel lies within the project management systems at
village, township, county and project resettlement offices. Recording requirements and timeframe have been
established for grievance resolution. This mechanism will be disclosed as part of the RIB.
Resettlement Implementation Monitoring
13.   Intemal and external monitoring have been designed as part of the project. The project resettlement
offices will carry out internal monitoring of the resettlement implementation. The monitoring procedures,
content, staffing, responsibility, timeframe and reporting have been detailed in the RAP. An external
monitor and a resettlement advisor have been contracted for independent monitoring of the RAP
implementation. Independent monitoring will cover physical progress of RAP implementation, including
compensation payment, allocation of residential sites, farmland allocation, restoration of infrastructure. The
independent monitor will also review the public consultation process, operation of the resettlement project
offices, grievance redress mechanisms and restoration of livelihood of the affected farmers. Independent
monitoring will be conducted twice a year during the project implementation period.
Compensation And Resettlement Budget
14.   The RAPs contain compensation rates for various impacts. Land compensation rates are included
in land compensation and resettlement subsidy. Different rates were developed for different types of land in
line with the "Land Administration Law". Compensation rates for structures are calculated for replacement
costs. The affected infrastructure will be compensated for reconstruction and the compensation budget was
finalized through negotiation with the owning government agencies.
15.   The RAPs contain detailed resettlement budget that covers all basic resettlement costs including
management, contingencies, survey, design and monitoring. The basic resettlement cost includes
compensation for land, house, other structures, standing crops and trees, business profit loss,
reconstruction of affected infrastructure and relocation subsidies. Management cost is included in the
budget as well. A total contingency of 10 percent is provided in the budget. The total resettlement budget is
estimated at Y64.6 million, equivalent to US$7.81 million. Fund disbursement procedures and monitoring
mechanisms are designed and documented in the RAP.
- 94 -



Additional
Annex 14
Financial Management Review
CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
1. Executive Summary
The task team has conducted a financial management assessment of the adequacy of the financial
management arrangements of the Liao River Basin Project (the Project).
The Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO) has overall responsibility for the
preparation, training and implementation of the Project. The Project implementation would be undertaken
at the municipal level. The Project would use "Accounting Standards for State-owned,
Infrastructure-oriented Projects" during the initial construction stage and switch to "Accounting Standards
for Industrial Enterprises" afterwards. In terms of disbursements, the Project would be producing project
financial management reports in line with the format and content agreed to between the Bank and the
Government. In addition, traditional disbursement techniques would be used as opposed to the PMR-based
disbursement.
In line with other Bank-funded projects in China, the Project would be audited in accordance with
Government Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China. The Foreign Investment Audit Bureau
of the China National Audit Office (CNAO) would have the overall responsibility for auditing the project
accounts and the required entity financial statements. Liaoning Provincial Audit Department has been
identified as the auditors for the Project. Auditors' reports would be submitted to the Bank within six
months after the end of each reporting year, with separate opinions on the statement of expenditures and on
the special account.
There is currently no noncompliance with audit covenants for existing Bank-financed projects in Liaoning,
though the auditors raised a few issues relating to Jinzhou Water Supply Company which is not a project
implementing agency for the Project. Please refer to section 9 for details.
There is clearly a risk that tariffs collected by the water supply companies may not be fully turned over to
the water treatrnent companies, who are ultimately responsible for the repayment of Bank loan. This risk
could be mitigated if ring-fenced controls are established to safeguard the interests of the water treatment
companies. Please refer to section 8 for further discussion.
2. Background
The development objective of the Project is to assist in the environmental recovery of the Liao River Basin
in Liaoning Province and to enhance water quality management decision making based on an integrated
river basin management approach. The objectives would be pursued through:
*  Provision of facilities for collection and treatment of wastewater;
*  Establishment of competent municipal utilities capable of managing these facilities;
* environment pollution management subloans;
* Wastewater infrastructure upgrading; and
* Upgrading basin-wide water quality management, modeling and monitoring capabilities.
- 95 -



The objective of the financial management review of the Project was to determine whether the. Project has
in place an adequate financial management system as required by OP/BP 10.02. The review was performed
in accordance with the following:
* The Guide for Review and Design of Accounting and Reporting System for World Bank Projects
(EAPCO, December 1997);
* Review of Financial Management System (Annex II, LACI Implementation Handbook); and
* Project Financial Management Manual (Loan Department, The World Bank)
The review included those procedures considered necessary and appropriate to the Project's circumstances,
including site visits, discussion and observation.
3.    Institutional Arrangements
Financial management functions would be carried out by the following entities: (a) the Liaoning Urban
Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO) has overall responsibility for coordinating the
preparation, training and implementation of the Project; (b) the project management office (PMO) in each
city is responsible for coordinating with the implementing agency in preparation and implementation; (c)
Liaoning Provincial Finance Department and Municipal Finance Bureaus; and (d) project implementing
agencies in four cities as follows:
*  Shenyang: Municipal Construction Commission;
*  Yingkou: Yingkou Drainage Company and Yingkou Paper-Making Company;
*  Jinzhou: Jinzhou Drainage Management Company and Jinzhou Jincheng Paper-Making Company;
and
*  Panjin: Panjin Municipal Drainage Management Company.
The task team noted that Liaoning Finance Department (LFD) and LUCRPO are familiar with the Bank's
financial management and disbursement procedures through previous and ongoing Bank-funded projects.
The environmental subloans would be managed through the LFD, and the environmental monitoring
through the Liaoning Environmental Protection Bureau (LEPB).
4.    Loan Disbursement Arrangement
The Project would be disbursing based on traditional disbursement techniques and would not be using
PRM-based disbursements, in accordance with the agreement between the Bank and Ministry of Finance
(MOF).
The Special Account would be managed by and maintained by the LFD. Funds would flow from the Bank,
to MOF, to LFD, to the concemed Municipal Finance Bureaus and then to project implementing agencies
and suppliers through the loan and onlending agreements. The expenditures submitted by the project
implementing agencies/suppliers would be consolidated by Municipal PMOs, reviewed for accuracy and
validity by the Municipal Finance Bureau concemed, and approved and processed by LFD prior to
submission by the LFD to the Bank for reimbursement. Subloans and monitoring disbursements would
come through LEPB and LFD, respectively.
- 96 -



The original supporting documents would be maintained by the implementing agencies for review and
examination during Bank supervision.
5.    Staffng and Training
The staffing arrangements at various project locations are as follows:
*  Shenyang: Currently staffed with a chief accountant, an accountant and a cashier. The chief accountant
is a CPA and has been involved in Bank-funded projects since 1988. It was agreed that no extra
staffing would be required. Shenyang is responsible only for the implementation of part of the UMIS
component;
*  Panjin : Except for a chief accountant who is on board, the PMO is yet to be staffed with two
accountants and one cashier;
*  Yingkou: To be staffed with one chief accountant, one accountant and one cashier. The Chief
Accountant, with more than 20 years of experience, graduated from an accounting technical school;
*  Jinzhou: Currently staffed with an accountant who has more than 20 years of experience in accounting
and is familiar with construction and industrial accounting standards and project costing; a junior
accountant who graduated from an accounting technical school in 1996; and a cashier who also
graduated from an accounting technical school.
Since some of the project implementing agencies (the newly fonrned wastewater enterprises in Jinzhou,
Panjin and Yingkou) did not have prior experience with Bank projects and accordingly were not familiar
with the Bank requirements, a well-designed and focused training program was provided to all relevant
finance and accounting staff in September 2000 to cover the financial management arrangements required
by the Bank, disbursement procedures as well as Bank's new financial products. To ensure personnel of
quality commensurate with job responsibilities, the Bank plans to readdress in detail the major aspects of
project financial management and reporting requirements during a Project launch workshop by loan
effectiveness.
6.    Financial and Accounting System
The Project would use "Accounting Standards for State-owned, Infrastructure-oriented Projects" during the
initial construction period and switch to "Accounting Standards for Industrial Enterprises" afterwards.
These standards would be used as the basis for bookkeeping and preparation of financial statements and
management reports, and would dictate the Chart of Accounts and related account instructions. Double
entry and accrual accounting would be adopted by the Project. Accounting ledgers, journal vouchers and
supporting documents would be maintained by the implementing agencies.
7.    Reporting Requirements
The Bank and MOF have jointly agreed on a standard reporting package to be used on Bank-fumded
projects in China as follows:
Project Balance Sheet
*  Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds by Project Activity
*  Statement of Implementation of Loan Agreement
*  Statement of Special Account
- 97 -



The project reporting package would be prepared by each implementing agency, reviewed by the municipal
PMO and consolidated by LUCRPO.
In addition, the implementing agencies would prepare the following financial statements in accordance with
the accounting standards described in Section 6:
* Balance Sheet
* Income Statement
* Cash Flow Statement
In terms of the reporting cycle, it has been agreed between the Bank and MOF that project financial
statements would be submitted biannually (no later than October and April, respectively) to the Bank.
8. Risks and Internal Controls
Financial Viability of the Implementing Agencies is key to success and sustainability of the Project. The
financial viability could potentially be impaired if water tariffs collected by the water supply company on
behalf of the implementing agencies are not turned over to the implementing agencies. Regulation [2000]
No. 385 on Liaoning Province Wastewater Treatment Tariff Management Procedures stipulates the
ceilings on tariffs based on operating costs and affordability by the consumers, but there is no specific
provision which would protect the interests of the water treatment companies/implementing agencies. In
addition, under the proposed arrangement, water tariffs would be collected by the water supply companies
which pass the tariffs (net of handling charges) directly to the municipal finance bureaus, which then
transfer the funds based on the estimated operating costs net of a fee of 0.3 percent to the implementing
agencies. The accuracy of the tariffs collected and turned over to the implementing agencies would be
subject to dispute, as the funds have to go through both the water supply companies and the municipal
finance bureaus before they are eventually received by the implementing agencies.
Based on a review of the audit report, Jinzhou Water Supply Company (JWSC) has been experiencing
liquidity problems under the existing Liaoning Environment Project. Though it is not an implementing
agency of the Project, JWSC would be responsible for the collection of water tariffs on behalf of Jinzhou
Municipal Wastewater Treatment Company. It is not clear whether other water supply companies suffers
similar difficulty. Liquidity problems with water supply companies would aggravate the above mentioned
issues. It was agreed that an official agreement would be signed by the water supply companies, water
treatment companies and local governments to ensure that tariffs are turned over to the water treatment
companies for loan repayment purposes. It is further suggested that this official agreement be listed as a
financial covenant.
Financial Analysis of the Implementing Agencies. To avoid overlap, the work carried out by the Bank's
Financial Analyst is relied upon to determine the viability and financial performnance of the revenue-earning
entities.
Asset Valuation Reports. The Task Team was advised that asset valuation of the revenue earning entities
would not be completed until the end of 2002 due to technical complexity as well as the recent government
reorganization. The proposed arrangement is not in line with good financial management practice and
should be discussed with the Government during the Project negotiations.
Counterpart Funds. The audit report of the existing Liaoning Environment Project indicated that lack of
- 98 -



counterpart funds caused slow down in project implementation. It has been agreed by the PMOs and the
implementing agencies that a detailed plan would be developed to ensure counterpart funds would be in
place on a timely basis. In addition, the local governments have signed a guarantee to ensure counterpart
funds would be in place on a timely basis. The detailed plan would be documented in the Financial
Management Manual.
Computerized Accounting Software. The implementing agencies have either adopted or plan to adopt
computerized accounting software. Given the number of PMO and implementing agencies involved in
accounting and consolidation of project accounts, consistency and compatibility of these software
applications are important to ensure the integrity of financial information. It is therefore recommended that
a common software platform be used.
Financial Management Manual. It has been agreed that the Municipal PMO would prepare its own project
financial management manual (the Manual ) tailored to the project specifics, and that LUCRPO would
prepare a general project financial management manual on common issues and control procedures that are
applicable to all implementing agencies. The discussions with the PMOs and project implementing agencies
confirmed the common understanding of the importance of internal controls to project success. The Manual
would encompass the following key features:
*  A system of authorization, verification, reconciliation, recording procedures and project reporting
adequate to provide reasonable control over project costs and security of assets;
*  Segregation of incompatible duties; and
  Timely and accurate financial reporting
To further strengthen project management and provide guidance in accounting and reporting, the task team
recommended that well defined roles, job descriptions and operating procedures be documented in the
Manual and made available to all staff. The draft Manual would be updated following the Bank's review at
project negotiations, and would be finalized prior to loan effectiveness.
9. Audit Arrangements and Audit Issues
In line with other Bank financed projects in China, the Project would be audited in accordance with
Govemment Auditing Standards of the People's Republic of China (1997 edition). The Foreign Investment
Audit Bureau of the China National Audit Office (CNAO) would have overall responsibility for auditing
the project accounts and the required entity financial statements. The Liaoning Provincial Audit
Department has been identified as the auditors for the Project. It is proposed that separate project audit
reports would be issued for each project city. Auditors' reports would be submitted to the Bank within six
months after the end of each reporting year, with separate opinions on the statement of expenditures and on
the special account.
The ongoing Liaoning Environment Project (Loan 378 1-CHA) is managed by LUCRPO, with support from
LEPB; the same arrangement would apply to the management of this project. Though there is no
noncompliance with audit covenants, the Liaoning Provincial Audit Department raised a few issues
requiring attention:
* the Provincial Finance Department should ensure that no ineligible expenditures are submitted for
reimbursement;
* Lack of counterpart funds has slowed down the implementation of the existing project. A time-bound
99 -



action plan should be developed to address the issue, thereby ensuring smooth project implementation.
Please refer to section 8 for an agreement to address the issue of counterpart funds; and
* Viability of water supply company. Please refer to section 8 above.
10. Budgeting
Detailed annual budgets would be prepared by the participating agencies and submitted to the municipal
governments for review and approval. The municipal governments would provide their share of
contributions based on the budgets. The budgets would be used as a basis for cost control and performance
monitoring. Comparison of budget versus actual would be performed on an annual basis by the municipal
PMOs and any major deviation or overrun would be followed up and corrected. It is recommended that the
budgeting process be documented in the Manual and used as a guide for all parties concerned.
11. Conclusion
Based on the above assessment, the overall financial management risk is considered average. Assuming all
the identified issues are adequately addressed, the Project would satisfy the Bank's financial management
requirements as stipulated under OPJBP 10.02. In the team's opinion, the Project would have in place an
adequate project financial management arrangement that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate
and timely information on the status of the Project in a reporting format agreed with the project
management offices and as required by the Bank. Further, the institutional and financial strengthening
component included in the project would be expected to underpin improvements in these arrangements.
- 100 -



Report
on the
Assessment of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
Proiect Title: CHINA: Liao River Basin Proiect:
Proiect ID: CN-P051859
Ineligible for PMR-Based Disbursements
Part I - Financial Management Svstem.
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the review was to
determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system as required by the
Bank/IDA under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the Bank's guidelines
for "Review of Financial Management System", and focused on the assessment of the project's accounting
system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an auditor as well
as the formnat and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by the borrower in
support of Withdrawal Applications.
I confirm that the project will satisfy the Bank's minimum financial management requirements subject to
addressing the items in the attached action plan. In my opinion, the project has in place an adequate project
financial management system that can provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information
on the status of the project, in the reporting format agreed with the Borrower and as required by the
Bank/IDA.
[I have detailed in the attachment actions required to remedy the situation.
The project will not be using PMR-based disbursements; traditional disbursement mechanisms will be used.
Signed by:                                                       2z OI
Financial Management Specialist   '  | Q C            *a|
Name, Dept./Div.                  Date
- 101 -



CHINA: Liao River Basin Project
Detailed Action Plan for Financial Management
Main Issues: Need to (i) ensure the financial viability of the implementing agencies, (ii) to address the
risk of water tariffs collected not being passed on to the implementing agencies on a timely and
accurately basis and (iii) to address the lack of adequate internal control policies and procedures.
COMPONENT                        RESPONSIBLE                TIME
PARTY
1. Asset Valuation Reports and the outstanding capit al  PMOs, Bank  By loan effectiveness (to be
verification reports of the project implementing agencies are       discussed during the
reviewed by the Bank.                                               negotiations).
2. Financial covenant includes a formal agreement signed   PMOs, LUCRPO, To be agreed during the
by water supply companies, water treatment companies and Bank      negotiations.
the local governments to ensure that the tariffs are turned
over to the water treatment companies on a timely and
accurately basis.
3. Complete financial analysis of Yingkou Paper Company   PMOs,     By negotiations.
to determine its eligibility as an implementing agency.  LUCRPO, Bank
Develop a detailed action plan to address its continuing
operating losses.
4. Review the Financial Management Manual to ensure that  Bank      By negotiations.
there are sufficient control policies and procedures which
adequately address poor financial management practices as
identified during the Financial Management Review by the
Bank.
5. All accounting staff (of both the PMOs and implementing  PMOs, Bank  By Loan effectiveness
agencies) are on board
Part 1I- Procurement/Contract Management S stem
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project. The objective of the
review was to determine whether the procurement/contract management system adopted by the project
conforms to the Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment projects.
My review was based on the "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement, Setting
of Prior Review Thresholds and Procurement Supervision Plan" guidelines issued by the Bank.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements. In my
opinion, the project has in place an adequate procurement/contract management system that can provide the
appropriate data on major procurement and contract management, in the reporting format agreed with the
Borrower and as required by the Bank/IDA.
Signed by:
Procurement Specialist
Name, Dept./Div.                     Date
- 102 -



Part III: Phvsical Monitorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
I have reviewed the project's system for monitoring physical implementation progress, including its
monitorable indicators for major outputs. In my view, the system can provide the appropriate data on
physical progress, in the reporting format agreed with the Borrower and as required by the Bank/IDA.
I also certify that based on the assessments of the FMS-OPR and PS given respective in Parts I and II
above, taken together with my overall assessment of the project, and the wish expressed by the Borrower's
Governmental authority, this project is ineligible for PMR-Based Disbursement procedures; traditional
disbursement mechanisms will be used.
Signed by:
Task Team Leader                                                 C,  ?   - |  1
ame, Dept./Div.                  Date
Part IV. Concurrence of LOA for Eligibilitv of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
I have conducted a reasonableness review of the process followed by the Task Team in assessing the
project, and I concur with its recommendation that this project is not eligible for PMR-Based
Disbursements; traditional disbursement mechanisms will be used.
Signed by:
FMS-LOA/DO           _        __ _
Name, Dept./Div.                   Date
- 103 -



- 104 -



MAP SECTION






I                   ~~~~           ~        ~       ~~~CHINA  120                             122 ',s  124                                                                       126'
CHINA  l2O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~To Changchun
LIAO RIVER BASIN PROJECT
PROJECT                                                                               To Tongli.J
LIAO RIVER BASIN
sIJ'PROJECTCITY
*    WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEMS
AND TREATMENT PLANT (WWTP)
4$  INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL
URBAN MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS                                 Fakv  
-   MAIN ROADS                                                                           I           C      N         N );
-+----RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                     f9'dl42
HRIVERS                =        C                                                         )
PORTS                                                                                                                                                       A
N   URBAN AREAS
_ SELECTED CITIES                  _<aon                             e /     ) <
o PROVINCE CAPITAL
PROVINCE BOUNDARIESj
~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY    *-
~~~<t)<4(4<s@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ri                                            4o o                             i n                                        <
HEBEI      ~~To Chengd
PROVINCE 
_  18J
PEOPLE'S Ao~
MONCGOUA                                                                                                                                                                    REPBLI
~~~  ~     ~ ~ s d                                                                                                                                                    OF20YELLWESE
< /I' ~IEpAM                                                                                                                                                             r ay ednremef o
-PDR~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
Yd-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                             o,rnio



