Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
April 2, 2002
Mr. Jin Liqun
Vice Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Beijing,
People’s Republic of China
Re:  Japan Social Development Fund  Grant 
to Assist the Urban    Poor in Liaoning Province
Grant TF 050520                                                               
Dear Sir:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan under the Japan 
Social Development Fund, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding one million two hundred and 
seven thousand United States Dollars (US$1,207,000) (the Grant) to People’s Republic of China  (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance for activities 
complementary to with the Liao River Basin Project and a proposed Second Liao River Basin Project 
projects described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement (the Project) (the Projects) 
and on the terms and conditions set forth in the said Annex.  The Recipient represents, by confirming 
its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said Project and 
on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the 
Recipient, by signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement 
will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/S/ Yukon Huang
Yukon Huang
Country Director
AGREED:
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By  /S/ Rui Yueba
Title Deputy Director General 
Page  2
Date: April 19, 2002
Page  3
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Description of the Project
1.1. The objective of the Project is to assist the urban poor and unemployed in Liaoning Province, 
who were adversely impacted by the financial and economic crisis and state-owned enterprise reform 
programs, in gaining skills and means to earn a livelihood and to develop the capacity to participate in 
for community-driven programs.  The assistance is complementary to the activities under the 
Recipient’s Liao River Basin Project (Ln 4597-CHA) and the proposed Second Liao River Basin 
Project.
1.2. The Project consists of the following Parts which includes the following activities (Activities) 
that will be carried out in Tiexi District of Shenyang Municipality and Shuangta District of Chaoyang 
Municipality, all located in the Recipient’s Province of Liaoning:
Part A
. Skills training and micro-business support programs 
(1)
Carrying out of vocational training (such as, training in typing, basic accounting, 
automobile repairs, household electric appliance repairs and carpentry) and women’s skills 
training programs (such as, dress making, knitting, catering and hairdressing). 
(2)
Carrying out of training on starting up a micro-business, such as training in book-keeping 
and marketing,  
(3)
Provision of Sub-grants to Beneficiaries for small business development. 
The activities under this Part A are estimated to cost, in total, the equivalent of US$750,000.
Part B
.  Capacity building for communities
(1)
Provision of technical assistance to develop the capacity of the street committees to 
organize themselves more effectively,  interact with their local government in a participatory 
way, identify concerns and needs of the community and implement  and monitor community- 
managed small sanitation programs.  
(2)
Provision of Sub-grants to Beneficiaries for sanitation improvement works to pilot test 
the community-managed work approach described in Part B(1).  
The activities under this Part B are estimated to cost, in total, to cost the equivalent of 
US$457,000. 
1.3. For purposes of this Letter Agreement the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Beneficiary” means an individual or group of individuals responsible for carrying 
out a Business Development Sub-project or a street committee responsible for carrying out a 
Page  4
Sanitation Improvement Sub-project, and the term “Beneficiaries” means, collectively, all of such 
Beneficiaries.
(b)
“Business Development Sub-project” means a specific project carried out under Part 
A(3) of the Project and utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-grant, and the term “Business Development 
Sub-projects” means, collectively, all such Business Development Sub-projects.
(c)
“Operations Manual” means the manual  to be developed pursuant to paragraph 2.2 of 
this Annex, as such manual may be revised from time to time with the approval of the Bank.
(d)
“Sanitation Improvement Sub-project” means a specific project carried out under Part 
A
B(2) of the Project and utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-grant, and the term “Sanitation Improvement 
Sub-projects” means, collectively, all such Sanitation Improvement Sub-projects.
(e)
“Sub-project” means a Business Development Sub-project or a Sanitation Improvement 
Sub-project; and the term “Sub-projects” means, collectively, all such Sub-projects.
(f)
“Sub-grant” means a grant made, or proposed to be made by the Recipient to a 
Beneficiary out of the proceeds of the Grant, for the carrying out of a Sub-project, and the term 
“Sub-grants” means, collectively, all such Sub-grants.
(g)
“Sub-grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and a Beneficiary for purposes of carrying out a Sub-project, and the term “Sub-grant 
Agreements” means, collectively, all such Sub-grant Agreements. 
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1. The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Project, through Liaoning Province, with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that 
purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as 
the Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Project; and (e) take all necessary measures required 
to enable the Bank to visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.  Without 
limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the 
Bank promptly upon completion of the Project a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Bank, on the results and impact of the Project.
2.2. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Recipient shall: 
(a)
Prepare and adopt an operations manual (“Operations Manual”), acceptable to the Bank, 
as such manual may be amended with the prior agreement of the Bank, for the implementation of 
Parts A and B of the Project, which Operations Manual shall include: 
(i)
The procedure and criteria for selection of trainees and trainers under Parts 
A(1) and A(2) of the Project. 
(ii)
The procedure and criteria for the appraisal and selection of Beneficiaries and 
Sub-projects, including that:
(A)
A Business Development Sub-projects is eligible for financing under this 
Page  5
Grant if the proposed sub-project involves development of small businesses, 
including street vending, bicycle repairs, grocery provision and catering 
services;.  
(B)
A Sanitation Improvement Sub-projects is eligible for financing under 
this Grant if the proposed sub-project activities involves improvement of 
sanitation, including repair of sewers and drainage pipelines, road 
maintenance and tree planting;. 
(C)
A Beneficiary is eligible to participate in a Business Development 
Sub-project if the Beneficiary is an individual or a group of people not 
exceeding 5 persons, resides in Tiexi District or Shuangta District, and has 
enrolled in a business training program;. and
(D)
A Beneficiary is eligible to participate in a Sanitation Improvement 
Sub-project if the Beneficiary a street-committee in Tiexi District or 
Shuangta District. 
(iii)
Procurement procedures, including procedures for community participation 
acceptable to the Bank, reporting requirements, terms and conditions 
governing the Sub-grant Agreements and standard documentation therefor.  
(b)
Enter into a Sub-grant Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank with a Beneficiary selected in 
accordance with and on the terms and conditions set out in the Operations Manual for purposes of 
financing a Sub-project and before making any proceeds of the Grant available to said Beneficiary.
(c)
Take all such action as shall be necessary to ensure that Sub-projects are carried out 
with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with appropriate administrative and financial 
practices, and in accordance with the procedures set out in the Operations Manual. 
(d)
Exchange views with the Bank’s representatives on the progress and results of the 
Project and Sub-projects as the Bank shall reasonably request from time to time.
(e)
Suspend or terminate the right of a Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the Sub-grant 
which is suspended or terminated upon failure of the Beneficiary to perform its obligation under the 
Sub-grant Agreement to which the Beneficiary is a party.
(f)
Maintain the District Project Management Offices (DPMO) in Tiexi District and 
Shuangta District, each of which DPMO is made up of representatives of street committees and 
district government officials and is responsible for reviewing Beneficiaries, making arrangements for 
training, financial arrangements for both training and  business start-up and all the record keeping, all 
in accordance with the policies and procedures set out in the Operations Manual.   
(g)
Maintain the Liaoning Project Management Office (LPMO) within the Liaoning 
Provincial Planning Commission, which LPMO consists of provincial government officials and a 
representative of the Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office and Shenyang and 
Chaoyang municipal government officials and is responsible for overseeing the work of the DPMO,  
and for reporting to the Bank on the progress of Project implementation.  LPMO shall consult with the 
Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office all matters relating to the Project, in 
particular on the procurement and disbursement procedures and guidelines.  
Page  6
3.
Procurement
3.1.
 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed 
by the provisions of  Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2. The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely 
usable currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant 
to the Project are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and 
that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project:
Category
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
(in United States Dollars)
% of
Expenditures
to be Financed
(1) Business Development 
Sub-grants
450,000
100% of Sub-grant 
amount disbursed
(2) Sanitation Improvement 
Sub-grants 
250,000
100% of Sub-grant amount 
disbursed
(3) Consultants’ services
357,000
91%
(4) Training
150,000
100%
               TOTAL
              1,207,000
             ========
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in or works 
and services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods or for works if such payment or import, to the Bank’s knowledge, 
Page  7
is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after February 28, 2004, or such 
later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date).; and 
(c)
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the Bank 
may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated 
to another item which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of 
Finance or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by 
such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with 
the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the 
Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be 
used in the carrying out of the Project.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient 
from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures: (a) Business Development Sub-grants valued at $15,000_____ 
equivalent each; (b) Sanitation Improvement Sub-grants valued at __$50,000____ equivalent each; (c) 
for consultants’ services under contracts awarded to consulting firms and costing less than 
$50,000___ equivalent each; (d) for consultants’ services under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants and costing less than $10,000____ equivalent each; and (e) for training, regardless of the 
cost thereof; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient may open and maintain in United 
States Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
Page  8
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above [and the records and accounts for the Special Account] for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank 
such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be 
maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are 
included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1. The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of 
the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended. 
6.2. The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
within six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project. 
Page  9
Attachment I 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 
1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) 
and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding  - this should be National Competitive Bidding 
(nothing to 
procure ICB).
1.
(a)
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
(b)
The procedures to be followed for National Competitive Bidding under this Part B shall 
be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and Bidding of the People's Republic of China 
promulgated by Order No. 21 of the President of the People's Republic of China on August 30, 1999, 
with the following clarifications required for compliance with the Guidelines:
(i)
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper of 
national circulation in China and such advertisement shall be made in sufficient time 
for prospective bidders to obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare 
and submit their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be 
given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such newspaper and the 
deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and bidding documents shall 
specify the deadline for such submission. 
(ii)
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding documents.
(iii) All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient to 
protect the Borrower, in case of breach of contract by the contractor, and the bidding 
documents shall specify the required form and amount of such security.
(iv)
The time for opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of 
such bids.
(v)
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an opportunity to 
be present (either in person or through their representatives) at the time of bid 
Page  10
opening, but bidders shall not be required to be present at the bid opening.
(vi)
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside any 
standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids established by the 
Borrower.
(vii) Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder, that is, 
the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of capability and resources and whose 
bid has been determined (A) to be substantially responsive to the bidding documents 
and (B) to offer the lowest evaluated cost.  The winning bidder shall not be required, 
as a condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated in the 
bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally submitted.
PPart C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Procurement of small works – can we add this?
22.
Community Participation
Works required for Parts A(3) and B(2) of the Project under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex, up 
to an aggregate amount not to exceed $250,000 equivalent, mayshall be procured in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded 
on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete 
the contract successfully.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  11
1.
Procurement Planning
On January 1 of each year, commencing in [2002], the proposed procurement plan for the 
Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction 
and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I.
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for Activities under Part B(1) of the Project under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex that are 
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for Activities under Part A(1) of the Project under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex that are 
estimated to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Page  12
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for capacity building under Part B(1) of the Project under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex 
that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for estimated to 
cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of US$10,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms 
of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  
The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; and
Page  13
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$120,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) 
of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, 
on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account under the eligible 
item(s), and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such 
time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be required 
to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Page  14
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; 
or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an 
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
