Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER  4617 CHA
Project Agreement
(Liao River Basin Project)
between 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
LIAONING PROVINCE
Dated January 18, 2002
LOAN NUMBER  4617 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 18,  2002 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and LIAONING PROVINCE 
Page  2
(Liaoning).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower 
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount equal to one 
hundred million Dollars ($100,000,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that Liaoning agrees to undertake such obligations toward the 
Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS Liaoning, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement, the General Conditions (as so defined in the Loan Agreement) and the 
preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Liaoning declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
(i)
carry out Part B of the Project through LCD and LEPB; Part C of the 
Project through LEPB; Part D of the Project through LEPB and LFD and 
Part E of the Project through LUCRPO;
(ii)
cause Jinzhou, Panjin, and Yingkou to carry out Parts E.1, E.2, E.3 and F 
of the Project; 
(iii)
cause Jinzhou to carry out Parts A.3(a), E.1 and E.2 of the Project 
through Jinzhou DC, and Part A.3(b) of the Project through Jincheng 
PMC;
(iv)
cause Panjin to carry out Parts A.1, E.1 and E.2 of the Project through 
Panjin DC; and
(v)
cause Yingkou to carry out Parts A.2(a), E.1 and E.2 of the Project 
Page  3
through Yingkou DC and Part A.2(b) of the Project through Yingkou 
PMC,
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, engineering, public utility, health, safety, resettlement and environmental practices and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank and Liaoning shall otherwise agree, Liaoning shall carry out the Project, or 
cause the Project to be carried out, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree: (a) procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and (b) procurement of goods and consultants' services required for Sub-projects 
(under Part D of the Project) and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1A to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Liaoning shall carry out the obligations or cause to be carried out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, Liaoning shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and 
Liaoning, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Liaoning on said plan.
Section 2.04. (a) Liaoning shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Liaoning shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan, or the performance by Liaoning of its obligations under this Agreement.
Page  4
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Liaoning shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Liaoning, 
as well as the Project Participants, responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
Liaoning shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Liaoning thereunder 
shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its 
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Liaoning thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Page  5
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  
The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
      Telex:
      Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For Liaoning:
Liaoning Provincial Bureau of Finance 
No. 103 North Nanjing Street
Heping District
Shenyang, Liaoning Province
People’s Republic of China 
Facsimile:
     0086-24-22834167
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Liaoning may be taken or 
executed by its Governor or Vice-Governor, or by such other person or persons as Liaoning shall 
designate in writing, and Liaoning shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
Page  6
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in           
Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
LIAONING PROVINCE
By
/s/ Ms. Zou Jiayi
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement for Parts A, B, C and E of the Project
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Page  7
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods and works to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable: (i) contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $6,000,000 equivalent or more each; and (ii) contracts for goods shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a) Works estimated to cost less than $6,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $50,700,000 equivalent; and (b) goods estimated to cost less 
than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  8
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$6,000,000 or more; and (ii) goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services under the Project that are estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
(a) Services which are estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured with the Bank’s prior agreement; and (a) services for Parts A.2 and A.3 of the 
Project may be procured, all under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  9
paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may, 
with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines and which are estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000 the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
Page  10
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 1A
Procurement for Part D of the Project
Procurement of Goods and Employment of Consultants
1.
Goods for Part D of the Project may be procured in accordance with established local 
private sector or commercial practices acceptable to the Bank, which shall include price 
comparisons from three qualified suppliers whenever possible.
2.
Consultants' services to assist Participating Enterprises in carrying out Sub-projects 
under Part D of the Project and estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent may be procured 
in accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
For the purposes of Section 2.01(b) of this Agreement, the Implementation Program shall 
consist of the provisions set forth or referred to below.
Project Management
1.
In order to ensure the proper carrying out of the Project, Liaoning shall:
(a)
continue to maintain: 
(i)
LUCRPO, with functions satisfactory to the Bank, staffed by qualified 
personnel in adequate numbers, to be responsible for the overall 
coordination, management, supervision and quality assurance of Project 
execution; the supervision of the procurement of goods, works and 
consultants' services thereunder; the coordination of training activities; 
the preparation and furnishing to the Bank of reports and other 
information thereon; and annual budget preparation for the Project; and
(ii) 
the urban management information systems (also referred to as ‘UMIS’) 
center within LCD, with functions satisfactory to the Bank, staffed by 
qualified personnel in adequate numbers, to be responsible for carrying 
Page  11
out Liaoning’s activities under Part B of the Project. 
(b)
ensure that the Project Participants each shall continue to maintain a project 
management office with functions satisfactory to the Bank, staffed by qualified personnel in 
adequate numbers, to be responsible for: the coordination and supervision of the execution of its 
and, where applicable, its Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project; the supervision of 
the procurement of goods, works and consultants' services under its and, where applicable, its 
Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project; and the preparation and furnishing to 
LUCRPO of reports and other information thereon. 
Resettlement Action Plans and Environmental Action Plans
2.
Liaoning shall take, and shall cause the Project Participants, each Project Company and 
each Participating Enterprise to take, all measures necessary to ensure that the Project shall be 
carried out in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plans and the Environmental Action 
Plans. 
3.
Liaoning shall ensure that any proposed revision of the Resettlement Action Plans or the 
Environmental Action Plans shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior approval.
Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan
4.
Liaoning shall:
(a)
carry out the Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Bank; and
(b)
furnish to the Bank any proposed modification or amendment to said plan and 
take into account the Bank’s comments in implementing such modification or amendment.
Wastewater Collection Systems 
5.
In respect of Parts A.1, A.2(a) and A.3(a) of the Project, Liaoning shall cause each 
Project Participant, through the Project Company concerned, to: (a) furnish to the Bank by 
December 31, 2001, a time-bound investment program, acceptable to the Bank, to strengthen its 
wastewater collection systems, and (b) begin implementation of said program by July 31, 2002, 
taking into account the Bank’s comments thereon.
Page  12
Financial Arrangements
6.
Liaoning shall allocate to each Project Participant an amount of the Loan under 
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, without limitation, the following 
principal terms:
(a)
Liaoning shall make available the principal amount, which has been allocated to 
each Project Participant, in Dollars (on the date, or respective dates, of withdrawal from the Loan 
Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on account of each Project 
Participant’s Respective Part of the Project and, where applicable, its Project Company’s 
Respective Part of the Project;
(b)
Liaoning shall recover: (i) such principal amount so made available and (ii) an 
amount equal to one percent of such principal amount, over a period of twenty (20) years, 
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years;
(c)
Liaoning shall charge interest on such principal amount, withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest applicable from time to time to 
the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement; and
(d)
Liaoning shall charge a commitment charge on such principal amount, not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum. 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
7.
Liaoning shall cause each Project Participant to relend the portion of the proceeds of the 
Loan, which was allocated to it pursuant to paragraph 6 of this Schedule for the purposes of 
carrying out its Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project, to its Project Company under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between said Project Participant and its Project 
Company: (a) on the principal terms set forth in Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(b) under conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, 
without limitation, those set forth in Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
8.
(a)
Liaoning shall cause, and shall ensure that each Project Participant  causes, its 
Project Company to:
(i)
perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement to which said Project Company is a party, all of the 
obligations of said Project Company therein set forth; 
(ii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
Page  13
enable said Project Company to perform such obligations; and
(iii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance. 
(b)
Liaoning shall exercise, and shall cause each Project Participant to exercise, its 
rights under each Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which it is a party in such manner as to protect 
the interests of the Borrower, the Bank, Liaoning and said Project Participant, and to accomplish 
the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which Liaoning or said Project Participant 
is a party or any provision thereof.
9.
By December 31, 2006, Liaoning shall cause, and shall ensure that Jinzhou causes, 
Jincheng PMC to demolish its mercury electrolysis facility and clean up the demolition site in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank.  
Sub-loans under Part D of the Project 
10.
Liaoning shall make Sub-loans on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
11.
Liaoning shall:
(a)
adopt a manual (the Operational Regulations) governing the implementation of 
Part D of the Project and acceptable to the Bank; and
(b)
implement Part D of the Project in accordance with the said manual.
12.
Liaoning shall:
(a)
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out of 
Sub-projects, in accordance with the Operational Regulations;
(b)
utilize all amounts repaid on Sub-loans, to the extent they are not yet required to 
meet Liaoning’s repayment obligations to the Borrower, to finance additional Sub-projects 
consistent with the Operational Regulations;
(c)
exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project in such manner as to protect the 
interests of the Bank and the Borrower and achieve the purposes of the Project;
(d)
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for 
Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without the prior approval of the Bank; and
(e)
furnish any proposed amendment to the Operational Regulations to the Bank for 
its prior approval.
Page  14
Monitoring and Reporting
13.
Liaoning shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of 
the Project, including the Resettlement Action Plans and the Environmental Action Plans, as well 
as the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, the following semi-annual reports on January 31 and July 31 in each year, beginning on 
January 31, 2002, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph 13(a) of this Schedule 2, based on the semi-annual progress reports 
prepared by the UMIS center and the project offices referred to in paragraphs 1(a)(ii) and 1(b) of 
this Schedule 2, on the physical and financial progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the preceding calendar semester (the report due on July 31, 2004, to summarize progress 
achieved during the period, June 30, 2001, through December 31, 2003) and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
after furnishing each report referred to in paragraph 13(b) of this Schedule 2, review said 
report with the Bank (the report due on July 31, 2004, shall be reviewed with the Bank by 
December 31, 2004, or such later date as the Bank shall request), and promptly take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project (including, when applicable, the 
carrying out of the Resettlement Action Plans and the Environmental Action Plans) and the 
achievement of the objectives minutes thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms and Conditions of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements
For the purposes of paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the terms of 
availability of the Loan proceeds shall be those set forth in Section I of this Schedule 3 and the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall be entered into on the conditions set forth in Section II of this 
Schedule 3.
Section I.
Terms of Availability
1.
The principal amount of each Subsidiary Loan made by a Project Participant to its 
Project Company, shall be the amount equivalent in Dollars (on the respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on 
account of said Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project.
2.
(a)
Each Project Company (except Yingkou PMC and Jincheng PMC) shall repay: 
(i) such principal amount; and (ii) an amount equal to one percent of such principal amount, over 
a period of not more than fifteen (15) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years. 
Page  15
(b)
Yingkou PMC and Jincheng PMC shall repay: (i) such principal amount; and (ii) 
an amount equal to one percent of such principal amount, over a period of not more than ten (10) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of four (4) years. 
3.
(a)
Each Project Company (except Yingkou PMC and Jincheng PMC) shall pay 
interest on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate 
not less than the rate of interest applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 
of the Loan Agreement. 
(b)
Yingkou PMC and Jincheng PMC shall pay interest on the principal amount 
thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate not less than the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement, plus a 
spread of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per annum. 
4.
Each Project Company shall pay a commitment charge on such principal amount, not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per 
annum.
Section II.
Conditions
The Subsidiary Loan Agreements shall include the following principal conditions.
1.
Each Project Company shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out the Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in accordance with:
(i)
appropriate engineering, financial, public utility (except Yingkou PMC 
and Jincheng PMC) and technical practices; and
(ii)
appropriate health, safety, social and environmental standards acceptable 
to the Bank, and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and 
other resources required for the purpose; and 
(b)
without limitation on the foregoing take all measures necessary to ensure that the 
Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project shall be implemented in accordance with its 
Respective RAP and the Environmental Action Plans.
2.
Each Project Company shall undertake to procure the goods, works and consultants' 
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and utilize such goods, works and consultants’services exclusively 
in the carrying out of its Project Company’s Respective Part of the Project. 
3.
Each Project Company shall undertake to enable the Bank, and the Project Participant 
concerned to inspect such goods and the sites and works included in its Project Company’s 
Respective Part of the Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents.
4.
Each Project Company shall undertake to take out and maintain with responsible insurers 
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business practice, including, without limitation, such insurance to cover hazards incident to the 
Page  16
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely 
usable by the Project Company to replace or repair such goods.
5.
Each Project Company shall undertake to:
(a)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition;
(b)
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the Project 
Participant concerned; 
(c)
furnish to Liaoning, the Bank and the Project Participant concerned, as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i)
certified copies of said financial statements and accounts for such year 
as so audited; and 
(ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail as 
Liaoning, the Bank and/or said Project Participant shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(d)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, Liaoning and the Project Participant concerned 
all such other information concerning said records, accounts and financial statements, as well as 
the audit thereof, as the Bank, Liaoning, and/or said Project Participant shall reasonably request.
6.
Jinzhou DC, Panjin DC and Yingkou DC shall for each fiscal year, as of 2001, undertake 
to produce:
(a)
total revenues, equivalent to not less than the sum of:
(i)
its total operating expenses; and
(ii)
the amount by which debt service requirements exceeds the provision for 
depreciation;
(b)
review, before September 30 in each fiscal year as of fiscal 2002, and on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, whether it would meet the 
requirements set forth in subparagraph (a) hereof, in respect of such year and the next following 
fiscal year and furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion; and
(c)
if any such review shows that it would not meet the requirements set forth in 
subparagraph (a) hereof for the fiscal years covered by such review, promptly take all necessary 
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs) in 
order to meet such requirements.
7.
Jinzhou DC, Panjin DC and Yingkou DC shall undertake not to incur any debt unless a 
reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures shows that its estimated net revenues for 
Page  17
each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times its estimated 
debt service requirements in such year on all of its debt including the debt to be incurred.
8.
Jincheng PMC and Yingkou PMC shall undertake:
(a)
to maintain a ratio of current assets, determined in accordance with paragraph 
9(k) of this Schedule 3, to current liabilities of not less than 0.8;
(b)
to maintain a ratio of current assets, determined in accordance with paragraph 
9(l) of this Schedule 3, to current liabilities of not less than 1.5; and
(c)
not to incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues and 
expenditures shows that its estimated net revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the debt 
to be incurred shall be at least 1.4 times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on 
all of its debt including the debt to be incurred.
9.
For purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
The term “total revenues” means the terms of total operating revenues and net 
non-operating income.
(b)
The term “total operating revenues” means revenues from all sources related to 
operations.
(c)
The term “total operating expenses” means all expenses related to operations, 
including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and 
provision for depreciation on a straight line basis at a rate of not less than 3.3% per annum of the 
average current gross value of the Project Company’s fixed assets in operation, or other basis 
acceptable to the Bank, but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(d)
The average current gross value of the Project Company’s fixed assets in 
operation shall be calculated as one half of the sum of the gross value of its fixed assets in 
operation at the beginning and at the end of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in 
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the 
Bank.
(e)
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other charges on, debt.
(f)
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Project Company maturing by its 
terms more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(g)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: 
(i)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument providing for 
such debt or for the modification of its terms of payment on the date of 
such contract, agreement or instrument; and
(ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for 
Page  18
such guarantee has been entered into.
(h)
The term “net revenues” means the difference between:
(i)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations and net 
non-operating income, and
(ii)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding provision for depreciation, other non-cash operating charges 
and interest and other charges on debt.
(i)
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between:
(i)
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; and
(ii)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (i) above.
(j)
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by the Project 
Company not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of the debt in question, which 
both the Bank and said Project Company accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has 
notified said Project Company of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred since such 
notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results of said Project Company.
(k)
With respect to paragraph 8(a) of this Schedule 3, the term “current assets” 
means cash, all assets which could in the ordinary course of business be converted into cash 
within twelve months, including account receivable, marketable securities and pre-paid expenses 
properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
(l)
With respect to paragraph 8(b) of this Schedule 3, the term “current assets” 
means cash, all assets which could in the ordinary course of business be converted into cash 
within twelve months, including account receivable, marketable securities, inventories and 
pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal year.
10.
Jincheng PMC shall undertake to demolish its mercury electrolysis facility and clean up 
the demolition site in a manner satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 2006.  
11.
Whenever, for the purposes of this Schedule, it shall be necessary to value, in terms of 
the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on 
the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
12.
Each Project Participant shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of its 
Project Company to the use of the proceeds of the loan made available under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement with said Project Company upon failure by such Project Company to perform its 
Page  19
obligations under the agreement.
SCHEDULE 4
Sub-loans
Terms
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan financed:
(a)
shall be the amount in Dollars (determined as of the date, or respective dates, of 
withdrawal from the Loan Account) of the value of the currency or currencies so withdrawn on 
account of the Sub-project for which said Sub-loan has been made; and
(b)
shall be repaid within a period not exceeding 5 years, inclusive of a grace period 
not exceeding 2 years.
2.
Each Sub-loan shall:
(a)
bear interest, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, at a rate equal to the rate applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to 
Section 2.06 of the Loan Agreement; and
(b)
carry a commitment fee on the principal amount of said loan not withdrawn from 
time to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum;
3.
The total estimated cost of each Sub-project (excluding the cost of land) shall not exceed 
$1,500,000. The aggregate of the principal outstanding under all Sub-loans made to any one 
Participating Enterprise shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000. The amount of any one 
Sub-loan and the aggregate amount of all Sub-loans made for any one Sub-project shall not 
exceed 40% of the total estimated cost (excluding the cost of land) of such Sub-project.
Eligibility and Appraisal
4.
Each Sub-loan shall be made only to a Participating Enterprise which:
(a)
is an enterprise legal person duly established and operating under the laws of the 
Borrower; and
(b)
shall have established on the basis of guidelines set out in the Operational 
Regulations, that it is creditworthy and has a sound financial structure and the organization, 
management, staff and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of its operations, 
including the Sub-project.
5.
Sub-projects shall be appraised and selected on the basis of technical, financial, 
environmental and resettlement criteria acceptable to the Bank. Such criteria shall include, 
without limitation:
(a)
Technical: Sub-projects shall be technically viable based on an assessment of:
Page  20
(i)
the Sub-project's impact on the ambient environment;
(ii)
the Sub-project's financial and economic feasibility;
(iii)
the Sub-project's investment and operating cost per unit pollution load 
reduction;
(iv)
the efforts made by the Participating Enterprise on pollution prevention;
(v)
the Participating Enterprise's record regarding compliance with 
environmental regulations and standards; and
(vi)
the Sub-project’s technical feasibility and least-cost option.
(b)
Environmental:  for each Sub-project the Participating Enterprise shall prepare 
an environmental action plan satisfactory to the Bank, including an assessment of the 
Participating Enterprise’s and the Sub-project’s adverse impact on the environment and 
appropriate mitigation measures to be carried out to remedy such impact.
(c)
Resettlement: for each Sub-project involving the involuntary resettlement of any 
persons in connection therewith, the Participating Enterprise shall prepare, on the basis of 
procedures and principles acceptable to the Bank, a resettlement action plan satisfactory to the 
Bank.  Resettlement action plans shall be prepared in consultation with the affected persons on 
the basis of policies, planning principles and institutional arrangements designed to improve the 
living standards of the said persons, together with satisfactory operational procedures adequate to 
enable the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the said resettlement plan.
Utilization of Sub-loan proceeds
6.
The proceeds of Sub-loans shall be withdrawn only to finance expenditures for materials, 
equipment and services, required for a Sub-project, net of taxes.
Other conditions
7.
 No expenditures for goods or consultants’ services required for a Sub-project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank and such expenditures shall 
have been made not earlier than 90 days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received 
the application and information required under paragraph 8(a) of this Schedule in respect of such 
Sub-loan; or
(b)
the Sub-loan shall have been a free-limit Sub-loan for which the Bank has 
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have been made not 
earlier than 90 days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the request and 
information required under paragraph 8(b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit 
Sub-loan. For the purposes of this Schedule, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan (other than 
the first three (3) Sub-loans made) in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
which shall not exceed the sum of $300,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding 
amounts financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of any other 
Page  21
loan, provided for in any outstanding agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
proceeds of which have been or are being used for financing goods and consultants’ services 
directly and materially related to such Sub-project, the foregoing amounts being subject to 
change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
8.
(a)
Each application for approval by the Bank of a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit 
Sub-loan) shall be in form satisfactory to the Bank, and shall include:
(i)
a description of the Participating Enterprise and an appraisal of the 
Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan;
(ii)
the proposed terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the 
schedule of amortization thereof; and
(iii)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in 
respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain:
(i)
a summary description of the Participating Enterprise and the 
Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and
(ii)
the terms and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of 
amortization thereof.
9.
Each Sub-loan shall be made on further conditions whereby Liaoning shall obtain, by 
written contract with the Participating Enterprise, rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Bank and Liaoning, including:
(a)
that the Participating Enterprise shall undertake to:
(i)
carry out and operate the Sub-project (including completion of 
abatement measures, the Sub-project EAP and, if applicable, the 
Sub-project RAP), with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance 
with sound technical, financial and managerial standards and appropriate 
safety, health and environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank, 
maintain adequate records and provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
(ii)
procure the goods and consultants' services required for the  Sub-project 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1A to this Agreement, and 
utilize such goods and consultants' services exclusively in the carrying 
out of its Sub-project;
(iii)
enable the Bank and Liaoning to inspect such goods and the sites 
included in its Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant 
records and documents;
Page  22
(iv)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers  such insurance against 
such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business practice, including, without limitation, such insurance to cover 
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
required for the Sub-project to the place of use or on, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the 
Participating Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; and
(v)
prepare and furnish to Liaoning, as the case may be, for forwarding to 
the Bank, if it shall so request, all such information as the Bank or 
Liaoning shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the 
administration, operations and financial condition of the Participating 
Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project; and 
(b)
provisions to ensure the right of Liaoning to suspend or terminate the right of the 
Participating Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Participating 
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract providing for the Sub-loan.
