                   Document of
                  The World Bank




                                              Report No: ICR00001101



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
             (IBRD-46170 TF-50520)



                       ON A

                      LOAN

       IN THE AMOUNT OF USD100 MILLION

                      TO THE

          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                     FOR THE

           LIAO RIVER BASIN PROJECT


                     June 15, 2009




         Sustainable Development Department
             East Asia and Pacific Region
            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
               ( Actual Exchange Rate)
              Currency Unit = Yuan
                 Yuan 1.00 = USD 0.13
                  USD 1.00 = Yuan 7.6

                      Fiscal Year
               January 1 to December 31
         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOD         Biological Oxygen Demand
CNY         Chinese Yuan (RMB)
COD         Chemical Oxygen Demand
DC          Drainage Company
EA          Environmental Assessment
GDP         Gross Domestic Product
GIS         Geographic Information System
ICR         Implementation Completion & Results (Report)
IA          Implementation Agency
JDC         Jinzhou Drainage Company
JMG         Jinzhou Municipal Government
LMC2        2nd Liaoning Medium Cities Infrastructure Project
            Ln48640
LP          Liaoning Province
LPG         Liaoning Provincial Government
LRBP        Liao River Basin Project
LUCRPO      Liaoning Urban Construction Renewal Project Office
MOF         Ministry of Finance
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PDC         Panjin Drainage Company
PDO         Project Development Objective
PHRD        Policy and Human Resources Development (Grant from
            Japan)
PMG         Panjin Municipal Government
PIU         Project Implementing Units
PUB         Public Utilities Bureau
QAE         Quality at Entry
QSA         Quality of Supervision Assessment
RAP         Resettlement Action Plan
RMB         Chinese Yuan (Renminbi)
UMIS        Urban Management Information System
WWTP        Wastewater Treatment Plant
YDC         Yingkou Drainage Company
YMG         Yingkou Municipal Government
   Vice President   Mr. James W. Adams
 Country Director   Mr. David R. Dollar
  Sector Manager    Mr. Ede Jorge Ijjasz Vasquez
Task Team Leader    Mr. Mingyuan Fan
                                    China
                          LIAO RIVER BASIN PROJECT


                                     CONTENTS


1. Basic Information
2. Key Dates
3. Ratings Summary
4. Sector and Theme Codes
5. Bank Staff
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
8. Assessment of Outcomes
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
11. Lessons Learned
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
Annex 1. Detailed Performance Indicators/Results
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Outputs by Component
Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 5. Implementation of the Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan
Annex 6: Resettlement Implementation
Annex 7. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
MAP No. 31284R
A. Basic Information
                                                                  Liao River Basin
Country:            China                 Project Name:
                                                                  Project
                                                                  IBRD-46170,TF-
Project ID:         P051859               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                  50520
ICR Date:           06/15/2009            ICR Type:               Core ICR
                                                                  PEOPLE'S
Lending Instrument: SIL                   Borrower:               REPUBLIC OF
                                                                  CHINA
Original Total
                      USD 100M              Disbursed Amount: USD 91.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: A
Implementing Agencies:
(i) Liaoning Urban Construction and Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO)
(ii) Municipal Governments and Drainage Companies of Panjin, Yingkou and Jinzhou
(iii) Yingkou Paper Mill and Jincheng Paper Mill
(iv) Liaoning Provincial Construction Commission
(v) Liaoning Environmental Protection Bureau
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


 B. Key Dates
                                                                      Revised / Actual
    Process            Date          Process          Original Date
                                                                          Date(s)
Concept
                   10/26/2000    Effectiveness:          05/23/2002      05/23/2002
Review:
                                                                         12/01/2007
Appraisal:         03/12/2001    Restructuring(s):           -
                                                                         12/01/2008
                                 Mid-term
Approval:          06/19/2001                            12/31/2004      07/02/2004
                                 Review:
                                 Closing:                12/31/2007      12/31/2008


 C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                 Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:              Moderate
Bank Performance:                         Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                     Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank               Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:   Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
Quality of                             Implementing
                    Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Supervision:                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                           Overall Borrower
                    Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                           Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                       QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                           Rating
     Performance                               (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                         Quality at Entry
Project at any time      No                                 None
                                         (QAE):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                  Quality of
                         No                                 None
time (Yes/No):                           Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before        Moderately
Closing/Inactive status: Satisfactory


 D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                     Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other industry                                         10               17
Sewerage                                               83               75
Sub-national government administration                  7                8




Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Pollution management and environmental health         Primary         Primary
Water resource management                             Primary         Primary


 E. Bank Staff
       Positions                  At ICR                     At Approval
Vice President:         Mr. James W. Adams           Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:       Mr. David R. Dollar          Mr. Yukon Huang
Sector Manager:         Mr. Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez Mr. Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:       Mr. Mingyuan Fan                Mr. Geoffrey Read
ICR Team Leader:           Mr. Mingyuan Fan
ICR Primary Author:        Mr. Chandra Godavitarne



 F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The development objective is to assist the environmental recovery of the Liao River
Basin (LRB) in Liaoning Province and to enhance water quality management decision-
making on the basis of an integrated river basin management approach.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
Project objectives remained unchanged during the project period.


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target Formally         Actual Value
                                            Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                              approval         Target      Completion or
                                            documents)         Values       Target Years
                Water quality in Hun, Taizi, Liao and Daliao Rivers meets Class V
Indicator 1 :
                standards for COD (% of time).
Value
quantitative or N/A                       70%                             70%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/2001                  12/31/2007                      12/31/2008
                  Target for 2007 was met in 2008. 2008 figures for Yingkou, Panjin and
Comments
                Jinzhou are 100%, 50%, and 58%, respectively, yielding an average of
(incl. %
                70%. The 90% target by 2010 is likely to be achieved because LPG has
achievement)
                enhanced discharge standards
                Aggregate quantity of wastewater treated at project city wastewater
Indicator 2 :
                treatment plants (% of system flow).
Value
quantitative or 0%                        80%                             48%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/2001                  12/31/2010                      12/31/2008
                  Target is on track to be met. Quantities have already been reached within
Comments
                the service areas, but the municipalities actually grew much faster than
(incl. %
                anticipated in the project design stage. Additional treatment plants will be
achievement)
                completed by 2010.
Indicator 3 : Industrial wastewater meeting river discharge standards (% of total flow).
Value
quantitative or 50%                        80%                             92%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/2001                   12/31/2010                     12/31/2007
                 Target exceeded. LPG has implemented the Industrial Pollution Control
Comments
                Action Plan addressing the 20 worst polluting industries identified at
(incl. %
                appraisal. Major action was taken against paper mills, resulting in the
achievement)
                closure of over 200 paper mills.
Indicator 4 : Industrial water use per unit of output (m3/Y10,000)
Value
quantitative or 120                        60                              48
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/2001                   12/31/2010                     12/31/2007
Comments
                 Target exceeded. Implementation of the Industrial Pollution Control
(incl. %
                Action Plan yielded excellent water-saving results.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Liaoning Provincial Govt. approval of the River Basin Plan
Value
quantitative or Draft plan                 Approval                        Approved
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/2001                   06/30/2002                     June 2002
Comments         Target met. LPG has adopted river basin management concepts for
(incl. %        prioritization of investments, demand management and pollution control
achievement) and management.
Indicator 6 : Wastewater tariffs implemented to meet financial projections.
                Baseline in 2001           Target for 2005                Actual since 2005
                      3                         3
Value           (Y/m ):                    (Y/m ):                        (Y/m3):
quantitative or Yingkou: 0.25              Yingkou: 0.77                  Yingkou : 0.62
Qualitative) Panjin: 0.34                  Panjin: 0.72                   Panjin : 0.86
                Jinzhou: 0.29              Jinzhou: 0.85                  Jinzhou : 0.63
Date achieved 05/31/2001                   12/31/2005                     12/31/2005
                 Target met in principle. Tariffs were increased at intervals until 2005.
Comments
                However, municipal subsidies (as permitted under the Project Agreement)
(incl. %
                are currently still required to enable the drainage companies to meet
achievement)
                operating cost and debt service.
Indicator 7 : Class V river water quality achieved in Daliao and Liao
Value                                                                      Daliao: Achieved
                                           Target should be
quantitative or zero                                                      Liao: Short of
                                           achieved
Qualitative)                                                              target
Date achieved 12/31/2001                   12/31/2006                     12/31/2008
Comments         Target met for Daliao River, not yet achieved for Liao River. See Annex
(incl. %        1 for details on the achievements made in improving water quality in the
achievement) Liao, Daliao, and Daling Rivers.
Indicator 8 : Paper-making companies to achieve financial targets
Value
                                        80%
quantitative or zero
                                        achievement
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/2001                12/31/2006
                 Target partially met. This indicator was inappropriate as the project
Comments
                investments were very minor in relation to the overall operation of the
(incl. %
                paper companies. One of the PMs was profitable until 2008, the other
achievement)
                made losses throughout the project.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                        Original Target Formally          Actual Value
                                         Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value
                                            approval          Target      Completion or
                                           documents)         Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 : Completion of wastewater interception and treatment plants.
Value
                                                                        Completed &
(quantitative Zero                      Completion
                                                                        Commissioned
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/31/2001                12/31/2006                      12/31/2006
Comments         Target met. All treatment plants planned at appraisal were completed and
(incl. %        commissioned by the end of 2006, and they are operating near full
achievement) capacity by project completion.


 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                             Actual
        Date ISR
No.                            DO                        IP              Disbursements
        Archived
                                                                         (USD millions)
  1    06/20/2001         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    0.00
  2    12/21/2001         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    0.00
  3    03/08/2002         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                    0.00
  4    11/01/2002         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  12.40
  5    06/06/2003         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  16.85
  6    10/21/2003         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  19.77
  7    06/22/2004         Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  35.74
  8    08/20/2004      Highly Satisfactory      Highly Satisfactory              40.72
  9    06/16/2005      Highly Satisfactory      Highly Satisfactory              59.30
 10    05/24/2006         Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory              72.73
                          Moderately
 11    06/28/2007                                   Satisfactory                   85.53
                          Satisfactory
                           Moderately
 12   06/29/2008                            Satisfactory               91.52
                           Satisfactory
                           Moderately       Moderately
 13   02/12/2009                                                       91.52
                           Satisfactory     Satisfactory


 H. Restructuring (if any)

                         ISR Ratings   Amount
                Board        at      Disbursed at
Restructuring                                      Reason for Restructuring
               Approved Restructurin Restructurin
   Date(s)                                           & Key Changes Made
              PDO Change      g       g in USD
                          DO    IP     millions
                                                  Utilization of loan savings
 12/01/2007               MS     S        85.53
                                                  for additional works
                                                  Extension of disbursement
 12/01/2008               MS    MS        91.52
                                                  period

 I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
The Liao River Basin (LRB) in Liaoning Province (LP) is a water-scarce region. Water resources
of the LRB are already heavily developed with a number of dams on the upper tributaries and
major abstraction of ground water resources. Much of the water is abstracted for agricultural use
in the fertile areas of the plain. LP is also a major center of industry in northern China and
subject to high industrial and urban demands for water. Water resource problems were made
significantly worse by the high discharges of untreated urban domestic and industrial
wastewater. As a consequence, a large part of the river system in the Basin within the Province
failed to comply with even the lowest defined (Class V) water quality standard, and which made
water unacceptable for domestic or agricultural use, and caused severe degradation of the natural
ecosystem. The close physical interconnections between the rivers and groundwater in the
central basin resulted in pollution impacting the available groundwater. The projected levels of
water consumption in the basin were unsustainable and major demand management and water
conservation programs were necessary, in addition to efforts to reduce pollution and damage that
it was causing to available resources.

The underpinning of the project was the Liao River Basin Management Plan prepared with the
support of the European Union, which provided the planning framework for pollution control,
water resource management, and priority investments required to reduce pollution from both
municipal and industrial wastewater in the next 20 years. Shenyang, Yingkou, Panjin, Tieling,
Liaoyang, Qingyaun, Changfu, Haicheng, Xinbin, Kaiyuan, Anshan and Xinmin were among the
30 high-priority projects for wastewater treatment identified in the Plan. The projects' water
quality objective was the same as that defined in the Liao River Basin Management Plan.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The development objective was to assist the environmental recovery of the Liao River Basin
(LRB) in Liaoning Province (LP) and to enhance water quality management decision-making on
the basis of an integrated river basin management approach.

Progress in meeting the development objective was to be measured in terms of: (a)
improvements in water quality in LRB; and (b) efficiency of the new urban utilities in providing
wastewater treatment and disposal services.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification
Although the target value of one of the key indicators was adjusted, the project development
objectives and key indicators remained unchanged during the project period.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries (original and revised)
Original Beneficiaries. The main beneficiaries were the urban populations of the main polluting
cities and their industries in the LRB within the Liaoning Province, specifically, about 1.7
million people in Jinzhou, Panjin and Yingkou.

Revised Beneficiaries. Based on the reported 2007 urban populations of the three project cities
and the expanded wastewater collection coverage using loan savings, the actual beneficiaries are
estimated to be about 2.3 million at the time of loan closure.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
People's Republic of China                                                Liao River Basin Project


Project components are summarized in the table below.

    Component                    Description                                         Cost (mUSD)
                                                                                     and % of total
1 Panjin Wastewater           10.1km interceptor sewers, modification of 13          39.50 21%
  Interception and Treatment  pumping stations, and a 100,000 m3/d WWTP
2 Yingkou Paper Mill          Treatment of red liquor, comprising wastewater          17.00         9%
  Wastewater Treatment        collection, recycling and process modification
                              (A 20,000 m3/d wastewater treatment plant was
                              to be constructed with bilateral support)
3 Yingkou Wastewater          12.8km interceptor sewers, upgrading of the            46.31      25%
  Interception and Treatment sewer network, modification of 8 pumping
                              stations, and a 100,000 m3/d WWTP
4 Jincheng Paper Mill         Construction of a new chlorine production              14.00          8%
  Wastewater Treatment        facility, demolition of mercury electrolysis
                              facility, and recover mercury in plant grounds.
5 Jinzhou Wastewater          10.0km interceptor sewers, and a 100,000 m3/d          32.79      18%
  Interception and Treatment WWTP (interceptor sized to collect wastewater
                              from increased area in next phase)
6 Urban Management            Updating urban mapping in project cities,               6.50          4%
  Information System          development of a GIS-based engineering
                              management system, development of a
                              provincial urban information system
7 Environmental Water         Support to LEPB to strengthen environmental             5.60          3%
  Quality Monitoring          water and air quality monitoring
8 Environment Revolving       Short-term sub-loans for investments in in-plant       20.00      11%
  Fund                        clean technology process changes. Repayments
                              were to be used to make additional loans
9 Institutional Strengthening Technical assistance for: (a) institutional             3.10          2%
  and Training                strengthening of wastewater companies; (b)
                              provincial and municipal governments; and (c)
                              construction supervision and preparation of an
                              aquifer study.

Industry Pollution Reduction. In addition to the above components, an Industrial Pollution
Control Action Plan was agreed at project appraisal, to be implemented by LPG as a non-Bank
financed complementary activity in parallel with the implementation of LRBP.

1.6 Revised Components
The following revisions and additional works were included to meet planning requirements and
to use loan savings:

(i) Additional networks and interceptors in Jinzhou to expand wastewater collection in an area of
about 24 km2 south of the Daling River, utilizing 1.73 million USD in loan savings to increase
the service area of the Jinzhou Wastewater Interception and Treatment component.

(ii) A re-use water plant of 30,000 m3/d capacity and supply lines in Yingkou to supply industry
were constructed using 3.28 million USD loan savings, to complement the Yingkou Wastewater
Interception and Treatment component. This investment supported the project objectives by
reusing industrial wastewater of a power plant.

ICR-Annex                                                                                       1
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project



(iii) Equipment for the coal ash sedimentation plant and SO2 emission reduction for the Jincheng
Paper Mill in Jinzhou was constructed using loan savings of 3 million USD.

1.7 Other significant changes
In December 2007, the decision was made to reallocate loan savings for additional works, and
extend the loan closing date by one year.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Significant factors that affected preparation, design and quality at entry included:

Soundness of the Background Analysis
The background analysis was satisfactory. The project was and has remained consistent with
national and provincial priorities, and Bank strategy for improving the environment and water
quality in major river systems. This consistency with the priorities of both the Borrower and the
Bank facilitated the implementation of the project. The project preparation was further facilitated
by the availability of a Japanese PHRD grant, which funded international experts to share best
practice of river basin management in the project feasibility study.

Assessment of the Project Design
The project design was largely satisfactory. The following elements were highlights in the design,
and were implemented smoothly:
(a) Adoption of the river basin management approach to meet water quality objectives;
(b) Implementation of key elements of the Liao River Basin Management Plan;
(c) As part of the project implementation covenants (PAD page 22), the Bank required the LPG
    to carry out the-bound Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan for the Liao River Basin;
(d) Wastewater treatment in the project of three key cities and two paper mills, which
    contributed high levels of pollutants to the river systems and the Bohai Sea;
(e) Demolition of the mercury-based electrolysis facility and clean up of the demolition site at
    the Jincheng Paper Mill;

The project design included the following minor flaws:
(a) Although the PDO included institutional reform objectives, in hindsight it may have been
    helpful for the implementation of the project if institutional reform would have been
    designed in a phased manner. This might have benefited the viability of implementation of
    institutional reforms.
(b) The indicator related to the financial covenants of the paper mills turned out to be
    inappropriate as the project investments were very minor in relation to the overall operation
    of the paper companies.
(c) Although the following didn't impact on project implementation, it is worth a mention. River
    names in the first monitoring indicator in the PAD incorrectly listed Hun, Taizi, Liao and
    Daliao Rivers. In fact, these rivers were not in line with the rivers in the final project
    components. The final project components at appraisal, and throughout implementation of
    the project, impacted on the Daliao, Shuangtaizi (Liao), and Daling Rivers.

Adequacy of Government's Commitment, stakeholder involvement
In accordance with Bank procedures, the LPG and municipal governments were engaged in the
project design, and demonstrated strong commitment to the project and its covenants. In

ICR-Annex                                                                                         2
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project


addition, LPG agreed to implement a complementary industrial pollution control action plan to
reduce pollution from the major polluting industries, which turned out to be very successful.

Assessment of Risks and Mitigation Measures Identified at Appraisal.
Risks and mitigation measures identified during project appraisal were valid, but some of the
identified risks still had some impact on the implementation of the project.

Risks included: (a) complementary pollution reduction in industry and agriculture could be
delayed; (b) sufficient autonomy of wastewater companies was unlikely to be achieved; and (c)
financial sustainability of wastewater services was unlikely to be attained. These risks were
assessed as `moderate'.

Mitigation measures incorporated in the project included: (a) inclusion of an industry pollution
abatement plan, agreed with the Province, and strengthening of the monitoring capability of the
government; (b) creation of autonomous wastewater companies by project appraisal, along with
technical assistance for institutional strengthening and utility management; and (c) establishment
and implementation of tariffs to achieve financial viability, and covenanting them in the legal
agreements.

Autonomy of wastewater companies did turn out to be difficult to achieve, as was their financial
viability based on wastewater tariffs only. On the positive side, having identified these risks at
the outset did allow local governments sufficient time to prepare subsidies for the wastewater
companies. A Quality at Entry assessment was not carried out by the Quality Assessment Group.

2.2 Implementation
Overall, project implementation was completed satisfactorily. Almost all the original
components were completed to good quality standards, except for the urban management
information system, well within the original project period. The loan closing date was extended
by one year to enable completion of construction of the planned urban management information
system and additional works at the Jincheng Paper Mill. About USD92 million of the loan was
utilized.

Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencies
SARS. The occurrence of SARS in the spring of 2003, although short-lived, caused significant
disruptions across China, and resulted in delays in construction of several months, with some
associated cost overruns.

The following factors were beyond the control of the provincial government:
USD ­ RMB Exchange Rate. The decoupling of the US Dollar ­ Chinese Yuan exchange rate in
the summer of 2005, and the subsequent appreciation of the Chinese Yuan, reduced the amount
of the Bank loan in local currency terms. The need for unanticipated supplementary financing
created difficulties for the implementing agencies (IAs) and caused some payment delays to
contractors on contracts signed in currencies other than USD. The cost overrun (7% of project
cost) was attributable to the appreciation of the RMB. In terms of RMB there was no cost
overrun.

Wastewater Tariffs. Local governments increased tariffs at regular intervals until 2005.
However, because of national policy to control inflation by limiting increases in prices of
essential items, including utility tariffs, no further increases have been made. This affected the


ICR-Annex                                                                                         3
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project


ability of the Borrower to achieve indicator 6 concerning adequate wastewater tariffs. The
economic downturn from the second half of 2008 is another contributing factor.

Factors subject to provincial government control
Positive:
Experienced project management. Project management, coordination of implementation and
progress monitoring and evaluation were provided by the Liaoning Urban Construction and
Renewal Project Office (LUCRPO), which has gained considerable experience through
managing World Bank and ADB projects over the past decade.

Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan. LPG made good progress in the implementation of the
Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan including addressing issues in the worst polluting
industries identified at appraisal. Across the whole of LP, compliance with discharges increased
from around 50% in 2001 to about 93% in 2007. (See Annex 5 for details). This firmly supported
progress towards achievement of water quality objectives.

Adoption of LRB Water Resources Management Plan. The Liao River Basin Plan was adopted
by the LPG in 2002. The Plan facilitated progress towards achievement of the project's water
quality objectives, as it comprises: (a) regulation and reduction of pollution from industries; (b)
priority wastewater treatment works in all cities in LRB; (c) improved collection and disposal of
sludge from wastewater treatment plants; (d) protection of water used for agriculture and
aquaculture; (e) measures to improve water quality in the Bohai Sea; and (f) reduction of per
capita water demand, adoption of water conservation measures and public outreach programs.

Introduction of Stricter Discharge Standards for Paper Mills. The Provincial Government
enhanced the discharge standard for paper mills in 2007, requiring treatment to achieve 50 mg/l
COD when discharged to water bodies, and 150 mg/l when discharged to wetlands (which was
the case for the Jincheng Paper Mill). The application of the new discharge standard resulted in
the permanent closure of over 200 paper mills. The Provincial Government also stopped
operations of both Yingkou and Jincheng Paper Mills in April 2008 until compliance. Additional
treatment facilities were constructed at both paper mills to comply with the new discharge
standard. The Jincheng Paper Mill restarted operations in November 2008, and the Yingkou
Paper Mill restarted operations in March 2009.

Negative:
Limited direct influence on municipal governments. LUCRPO was the key Liaoning Provincial
Government agency to coordinate implementation of the project. However, LUCRPO had
limited direct influence on municipal governments, especially on institutional and financial
aspects of the newly established drainage companies, and hence was unable to engage the
municipal governments in supporting institutional reforms.

Crucial Aquifer Study was deferred. Although it didn't impact on the achievement of the project
objectives, it should be mentioned that the crucial aquifer study was cancelled because the
national and provincial governments had issued regulations on the abstraction and use of
groundwater and the LPG had constructed a water diversion project to supply adequate surface
water to six municipalities of Shenyang, Fushun, Liaoyang, Anshan, Yingkou and Panjin..

Factors subject to municipal government and Drainage Company control
Positive:


ICR-Annex                                                                                         4
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project


Jincheng Paper Mill got stock market listed. In a significant move in 2006, the Jincheng Paper
Mill changed from a 100% state-owned company when it acquired to two shareholders, and
listed the company in the stock market. As part of this process the Mill shed some of its social
responsibilities, e.g., hospital, school, etc., improving its financial viability.

Negative:
Slow pace of institutional reforms. Municipal governments focused on the minimum
requirements of establishing drainage companies with the capacity to complete construction and
operate and maintain assets. Thereafter, they did not encourage the development of autonomous
drainage companies. This affected the achievement of institutional reform objectives.

Tariffs and wastewater charge collections. Drainage companies relied on the municipal finance
bureaus to take responsibility for collection of wastewater charges (both from residential
properties served by water companies and from self-supply industries and households) and to
transfer the collections to them. This resulted in their relying on the finance bureaus for revenue
management, and in the later years, when there was a revenue shortfall, to provide subsides
towards debt service payments.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E design. Most indicators identified to monitor progress toward the PDO were suitable and
adequate. Additional phased milestones for institutional reforms might have been helpful.

M&E implementation. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes and outputs was largely
satisfactory. Semi-annual progress reports were prepared by LUCRPO. The reports were based
on information collected from the implementing agencies and from the provincial and city
Environmental Protection Bureaus. Reporting was done on the progress in meeting project
monitoring indicators set out in the PAD. Bank supervision teams carried out their own
monitoring and evaluations and reported the relevant issues in mission Aide Memoires, back-to-
office reports and Implementation Status Reports (ISR). Following the mid-term review in 2004,
the project was restructured to utilize loan savings. The selection of additional components was
based on project monitoring data. The project indicators will continue to be measured, and may
be used to identify future actions.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Social Safeguards. Resettlement activities were carried out satisfactorily. External monitoring of
safeguard implementation was carried out in accordance with the legal agreements. A final
report on resettlement implementation was also produced. The actual resettlement impacts
include 26.2 hectares of permanent land acquisition, 30.0 hectares of temporary land use, 18,815
m2 of residential housing demolition, including 9,862 m2 of nonresidential structures. About 687
persons were affected in total. Actual housing demolished and population affected were much
less than planned, due to a minor revision in the construction location of an interceptor sewer in
Panjin Municipality. More details are provided in Annex 6.

Environmental Safeguards. The project was assigned as Category A. The EA and EMP were
prepared according to the national policies and regulations, and the Bank safeguard policies. The
EMP was implemented satisfactorily during project implementation. The mercury electrolysis
facility at the Jincheng Paper Mill was demolished and the site was cleaned up. The wastewater
treatment plants met discharge standards, with an aggregate COD load reduction of about 23,200


ICR-Annex                                                                                         5
People's Republic of China                                                 Liao River Basin Project


tons/year. COD load reduction in the two paper mills was considerably larger at about 114,850
tons/year.

Financial Management. Appropriate financial management arrangements were put in place to
ensure proper use and accounting of project funds. Financial management was carried out
satisfactorily, and no significant issues arose during implementation. Financial audit reports were
submitted on time and had no particular issues.

Procurement. Procurement activities were carried out satisfactorily by all agencies, and there
were no cases of misprocurement. Some difficulties in procurement included the following:
Under the UMIS component, procurement of hardware and software was not completed by the
Provincial Construction Commission; bids received in August 2007 were not opened due to a
disagreement with the Finance Bureau over financing.

2.5 Post-completion Operation / Next Phase
WWTPs and Drainage Companies. Normal operations have begun at all three treatment plants,
which are operating at near 100 percent capacity, meeting the designed effluent quality standards.
All the facilities are well-managed and maintained. Adequate budgets and trained staff are
available to provide operation and maintenance of facilities. JDC and YDC have recruited
additional skilled staff to manage their expanded treatment facilities. All three companies have
made use of the operational procedures developed under the project technical assistance. JDC is
continuing to fine-tune the operations of its treatment plant to further improve the quality of
treated effluent. PDC has signed an outsourcing contract for the operation and maintenance of its
treatment plant with an experienced contractor, to give assurance over operational standards. All
three DCs will continue to operate, and are foreseen to gradually receive fewer subsidies and rely
more on wastewater tariffs.

Monitoring indicators after project completion. Most of the indicators in PAD have set targets
for 2010. These indicators are meaningful for tracking future progress.

Follow-on Project. Two municipalities which were involved in the project, Yingkou and Panjin,
are among eight cities which are also involved in a Bank-financed follow-on project, titled "2nd
Liaoning Medium Cities Infrastructure Project", or LMC2. More wastewater treatment plants
and interception networks are being constructed in Yingkou and Panjin under LMC2, which will
continue to contribute to improving water quality.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Satisfactory
Objectives. The project development objectives were fully consistent with national and
provincial priorities, the central government's "Three River, Three Lakes" program,
and the Bank's strategy in China with regard to improving the environment, particularly, the
water quality in the major river basins. The strategy also supported the global environmental
protection objective of reducing pollution discharges to the Bohai Sea, including the reduction of
incidence of red tides.

Design. The design was relevant. Project design supported the development of: an integrated
river basin management approach to water quality planning; a program to reduce COD loads

ICR-Annex                                                                                        6
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project


from eight municipalities by 77 percent by 2010; provision of municipal and industrial
wastewater treatment facilities to meet urban environmental infrastructure needs; study
recommendations to reduce the threat to groundwater aquifers; and sustainable institutional
arrangements for utility management.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory

Water Quality Objective ­ Satisfactory
The project satisfactorily assisted the environmental recovery of the Liao River Basin as
measured through its key indicator of making improvements in the water quality as measured by
COD levels. The project's first key indicator, for COD levels, was that the water quality in LRB
rivers should meet Class V standards 90% of the time by 2010, and 70% of the time by 2007. As
last measured in December 2008, the Class V standards for COD were being met 70% of the
time, one year later than target. Further improvements in water quality are expected in 2009,
because LPG has raised discharge standards for the paper industry. More than 200 paper mills
were closed down in 2008 as they were not able to comply. This should enable the 90% target to
be achieved in 2010.

For example, in 2001, only the Shuangtaizi River at Panjin ever met the Class V COD target, and
it was only 25% of the time. The other rivers never met the target. Now, partly thanks to the
project's investments, in 2008, the Daliao River at Yingkou met the COD target 100% of the
time, the Shuangtaizi River at Panjin met the target 50% of the time, and the Daling at Jinzhou
met the target 58% of the time, for an average of 70% of the time. Please refer to Annex 1 for
more details.

The second indicator required 80% of wastewater system flow to be treated at project city
wastewater treatment plants. This target is on track to be met. Due to the project investments,
80% of wastewater treated has already been reached within the service areas, as compared to 0%
in 2001. However, the municipalities grew much faster than anticipated, increasing the amount
of wastewater beyond the project areas. The cities have commenced construction of their second
WWTP under the Bank-financed follow-up project LMC2 and one city is using its own funds,
which will be completed by 2010. With the addition of these WWTPs, the target for 2010 is
likely to be met.

The third indicator, concerning the percentage of industrial wastewater meeting discharge
standards in Liaoning Province, was exceeded. Before 2001, less than 50% of industrial
wastewater met discharge standards. The target for 2010 was set at 80%. In fact, 92% was
reached by 2007. As the target area covered the entire Liaoning Province, achievement of this
target should be mainly attributed to the implementation of the Industrial Pollution Control
Action Plan.

The fourth indicator concerned industrial water use per unit of output. In 2001, prior to the
project, the water use was 113 m3/Y10.000. By 2007, 48 m3/Y10.000 was reached, easily
passing the target of 80 m3/Y10.000 set for 2008, and even passing the target of 60 m3/Y10.000
set for 2010. This is mainly attributable to the implementation of the Industrial Pollution Control
Action Plan.




ICR-Annex                                                                                         7
People's Republic of China                                                                Liao River Basin Project


The fifth indicator regarded LPG adopting the River Basin Plan developed with support from the
EU. This target was met, as LPG adopted the plan in June 2002.

The sixth indicator set targets for wastewater tariffs to meet financial projections of the
wastewater companies. Although tariffs were raised several times up to 2005, they were not
raised enough to allow the DCs to be financially viable from tariff revenues only. It could be said
that this target was met in spirit, however, because government has provided adequate subsidies
(as permitted under the Project Agreement1), and demonstrated commitment to continue to
provide subsidies for as long as is needed. Implementation of the project has contributed to
raising tariffs to their current levels.

The seventh indicator required achievement of Class V water quality in the Daliao River at
Yingkou and the Liao River at Panjin. This target was easily met for the Daliao River (at COD
26 mg/L), but not quite met for the Liao River (average COD was 67 mg/L, still over the 40
mg/L cut-off rate). The Daling River at Jinzhou was not expected to reach this target at appraisal
(COD levels were very high at the time), but eventually reached 58 mg/L, approaching the Class
V COD target.

The eighth indicator required paper-making companies to achieve financial targets. This
indicator, although partially achieved, is considered to have been inappropriate, as the key
project objective was to make the paper mills less polluting and not to make them financially
viable. Jincheng PM was profitable until forced suspension of operations in 2008, whilst the
Yingkou PM was loss-making throughout the project.

The intermediate indicator on completion of wastewater interception and treatment plants was
achieved, as all treatment plants planned at appraised were completed and commissioned by the
end of 2006. Loan savings were utilized for additional improvements.

The process modifications at the two paper mills, demolition of the mercury electrolysis facility
and the clean up of the demolition site at the Jincheng Paper Mill, resulted in: (a) significant
COD load reduction (114,850 ton/yr), more than the three wastewater treatment plants combined
(15,367 ton/yr); (b) eliminating a public health hazard form mercury pollution in water; (c)
introducing a more energy-efficient bleaching process; (d) reducing energy consumption by
about 40%; (e) reducing water consumption per ton of pulp/paper produced; and (f) reducing
311.07 ton/d dust emission following coal ash sedimentation, and reducing SO2 emissions by
13.14 ton/d, at the Jincheng Paper Mill.

The satisfactory implementation by LPG, of the complementary Industrial Pollution Control
Action Plan addressing adverse impacts at the 20 worst polluting industries, resulted in a large
reduction of COD loads discharged to major river systems, by 107,329 tons per year.

Negative:
The Environmental Sub-loan Facility was not so successful, partly due to an alternative program
which was implemented by the LPG to provide (more attractive) grants to deserving industries to
undertake environmental improvements, using emission charges levied. The first round of loans


1
 Loan Project Agreement, Schedule 3 "Principle Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements",
Section II, Paragraph 9 (a), and (i): "The term `total revenues' means the terms of total operating revenues and net
non-operating income."

ICR-Annex                                                                                                        8
People's Republic of China                                                   Liao River Basin Project


from the Environmental Sub-Loan Facility has been made, but not paid back because they are
not due yet, so it has thus far not been utilized as a revolving fund.

Institutional Development Objective ­ Satisfactory
The drainage companies were legally established in all three municipalities prior to negotiations.
During the construction period, i.e., until the end of 2006, these companies functioned as
construction agencies; thereafter they have been operating and maintaining the assets. All three
drainage companies have gained valuable experience in procurement and project management.
Wastewater treatment plants appear to be well managed, and effective operating and
maintenance systems have been developed and implemented (with support from project technical
assistance). Assets are managed through a variety of arrangements: in Panjin, operational
management of the wastewater treatment has been contracted out for 30 years; in all three cities,
the old drainage networks are managed by the municipality. All three wastewater treatment
plants are almost fully utilized, and the treated effluents meet specified discharge standards.
Treatment plant sludge is disposed of in an acceptable manner.

Financing for the drainage companies is adequate, through a combination of revenues from
wastewater tariffs and municipal subsidies. As the tariff decisions are made by the municipal
governments, within the overall guidance of the provincial and central governments, the Project
Agreement envisaged the provision of municipal subsidies to make up any shortfalls from
operating revenues to meet costs. Given the strong commitment of the national and Liaoning
Provincial Governments to maintain the environmental quality of the Liao River Basin, adequate
financing, either entirely from wastewater revenues or complemented by municipal subsidies, is
unlikely to be a problem and sustainability is likely.

The `moderately satisfactory' rating for DO in the last two years of project implementation, and
`moderately satisfactory' for IP in the last year of project implementation, were assigned to
highlight the importance of institutional development and emphasize that some catching up was
required. At project close, under the Bank supervision, all three cities had prepared action plans
for institutional and financial reform, and Jinzhou Municipal Government had issued a public
notice regarding an increase in wastewater fees and its institutional reform agenda. However,
institutional development of the drainage companies, as was anticipated at appraisal, is an on-
going process. It needs to be continued before the drainage companies operate as fully
autonomous enterprises operating in a commercially viable manner without subsidies. The on-
going Second Liaoning Medium Cities Infrastructure Project includes a $2.35 million technical
assistance package to support institutional development and financial sustainability through:
utility benchmarking; public-private partnerships in Jinzhou; utility management, including
development of institutional and business models; and utility regulation. Successful
implementation of this technical assistance will go a long way towards achieving the long term
institutional objectives for the sector.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Satisfactory

Financial
The current tariff levels in DCs are inadequate to achieve financial viability without tariff
revisions. Prevailing tariff levels are generally adequate to meet operation and maintenance
expenditures, but inadequate to meet debt service liabilities, which are paid by the respective
municipalities. Tariffs were revised twice in the last eight years for all three DCs. The full costs

ICR-Annex                                                                                          9
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project


of services provided require continuing government subsidies. Further raising of tariffs was not
feasible due to national government inflationary concerns.

Economic
Economic justification of the project was done on the basis of cost effectiveness criteria, as
quantification of all economic benefits was not possible. All planned physical outputs, and
additional investments utilizing loan savings, were made at costs slightly over the original
project cost estimate (the cost overrun of 107% was mainly attributable to the appreciation of the
RMB and raising of the allocation for the Environmental Revolving Fund through increased
counterpart funds). Thus, all anticipated economic benefits identified, and more, were achieved
for less cost. The Project undoubtedly contributed to the continued and sustainable economic
growth of the Province and project cities, helped manage rural-urban economic migration
(through improving the sustainability of urbanization), increased inland values, and improved
public health.

Pollution reductions from municipal wastewater treatment and improvements at the paper mills
contributed directly to: improved urban and rural water supplies through reduced contamination
of water sources; reduced pollution discharges, including mercury pollution, to the Bohai Sea,
thus protecting the vibrant fishing industry; and improved agricultural production through the
availability of irrigation water of Class V standard (improved from less than Class V standard),
which reduced health risks and enhanced productivity.

Investments in the two paper mills achieved significant economic benefits from process
modifications and other improvements, including energy savings, pulp bleaching using energy-
efficient membrane-based system, reduced water use per ton of pulp processed, reduced chlorine
per ton of pulp produced, increased binder production, and enhanced capacity for pulp
production (see Annex 4 for details). Moreover, the investments allowed the paper mills to
continue operations despite the more stringent wastewater discharge standards imposed on them,
thus protecting many local jobs in the mills themselves and in the broader local economy. This is
a significant social benefit and achievement of the project.

Environmental
Environmental benefits are measured in terms of COD load reductions to major rivers. The
project has achieved significant: reduction of COD loads discharged to rivers; maintaining water
quality of Liaoning Rivers at Class V standard most of the time; replaced the mercury-based
electrolytic process at the Jincheng Paper Mill with chlorine production for pulp bleaching; coal
ash sedimentation; and elimination of groundwater aquifer contamination. A benefit not
projected at appraisal was the reduction of SO2 emissions resulting from process modifications at
the Jincheng Paper Mill.

The LPG-financed Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan made significant contributions to
reducing COD pollution discharges through wastewater treatment and introduction of cleaner
technology in the 133 large polluting enterprises in the fertilizer, chemicals, paper, and steel
sectors. Other significant benefits will accrue from the introduction of stricter discharges
standards and other environmental controls. (See Annex 5 for details)

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory


ICR-Annex                                                                                         10
People's Republic of China                                                 Liao River Basin Project


The overall outcome rating is assessed as `satisfactory' in view of the: (a) adoption and
implementation of the Liao River Basin Management Plan; (b) the relevance of objectives,
design and implementation; (c) the achievement of water quality objectives for the Shuangtaizi
(Liao), Daliao and Daling Rivers, following reduction of pollution discharges from project cities;
(d) the contribution to pollution reduction in the sensitive Bohai Sea; (e) the larger
environmental benefit from the pollution reduction measures in the two paper mills, more than
all the three wastewater treatment plants combined; and (f) the successful implementation of the
industrial pollution control action plan which resulted in the significant reduction of COD loads.
The ongoing requirement for government subsidies to Drainage Companies somewhat diminish
the sustainability of the overall project outcomes as envisioned at appraisal. However, given the
current satisfactory level of operations of the wastewater assets, combined with the commitment
of provincial and municipal governments to continue to provide subsidies to sustain these
operations until they become financially viable, this issue is assessed to be a minor shortcoming
in the overall outcome of the project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not applicable.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
LPG Institutional Strengthening (institutional development of the DCs is covered in other
sections). The use of river basin-based planning demonstrated important linkage between
sustainable development, urban planning, industrial re-structuring and environmental protection,
which improved its capacity for: (a) selection and prioritization investments; (b) introduction of
demand management as a planning and financial management tool; and (c) planning industrial
pollution control; and (d) introducing controls based on total pollution discharges.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
The introduction of stricter discharge standards for the paper industry in 2008 (of 50 mg/l) will
reform the industry, and is foreseen to have a great impact on the reduction of the large COD
load contributors. Operations were suspended in about 460 paper mills until they achieve
compliance. About 200 were forced to close down permanently as they were not able to meet the
new discharge standard.

An unintended side-benefit of the efforts to reduce wastewater discharges at the Jincheng Paper
Mill was significant dust and SO2 emission reductions.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not applicable

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate
The risk to development objectives is rated as `moderate'. The risk would be that government
discontinues the provision of adequate subsidies for the operation, maintenance, and eventual
replacement of the physical investments. However, the strong government commitment to
continue with industrial pollution reduction and wastewater management, will assure that
environmental improvements will continue. There is heightened awareness of the need to protect
the water environment, and particularly the need to ensure water security, which is essential for


ICR-Annex                                                                                        11
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project


development. Theoretically, if the municipal governments reduce the available subsidies in the
future, the development outcome may be jeopardized. However, given the increasing level of
commitment of all levels of the Chinese government towards controlling water pollution, it is
considered unlikely that this will happen.

The sustainability of the Yingkou and Jincheng Paper Mill investments depends on the economic
future of these two industries. However, both are viewed by LP as playing a strategic role in the
future of the Province's paper-making industry and their modernization and expansion plans
have attracted Government investment accordingly.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

Bank assured quality at entry through the following: (a) firmly linking the project to the Liao
River Basin Management Plan, the development of which was funded by the EU; (b)
incorporating municipal and industrial wastewater pollution reduction, and a parallel industry
pollution abatement plan to support the primary water quality objective; (c) developing
appropriate performance indicators to assess water quality improvements; (d) formulating an
appropriate institutional reform agenda designed to develop sustainable utility companies; and
(d) incorporating technical assistance for capacity building and implementation support to
achieve the institutional development objective. However, the financial performance indicator
for the paper companies was unrealistic, as the project investments in the paper companies
focused purely on reducing environmental pollution and were not meant to have any impact on
their product mix and pricing in a highly competitive industry. In hindsight, it may have been
better to allow more time for the institutional development of the Drainage Companies.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory
The project was supervised on an on-going basis by a task team comprising an appropriate mix
of experts (engineering, procurement, environmental, social, institutional and financial, and
financial management) from Washington and Beijing. Although task management responsibility
changed a number of times as a result of mandatory retirement and rotation from the China urban
program, there were a number of staff and consultants in the project from start to end, providing
continuity even in the light of changing task managers. Implementation issues were identified
early and addressed effectively with counterpart agencies at the appropriate level. However, in
some cases, e.g., implementation of the UMIS component and wastewater tariff increases during
the later years of the project, these efforts were not always fully successful. Also, at the time of
restructuring, more measurable intermediate outcome indicators regarding institutional and
financial reform should have been included.
Project supervision responsibility was effectively transferred to the task team preparing the
Second Liaoning Medium Cities Infrastructure Project (currently under implementation), which
enabled wastewater sector issues, in particular continued institutional development, to be
addressed on an on-going basis under the new project. The financial statements of DCs for 2008
were compiled, and are summarized in Annex 4. The Bank agreed to finance the additional


ICR-Annex                                                                                         12
People's Republic of China                                                 Liao River Basin Project


works, and to extend the loan closing date, in order to deepen the achievement of the
development objectives.

Safeguards Compliance

Rating: Satisfactory
Specialists of the task team from the Beijing office satisfactorily carried out the supervision of
implementation of safeguard issues. The team carried out adequate field visits to review progress
and ensured the submission of the external monitor's report on safeguard implementation.

Fiduciary Compliance

Rating: Satisfactory
Oversight of financial management and procurement activities was carried out satisfactorily by
members of the task team from the Beijing office, ensuring compliance with audit requirements
and procurement procedures. Quick responses, were provided to the clients' requests for
clarification and guidance on procurement matters.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team ensured satisfactory quality at entry and supervised the project satisfactorily to
achieve satisfactory outcomes with moderate risks to development outcome. Bank supervision
ensured compliance with safeguards and fiduciary aspects.

5.2 Borrower

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Provincial Government ­ Rating: Satisfactory
Positive:
(i) A number of provisions of the Liao River Basin Management Plan were implemented.
(ii) The Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan was implemented satisfactorily, contributing in
a large measure to reducing COD loads discharge to river systems.
(iii) The LPG demonstrated firm commitment to address the serious pollution discharges from
the paper industry by imposing stricter COD discharge standard (of 50 mg/l), and suspension of
operations in about 460 paper mills until compliance. This move was significant because many
of the mills were unable to comply, and were forced to close down.
(iv) The borrower made serious efforts to achieve institutional objectives by encouraging and
urging municipal governments to increase wastewater tariffs and implement the reforms agreed
with the Bank.
(v) COD load reductions from the two Paper Mills through elimination of the mercury hazard
and improved efficiency of operation of the Mills were implemented well.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

ICR-Annex                                                                                        13
People's Republic of China                                                Liao River Basin Project



Rating: Satisfactory

Municipal Governments ­ Rating: Satisfactory
Positive:
(i) Municipal governments successfully implemented, and provided financial support to
operation and management of the three municipal wastewater treatment plants, thus reducing
COD load discharges to the major river systems.
(ii) Municipal governments were committed to support DCs with adequate staff and budgets to
enable DCs to manage and maintain facilities to a good standard.

Negative:
(i) Municipal governments could have played a stronger part in establishing autonomous,
commercially viable drainage companies. However, such enterprise reforms take time, and this
was implicitly acknowledged at appraisal by allowing the drainage companies to receive
municipal subsidies in order to meet their financial covenants.

Drainage Companies, Paper Mills and other implementing agencies:
A description of the situation of each of the DCs and PMs has been provided in section 2.2b. The
following is a rating of the performance for each of these implementing agencies and a short
justification:

(a) Drainage Companies: Satisfactory. Within the powers granted to them by the municipal
    governments, the drainage companies implemented the construction phase satisfactorily, and
    are currently operating and maintaining the wastewater assets in a satisfactory manner with
    almost full capacity utilization and effective treatment.
(b) Yingkou Paper Mill: Satisfactory. One of the two largest sources of COD load reduction in
    the project occurred from improvements.
(c) Jincheng Paper Mill. Satisfactory. One of the two largest sources of COD load reduction in
    the project occurred from improvements and a major mercury pollution hazard was
    eliminated.
(d) Liaoning EPB: Satisfactory. The environment monitory equipment has been successfully
    procured and fully utilized. Within the constraints of the stringent terms for providing
    environmental sub-loans (the availability to companies of more readily accessible grants), the
    EPB was able to make technically and financially justified sub-loans for environmental
    improvements.
(e) Provincial Construction Bureau for UMIS: Unsatisfactory. Failure to complete procurement
    of hardware and software for the UMIS was ascribed to an internal problem. There appear to
    be no plans to complete the component at loan closure.

Compliance with Financial Covenants

The drainage companies were in compliance with the financial covenants defined in the Project
Agreement, which implicitly allowed for subsidies from municipal governments to make up for
shortfalls in wastewater revenues, if required. The local governments each raised tariffs twice
during the project period. Drainage companies did not require subsidies until 2007, when the
plants became fully operational.




ICR-Annex                                                                                       14
People's Republic of China                                                 Liao River Basin Project


As discussed earlier, the financial covenants for the paper mills were inappropriate, and it was
fortuitous that Jincheng Paper Mill largely complied with the covenants until 2008. Yingkou
Paper Mill did not comply with the covenants throughout the project period.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory
The Borrower ­ Liaoning Provincial Government, the three municipal governments, and the
various implementing agencies ­ made strenuous, and quite successful, efforts to implement a
complex project in a satisfactory manner. They are addressing the longer-term institutional
development agenda of the wastewater sector through the on-going Second Liaoning Medium
Cities Infrastructure Project. Only the relatively small UMIS component was not fully
implemented because of unanticipated delays.

6. Lessons Learned
   (a) Government commitment to pollution control in the Liao River Basin was crucial to
       the successful implementation of the project. Government, at all levels ­ national,
       provincial and municipal ­ was committed to the objective of controlling pollution in the
       Liao River Basin. It partnered with the European Union in preparing the Liao River
       Basin Management Plan, which underpinned the project, and commenced
       implementation through effective use of retroactive financing and made full use of loan
       savings for additional investments to enhance project benefits. Government commitment
       enabled the original project to be implemented within the original closing date, despite
       disruptions of about six months in 2003, caused by SARS.
   (b) Establishing drainage companies requires greater institutional analysis, stakeholder
       ownership, and a longer time frame. The project adopted the traditional Bank
       approach of requiring drainage companies to be established in each city, and assumed
       that through technical assistance under the project these nascent companies would
       become autonomous commercially oriented enterprises by the end of the project.
       Significant reforms are required in government policies and procedures to enable the
       transfer of government functions to enterprises, including existing assets, staff (as well as
       staff benefits for past service), authority and responsibility for decision making, etc. In
       particular, achieving a commercial orientation and autonomous decision making takes
       time for government officials. It is important to spell these requirements and steps out
       clearly and reach stakeholder ownership at appraisal, and also to agree on their
       implementation in a phased manner, with clear step-by-step indicators. The project is
       fortunate in that the follow-on project provides an opportunity for institutional reforms to
       be continued over a longer period of time.
   (c) Financial viability of new drainage companies in medium sized cities through full
       cost recovery is not a one step process. Bank projects in medium sized cities (such as
       Jinzhou, Panjin, and Yingkou) often provide limited service coverage at a relatively high
       cost. Even in China, where wastewater charges are levied on all properties (irrespective
       of whether they have a sewer connection, or even have a sewer in the street), including
       industries which neither receive piped water supply nor discharge wastewater into sewers,
       it has not been possible to set high enough tariffs and collect wastewater charges from
       eligible parties to achieve full cost recovery without subsidies. Instead of permitting
       unspecified subsidies to make up revenue shortfalls, it would be more effective to seek to
       achieve full cost recovery over a period of time, with levels of subsidy being reduced to
       zero on a specified graduated basis over time.


ICR-Annex                                                                                        15
People's Republic of China                                                 Liao River Basin Project


    (d) Institutional arrangements besides "full service" drainage companies should be
        considered. The institutional arrangement of a drainage company for each city has been
        the Government's and the Bank's default option in the Bank's China projects in the
        sector. However, the provision of an efficient wastewater service can be achieved
        through a variety of other institutional arrangements, including: (a) a water company
        providing both water supply and wastewater services; (b) unbundling the sewage
        collection, sewage treatment, and sludge disposal to different institutions, including some
        in the private sector, e.g., wastewater treatment plant construction and/or operation; and
        (c) retaining existing combined systems with the municipality, while establishing a
        drainage company for sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment. It is suggested to
        conduct sector studies to evaluate the various alternatives.
    (e) Efficacy of revolving funds for environmental improvements through small loans
        should be reviewed. The Environmental Sub-Loan Facility component of the project
        was carefully developed, taking into account the lessons of experience under an earlier
        project in Liaoning Province (Liaoning Environment Project), and was diligently
        implemented by the EPB. Nevertheless, both the EPB and the Liaoning Finance Bureau
        did not appear to have sufficient interest in maintaining the facility as a revolving fund,
        using the reflows. In future projects, it is suggested not to make use of this kind of
        revolving fund.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The borrower raised the following issue in their ICR:
The PAD incorrectly stated that the existing sewerage assets in the project cities, and that the
staff responsible for their management and operations, had already been transferred to the new
Drainage companies. This was only partly true. The PAD also referred to the new Drainage
companies becoming managerially and financially autonomous, without clearly defining what
this entailed. There was therefore no clear consensus or local stakeholder ownership of the
required reforms at the commencement of project implementation. The borrower had no other
comments.

At the time of ICR, it was unclear why the PAD included the incorrect statement mentioned
above. The autonomy of the DCs and other institutional reforms have been covered in previous
sections.

(b) Cofinanciers
There is a Recipient-executed Trust Fund (TF050520) "Assistance to Urban Poor in Liaoning
Province through Japan Social Development Fund", linked to this project. The objectives of the
grant are to assist the urban poor, living far below the provincial average income level, in
gaining skills and means for better living and to help the poor communities strengthen their
capacity to organize themselves for their well-being. The designed objectives of the grant were
achieved in a highly satisfactory manner.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




ICR-Annex                                                                                        16
People's Republic of China                                                                   Liao River Basin Project




                           Annex 1. Detailed Performance Indicators/Results

                                      CHINA: Liao River Basin Project


    A: Detailed Performance Indicators vs Actual Performance

    Indicator 1: Water quality in Hun, Taizi, Liao and Daliao Rivers meets Class V standards
    for COD (% of time)2

    Table 1.1: Water Quality in Rivers, Meeting Class V Standard for COD (% of time)
                Indicator/Year                  2001          2005          2007          2008           2010

     Indicator in PAD                                          50%           70%                         90%

     Daliao River ­ Yingkou3                     0%            75%          100%          100%            

     Shuangtaizi (Liao) River ­ Panjin           25%           27%           50%           50%            

     Daling River ­ Jinzhou                      0%            0%            0%            58%            

     Average4                                    8%            34%           50%           70%            
         Source of data: LEPB

    Graph 1.1: Water Quality in Rivers, Meeting Class V Standard for COD (% of time)
     100%

      80%

      60%                                                                                                  Yingkou
                                                                                                           Panjin
      40%                                                                                                  Jinzhou

      20%

       0%
                2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008

         Source of data: LEPB

2
  River names in the first monitoring indicator in the PAD incorrectly listed Hun, Taizi, Liao and Daliao Rivers. In
fact, these rivers were not in line with the rivers in the final project components. The final project components at
appraisal, and throughout implementation of the project, impacted on the Daliao, Shuangtaizi (Liao), and Daling
Rivers.
3
  No water quality measurements have been made of the Daliao River at Yingkou from December until March, due
to the fact that the river is frozen over in this period. This is accepted by the local environmental protection bureau.
4
  Average based on equal weighting of the three rivers.

ICR-Annex                                                                                                           17
People's Republic of China                                                                    Liao River Basin Project



The 90% target by 2010 is highly likely to be achieved because LPG has enhanced discharge standards
for the paper industry in 2007, and more than 200 paper mills were closed down in 2008 as they were not
able to comply.

Indicator 2: Aggregate quantity of wastewater treated at project city wastewater treatment
plants (% of system flow)

Table 2.1: Wastewater Treated in Project Cities (% of system flow)
                 Indicator/Year                2001           2005          2007            2008        20105

       Indicator in PAD                                       30%            60%                          80

       Yingkou                                  0%             0%            32%            43%         (87%)

       Panjin                                   0%             0%            15%            50%         (90%)

       Jinzhou                                  0%             0%            50%            50%         (90%)

       Average                                  0%             0%            32%            48%         (89%)
           Source of data: LUCRPO

Within the service areas, the project has achieved target values, but the municipalities grew
much faster than anticipated, thus expanding the area which needs to be covered. Yingkou and
Panjin have started construction of their second WWTPs under LMC2, and Jinzhou will do so by
self-funding, each with 100,000 m3/d capacity, expected to be completed and commissioned in
2010. With the addition of these WWTPs, the target for 2010 is likely to be met.


Indicator 3: Industrial wastewater meeting river discharge standards (% of total flow)

Table 3.1: Industrial Wastewater Meeting Discharge Standards (% of total flow)
                Indicator/Year                  2001              2005               2007              2010

       Indicator in PAD                          50                  70               75                80

       Yingkou                                 30.84              91.62             97.39

       Panjin                                  84.37              92.82             92.18

       Jinzhou                                 49.45              85.06             86.27

       Liaoning Province                                          95.09             92.91
           Source of data: LEPB

LPG has implemented the Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan addressing the 20 worst
polluting industries identified at appraisal. LPG has aggressively pursued industrial pollution
control with close monitoring, including closing down industries that are not able to comply with

5
    Data for 2010 represents the target (indicator in PAD), and projections for the project cities

ICR-Annex                                                                                                           18
People's Republic of China                                                     Liao River Basin Project


standards. Major action was taken against paper mills, including setting higher discharge
standards, resulting in the closure of over 200 paper mills.

Graph 3.1: Industrial Wastewater Meeting Discharge Standards (% of total flow)

   100%

    80%

    60%                                                                                      Yingkou
                                                                                             Panjin
    40%                                                                                      Jinzhou

    20%

     0%
              2001       2002        2003       2004          2005    2006   2007

        Source of data: LEPB



Indicator 4: Industrial water use per unit of output (m3/Y10,000)

Table 4.1: Industrial water use per unit of output in Liaoning Province (m3/Y10,000)
            Indicator/Year               2001          2005          2007    2008         2010

    Indicator in PAD                      120           100          80                    60

    Liaoning Province                     113            70          48
        Source of data: Liaoning Province Statistical Yearbook

Implementation of the Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan yielded excellent water-saving
results. Project targets for 2005 and 2007 were exceeded by a wide margin.


Indicator 5: Liaoning Provincial Government approval of the River Basin Plan

LPG has adopted the River Basin Plan, including river basin management concepts for
prioritization of investments, demand management and pollution control and management, in
June 2002.




ICR-Annex                                                                                            19
People's Republic of China                                                           Liao River Basin Project


Indicator 6: Wastewater tariffs implemented to meet financial projections

Table 6.1: Wastewater Tariffs in Project Cities, PAD Targets vs. Actual (Y/m3)
            Indicator/Year                 2001           2005              2005              2010*
                                                       PAD Target          Actual          Required

    Yingkou                                0.25           0.77              0.62               0.80

    Panjin                                 0.34           0.72              0.86               1.17

    Jinzhou                                0.29           0.85              0.63               0.89
*Tariffs which would be required to meet financial projections without any government
subsidies. These tariffs may or may not be approved by local government

Graph 6.1: Actual Wastewater Tariffs in Project Cities

   0.90

   0.80

   0.70                                                                                               Yingkou
                                                                                                      Panjin
   0.60                                                                                               Jinzhou

   0.50

   0.40
              2001      2002       2003     2004   2005      2006         2007      2008

          Source of data: LUCRPO

Although several tariff increases have occurred up to 2005, these increases were not sufficient to
meet financial viability of the DCs without government subsidies.

Indicator 7: Class V river water quality achieved in the Daliao and Liao
Table 7.1: Average COD in Project Cities, PAD Targets vs. Actual (mg/L)
            Indicator/Year                  2006                 2007                  2008
                                          PAD Target             Actual               Actual

    Yingkou                                  40                   35                    26

    Panjin                                   40                   63                    67

    Jinzhou                                  n/a                  358                   58
          Source of data: LEPB


ICR-Annex                                                                                                  20
People's Republic of China                                               Liao River Basin Project



For the Liao River, the average COD values for 2008 (67 mg/L) were still above the cut-off
value for Class V (40 mg/L). The Daling River at Jinzhou saw a very significant improvement in
water quality in 2008, reaching 58 mg/L in 2008. These improvements have contributed to
reduction of pollution discharges to the Bohai Sea.


Indicator 8: Paper-making companies to achieve financial targets

This indicator is inappropriate, as the objective of the project's support to the two paper
companies was to reduce pollution from the factories and not to make them financially viable.
Jinzhou PM was profitable until the forced suspension of operations in 2008. The Yingkou PM
was loss-making throughout the project.

B: Environmental Impacts of the Project

Summaries of beneficial impacts on environment of the project, after completion and
commissioning of physical works, have been provided below.


Table 10.1: Pollutant Reduction by Wastewater and Paper Mill Components
          Components         Wastewater     COD Removal       SS Removal         COD
                              Treatment        (t/a)             (t/a)          Removal
                             (1000 m3/d)                                         
   Panjin Wastewater             100             8,395           4,380           6.08%
   Yingkou Wastewater            100             6,972           3,240           5.05%
   Jinzhou Wastewater            100             7,814           5,576           5.66%
   Yingkou Paper Mill                          *80,000                           57.96%
   Jincheng Paper Mill            50            34,850          11,050           25.25%
   Total                             350            138,031          24,246   100.00%
 *Assuming pulp production at full capacity. The Yingkou PM was temporarily shut down after the
introduction of enhanced discharge standards for the paper industry.




ICR-Annex                                                                                      21
People's Republic of China                                                         Liao River Basin Project


Table 10.2: Pollutant Reduction by Yingkou Wastewater Component
                        BOD                 COD              SS              Effluent              Mean
     Year
                          (t)                 (t)             (t)          (1000 m3/d)          (1000 m3/d)
     2006               2,450               3,243           2,827            50-110                 54
     2007               4,086               6,362           4,400            40-120                  74
     2008               4,397               6,972           3,240            60-120                  89
   Subtotal            10,932               16,577         10,467


Table 10.3: Pollutant Reduction by Panjin Wastewater Component
                        BOD                 COD              SS              Effluent              Mean
     Year
                          (t)                 (t)             (t)          (1000 m3/d)          (1000 m3/d)
     2006                924                1,485            776              10-50                 26
     2007                954                1,699            798              20-50                  30
     2008               3,944               8,395           4,380            80-120                 109
   Subtotal             5,822               11,579          5,954


Table 10.4: Pollutant Reduction by Jinzhou Wastewater Component
                        BOD                 COD              SS              Effluent              Mean
     Year
                          (t)                 (t)             (t)          (1000 m3/d)          (1000 m3/d)
     2006               2,404               5,893           3,998             45-93                 77
     2007               3,642               7,814           5,576            78-108                 101
     2008               4,661               9,512           7,228            66-115                 101
   Subtotal            10,707               23,219         16,802


Table 10.5: Benefits of Red Liquor Extraction/Evaporation at the Yingkou Paper Mill
                               Before Project             After Project             Total Reduction or
                                                                                    Saving
COD Discharge                  COD Before Red liquor      COD After red liquor      Reduction:
Reduction Red Liquor           evaporation: 100,000 t/d   evaporation: 2,000 t/d    98,500 t/d COD
evaporation & WWTP
Total COD discharged           20,000 t/d                 2,000 t/d                 Reduction:
from wastewater                                                                     17,500 t/d COD
Water Savings                  Before Bleaching Eqpt:     After Bleaching Eqpt:     Water Savings:
                               200 m3/ton of pulp         50 m3/ton of pulp         150 m3/ton of pulp
Saving in Steam                4 t/ton of binder          1 t/ton of binder         Saving in Steam:
consumption                                                                         3t/ton of binder
Increase in Binder             30,000 t/a                 200,000 t/a               Increase in Binder
Production*                                                                         Production:
                                                                                    170,000 t/a
Revenue From Binder            RMB 3 million/a            RMB 39 million/a          Revenue Increase :
Sales                                                                               RMB 36 million/a
*Binder production increase due to increase in red liquor extraction rate, from 15% to 9%




ICR-Annex                                                                                                 22
People's Republic of China                                               Liao River Basin Project


Table 10.6: Benefits of Process Modification at the Jincheng Paper Mill - Water Savings
       Item     Production         Before the project             After the project        Water
                     t/d        Unit cstn.     Total cstn.    Unit cstn.    Total cstn.    saving
                                  (t/d)           (t/d)         (t/d)          (t/d)        (t/d)
1 Pulp
                    440            10            44,000          40           17,600       26,400
    making
2 Paper
                    440            75            33,000          60           26,400        6.600
    making
    Total                                                                                  33,000

Table 10.7: Benefits of Process Modification at the Jincheng Paper Mill - Energy Savings
       Item     Prodtn.        Before the project           After the project          Power
                   t/d     Unit cstn.     Total cstn. Unit cstn.       Total cstn.     saving
                           (kwh/t)        (kwh/t)       (kwh/t)        (kwh/t)        (kHz/t)
    Pulp                                                                           44,000 kwh/
                   440          300        132,000         200           88,000
    making                                                                         d, 5.4 tce/d

Table 10.8: Benefits of Process Modification at the Jincheng Paper Mill ­ COD Discharge
       Item      Prodtn           Before Project                After Project       Reduced
                   t/d     Produced       Discharged Recycled          Discharged  COD (t/d)
                           COD (t/d)      COD (t/d)      COD (t/d) COD (t/d)
1 Pulp
                   440          528           443            492            36        492
    making
2 Paper         30,000 t
                                22.5          22.5            18            4.5        18
    making        water
    Total                      550.5         465.5           510           40.5    512 (93%)

Table 10.9: Jincheng Paper Mill ­ COD Discharge Reduction in Wastewater Treatment Process
Wastewater Discharged COD concentration Discharged amount               Reduced COD
                                                                          discharge
5,000 t/d                150 mg/l                    7.5%                  98.6%




ICR-Annex                                                                                      23
People's Republic of China                                                                    Liao River Basin Project


                                              Attachment to Annex 1

Explanatory Note on Water Quality Classifications, Water Quality Parameters and Designated
                                           Uses

Water Quality Classifications. Surface water quality in China is classified under the Environmental
Quality Standard for Surface Water issued (GB3838-2002) by the State Environmental Protection
Administration in April 2002, as follows:

Class I             Naturally unpolluted and specific nationally designated water sources
Class II            Water bodies designated as Class A, protection areas for potable water use, habitat of rare
                    aquatic organism, spawning grounds of fish and shrimp, and feeding grounds of young
                    fish
Class III           Water bodies designated as Class B protection areas for potable water use, fishing areas
                    including winter grounds and migration channels of fish and shrimp, and aquatic plants,
                    and swimming areas
Class IV            Water bodies designated for general industrial use and recreation without direct contact
                    with human skin
Class V             Water suitable for agriculture use and general irrigation/landscaping use

Water Quality Parameters. Whether a water body meets the classification is determined by a number of
parameters. Key parameters include: pH, dissolved oxygen (DO), permanganate index, COD, BOD5,
ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N), total phosphorus (P) and total ammonia (NH3. The table below indicates the
limiting values of parameters applicable to the different classifications. Designated sources of water for
potable use must achieve at least Class III. Ideally, water sources for major cities should reach Class II.
Targets are set based in the intended water use and the location.

                    Limiting Values of Key Water Quality Parameters for Surface Water

           Clarification

No.   Standard                   Class I           Class II        Class III       Class IV            Class V

      Item
1     Water                   Water temperature variation caused by factitious environment should be
      temperature             limited in the range of:
      (C)                     Max. Weekly Average Temperature Rise 1
                              Max. Weekly Average Temperature Drop 2

2     pH                                                             6-9
3     DO                      Saturation       6               5               3                  2
                              factor 90%
                              (or 7.5)
4     Permanganate            2                4               6               10                 15
      index
5     COD                     15               15              20              30                 40
6     BOD5                    3                3               4               6                  10
7     NH3-N                   0.15             0.5             1.0             1.5                2.0
8     Total P                 0.02 (0.01       0.1 (0.025      0.2 (0.05 for   0.3 (0.1 for       0.4 (0.2 for
                              for lakes and    for lakes and   lakes and       lakes and          lakes and
                              reservoirs)      reservoirs)     reservoirs)     reservoirs)        reservoirs)
9     Total NH3               0.2              0.5             1.0             1.5                2.0




ICR-Annex                                                                                                           24
People's Republic of China                                                           Liao River Basin Project




                                Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                                   CHINA: Liao River Basin Project

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
                                                                   Actual/Latest
                                        Appraisal Estimate                                  Percentage of
            Components                                             Estimate (USD
                                          (USD million)                                      Appraisal
                                                                      million)
 PANJIN WASTEWATER
                                                  33.34                   38.99                  117%
INTERCEPTION & TREATMENT
 YINGKOU INDUSTRY
                                                  14.35                   18.93                  132%
WASTEWATER TREATMENT
 YINGKOU WASTEWATER
                                                  39.09                   44.42                  114%
INTERCEPTION & TREATMENT
 JINCHENG INDUSTRY
                                                  11.82                   19.01                  160%
WASTEWATER TREATMENT
 JINZHOU WASTEWATER
                                                  27.68                   28.15                  102%
INTERCEPTION & TREATMENT
 URBAN MANAGEMENT
                                                   5.49                    6.62                  121%
INFORMATION SYSTEM
 ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
                                                   4.73                    5.06                  107%
MONITORING
 ENVIRONMENT SUBPROJECTS                          16.88                   31.48                 186%6
 INSTITUTIONAL
                                                   2.62                    4.94                  189%
STRENGTHENING & TRAINING

                Total Baseline Cost             156.00
Physical Contingencies
                                                  16.00
Price Contingencies
                                                 12.80
                 Total Project Costs            184.80                   197.40                 107%
Interest during construction                     17.80
Front-end fee IBRD                                1.00
         Total Financing Required               203.60


Note that the apparent cost overrun of 107% is in fact attributable to the appreciation of the
RMB. The table below, showing project costs in RMB, gives a more accurate picture.




6
  The cost of the Environmental Revolving Fund was RMB 166 million at appraisal, whilst the actual cost was RMB
237.7 million, representing 143% of the original estimate. The cost of the Environmental Revolving Fund was
raised, but the eligible percentage of Bank financing was reduced, keeping the total loan amount unchanged. This
apparent cost overrun is in fact only made up of increased counterpart funds.

ICR-Annex                                                                                                  25
People's Republic of China                                                          Liao River Basin Project



(a1) Project Cost by Component (in RMB million)
                                                                   Actual/Latest
                                           Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
            Components                                            Estimate (RMB
                                            (RMB million)                                   Appraisal
                                                                      million)
 PANJIN WASTEWATER
                                                 323.3                 263.2                   81.4%
INTERCEPTION & TREATMENT
 YINGKOU INDUSTRY
                                                 138.4                 142.9                  103.3%
WASTEWATER TREATMENT
 YINGKOU WASTEWATER
                                                 378.6                 336.2                   88.8%
INTERCEPTION & TREATMENT
 JINCHENG INDUSTRY
                                                 114.2                 140.0                  122.6%
WASTEWATER TREATMENT
 JINZHOU WASTEWATER
                                                 267.3                 214.1                   80.1%
INTERCEPTION & TREATMENT
 URBAN MANAGEMENT
                                                  53.0                  50.0                   94.3%
INFORMATION SYSTEM
 ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
                                                  45.7                  38.3                   83.8%
MONITORING
 ENVIRONMENT SUBPROJECTS                         166.0                 240.7                  145.0%
 INSTITUTIONAL
                                                  25.6                  37.3                  145.7%
STRENGTHENING & TRAINING
             Total Project Cost                1,512.1                1,508.0                  99.7%

(b) Financing
                                                                Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                 Type of                                    Percentage of
             Source of Funds                                    Estimate       Estimate
                                               Cofinancing                                    Appraisal
                                                             (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                                    0.00           0.00           0.00
 International Bank for Reconstruction
                                                             100.00         92.10             92.1%
and Development
 Local Govts. (Prov., District, City) of
                                                             103.60         105.30            102%
Borrowing Country




ICR-Annex                                                                                                 26
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project



                                 Annex 3. Outputs by Component

                               CHINA: Liao River Basin Project

Panjin Wastewater Interception and Treatment: Construction of a 100,000 m3/d wastewater
treatment plant to secondary treatment standard, 10 km of interceptor and collector sewers, and
modification of 13 existing pumping stations. The treatment plant is almost fully utilized, and
treated effluent meets specified discharge standard. Sludge is disposed in a power plant. About
50% of wastewater generated in Panjin is now treated.

Yingkou Paper Mill Wastewater Treatment: Construction of process improvements for red
liquor extraction and evaporation, binder production facility, 20,000 m3/d plant wastewater
treatment plant, and water and energy saving facilities. Plant operations were suspended in early
2008, to make mandatory improvements to meet the higher discharge standard introduced by
LPG. Operations restarted in November 2008.

Yingkou Wastewater Interception and Treatment: Construction of a 100,000 m3/d
wastewater treatment plant to secondary treatment standard, and 12.8 km interceptor and
collector sewers. The treatment plant is almost fully utilized, and treated effluent meets specified
discharge standard. Sludge is disposed in a temporary landfill until a permanent facility is
constructed. About 43% of wastewater generated in Yingkou is now treated.

Additional works: A re-use water plant of 30,000 m3/d capacity and supply lines in Yingkou to
supply industry were constructed using 3.28 million USD loan savings. This investment
supported the project objectives by reusing industrial wastewater of a power plant. About two
thirds of this reclaimed wastewater will be supplied to a coal power plant starting August 2009.

Jincheng Paper Mill Wastewater Treatment: The mercury-based electrolysis process was
demolished, and the site was cleaned up using acceptable environmental practice. Facilities
constructed include: red liquor extraction and evaporation, upgraded bleaching process, binder
production facility, and a 50,000 m3/d wastewater treatment plant.

Additional works: Equipment for the coal ash sedimentation plant and SO2 emission reduction
for the Jincheng Paper Mill in Jinzhou was constructed using loan savings of 3 millionUSD.

Jinzhou Wastewater Interception and Treatment: Construction of a 100,000 m3/d wastewater
treatment plant to secondary treatment standard, and 10 km interceptor and collection sewers.
The treatment plant is almost fully utilized, and treated effluent meets specified discharge
standard. Sludge is disposed in a landfill. About 50% of wastewater generated in Jinzhou is now
treated.

Additional works: Additional networks and interceptors were constructed in Jinzhou to expand
wastewater collection in an area of about 24 km2 south of the Daling River, utilizing 1.73
million USD in loan savings to increase the service area.

Urban Management Information System: Construction of a GIS-based urban infrastructure
mapping for all infrastructure facilities in project cities of Panjin, Yingkou and Jinzhou, and
Shenyang. The urban management information system for the Liaoning Provincial Construction
Bureau was not completed.

ICR-Annex                                                                                         27
People's Republic of China                                                Liao River Basin Project



Environmental Water Quality Monitoring: Monitoring equipment procured for water and air
quality procured for nine cities of Shenyang, Yingkou, Panjin, Dandong, Tieling, Chaoyang,
Jinzhou, Fuxin and Fushun. The cities have upgraded their capacity for automatic water quality
monitoring, and to deal with emergency pollution events.

Environment Revolving Fund: Sixteen loans have been made to industries to support clean
technology process changes providing considerable environmental improvements in air quality
and wastewater discharges and some water conservation. The average size of each loan was
about 500,000 USD, a total of about 7.75 million USD has been used so far. It is unlikely to be
used as a revolving fund, because it is under-utilized.

Institutional Strengthening and Training: Comprised four components, including:
(a) Financial management services and training: Provided to drainage companies for
institutional development, utility management, business planning, financial management,
operations and maintenance, wastewater tariffs and MIS.
(b) Aquifer Study and Future Project Preparation: This package was not implemented.
(c) Training and Study Tours: The package was managed by the Liaoning Provincial Department
of Finance, and organized training and study tours regarding project implementation and
management for provincial and municipal government and agencies.
(d) Construction management and training: Consulting services for comprehensive project
management, procurement and construction supervision, including review of engineering design
of all five infrastructure components.




ICR-Annex                                                                                       28
People's Republic of China                                                 Liao River Basin Project



                             Annex 4. Economic and Financial Analysis

                                 CHINA: Liao River Basin Project

Economic Analysis
The economic justification of the project was established using cost effectiveness criteria.
Therefore no economic rate of return was calculated for the project, nor was there any systematic
attempt to quantify all the potential economic benefits. Therefore it is not possible to assess in
fully quantifiable terms, whether the economic benefits derived from the project are greater or
lesser than envisaged. However, the project financed construction of a greater amount of
infrastructure than envisaged at marginally increased cost in dollar terms, whilst achieving the
core environmental objective. Thus it can be reasonably concluded that the project has been
implemented in a cost effective manner, and the original economic justification has been
vindicated.

High levels of pollution have direct economic impact on rural and urban water supplies, and on
agricultural and fisheries production. The economic benefits that can be identified as being
associated with the successful implementation of LRBP include the following:

    Improved public health in the urban areas of Jinzhou, Panjin and Yingkou served by the
    project, due to the improved wastewater collection and treatment.
    Improvement of river quality to class V, where this has been achieved, has made available
    improved quality irrigation water. This will reduce health risks and also enhance the
    productivity of irrigated land that had been in decline.
    Protection and sustaining productivity of the Bohai Bay fishing industry.
    Provision of centralized wastewater treatment has avoided the need for many small industries
    to install more expensive on-site treatment.
    Preservation of jobs and key industries through the industrial wastewater treatment
    components.
    Job creation in the new WWTP and during construction, on which normal economic
    multipliers can be applied.
    Creation of a 30,000 m3/day supplementary water resource in Yingkou that is suitable for
    industrial and other non-potable use.
    Indications are increases in water and wastewater tariffs (in part promoted by the project)
    have resulted in less water wastage, which, given the high estimates of the economic cost of
    water in Liaoning, is an important benefit.
In addition, the Project has provided a major indirect economic benefit by facilitating the
continued expansion of the Jinzhou, Panjin and Yingkou municipalities in an environmentally
sustainable manner. The expansion of these municipalities is part of China's response to rural to
urban migration pressure, which is itself consistent with the country's economic development
strategy. Specifically, loan savings were utilised to extend the wastewater collection network in
Jinzhou to serve an area of 24 km2 and population of 200,000.
Key assumptions made at Appraisal that potentially could have adversely affected the economic
performance of the Project appear to have proved robust or conservative, and therefore there has
been no dilution of economic benefit as a result of poor assumptions. These assumptions and
estimates included the rate of population growth, wastewater flows and the optimum sizing of
the new WWTP.

ICR-Annex                                                                                        29
People's Republic of China                                                   Liao River Basin Project



Social, Health and Quality of Life Benefits. The project has had important social benefits, despite
its objectives being originally focused on environmental improvement.
    Over one hundred new, permanent jobs have been created in the three new municipal
    drainage companies, and many temporary jobs were created during the construction of the
    facilities.
    Reduced incidence of water pollution-related diseases as a result of improved sewer systems
    and reduced surface and groundwater pollution near water intakes that might endanger the
    safety of water supplies;
    Protection of employment and living standards by preservation of productivity in the Bohai
    fishery, and greatly reducing the risk of closure of Jincheng and Yingkou paper mills (which
    would be detrimental to its local economy and undoubtedly lead to social suffering).
    The improved water quality in the local rivers will benefit many farmers and families in the
    area by providing better living conditions and improved public health. The poor, who are the
    most vulnerable to unhygienic living conditions, will therefore benefit most from the
    improvements.
    In addition, the Project facilitated social development by providing for rural to urban
    migration in an environmentally sustainable manner.

Improved Municipal Services. This objective has been fully achieved through the expanded
coverage of wastewater collection, treatment and disposal for the urban populations of Jinzhou,
Panjin and Yingkou, which have been implemented as planned and are operating in a fully
satisfactory manner.

Institutional Capacity. The Project involved the creation of new wastewater enterprises in
Panjin, Yingkou and Jinzhou as a basis for improving the prospects of sustainability of
wastewater services in the three cities. The Jinzhou and Yingkou enterprises have matured
progressively during the Project and now manage the WWTP they constructed and are
adequately staffed and financed for this purpose. Operations and maintenance of the Panjin
wastewater have been contracted out for a period of 30 years.

Financial Analysis

Drainage Companies

The financial objective of the municipalities was to have the drainage companies to generate
wastewater revenues to cover operating costs and the greater of depreciation and debt service.
Recognizing that the drainage companies were newly established at the time of appraisal, had no
wastewater treatment facilities to operate, and no experience in functioning as commercial
enterprises, the Project Agreement envisaged municipal subsidies to make up for any shortfalls
in wastewater revenues.

At the time of the borrower's ICR, financial projections were reviewed to determine the average
tariffs required in each drainage company to achieve the financial objectives. The table below
indicates the projected average tariffs in each city in 2005 at appraisal, compared to the actual
tariffs since 2005, and the calculated tariffs to be required by 2010 for financial viability of DCs
without government subsidies:

ICR-Annex                                                                                          30
People's Republic of China                                                   Liao River Basin Project



                                     PAD-projected          Actual tariffs            Required
                                     tariffs for 2005       since 2005                tariffs 2010
                                     (RMB/m3)               (RMB/m3)                  (RMB/m3)
Jinzhou                              0.85                   0.63                      0.89
Panjin                               0.72                   0.86                      1.17
Yingkou                              0.77                   0.62                      0.80

As the wastewater treatment plants were operational only by the end of 2006, the actual tariffs
were adequate to meet expenditures until 2006. However, it was not possible for municipal
governments to increase wastewater tariffs from 2006 because of national government
guidelines; since mid-2008 there has also been the impact of the economic crisis. Municipal
governments have therefore subsidized the drainage companies, particularly in meeting debt
service requirements.

In 2006, Liaoning Provincial Government issued Document (2006) No. 75, urging action by
local governments to improve wastewater treatment plant management and financing in Liaoning
Province. As a result, and also because of discussions with Bank missions, municipal
governments will be increasing tariffs in a phased manner, with Yingkou already set to increase
average tariffs to RMB0.80/m3 by the end of 2009. Technical assistance under the follow-on
Second Liaoning Medium Cities Infrastructure Project, currently under implementation, includes
a Public Utility Program, which covers: utility benchmarking; public-private partnerships; utility
management; and utility regulation.

As a result of the above, project drainage companies are expected to be able to function without
municipal financial subsidies in a phase manner. Key steps to be taken in the coming years
include:
    (a) The drainage companies taking the lead in coordinating with the water supply company
        (which collects wastewater charges as part of the water bill) to improve the percentage of
        wastewater charges collected, and for remitting the collections promptly.
    (b) The municipalities taking effective steps to improve wastewater charge collections from
        the remaining "self-supply" industrial companies, and transmitting them to the drainage
        companies in a timely manner.
    (c) The municipalities permitting the drainage companies to receive wastewater charge
        collections directly from water companies.
    (d) The municipalities permit wastewater tariff increases on a periodic basis after reviews by
        the Price Bureau and public hearings.

Yingkou and Jincheng Paper Mills. At appraisal, it was noted that Jincheng Paper Mill had
been profitable since 1996 and was projected to continue being profitable. Yingkou Paper Mill
had not made a profit for the four years prior to appraisal; however, as a result of reforms
undertaken in 2000, the company was projected to be profitable from 2001. It was further noted
at appraisal that as the two mills were major employers in their respective cities, the two
municipalities, who were their principal owners, were willing to absorb the financial
responsibility of repaying the Bank loan, should the paper mills be unable to do so.

Financial covenants were included in the Project Agreement in respect of the paper companies
on quick ratio, current ratio, and incurring additional debt. These were inappropriate, as the
objective of the project's support to the two paper companies was to reduce pollution from the
factories and it was not realistically possible for the municipalities (or the Bank) to enforce

ICR-Annex                                                                                          31
People's Republic of China                                                Liao River Basin Project


financial covenants as the companies operate in a competitive paper industry, and have social
obligations as major employers in the two cities.

Neither paper mill fully met the financial covenants during the project period. Nevertheless,
Liaoning Province considers these two mills to have strategic significance and is investing public
funds in their modernization and expansion.




ICR-Annex                                                                                       32
People's Republic of China                                                Liao River Basin Project



             Annex 5. Implementation of Industrial Pollution Control Action Plan

                                    CHINA: Liao River Basin Project

1.      Introduction
The Industrial Pollution Control Plan adopted by LPG under the Tenth Five-year Plan of
Liaoning Province focused on pollution reduction in 133 industrial enterprises which discharged
wastewater directly into Liao River (LR), and 20 key enterprises which were identified in the
"Priority Industry Wastewater Pollution Control Action Plan (2000) of Liaoning".

2.     General Approach to Liao River Basin Pollution Management
Applicable industrial pollution management regulations are: (a) "Decision To Strengthen
Environmental Protection" in 2007, in the "Eleventh Five-year Plan of Provincial Ecosystem
Environmental Protection"; (b) "Environmental Protection Ability Construction Program of
Eleventh Five- year"; and (c) "Target Responsibility Guarantee for Reducing Main Pollutant
Total Amount" applicable to the 14 municipalities.

3.     Water pollution prevention/management of the key river basin area is based on the
LEPBs "Water Pollution Prevention and Management programming (2006-2010)" and "General
Programming of Environmental Protection of Bohai Sea". A Special fund for Liao River Basin
(LRB) water pollution prevention and management was set up. Up to now, 33 urban wastewater
treatment plants have been constructed, with a total capacity of 3,563,000 m3/d. The rate of
urban wastewater treatment has now reached 50%, and a provincial on-line supervision system
has been set up at these treatment plants.

Table A: Summary of Annual Wastewater Discharge and Treatment in Liaoning (million m3)
        Index                2001       2002      2003      2004       2005       2006
  Total amount of
     discharged         2,056        1,892     1,918    1,953          2,187       2,130
     wastewater
     Amount of
      industrial
                        1,090          920       892      918          1,051         947
     wastewater
     discharged
     Amount of
      domestic
                          965          972     1,027    1,035          1,136       1,182
     wastewater
     discharged
     Amount of
       industry
     wastewater           872          808       817      862            999         880
 discharge meeting
       standard
      Industrial
     wastewater
                      79.96% 87.85% 91.61% 93.93%                     95.09%    92.91%
 discharge meeting
    standard (%)
Source: Liaoning Province Statistical Yearbook in 2007.

ICR-Annex                                                                                       33
People's Republic of China                                                   Liao River Basin Project



4       Status of Pollution Control in 20 Key Industry Enterprises
The amount of main pollutant discharge in 2007, compared to the year 2000 as baseline, from
the 20 key enterprises for wastewater pollution is listed in the table below. It shows that for the
20 key pollution enterprises, COD discharge reductions between 2000 and 2007 was amounted
to 96.46%, or 107,329 tons per year.

Table B: Status of Pollution Control in 20 key Industry Enterprises
                                                          Discharge
                                              Main                             Discharge
          Name of enterprises                               in 2000
                                            Pollutants                       in 2007 (t/yr)
                                                             (t/yr)
 Zhongxin Printing & Dyeing Factory,
                                              COD             10,500                     18
 Haicheng
 Kaiweiteng Printing & Dyeing
                                              COD               1,962                    62
 Factory, Anshan
 Sanxing Printing & Dyeing Factory,
                                              COD                 767                    26
 Haicheng
 Haifeng Printing & Dyeing Factory
                                              COD               1,129                   597
 Haicheng
 Jinqiao    Cardboard      Co.,    Ltd.,
                                              COD                 188                   126
 Haicheng
 Xiliu    Printing/Dyeing       Factory,
                                              COD               1,663                   117
 Haicheng
 Guangyuan Printing/Dyeing Factory,
                                              COD                 594                    80
 Haicheng
 Kuangquan Brewery, Anshan                    COD               1,460                    12
 Taian Paper Mill, Anshan                     COD                 640               Closed
 Chemical Fertilizer Factory, Benxi           NH4                 271               Closed
 Paper Mill, Beining                          COD               2,664               Closed
                                                                                      1300
 Paper Mill Co., Ltd., Heishan                 COD               3,388
                                                                                   (closed)
                                                                                         23
 Luyan Paper Company, Yingkou                  COD               1,170
                                                                                   (closed)
 Paper Mill, Yingkou                           COD              40,360                 771
 Xiaoqing Mine of Tiefa Mining
                                                SS             215,572                   n/a
 Bureau
 Tiefa Mining Bureau                            SS              64,075                  n/a
 Snajiazi Paper Mill, Kaiyuan                  COD               4,061              Closed
 Moni Brew House Company, Tieling              COD              33,750                  55
 Petroleum Chemical Fiber, Liaoyang            COD               5,302                 457
 Qingyang      Chemical     Company,
                                               COD               1,668                  293
 Liaoning
 Total                                         COD             111,266                3,937
Source: LEPB




ICR-Annex                                                                                          34
People's Republic of China                                             Liao River Basin Project


Table C: Monthly Water Quality report of River Stream (July, 2008)
                                             Name of river-
     Name of river   City to be located                         Category of water quality
                                                 section
                                         Ajipu                              II
                          Fushun         Gebu bridge                       IV
                                         Qijianfang                         V
          Hun                            Dongling bridge                    V
                                         Sanshan                     Worse than V
                         Shenyang
                                         Qitaizhi                    Worse than V
                                         Yujiafang                   Worse than V
                                         Laoguanlazhi                       II
                           Benxi
                                         Cxingan                            V
                                         Front of Shenwo dam               IV
                         Liaoyang        Xiawangjia                        IV
         Taizi
                                         Xiakouzhi                         IV
                                         Tangmazhai                        IV
                          Anshan         Liujiatai                         IV
                                         Xiaojiemiao                       IV
                           Panjin        Sanchahe                    Worse than V
         Daliao                          Heiyingtai                         V
                         Yingkou
                                         Liaohe park                        V
                                         Fudedian                          IV
                          Tieling        Sanhetun                           V
                                         Zhuershan                   Worse than V
                                         Mahushan                          III
          Liao           Shenyang
                                         Hongmiaozhi                       III
                                         Xingan                            IV
                           Panjin        Shuguang bridge                   IV
                                         Zhaoquanhe                        IV
                                         Nandaqiao                           I
                         Chaoyang        Dukou                              V
                                         Zhangjiying                        V
         Daling
                                         Wangjiagou                        III
                          Jinzhou        Zhangjiapu                        IV
                                         Xibaqian                           V
                                         Huanggou                           II
                                         Jiangqiao                          II
          Yalu           Dandong
                                         Anwen                              II
                                         Xiazhigou                          II
    Source: LEPB (September 2008)




ICR-Annex                                                                                    35
People's Republic of China                                                   Liao River Basin Project


Progress in the achievement of compliance with discharge standards in project cities is illustrated
in the table below:

Table D: Industrial Wastewater Discharge Meeting Standard in Yingkou, Panjin and Jinzhou
(2001-2007)
                                    Discharge rate which meet the standard (%)
            Year
                                Yingkou               Panjin               Jinzhou
            2001                 38.04                84.37                 49.45
            2002                 46.42                82.06                 58.86
            2003                 46.72                87.95                 65.79
            2004                 91.60                92.80                 71.68
            2005                 91.62                92.82                 86.06
            2006                 93.57                92.17                 83.18
            2007                 97.39                92.18                 86.27
    Source: LEPB (September 2008)

Concentrations of COD, BOD and NH for the period 2000-2007 are provided in the table below:

Table E: Historic Water Quality Data (2000-2007) of Liao, Daliao, Daling Rivers and Percentage
of COD samples that meet Class V Water Quality

                                                                                 COD reaching Class
               City           River-
 River                                  Year     COD       BOD        NH4                 V
             located          section
                                                                                        (%)
                                        2000     129        4.85     2.261               0.0
                                        2001     120        3.29     5.024              14.3
                          Heiyingtai    2002     97         2.07     2.886              0.0
                         (upstream of   2003     129        6.94     5.421              12.5
                            urban       2004     55         4.96     3.425              12.5
                           section)     2005     27         6.88     3.893              87.5
                                        2006     25         8.03     2.805             100.0
                                        2007     35         8.33     3.388              87.5
 Daliao     Yingkou
                                        2000     166        5.06     1.788               0.0
                                        2001     167        2.73     2.717               0.0
                          Liaohe Park   2002     125        2.29     1.805               0.0
                         (downstream    2003     102        7.02     3.891              25.0
                           of urban     2004     44         5.15     3.459              37.5
                            section)    2005     34         6.56     2.623              75.0
                                        2006     26         8.23     2.546             100.0
                                        2007     35         6.76     3.124             100.0
                                        2000      48        6.39     1.732              60.0
                                        2001     35         6.32     2.454              75.0
                           Xingan       2002     40         9.30     3.453              66.7
                         (upstream of   2003     47         8.41     5.101              60.0
  Liao       Panjin         urban       2004     55        11.04     2.955             36.4
                           section)     2005     61        16.71     2.955             63.6
                                        2006     100       24.96     3.897             45.5
                                        2007     59        20.44     3.465             50.0
                             Shuguang   2000     96        4.54      7.800              0.0

ICR-Annex                                                                                          36
People's Republic of China                                                 Liao River Basin Project


                                                                               COD reaching Class
               City          River-
 River                                   Year      COD     BOD       NH4               V
             located         section
                                                                                      (%)
                            bridge       2001        48      6.10    13.197          25.0
                         (downstream     2002       100     19.27     7.479           0.0
                           of urban      2003       60      7.86      8.827          40.0
                           section)      2004       63     10.12      6.928          27.3
                                         2005       79     14.05      4.677          27.3
                                         2006       102     22.45     5.664           0.0
                                         2007       63     20.07      4.987          50.0
                                         2000      * 13     3.19      5.563
                                         2001      * 13     2.99      1.565
                         Zhaoquanhe      2002      * 22    12.75      2.855
                           (wetland      2003      * 13     8.13      3.690
                          protection     2004      * 14     7.49      1.850
                            zone)        2005      * 11    11.38      2.833
                                         2006      * 23    16.18      2.320
                                         2007      * 21    16.68      3.012
                                         2000       15      2.53      0.152             100.0
                                         2001       15      2.05      0.137             100.0
                                         2002       19      3.60      0.167             100.0
                         Wangjiagou
                                         2003       17      1.81      0.297              87.5
                         (upstream of
                                         2004       13      1.80      0.339              70.0
                          Yi county)
                                         2005       21      2.68      0.448              70.0
                                         2006       11      1.98      0.379             100.0
                                         2007        8       1.34     0.185              91.7
                                         2000        28      6.80     1.890             100.0
                                         2001       43      4.77      1.605              50.0
                                         2002       44      6.76      1.870              55.6
                          Zhangjiapu
                                         2003       32      1.81      1.413              87.5
Daling      Jinzhou      (upstream of
                                         2004       39      6.15      2.051              70.0
                         Linghai city)
                                         2005       33      3.15      1.488              70.0
                                         2006       20      2.92      2.661             100.0
                                         2007       19      3.44      3.353              91.7
                                         2000      2802    733.27     0.710              0.00
                           Xibaqian      2001      1890    289.62     0.491             0.00
                             (sea        2002       739    373.13     0.612             0.00
                           entrance,     2003       758    195.32     0.661             0.00
                         down stream     2004       701    165.78     0.985             0.00
                          of Linghai     2005       472     68.09     0.832             0.00
                             city)       2006       452     91.93     2.001             0.00
                                         2007       358     60.40     1.301             0.00
* index by permanganate method.                 Source: LEPB (Sept. 2008)

5.     Summary of Achievements
The Ministry of Environment has tested and confirmed that there is a significant decrease in the
discharge of the main pollutants in Liaoning in 2008. For example, the COD discharge was
583,900 tons, a decrease of 6.96% compared with 2007 and the SO2 discharge was 1,130,000


ICR-Annex                                                                                        37
People's Republic of China                                                    Liao River Basin Project


tons, a decrease of 8.36% compared with 2007. Water quality of the Liao River has significantly
improved, as pollutant density in 26 main river sections has decreased by 50%.

6.        Water environment conditions before 2007

The LRB is one of seven large river basins in China, comprising Liao, Hun, Taizi, Daliao rivers.
The major area of the basin is located in the central plain of Liaoning, which is heavily
industrialized, with high population density and intensive agricultural production. Among 26
river-section monitoring points of the four rivers, results of 22 showed overall water quality
worse than Class V. The Liao River was mostly polluted, with all four of the main monitoring
indices surpassing the required standards, and the water quality of the full length of the Liao
river was worse than Class V.

In order to rectify the serious pollution state of the Liao River, Liaoning Government put
forward a management target in its 11th Five-year Plan to "eliminate Class V water along main
courses within three years, and convert urban sections to be landscaped channels within five
years". Therefore, 8 paper-making enterprises which could not conform to relevant regulations
and seriously impacted river water quality have been closed. The monitoring result at outfalls
and impacted river-section points show that about 10% of the pollutant concentration reduced
after these enterprises ceased production with the maximum reduction reaching 65.6%. As time
passes, previous wastewater and sediment in the river course will gradually be diffused and
degraded to provide continuous water quality upgrading.

7.        Introduction of Stricter Discharge Standards and Water Quality Targets.

LEPB and the Provincial Technical Supervision Bureau have prepared "Comprehensive
Wastewater Discharge Standard of Liaoning" to realize the total pollutant reducing task within
Eleventh-Five Year period and the management target to "eliminate Class V water along main
courses within three years, and for urban sections to be converted to landscaped channels within
five years," sponsored by Liaoning Government. The new discharge standard has been in effect
since 1st August 2008. They are stricter than the national standards.

Stricter Discharge Standards for Paper Mills. The previously allowable COD discharge
concentration to water sensitive areas in Liaoning was 60-80mg/l. The new standard does not
allow this level of discharge. The previous maximum allowable COD discharge direct to surface
waters was 100mg/l, but the new standard is 50mg/l. For paper making enterprises, the previous
COD discharge limit was 400mg/l, but the new standard requires that the discharge from these
enterprises must meet 50mg/l.

8.        Implementation of new standards

The new standards implemented by Liaoning will focus on the following four aspects:

     (a) Provide guarantees to realize energy-saving, reduce pollution discharge amounts and
         achieve the management target of the river basin.

     (b) Adjust industrial layout and structure to favor concentration control of the pollution.

     (c) Implement the new standards to promote and increase structural adjustments in industrial
         production, and promote process upgrading and strengthened pollution management in

ICR-Annex                                                                                           38
People's Republic of China                                                   Liao River Basin Project


       paper making, metallurgy, chemical, petroleum chemical, textile, dyeing and other
       industries.

  (d) Ensure safety of drinking water: Categorizing the management standards for provincial
      water bodies will be realized through the method of dividing them into wastewater
      discharge control zones and key protection zones.

9.    Additional Regulatory Actions Implemented in 2008 for Liao River Basin Pollution
Prevention and Removal

In May 2008, LEPB published the next stage program for Liao River Basin pollution prevention
and removal according to the policy of Liaoning Provincial Government:

Ban industrial enterprises causing serious pollution to environment

The first batch of industrial enterprises to be banned is 225 small paper mills. The business
licenses were cancelled, power supply cut, and equipment demolished in all the 225 paper mills
before 30 May 2008.

Enterprises which are not in accordance with the industrial policy, such as the printing and
dyeing, furfural and alcohol production, are discouraged and those failing to meet discharge
standards are required to close.

The industrial policy clearly stipulates cement industries are to be banned. The various local
governments were made responsible for issuing orders to close them before the end of the June
2008. All the cement enterprises with a capacity lower than 200,000 tons and not able to meet
the environmental requirement were required to close before the end of 2008.

River Training and Greening of the Liao River

Grass will be planted on the both sides of Liao, Hun, Taizi and Daling Rivers. Eighty industrial
discharge outlets were removed by the end of 2008, and a further 34 urban discharge outlets will
be closed by the end of 2009.

Recent LPG regulations to limit approvals

(i) Stricter criteria will be adopted for new industry approvals.

(ii) Approval for construction projects will be restricted for local governments that do not
achieve the targets for closing paper mills, de-sulfuring and wastewater treatment.

(iii) Stricter discharge standards will be adopted for paper mills, which will be forced to close
until compliance. (Operations in 417 paper mills were suspended, of which 200 were closed
permanently).

(iv) In order to establish a long term pollution prevention mechanism, the LPG issued the
comprehensive wastewater discharge standard, effective from August 1, 2008.




ICR-Annex                                                                                          39
People's Republic of China                                                 Liao River Basin Project


(v) An environmental warning mechanism has been established. The environmental protection
department will be responsible for giving yellow or red alarm to cities with environmental
problems according to monitoring results.

(vi) Liaoning Province has under consideration compensation and punishment mechanism to be
applied for any city whose river sections at the downstream boundary exceed the required
standard.

(vii) In order to resolve the domestic wastewater pollution problem, it is planned to construct 99
wastewater treatment plants in the next 2 years with treatment capacity increased by 4,536,000
tons/day.

(viii) Ecological treatment will be implemented in main rivers and tributaries to give more
comprehensive improvements in river quality. From 2008, de-silting work has commenced in 6
seriously polluted rivers.




ICR-Annex                                                                                        40
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project


                               Annex 6. Resettlement Implementation

                                   CHINA: Liao River Basin Project

The Liao River Basin Project supported eight components among which three components
included resettlement activities. These three components were Jinzhou wastewater, Panjin
wastewater and Yingkou wastewater. The resettlement activities were implemented according to
the resettlement action plan (RAP) which was prepared at the appraisal stage of the project and
was finally completed in December 2002.

Total completed resettlement activities comprised 26.2 hectares of permanent land acquisition,
29.97 hectares of temporary land use, and 18814.81 m2 house demolition (including residential
houses and enterprise's houses). The total population affected by the project was 687 people
including 216 people affected by the land use and 471 people affected by the house demolition.
The detailed resettlement quantities are showed in the table below. Detailed resettlement
implementations status is provided in the Resettlement Completion Report for LRBP.

All affected people were resettled properly according to the resettlement action plan.
Compensation standards for land use and house demolition were not lower than those stipulated
in the resettlement action plans. All compensations were paid on time, and all affected persons
were consulted fully during the entire resettlement process. Overall, the resettlement objective
was realized and resettlement results were satisfactory.

Actual house demolitions were reduced greatly in Panjin compared to the original resettlement
action plan. The Panjin wastewater component was revised for one interceptor contract. A 1 km
long interceptor from South Liaohe Road to Taishan Road which was originally designed to be
constructed along the south bank of Pangxie ditch was amended and constructed on the north
bank of the Pangxie ditch. Changes in the construction scheme led to actual house demolitions
were reduced by 15,185 m2.

In addition, the Panjin government implemented the comprehensive management for the both
banks of Liuling River, and spare unused land was selected for construction of the 3.5 km
interceptor on the east bank of Liuling River. These activities resulted in 11,000 m2 house
demolition, but it is included in the project as collateral resettlement activity.

              No. PAP        Land Acqd     Houses Relocated     Shops, etc.         Cost
                                (ha)            (m2)          Demolished (m2)      (Y m)
Panjin             386               8.2           7,998.9              160.0        15.50
Yingkou            112              8.0             442.1               655.8          1.90
Jinzhou            189             10.0             512.0            *9,046.0        10.50
Total              687             26.2            8,953.0            9,861.8        27.90
*Represents piggeries




ICR-Annex                                                                                         41
People's Republic of China                                                         Liao River Basin Project




                                                   Actual Impacts and Resettlement for the Project

  Component name                          Permanent land acquisition                   Temporary land use                     House demolition
                             Quantity     Affected       Resettlement (Person)        Quantity      Re-    Enterprise       Residential Demolitio     Affected
                             (Hectare)     people        Land           Cash          (Hectare) cultivate /institution      household    n area        people
                                          (Person)    adjustment compensation                        d       /shop                        (m2)        (Person)
  Panjin wastewater                8.2            60           60              0          25.05      25.05           1               76  8158.90            326
 Yingkou wastewater                8.0             0                                       0.00       0.00          28               11  1097.91            112
 Jinzhou wastewater               10.0          156              0           156           4.92       4.92           2                2  9558.00             33
        Total                     26.2          216            60            156          29.97      29.97          30              89 18814.81             471



                                          Comparison of Actual and Planned Resettlement for the Project

  Component name               Permanent land                   House demolition                  Temporary land       Affected people   Total resettlement cost
                                 acquisition                          (m2)                             use                                    (1000 Yuan)
                                  (Hectare)
                             Planned     Actual     Planned        Actual     Correlation        Planned      Actual   Panned   Actual   Planned       Actual
                                                                                project
  Panjin wastewater              8.2         8.2     34344.76       8158.90         11,000          26.80      25.05     1596      386     46,487        15,510
                                                                            (62households)
 Yingkou wastewater              8.0         8.0       450.00        442.11                          0.00       0.00      238      112      5,037         1,085
 Jinzhou wastewater             10.0        10.0      9558.00       9558.00                          3.00       4.92       69      189      8,226        10,501
        Total                   26.2        26.2     44352.76      18814.81                         29.80      29.97     1903      687     55,216        27,096
 Note: Correlation project in the above table means that part of resettlement activities relating to the project, it is not implemented by
the implement agency, but is implemented by the local Government (Panjin).




ICR-Annex                                                                                                42
          Annex 7. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

                             CHINA: Liao River Basin Project

(a) Task Team Members

                                                                                     Responsibility/Spec
             Names                      Title                       Unit
                                                                                           ialty
Lending
                                                           China Department, Urban   Municipal
Geoffrey Read              Senior Municipal Engineer
                                                            Environment Division     Engineering
David Hanrahan             Economist                          Bank Headquarters      Economic Analysis
                                                                                     Environmental
Jack Fritz                 Environmental Specialist            EAP Urban Unit
                                                                                     Analysis
                                                                                     Management
Rajagopal Iyer             Management Specialist               EAP Urban Unit
                                                                                     Analysis
Margaret Png               Legal Counsel                         EAP Legal           Legal
                                                                                     Institutional
Keiko Sato                 Institutional Specialist          Bank Headquarters
                                                                                     Analysis
Chaogang Wang              Resettlement Specialist         Resident Mission, China   Social Development
Chaouhua Zhang             Resettlement Specialist           Bank Headquarters       Social Development
Dawei Yang                 Procurement Specialist          Resident Mission, China   Procurement
                                                                                     Environmental
George Taylor              Treatment Specialist                  Consultant
                                                                                     Engineering
Patrick McCarthy           Financial Analyst                     Consultant          Financial Analysis
                                                                                     Municipal
Chandra Godavitarne        Municipal Engineer                    Consultant
                                                                                     Engineering
Wu Ning                    Financial Specialist                  Consultant          Financial Analysis
Vellet Fernandes           Program Assistant                   EAP Urban Unit        Program Support
Supervision/ICR
                                                                                     Municipal
Geoffrey Read [TTL 1]      Municipal Engineer                  EAP Urban Unit
                                                                                     Engineering
                                                                                     Institutional
Raja Iyer [TTL 2]          Lead Management Specialist          EAP Urban Unit
                                                                                     Analysis
                                                                                     Water Resources
Greg Browder [TTL 3]       Water Resources Specialist          EAP Urban Unit
                                                                                     Management
Zhang Hao [TTL 4]          Municipal Engineer              Resident Mission, China   Sanitary Engineering
                                                                                     Senior Sanitary
Mingyuan Fan [TTL 5]       Municipal Engineer              Resident Mission, China
                                                                                     Engineering
                           Senior Environmental
Chongwu Sun                                                Resident Mission, China   Environment
                           Specialist
                           Social Development
Chaogang Wang                                              Resident Mission, China   Social Development
                           Specialist
Youlan Zou                 Resettlement Specialist         Resident Mission, China   Resettlement
Ming Zhang                 Urban Planning Specialist       Resident Mission, China   Urban Planning
                           Financial Management                                      Financial
David I                                                    Resident Mission, China
                           Specialist                                                Management
Liu Zhentu                 Senior Procurement Specialist   Resident Mission, China   Procurement
People's Republic of China                                                Liao River Basin Project


                             Financial Management                                       Financial
Haixia Li                                                   Resident Mission, China
                             Specialist                                                 Management
Eddie Hum                    Sanitary Engineer                    Consultant            Sanitary Engineering
                                                                                        Financial/Institution
Patrick McCarthy             Financial Analyst              Resident Mission, China
                                                                                        al
Margaret Pg                  Legal Specialist                     EAP Legal             Legal
                             Financial Management                                       Financial
Robert Leonard O'Leary                                       Loan Administration
                             Specialist                                                 Management
Xuemei Guo                   Program Assistant              Resident Mission, China     Program Assistance
                                                                                        Municipal
Chandra Godavitarne          Municipal Engineer                   Consultant
                                                                                        Engineering


(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                                                   USD Thousands (including
                                       No. of staff weeks
                                                                   travel and consultant costs)

Lending
  FY99                                                                           7.10
  FY00                                             13                           87.35
  FY01                                             57                          354.00
  FY02                                                                           0.00
  FY03                                                                           0.00
  FY04                                                                           0.00
  FY05                                                                           0.00
  FY06                                                                           0.00
  FY07                                                                           0.00
  FY08                                                                           0.00
                              Total:               70                          448.45
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                           0.00
  FY00                                                                           0.00
  FY01                                                                           0.00
  FY02                                             12                           71.08
  FY03                                             12                           31.62
  FY04                                              6                           28.30
  FY05                                              8                           39.18
  FY06                                              4                           21.01
  FY07                                              8                           39.47
  FY08                                              8                           32.82
  FY09                                              3                            0.00
                              Total:               61                          263.48




ICR-Annex                                                                                       1
People's Republic of China                                                Liao River Basin Project




             Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                              CHINA: Liao River Basin Project

1. Assessment of Project Objective and Quality At Entry

Descriptions of the original and revised project objectives, components and beneficiaries are
detailed in Section 1.2 of the main ICR. They are not repeated here.

Project Changes. No project components were deleted or added during implementation,
however, a few changes occurred within the scope of project components as summarized below:

Yingkou Wastewater. Yingkou utilized loan savings to construct a 30,000 m3/d wastewater
reclamation plant. The feasibility study report (FSR) was provided in August 2003, and the
proposed additional 6 new contracts were agreed by the Bank during the mid-term review in
June-July 2004, along with other minor adjustments.

Jinzhou Wastewater. Jinzhou utilized loan savings to construct more interceptors. The proposed
5 additional contracts were agreed by the Bank during the period 2002-2005, along with other
minor adjustments.

Jincheng Industry Wastewater Treatment. The component proposed during appraisal included
modification of an old chlorine-alkali plant and water reduction process. A feasibility study
report for new proposals was submitted to the Bank in December 2002 and approved by the
Bank in principle in May 2003. The new proposal included 5 contracts for construction of a
comprehensive wastewater treatment plant, pre-treatment of high concentration process
wastewater, etc.

Institutional Development and Training (IDT). As discussed in paragraph 2.2 below, Package B
of the Institutional Development component was not proceeded with.

Project Delays. The original closing date of the loan was December 31, 2007. However,
Jinzhou Drainage Company applied for utilizing loan savings of USD 2.5 million to construct a
wastewater reclamation plant, and Liaoning Urban Construction & Renewal Project Office
(LUCRCPO) requested an extension of loan closing date in May 2007 in order to accommodate
this. The Bank accepted the proposed extension in December 2007, and extended the loan
closing date to December 31, 2008. All other works, including those using loan savings, were
substantially completed by the original closing date.

Quality at Entry. Project preparation of the physical investments at appraisal has been proved
largely satisfactory. The feasibility studies and engineering designs for each project component
(as well as for the overall project) proved to be appropriate. Most of the technical designs
employed advanced yet commercially available technologies that proved to be suitable for the
purpose. The procurement plan, as appraised, proved to be executable. However, some of the
appraised cost estimates proved excessive; as a result of large contingencies included at Bank
insistence, led to loan savings.


ICR-Annex                                                                                       2
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project


Project preparation for the institutional development and training (IDT) component laid some
good foundations for the Project by requiring tariff increases in advance of appraisal and the
implementation of joint billing of water and wastewater charges, but in some aspects was less
satisfactory. The PAD incorrectly stated that the existing sewerage assets in the project cities,
and the staff responsible for their management and operations, had already been transferred to
the new Drainage companies. This was only partly true. The PAD also referred to the new
Drainage companies becoming managerially and financially autonomous, without clearly
defining what this entailed. There was therefore no clear consensus or local stakeholder
ownership of the required reforms at the commencement of project implementation.

2. Achievement Of Objective And Outputs

Outcome/Achievement of Objective. The municipal wastewater components in Panjin,
Yingkou and Jinzhou are already in operation achieving their design capacity (100,000 m3/d in
each case) and producing effluent that meets the required quality standards. In addition, the
inclusion of a wastewater reclamation component in Yingkou has made available 30,000 m3/d of
reclaimed wastewater as a resource suitable for industrial and other low grade uses.

Process modifications in the Yingkou Paper Mill have reduced about 80% of pollution loads
discharged into the local receiving water bodies. The wastewater treatment facilities of Jincheng
Paper Mill have also significantly reduced pollution loads into the local receiving water bodies.

The Project constructed wastewater treatment capacity of 350,000 m3/d in total, with an
estimated reduction in COD discharge of 138,031 t/a. This has contributed significantly to
protecting water quality in the lower reaches of the Liao River basin (LRB) and the Bohai Sea.
The physical interventions have made a significant contribution to the project objective of
assisting the environmental recovery of the LRB.

Output by Components

Panjin Wastewater (RMB 323.3 million PAD; RMB 263.2 million at completion).
Satisfactorily implemented as appraised between 2001 and 2007. It is now providing 100,000
m3/d of secondary treatment capacity, and about 50% of total municipal wastewater flow from
the city is now treated in compliance with discharge standards.

Yingkou Wastewater (RMB 378.6 million PAD; RMB 336.2 million at completion). The main
facility was satisfactorily implemented as appraised, between 2001 and 2006. It is now providing
100,000 m3/d of secondary treatment capacity, and about 43.4% of total municipal wastewater
flow from the city is now being treated in compliance with the discharge standard. In addition, a
facility to provide 30,000 m3/d of reclaimed wastewater has been constructed and made
operational. This wastewater reclamation facility will potentially improve the financial strength
of the wastewater company and increases the economic benefits of the component.

Yingkou Paper Mill (RMB 138.4 million PAD; RMB 142.9 million at completion).
Satisfactorily implemented between 2002 and 2006. The red liquor treatment works have
reduced about 97% of the pollution loads discharged from the company into the Daliao River
and have produced up to 76,000 t/year of commercially valuable binder. In addition, a
wastewater treatment facility of 20,000 m3/d capacity built using local funding was
commissioned in December 2008.


ICR-Annex                                                                                         3
People's Republic of China                                                Liao River Basin Project


Jinzhou Wastewater (RMB 267.3 million PAD; RMB 214.1 million at completion).
Satisfactorily implemented as appraised between 2001 and 2007. It is now providing 100,000
m3/d of secondary treatment capacity, with 50% of the city's municipal wastewater flow now
being treated in compliance with the discharge standard. In addition, construction of additional
interceptors utilizing loan savings has extended wastewater collection for an area of 24 km2 and
population of 200,000 in southern of the city.

Jincheng Paper Mill (RMB 114.2 million PAD; RMB 140.0 million at completion).
Satisfactorily implemented between 2003 and 2008, in accordance with the revised FSR agreed
by the Bank. The 50,000 m3/d wastewater treatment and flue gas treatment facilities have
reduced the pollution loads discharged into Daling River and atmosphere from the paper mill.

Urban Management Information System (RMB 53 million PAD; RMB 50 million at
completion). The component was implemented from 2001 to 2008 with some delays. The
objectives of the component were to update urban mapping in the project cities and strengthen
the urban management information center by developing a GIS-based engineering management
system for infrastructure planning, especially water and wastewater, preparing a provincial urban
information system to facilitate policy and strategy formulation and implementation, including
arrangements for cities and the province to provide urban and environmental information on the
Internet for public access.

Four participating organizations, three cities, Panjin, Shenyang and Yingkou, and the Liaoning
Provincial Construction Bureau (LPCB), were involved in the component, which was
substantially completed, with the exception that the LPCB only partly completed its work scope.
Yingkou city also used local counterpart funds to complete its purchase of Computer Hardware
and Software (UMIS/21.01-C).

LPCB originally planned to implement two contract packages, UMIS/22.01 (UMIS Advisory
Services) and UMIS/21.01-D (Computer Hardware & Software). UMIS/22.01 was completed as
planned. UMIS/21.01-D was deferred because a number of cities in the province are still at the
stage of building or to build their own UMIS system. LPCB intends to implement this part later
using local funding, when most of cities have completed their UMIS in a manner that is
compatible to the provincial system.

Environmental Water Quality Monitoring (RMB 45.7 million PAD; RMB 38.3 million at
completion). Satisfactorily implemented in two contracts between 2002 and 2006.
Environmental monitoring stations from 9 cities of Shenyang, Yingkou, Panjin, Dandong,
Tieling, Chaoyang, Jinzhou, Fuxin and Fushun, have procured monitoring equipment for water
and air, which has upgraded their capacity in water quality monitoring and automation level, as
well as their ability to deal with emergency pollution events.

Environment Revolving Fund (RMB 166.0 million PAD; RMB 240.7 million at completion).
Since October 2002, the Fund has satisfactorily provided to 16 sub-projects to support clean
technology process changes providing considerable environmental improvements in air quality
and wastewater discharges and some water conservation.

Institutional Development and Training (RMB 25.6 million PAD; RMB 37.3 million at
completion). Based on the PAD this component was to be implemented between 2001 and 2007
and involved four TA packages, (A, B, C and D). Packages A and D were subsequently


ICR-Annex                                                                                       4
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project


extended in line with the revised loan closure to 31 December 2008. The apparent cost overrun
is because Package D was not included in the original component cost estimate.
(a) Financial management services and training ("Package A"). This package was originally
scheduled for construction and institutional reforms were delayed, it was agreed with the WB to
extend the work of the Package A consultant over all of the remaining loan period. The TA
consultant has provided advice, training and support to the IAs, LUCRPO and related project
agencies in the areas of institutional development, utility management, business planning,
financial management, operations and maintenance, wastewater tariffs and MIS.
(b) Aquifer Study and Future Project Preparation ("Package B"). This package was not
implemented. During the project implementation, the national (China) and provincial (Liaoning)
government issued several notifications to protect underground aquifer and restrict the extraction
of groundwater. At the same time, Liaoning Provincial Government had planned to close self-
supplied water supply wells step by step, and constructed a 85 km (in length) tunnel and diverted
up to total of 1.79 billion m3/year surface water from Huanren Reservoir located within Huanren
County, providing adequate surface water to six big municipalities, Shenyang, Fushun, Liaoyang,
Anshan, Yingkou and Panjin, for their growing urban population and expanding economy.
Liaoning Government therefore decided that in view of the changed circumstances the Aquifer
Study was not urgent and should be conducted at a future time using local resources, and when
the effect of these new initiatives could be properly evaluated.
(c) Training and Study Tours ("Package C"). The package managed by LPDF, organized
training and study tours regarding to project implementation and management for provincial and
municipal government and agencies and achieved the PAD objectives.
(d) Construction management and training ("Package D"). TA-Package D was successfully
implemented between May 2002 and December 2008. Major tasks of the TA consultant were to
provide consulting services for project management, procurement and construction supervision,
including review of engineering design of all five infrastructure components. All the bidding
documents, bid evaluation reports and cost overrun reports were reviewed by the TA consultant
team before LUCRPO submitted them to WB for approval. All variation applications by the IAs,
valued over RMB 200,000, were also subject to review by the TA consultant. The consultant
team visited the five project sites regularly and provided full support for project management and
implementation together with associated training., The TA achieved significant capacity
building for the staff of LUCRPO, participating municipalities, IAs and local construction
supervision firms on WB project implementation rules and procedures on procurement, contract
management and construction supervision. The Package was undoubtedly most helpful in
ensuring the successful and timely implementation of the structural part of the Project.

Economic Benefits. The economic justification of the project was established using a cost
effectiveness approach rather than by a detailed quantitative evaluation of benefits. The Project
has undoubtedly contributed to the Governments' development objective of continued and
sustainable economic growth, and helped facilitate the policy of rural to urban economic
migration. Economic output in Liaoning has increased from RMB 503.3 billion in 2001 to RMB
1102.2 billion in 2007, an increase averaging 13.95% per annum. Specific economic benefits
include preservation of economic activities in the Bohai Sea, protection of groundwater aquifers
used for local water supplies, and the protection of employment in the key paper-making
industry.

Financial Performance. The financial viability of the Project wastewater components was
assessed based on the ability of the wastewater tariff to generate sufficient revenues for the

ICR-Annex                                                                                         5
People's Republic of China                                                Liao River Basin Project


project companies to meet their principal financial targets. These targets were a cost recovery
ratio of at least 1.0 and debt service coverage of at least 1.3, set on the assumption that all
wastewater charges revenues would be transferred to the companies. This financial reform has
yet to take place, and therefore all three companies are technically non-compliant with the
related loan covenants. However, in all three cities the municipal government is providing
adequate financial resources to ensure the full operation of the new WWTPs.

The financial performance of the Jincheng and Yingkou Paper Mills has been adversely affected
by the forced suspension of operations during 2008. These two companies have both failed to
meet their financial covenants, but Jincheng has at least proved profitable for most of the
implementation period.

Institutional Development Impact. The Project involved the creation of new wastewater
enterprises in Panjin, Yingkou and Jinzhou as a basis for improving the prospects of
sustainability of wastewater services in the three cities. The Jinzhou and Yingkou enterprises
have matured progressively during the Project and now manage the WWTP they constructed and
are adequately staffed and financed for this purpose. For various reasons, the Panjin enterprise
has not been given the opportunity to mature in the same way. However, broader sector reforms
to create integrated wastewater companies responsible for the wastewater collection network as
well as the WWTP have not proceeded as indicated in the PAD, and the enterprises have only
very limited financial or managerial autonomy.

Procurement. All procurement was undertaken in accordance with WB guidelines and there
were no incidents of misprocurement during LRBP implementation. The only change in
procurement method was for IDT package C which changed from QCBS to direct disbursement
of costs. All bid documents were subject to review by TA-Package D consultants and approval
by LUCRCPO. Extensive use was made of the WB "prior review" procedure which operated
successfully.

Poverty Alleviation and Social Impact. The provision of wastewater treatment facilities at the
Jincheng and Yingkou Paper Mills has potentially protected two important local industries and
the employment they provide.

The wastewater components have directly provided significant local temporary job opportunities
during construction and over 100 permanent jobs on the treatment plants. The significant
reduction in the discharge of untreated wastewater has improved the urban environment and
living conditions in the cities, reduced the risk of health concerns due to groundwater
contamination and helped preserve the productivity of the Bohai Sea fishery resource. As a
facilitator of sustainable economic development, the Project will have continuing beneficial
poverty alleviation and social impacts.

Environmental Impact. No significant environmental management issues arose during project
construction and the environmental management plans prepared to mitigate potential adverse
environmental impacts resulting from the Project activity were implemented. The Project is set
to achieve the beneficial impacts that were identified in the PAD Environmental Assessment.

Land Acquisition and Resettlement. All land acquisition and resettlement of affected persons
was successfully dealt with in accordance with the resettlement plans approved by the Bank.
Only minor delays occurred in resettlement, but this did result in some construction delays. A
separate completion review report on these activities has been provided to the Bank.

ICR-Annex                                                                                       6
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project



3. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

Factors Outside the Control of Local Government or Implementing Agency

(a) Construction was affected by the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) event in 2003,
resulting in a delay to the construction schedule of approximately 6 months and corresponding
increases in construction cost.

(b) The exchange rate of USD with RMB was 1:8.27 at the time of appraisal, but started to drop
from July 2005 as the PRC government started to implement new exchange rate policies. By
January 2006 the rate had fallen to 1:8.07 and by June 2008 to 1:6.90. This significantly reduced
the real value of the World Bank loan and increased the level of counterpart funding required, as
most contracts were denominated in Chinese RMB. The need for unanticipated supplementary
financing created difficulties for the implementing agencies (IAs) and caused some payment
delays to contractors on contracts signed in currencies other than USD.

Factors Generally Subject to Local Government Control

(a) Stricter environmental standards introduced in April 2008 by the Liaoning provincial
government resulted in Yingkou and Jincheng paper mills being ordered to stop production until
they could demonstrate meeting the new standards. Jincheng Paper Mill resumed production in
November 2008 and Yingkou Paper Mill was allowed to resume on a test basis in March 2009.

(b) The early engagement of consultants to work on design and bid document review speeded up
the procurement process and allowed the construction to start promptly.

(c) Local governments have proved largely unwilling to fully implement the agreed program of
financial and institutional reforms, despite pressure from the Bank, LUCRPO and the TA
package A consultant.

(d) Local governments have failed to increase wastewater tariffs to a level that can fully sustain
wastewater services in the cities and provide funds for new investment. Whilst tariffs rose at
regular intervals up to 2005, no increases have occurred since. National economic policy to
control inflation and recent concerns on the social effects of the global economic slowdown,
have been major contributing factors over the last two years.

(e) In some cases, particularly in respect of the proposed wastewater re-use facility in Jinzhou,
the local government decision taking process over the use of loan savings was prolonged and
indeterminate. This resulted in a largely unnecessary 12 month loan extension, which is
something to be avoided on future WB projects.

Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control

(a) Most of the engineering design had been based on sound engineering information and
satisfactory. However, upon request of IAs for the purpose of speeding up project
implementation, some of engineering designs were prepared without detailed geological
exploration information resulting in preventable variations and delays in construction.



ICR-Annex                                                                                         7
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project


(b) Land acquisition and resettlement of LRBP were generally satisfactory, however, in a few
cases, the land acquisition and resettlement process resulted in a delay in project implementation

(c) Jinzhou and Yingkou IAs both paid careful attention to training and the development of
operating procedures, which has resulted in WWTP with effective operational management
systems, and which meet required discharge standards.

(d) The absence of sub-metering of electricity within the WWTP makes the monitoring and
control of power consumption difficult to achieve and is something that should be rectified in
future projects.

Costs and Financing

Costs. Total project cost at the appraisal was USD203.60 million (refer to Table A, Annex 6 of
the PAD), and USD184.80 million or RMB1,512.10 million, excluding front-end fee and interest
during construction (refer to Annex 3 of the PAD). The completion cost of LRBP is currently
estimated at RMB 1,508 million which is 99.7% of the estimated project cost at appraisal, and
includes the cost of additional works funded partly from loan savings. There were three major
reasons for this:
        Municipal wastewater components: although the appraisal estimation was over-stated, the
resulting loan savings were fully utilised for mid-term project adjustments, such as Yingkou
wastewater reclamation plant, and additional interceptors in Jinzhou.
       Jincheng Paper Mill: the work scope of the component was changed with the approval of
the Bank. The original planned 6 contracts for modification of an old chlorine-alkali plant and
water reduction process (estimated cost at the appraisal of RMB 103.9 million) were replaced by
5 contracts for construction of a comprehensive wastewater treatment plant and pre-treatment of
high concentration process wastewater (estimated cost of RMB 148.6 million in the proposal
submitted to the Bank for approval). The completion cost of the component was RMB 140
million, representing 134.7% of the original PAD estimates.
       Environment Revolving Fund: the appraisal cost estimate in the PAD was RMB 166
million, while the actual cost is RMB 240.7 million, representing 145% of the original estimate.
The reason for this difference is that eligible percentage of World Bank funding was reduced,
therefore enabling the loan budget to be more widely spread.

Financing. The necessary counterpart funds were provided through a mixture of state bonds,
provincial grants and the resources of the municipal governments and implementing agencies
and the final financing split is expected to be 51.2% of World Bank Loan: 48.8% of local
funding, compared to the 49.1% (WB Loan): 50.9% (local funding) at the Appraisal.

4. Sustainability

Prospects for Sustainability. We recognise sustainability of the Project needs to be viewed in
terms of (a) whether an appropriate institutional arrangement has been set up to provide for
managerial autonomy and sustainability; (b) the ability to operate and maintain the facilities; and
(c) financial sustainability. In our view the overall Project can be considered partly sustainable
against these criteria. The new WWTPs are being well operated and maintained, and each
municipal government is providing sufficient budget to ensure these operations are fully



ICR-Annex                                                                                         8
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project


financed. However, tariffs are not at a level that provide for financial sustainability and low
income collection rates are also a continuing threat to financial sustainability.

In 2006, the Liaoning Provincial Government (LPG) issued Document (2006) No. 75, which
urges action by local governments to improve WWTP management and financing in Liaoning
Province, and this initiative together with institutional action plans developed jointly between
LUCRPO and the Bank can we believe ensure LRBP is fully sustainable.

Sustainability of the new Yingkou wastewater re-use facility is assured once the new power plant
due to take the treated water is commissioned in late 2009. Conclusion of a long term purchase
agreement with the power company is at an advanced stage. The sustainability of the Yingkou
and Jinzhou Paper Mill investments depends on the economic future of these two industries,
however, both are viewed by LP as playing a strategic role in the future of the Province's paper-
making industry and their modernisation and expansion plans have attracted Government
investment accordingly.

Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation. All three of the municipal wastewater
treatment plants have made a largely smooth trouble-free transition to normal operations with
both the treatment capacity and effluent quality having achieved design requirements. For the
operation staff, Jinzhou and Yingkou IAs recruited some skilled staff from other WWTP to the
newly built wastewater treatment facilities and trained newly recruited staff before and during
the commissioning and trial production period. Panjin Urban Construction Bureau has signed an
outsourcing contract for the operation and maintenance of the WWTP with an experienced
contractor to give assurance over operational standards. In all three cities, use has been made of
operational procedures developed jointly between the IAs and the package A consultant.

Yingkou wastewater reclamation plant has also been successfully commissioned with both the
treatment capacity and effluent quality having achieved design requirements. However, it has
not yet been put into production. Originally, the Yingkou wastewater reclamation plant was
planned to be a 50,000 m3/day for civil facilities and 30,000 m3/day for equipment (first phase)
with the equipment installation for remaining 20,000 m3/day during second phase. The Yingkou
Drainage Company will sign an agreement with Huaneng Yingkou Thermo-Electric Plant for
supplying 50,000 m3/day of reclaimed wastewater for cooling water, and the installation of
equipment for second phase of the wastewater reclamation plant (for remaining 20,000 m3/day
capacity) is now being undertaken with local counter-part funds. Huaneng Yingkou Thermo-
Electric Plant has already completed the civil construction and equipment is currently under
installation. Yingkou Drainage Company will need to start supplying reclaimed wastewater for
the commissioning of the thermo-electric plant scheduled for the end of August 2009.

5. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank. The World Bank's performance is considered to be highly satisfactory both during the
lending and supervision phases. The diligence of World Bank staff impressed all the IAs
involved, and was also much appreciated by LPG. During the phase of identification, preparation
and appraisal for the project, World Bank staff provided helpful guidance to assist LUCRPO and
the IAs in project preparation. During the implementation phase, the World Bank deployed
supervision missions (on average twice a year) and related experts (technical, financial and
institutional) to help the Borrower to achieve project objectives. All the bidding documents and
bid evaluation reports (subject to prior Bank review) were reviewed and approved by the Bank in
a timely manner with no delays. The Bank has also done their best to provide the Borrower with

ICR-Annex                                                                                         9
People's Republic of China                                                 Liao River Basin Project


valuable guidance and services in dealing with changing circumstances, such as timely approval
for proposals of re-packaging and the use of loan savings by mid-term adjustments to some
project components.

Borrower. The national and provincial government's commitment to the project remained
strong and supportive during all phases of the Project. The provincial government took a strong
lead on tariff reform by issuing provincial guidelines urging municipalities to increase tariffs;
they also supported the Project by directing and coordinating the implementation efforts.

The LUCRPO, Participating municipalities and IAs all performed active project management
functions throughout the implementation with the municipalities making great efforts to
designate necessary resources for component execution. The Project has been implemented
satisfactorily, and in accordance with WB project implementation rules and procedures on
procurement, contracts management and construction supervision. The main physical
components were completed in good time, well in advance of the original loan closure deadline.
However, it must be acknowledged that the municipalities have performed less well in the
implementation of the institutional and financial reforms that had been agreed on with the Bank
at the time of Appraisal.

6. Lessons Learned

The Liao River Basin Project has been very successful and has achieved most of its original
objectives, especially in respect to the physical interventions. The entire implementation process
has been a valuable experience for all the agencies involved, and much capacity building of the
IAs has been achieved that will help them with future projects. The WB loan has not just simply
helped finance the Project, but has also introduced advanced management practices for project
implementation and enterprise operation, such as modern project management, international
practice of bidding and contracting, construction supervision, performance measurement, and the
completion evaluation. Significant capacity building in World Bank procurement, contract and
project management, WWTP operations and maintenance, environmental monitoring, and
enterprise accounting and financial management have been achieved. World Bank project
implementation rules and procedures on procurement, contracts management and construction
supervision have been broadly accepted as being fair and giving greater assurance of a
satisfactory outcome. Valuable experience has been gained by practicing these rules and
procedures, which have been replicated on similar projects not financed by the World Bank.
Specific lessons learned include:
(i) Government support, such as fulfilment of covenants, cooperation and timely approval from
domestic authorities of various levels, and a strong and stable project management organization
are crucial for success in project implementation.
(ii) Project physical and financial contingencies at Appraisal were excessive, resulting in large
scale loan savings. Levels of contingencies should be reviewed for future projects.
(iii) Before engineering design, sufficient engineering information, especially the geological
exploration data, should be available to reduce unnecessary and preventable variations during
construction and avoid delay for construction.
(iv) Some covenanted requirements were unduly optimistic relative to what could be achieved in
the times frame set in the loan documents. This particularly applied to the achievement of full
cost recovery from tariffs.


ICR-Annex                                                                                        10
People's Republic of China                                                  Liao River Basin Project


(v) Institutional reforms to create integrated wastewater companies did not have the necessary
"buy-in" from the participating municipalities and have proved difficult to implement. Equally
there was and continues to be resistance to create wastewater companies that are genuinely
autonomous in management and financing.
(vi) The Liaoning Environmental Revolving Fund has proved an effective vehicle for promoting
small to medium scale investment in environmental improvements by local industries. However,
it has not operated on the "revolving" basis as originally intended, but instead as a series of small
"one-off" sub-loans.
(vii) There is an active market for re-cycled treated wastewater effluent in Liaoning; however the
experience at Yingkou has revealed many practical difficulties, together with associated health
concerns, in its use via dual potable/non potable water distribution systems. These lessons need
to be carefully evaluated and applied in any future reuse application of this type
(viii) The Project was an initiative under the Liao River Basin Management Plan. The
preparation and implementation of this Plan has introduced the principles of integrated water
resource management (IWRM) to relevant provincial and local governments with the following
results:
The Plan has provided a framework for the selection and prioritisation of investment projects,
including both LRBP and the follow­on Second Liaoning Medium Cities Infrastructure Project
(LMC2).
Much increased emphasis is now placed on the demand management side of water resources:
      A sub-plan to address industrial pollution control has brought very significant reductions in
      the volume of pollutants discharged and generally brought the Province's industries into
      compliance with environmental regulations.
      Important lessons have been learned in the linkage between sustainable development, urban
      planning, industrial re-structuring and environmental protection.
      Controls based on total pollution discharge volumes have been introduced
      Planning, wastewater discharge, and water abstraction regulations and standards have been
      strengthened, as well as their monitoring and enforcement




ICR-Annex                                                                                         11
People's Republic of China                                                 Liao River Basin Project




                              Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

                                CHINA: Liao River Basin Project

      1. Project feasibility studies and project proposal
      2. Project Appraisal Document
      3. Loan Agreement
      4. Project Agreement
      5. Mission Aide Memoires and Back-to- Office reports
      6. Project Status Reports and Implementation Status Reports
      7. Semi-annual Project Progress Reports
      8. Borrower's ICR Annex (with comprehensive details on all topics)




ICR-Annex                                                                                        12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              122°                                                                     124°                  To Changchun                                        126°
                                                                                                                        CHINA
                                                                          LIAO RIVER BASIN PROJECT                                                                                                        NEI MONGOL                               To Tongliao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              JILIN
                                             PROJECT COMPONENTS:                                                                                                                                           PROVINCE                                                                                                                                                         PROVINCE
                                                LIAO RIVER BASIN
                Jinzhou                         PROJECT CITY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Changtu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kangping
                                                WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEMS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Xifeng
                                                AND TREATMENT PLANT (WWTP)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Liu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          i
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To Jilin




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             He
                                                INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL                                                                                                                                                                                                              Faku                                   Kaiyuan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Tiefa
                      M                         URBAN MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS                                                                                                                                                                    Zhangwu
                                             ADDITIONAL WORK COMPONENTS:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Tieling




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      He
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Lia
                                                RE-USE WATER PLANT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     He          Qingyuan                                 42°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Hun
                                                ADDITIONAL SEWERS                                                             To Chifeng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Fuxin                                     Xinmin
                                             MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Beipiao                                                             SHENYANG                                    Fushun                            Xinbin
                                             RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                Heishan                              M




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Xi H
                                             RIVERS                                                                                                                   Chaoyang                                                  Beizhen
                                                                                                                                                                                               He
                                             PORTS                                                                                                                                      in
                                                                                                                                                                                           g                  Yi Xian                                                         Liaozhong




                                                                                                                                                                                    l
                                                                                                                                                      Jianping



                                                                                                                                                                                  Da
                                             URBAN AREAS                                                                                                                                                                                                 Tai'an                                  Dengta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      He                                                             Huanren
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Liaoyang         izi
                                             MAIN CITIES                                                                                                                                                                 Jincheng                             He          e                   Ta                       Benxi
                                                                                                                                            Lingyuan                                                                                                  Liao




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     nH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Panjin
                                             PROVINCE CAPITAL                                                                                                                                         Jinzhou




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Hu
                                                                                                                                                         Harqin                                                                           M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Anshan
                                             PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                    M                   Jin
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Xian                           Dawa
                                                                                                               To
                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY                                         Chengde
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Haicheng                                                                       Kuandian
                                                                                                                                           Jianchang
                                                                                      HEBEI                                                                                                                Jinxi
                                                                                                                                                                        Li                                                                    Yingkou                  Yingkou
                                                                                    PROVINCE                                                                                                         Xingcheng                                                                                    a




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 D
                                                                                                                                                                         u gu




                                                              118°                                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                                           g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ca




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  ya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Fengcheng            o   He




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ng H
                                                                                                                                                                             H
                                                                                                                                                                             He




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     g




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Gai Xian




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Jia
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     lu




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Xiuyan                                                        Ya
                      RUSSIAN FEDERATION
                                                                                                                                                                                  Suizhong                         Bohai Sea
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Dandong                            D E M O C R AT I C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          40°
                                                                                                   HEILONGJIANG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PEOPLE'S
                                                                                                                                           40°
                      MONGOLIA
                                                                                                   JILIN
                                                                                                                                                     Qinhuangdao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Donggou                                             UB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       R E P UB L I C
                                                                                                                            To Tangshan
                                                     MO
                                                        N GOL                        LIAONING               D.P.R.
                                                                                                                              JAPAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OF KOREA
                                               NEI              BEIJING
                                                                                                           OF KOREA
                                                       BEIJING                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Zhuanghe
                                                                   HEBEI      TIANJIN
                                                                                                             REP. OF                                                                                                                                 Fu Xian
                              NINGXIA




                                                      SHANXI               SHANDONG                          KOREA
           QINGHAI
                      GANSU                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Xinjin
                                                                                    JIA




                                        SHAANXI             HENAN
                                                                                      NG




                                                                           ANHUI
                                                                                        SU




                                                                                              SHANGHAI
                                                          HUBEI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       YELLOW
                                         ING




                SICHUAN
                                        GQ




                                                                                        ZHEJIANG
                                        ON




                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Jin Xian                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map
                                  CH




                                                                          JIANGXI
                                                       HUNAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Design Unit of The World Bank. The
                               GUIZHOU                                              FUJIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SEA                                         boundaries, colors, denominations




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 31284R
                                                                                                                       PACIFIC                   0        25           50          75               100                                                                                                                                                                   and any other information shown on
             YUNNAN
                                             GUANGXI             GUANGDONG
                                                                                                    TAIWAN
                                                                                                                       OCEAN                                                                                                        Dalian                                                                                                                                this map do not imply, on the part
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          of The World Bank Group, any
MAY 2009




                                                                        HONG KONG
                                                                                                                                                                 KILOMETERS
                                                                    MACAO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          judgment on the legal status of any
                              VIETNAM                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     territory, or any endorsement or
                 LAO                                                                                                                                           120°                                                                             122°                                                                             124°                                     acceptance of such boundaries.
                P.D.R.                               HAINAN                                                   PHILIPPINES
