CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1235 TR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Highway Project)
between
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 12, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 12, 1976, between TRINIDAD AND
TOBAGO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).
WHEREAS The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this.
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitionu
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
proviFtions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gen-
eral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
term "East-West Corridor" means an area in Trinidad about 21 miles
in length extending from Cocorite about five miles to the west of
Port of Spain through Port of Spain to Arima about 16 miles to the
east thereof.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seven million
dollars ($7,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as th3 Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-4-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through
its Ministry of Works with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with appropriate engineering, administrative, and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facil-
ities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in supervising
Project civil works, in preparing detailed engineering plans for
high priority sections of Project works in the East-West Corridor,
and in providing technical assistance for the Borrower's Ministry
of Works and for the development of the Borrower's domestic con-
struction industry, the Borrower shall employ engineering and ad-
ministration consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion.


﻿- 6 -
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents for construction work, and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications there-
of or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Proj-
ect; (ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and any relevant records ard documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall rea-
sonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire not later than September 30, 1976
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the construction and operation of the facilities included in
the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that such land
and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related
to the Project. The Borrower shall also, before September 30,
1976, complete necessary removal or relocation of residents along
that part of St. Joseph Road referred to in Part A (1) of the
Project and its traffic link with Piccadilly Street referred to
in Section 3.06.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall provide design standards
satisfactory to the Bank and, to the extent specified in Schedule
5 to this Agreement, in accordance therewith. The Borrower shall
also complete construction of a traffic link between Piccadilly
Street and St. Joseph Road to approved design standards before com-
pletion of the widening of St. Joseph Road described in Part A(1)
of the Project.
Section 3.07. Not later than December 31, 1977, the Borrower
shall furnish plans satisfactory to the Bank for the construction
and operation of the Bus-Priority Route described in Part C of the
Project, and the Borrower shall cause such plans to be implemented
according to their terms.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall designate an agency respon-
sible for formulation and implementation of a continuing traffic
management system with the objective of ensuring economic use of
existing transport resources and of facilitating the development
of public transport services. The Borrower shall cause that agency
to commence operation for such purposes, after consultation with
the Bank, not later than June 30, 1976. The Borrower shall cause
such measures as are agreed with the Bank to be adopted and imple-
mented according to a timetable prepared by the Borrower, approved
by the Bank, 'ind established not later than January 31, 1977.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause its highways and roads
to be adequately maintained in accordance with sound engineering
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facil-
ities and services for this purpose.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which
will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor
of such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribu-
tion of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally
and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the crea-
tion of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect;
provided, however, that, if for any constitutional or other legal
reason such provision cannot be made with respect to any lien
created on assets of any of its political or administrative subdi-
visions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost to the Bank
secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on, the
Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to
the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as secu-ity for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 9 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such sub-
division, including gold and other foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date July 12, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for Finance of the Bor-
rower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the pur-
poses of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Permanent Secretary
Ministry of Finance
Port of Spain
Trinidad
Cable address:
MINFIN
Trinidad
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO
By /s/ Victor C. McIntyre
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expend-
itures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                4,600,000          23%
(2) Consulting ser-            1,700,000          40%
vices and tech-
nical assistance
(3) Unallocated                  700,000
TOTAL      7,000,000


﻿- 14 -
2.   The disbursement percentages havie been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made in respect
of Category (2) on account of expenditures incurred after June 1,
1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$300,000.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to fi-
nance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other


﻿- 15 -
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then ap-
plicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the pro-
cedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any
other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in
the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such ex-
penditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing
out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   (Highway Construction and Improvement in the East-West
Corridor): The improvement of about 7.6 miles of main
highway and the provision of two grade-separated inter-
changes in the East-West Corridor, and the construction
and improvement of about 2.6 miles of local roads, in-
cluding detailed engineering and supervision of civil
works, as follows:
(1) the widening of about one-quarter mile of St.
Joseph Road in Port of Spain to improve access to
downtown Independence Square;
(2)  the construction of about three-quarters miles of
ramps and flyover between St. Joseph Road and
Beetham Highway (known as Market Interchange) for
the purpose of doubling existing flyover capacity,
and construction, below the interchange, of about
.6 miles of connections to and between the Eastern
Main Road and South Quay;
(3)  the improvement of about one and three-quarters
miles of Beetham Highway by provision of should-
ers, localized widening and asphaltic overlay;


﻿- 17 -
(4)  the construction of about one-half mile of ramps
and flyovers for the purpose of providing a traf-
fic link between Beetham and Churchill-Roosevelt
Highways and improving access to the Eastern Main
Road and Lady Young Road (known as Barataria In-
terchange);
(5)  the widening from two to four lanes and improve-
ment of Churchill-Roosevelt Highway for about two
and one-half miles from Barataria Interchange to
Aranguez Road and the widening from two to four
lanes of Churchill-Roosevelt Highway for about
one and one-quarter miles from Princess Margaret
Highway to the Southern Main Road; and
(6)  the construction and improvement of about two
miles of local paved roads and about .6 mile of
gravel agricultural tracks in the East-West Cor-
ridor;
Part B:   (Paved Rural Roads): The strengthening of about sixty
miles of paved rural roads and the selection thereof
by the Borrower, with the approval of the Bank, from
the approximately 200 miles of rural road referred to
in Part D of this Schedule, including drainage improve-
ment, correction of localized failures, general asphal-
tic overlay or reseal, and minor alignment modification;


﻿- 18 -
Part C:   (Highway Engineering): The provision of detailed en-
gineering for the implementation of a plan for the
construction of the Bus-Priority Route of about 12
miles along the railroad right-of-way between Port
of Spain and Arouca; for the Mucurapo Foreshore
Highway west of Port of Spain with connections to
Wrightson Road and Ariapita Avenue; and for the
widening of Princess Margaret Highway from two lanes
to four lanes to connect Solomon-Hochoy Highway with
Churchill-Roosevelt Highway; and
Part D:   (Technical Assistance): The provision of technical
assistance as follows:
(1) to assist the Ministry of Works to (A) improve
highway planning, establish and implement pro-
cedures for collection and analysis of road
system and traffic data, (B) survey by modern
techniques about 200 miles of representative
rural road sections needing improvement, carry
out axle load survey, pavement deflection meas-
urements and pavement design of such sections,
and develop a two-year program of road improve-
ment for such sections and (C) select approxi-
mately 60 miles of such roads for carrying out
Part B of the Project, prepare bidding docu-
ments, and supervise the work; and


﻿- 19 -
(2)  to assist in the development of the domestic con-
struction industry by assisting in implementing
agreed recommendations of the study being carried
out by the Borrower and by providing training for
the industry.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
July 15, 1980                                        200,000
January 15, 1981                                     205,000
July 15, 1981                                        215,000
January 15, 1982                                     225,000
July 15, 1982                                        235,000
January 15, 1983                                     245,000
July 15, 1983                                        255,000
January 15, 1984                                     265,000
July 15, 1984                                        275,000
January 15, 1985                                     290,000
July 15, 1985                                        300,000
January 15, 1986                                     315,000
July 15, 1986                                        325,000
January 15, 1987                                     340,000
July 15, 1987                                        355,000
January 15, 1988                                     370,000
July 15, 1988                                        385,000
January 15, 1989                                     405,000
July 15, 1989                                        420,000
January 15, 1990                                     440,000
July 15, 1990                                        455,000
January 15, 1991                                     480,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1-1/2%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          2-3/4%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          5-3/4%
More than eleven years but
not more than thirteen
years before maturity                        7%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                          8-1/2%


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B and Part C hereof, contracts for
civil works shall be awarded in accordance with procedures consis-
tent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Pro-
curement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Except as provided in Part C of this Schedule, contracts for
civil works in Part B of the Project shall be awarded under pro-
cedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of competitive bid-
ding advertised domestically.
C.   Procurement without Contracting
Preliminary works in Part B of the Project and the paving of
specified portions thereof may be carried out by force account
upon approval of the Bank.


﻿- 23 -
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed and shall introduce such modifications in said pro-
cedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequali-
fied bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequal-
ification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank for its
comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award


﻿- 24 -
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification iririted.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 5
Design Standards
Other
Bus-Priority     Churchill-Roosevelt      Four-Lane
Design Element       Route             Highway            Highways
Design Speed
(mph)                40                 40                  50
Minimum S top-
ping Sight
Distance (feet)     275                 275                 350
Minimum Horizon-
tal Radius
(feet)              500                500                 750
Maximum Grade (%)       5                   6                   5
Lane Width (feet)      12                  11                 11
Shoulder Width:
-left (feet)          8                   8                   8
-right (feet)         0                   0                   4
Width of Right-of-
Way (rural only)
(feet)              100                200                 200
Design Loading of
Bridges             -----BS 153 Type HA and 27 units of HB-----


