Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.   5576-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
May 22, 1985
Project Department
Europe, Middle -ast and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its eontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                      TL 520
TL 1,000.000     =        US$1,923
GLOSSARY
APK      -  MAFRA's Planning, Research and Coordination Bureau
ASAL     -  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CAYKUR   -  Tea Organization, an SEE
CBT      -  Central Bank of Turkey
DONATIM  -  Agricultural Supply Organization, an SEE (a.k.a. TZDK)
DSI      -  State Fydraulics Works Agency, within MENR
EBK      -  Meat and Fish Organization, an SEE
E&R      -  Agricultural Extension and Research
FMU      -  Fertilizer Distribution Monitoring Unit
GDPI     -  General Directorate of Projects and Implementation, within M&FRA
GDRS     -  General Directorate of Rural Services, within MAFRA
HCC      -  High Credit Council for Agricultural Credit
HDT      -  UTndersecretariat of Treasury and Foreign Trade,
within the Prime Ministry
HPC      -  High Planning Council
LIV      -  Loan Implementation Volume
MAFRA    -  Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
M&E      - Monitoring & Evaluation
MIS      -  MAFRA's Management Information System
NSIDP    -  National Seed Industry Development Plan
O&M      -  Jperation & Maintenance
PSF      -  Price Stabilization Fund
SEE      -  State Economic Enterprise
SEKER    -  Turkish Sugar Factories, an SEE
SPO      -  State Planning Organization, within the Prime Ministry
TASM     -  Turkey Agricultural Sector Model
TCZB     -  Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TEK      -  Turkish Electricity Authority, an SEE
TIGEM    -  Agricultural Enterprises of Turkey, an SEE
TKK      -  Agricultural Credit Cooperatives
IL       -  Turkish Lira
TMO      -  Soil Products Office, an SEE
ISEK     -  Turkish Milk Industry, an SEE
TSK      -  Agricultural Sales Cooperative
TSS      -  MAFRA's Technical Support Services
TZDK     - Agricultural Supply Organization, an SEE (a.k.a. DONATIM)
YEMSAN   -  Turkish Feed Industry, an SEE
TURKISH FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1I Exchange rate as of May 1, 1985.



ACUJLTURAL SC      LUIETLA
Tale ef Cfm tmnts
LOA SUMMY                                                         1-11
1.   ITRODUCTIOS                                                        I
lI-   TNE AGSICUQLTURAL SECTOR                                           2
A. Agriculture and the Turkish Economy                             Z
S. major Policy Objectives                                         3
C. Bank Group Asststance                                          4
II.   AGRICULTURAL POLICY ADJUSTENET                                    6
A. Priorities and Role of Coverneant                              6
3. Trade Policy                                                   6
C. Producer Prices                                 -              7
O. Input Pricing                                                  a
IV.  THE NEW AGRICULTURAL PROGRAM: TARGETS. FINANCING                   9
AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM
A.  Productton and Trade Objectives                               9
B. Financing Agriculture                                         10
C. Agricultural Credit                                           It
V.   INVESTING IN AGRICULTURE: A REVISED ACTION PROGRAM                12
A. Budgeting Procedures                                          12
S.  Irrigation and Drainage Investment Program                   13
VI.   MOERN INPUTS: MANAGING THE TRANSITION                            la
A.  The Role of Private Investment                               18
B.  Seeds Pricing and Distribution                               18
C. Fertilizer Pricing and Distribution                           19
0. Agricultural Machinery                                        24
E.  Technology                                                   25
F. State Economic Enterprise Reform                              27
VII.  THE PROPOSED LOAN                                                 29
A.  Rational and Objectives                                      29
B.  Impact Monitoring                                            30
C. Major Features                                                31
0.  Allocation of Proceeds                                       32
E. Procurement and ODsbursements                                 33
F   Implementation Arrangements                                  34
G*  Monitoring and Evaluation                                    35
VIII.   JUSTIFICATION ANo RISKS                                          37
A.  Economic Impact                                              38
B.  Farm Income Effects                                          40
C.  Employment and Regional Balances                             41
0. A More Effective Public Sector                                42
E.  Risks                                                        43
IX.  RECOOIENOATIONS                                                   43
List of Annexes
Annex 1:  Statement of Agricultural Sector Policies  1985
Annex 2:   Iplementation Schedules and Semesterly Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 3:   Performance Indicators
Annex 4:   Fertilizer Subsector
Annex S:   Irrigation and Drainage Subsector
Annex 6:   rhe Technical Support Services
Annex 7:   Programming. Coordination. Monitoring and Evaluation
Map:   World Bank (IBRD 16766):  Turkey   Agricultural Regions
This documnt h  a resticed distribution and may be used by recipieots only in the performance of
their officia duties. Its osntenis may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bnck authoriation



TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Contents of Loan Implementation Volume
PART I:    Review of Inputs Pricing and Distribution Systems
Working Paper LA  -  Fertilizer Distribution and Marketing
Working Paper LB  -  Fertilizer Pricing Policies
Working Paper 1C  -  Financial Impact of Fertilizer Distribution
and Pricing Policies
Working Paper ID -  Fertilizer Demand Estimates
Working Paper IE -  Fertilizer Distribution and Inventory Management
Working Paper 2   -  Development of the Turkish Seeds Industry
Working Paper 3   -  Agricultural Machinery Distribution System
PART II:   Review of Public Infrastructure Investment Programs
Working Paper 4   -  Irrigation Subsector Development Program
Working Paper 5A  -  The Rural Water Supply Development Program
Working Paper 5B - Rural Roads Investment Program
Working Paper 5C  -  Village Electrification Program
PART III:  Review of MAFRA's Technical Support Operations
Working Paper 6A  -  Policies to Strengthen the Technical Support Services
Working Paper 6B  -  Reorganization of MAIFRA and Its Field Services
Working Paper 6C  -  Requisites for MAFRA's Automated Management
Information System
PART IV:   Review of Sector Economic and Financing Policies
Working Paper 7A  -  The Cost and Price Structure of Turkish Agriculture
Working Paper 7B  -  Estimates of International Comparative Advantage
Working Paper 7C  -  Growth Prospects (1982-1990)
Working Paper 7D  -  Incomes, Employment and Regional Impacts of
Agricultural Sector Policies
Working Paper 7E  -  Import Requirements for Fertilizers, Raw Materials,
Other Agricultural Inputs and Machinery. 1984-1990
Working Paper 7F  -  An Assessment of the Turkish Agricultural Data Base
Working Paper 7G  -  Producer Price Policies
Working Paper 7H  -  Sector Performance Tables
Working Paper 8A  -  Programming of Public Expenditures for Agriculture
Working Paper 8B  -  Warranted Increase in Liquidity (1984-1989) and
Share of Agricultural Sector in Domestic Credit
Working Paper 8C  -  Agricultural Credit During the Fifth Five-Year Plan
(1985-1989)
Working Paper 8D  -  Financial Survey of the Agricultural State Economic
Enterprises
Working Paper 8E  -  Public Expenditure and Credit Financing Tables
PART V:    Procurement Related and Other
Section 1 -   Indicative Procurement Lists and Schedule
Section 2 -   Consultants' Schedule and Generic TOR
Section 3 -   Schedule for Overseas Training Programs
Section 4 -   Work Programs for the Monitoring Units



-i-
TURKEY
AGRICU1,TURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Turkey.
Beneficiaries:   The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
(KAFRA), the State Planning Organization (SPO), the State
Hydraulic Works Agency (DSI), the Turkish Agricultural
Enterprise (TIGEM), the Agricultural Supply Organization
(TZDK), and the Soil Products Office (TMO).
Amount:          US$300 million.
Terms:           Seventeen years including four years of grace, with standard
variable interest rate.
Description:     The proposed operation is an investment-based sector
adjustment loan. It has been designed to support the
Government's agricultural sector adjustment program during
the three-year period 1985-1987. The principal objective of
the program is to complete the transition to a self-reliant,
financially independent and responsive production and
marketing system in order to stimulate exports and reattain
historical growth. The main instruments will be reforms to
(i) reduce producer subsidization while maintaining adequate
incentives; (ii) improve the input distribution, marketing
and credit systems; (iii) improve the public investment
allocation system in the sector, particularly for the Core
Irrigation and Drainage Investment Program; (iv) enhance the
research, extension, protection and disease control services;
and (v) strengthen management, planning, policy analysis and
public expenditure programming and monitoring for the sector.
The loan would finance a portion of the imported inputs,
capital goods, training and consulting services needed for
the adjustment program.
Benefits and Risks:
The reforms agreed under the loan will foster a more
efficient allocation of investment resources, a gradual
withdrawal of Government from direct intervention in input
distribution, production and marketing activities, and more
effective agricultural supporting services. This program is
designed to revitalize agricultural production, stimulate



-ii-
agricultural exports and improve the pattern of public
expenditures. The main risk arises from possible short-term
disruptive effects on agriculture following the increases in
retail fertilizer prices to border price levels. This risk
is, however, considered slight, since the phase-out of the
fertilizer subsidy would proceed at a slower pace than that
which occurred in 1980-81 and again in 1984 and early 1985,
when retail price increases had only mir.imal negative impact
on fertilizer consumption and crop production. Maintenance
of the fertilizer subsidy at current levels would, on the
other hand, impose an unsustainable burden on Government's
resources and jeopardize the stabilization program, thus
representing a greater risk to the economy.
Estimated Cost:  Indicative costs of the agricultural program for 1985-87 are
as follows:
Allocation
Categories                                              of Loan   Z to be
Covered by Loan            Local   Foreign    Total       Proceeds   Financed
-US$ million /1------------
Seeds Importation            5.4      54.0        59.4        20.0        34
Fertilizers Importation   45.0       450.0       495.0       152.4        31
Irrigation                621.0      893.7    1,514.7        111.0         7
Supporting Services       184.7       90.9       275.6         8.1         3
Technical Assistance
and Training              -          8.5         8.5         8.5      100
Total                  856.1   1,497.1    2,353.2         300.0       13
/1 January 1, 1985 constant prices.
Estimated Disbursements:
The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against suitable
documentation for imported agricultural inputs, equipment and
technical assistance services procured in accordance with
Bank Guidelines. Disbursements through June 1986 would be
limited to $200 million. The balance of $100 million would
be released for financing of a second tranche after a
performance review to be held in June 1986.



TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOALN
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The Government of Turkey has requested a Bank loan of $300 million to
support its policy and institutional reform program in the agricultural
sector. Under the Fifth Five Year Plan (1985-89), a wide-ranging economic
restructuring program is being pursued. Increased reliance on market forces,
outward orientation of the economy and institutional restructuring define this
program. Agriculture is a key component of the adjustment process. The high
priority of the sector is based on consideration of comparative advantage and
growth potential. Turkey is endowed with ample land and water resources, a
favorable location and a hard working, enterprising farming population.
Technologies and markets are available for substantial increases in
agricultural productivity and exports. In order to tap this potential, a
major overhaul in sectoral policies, resource allocations and supporting
services has been initiated. The proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
(ASAL) is designed to strengthen the framework for this effort. It would
provide part of the foreign exchange needed for acquisition of the modern
inputs and equipment required during the first three years of the agricultural
program (1985-1987).
1.02     The proposed operation is well in line with the objectives of the
Bank's assistance strategy for Turkey. With Bank support, a five-year program
of economic stabilization and adjustment has been successfully completed. The
Fifth (and last) Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) is expected to be fully
disbursed by September 1985. The SAL program has helped to restore the
external balance of the economy.  Accelerated export growth-the centerpiece
of the program--was achieved through improved exchange rate and trade
policies, deregulation, reduced protection and a decreased government role in
directly productive activities. The adjustment process has not been without
flaws and remains incomplete. Major challenges lie ahead including the
dampening of inflationary expectations, the removal of financial market
distortions, the reduction of unemployment and the achievement of sustained
growth. In all these respects, agricultural policy has a key role to play.
Quick disbursing financial assistance tied in to policy and institutional
reform remains the priority need of the Turkish economy. The proposed
operation-the first in a possible series of sectoral adjustment loans--
responds to this need. It would complement the assistance provided through
ongoing and proposed Bank-financed agricultural projects by improving and
strengthening the overall framework of sectoral policies and institutions.
1.03     Several Bank missions during 1984 assisted the Government in the
design of its agricultural adjustment program. Appraisal teams led by
Mr. Burcroff and including Messrs. Freiberg, Gassner, Johnson, Knighton,
Kogan, Luhman, Tellez and Tirmazi, Mmes. Anand, Tillier and several
consultants visited Turkey in December 1984 and February 1985. Negotiations
took place in Turkey in May 1985.



II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture and the Turkish Economy
2.01     The transformation of Turkish agriculture from a traditional, low
productivity system serving mainly subsistence requirements to a science
based, dynamic, specialized, commercialized activity is well underway. By the
mid 1970s, Turkey had achieved basic self-sufficiency in food. Thereafter,
growth faltered because of the heavy costs and inadequate focus of
agricultural policies. A healthy agriculture is essential to feed Turkey's
burgeoning urban population (currently growing at 4.1X p.a.), to meet the
changing raw material requirements of industry and to supply the export drive
animating Turkish economic policy. While the importance of the agricultural
sector in the economy is declining, it still represents about 18X of GDP, a
third of export earnings and about half of civilian employment. The growth
rates of agricultural GDP and exports are projected to remain below that for
the rest of the economy. Nevertheless, the agricultural sector will continue
to play a crucial role as an engine of improved productivity and as a source
of foreign exchange earnings and employment.
2.02     Turkish agriculture is diverse.  Intensive crop cultivation is
prevalent in the coastal regions which receive plentiful rainfall or are
equipped with irrigation facilities. Mixed (crop and livestock) farming
predominates in the eastern and central parts of the country where pastures
and meadows form more than half of the agricultural land and crop production
is dependent on rainfall. In these areas much of the land is kept fallow in
alternating years. The livestock population system is largely traditional.
It produces about one-third of agricultural GDP. Cereal crops occupy about
two-thirds of the cultivated area, fruits and vegetables about 20Z, industrial
crops about 6X, and oilseeds, pulses, and tubers the remaining 7X.
2.03     The arable land frontier was reached in the early 1970s as a result
of lateral expansion of cultivation. Production growth since then has been
primarily through intensification of production. This was due mainly to
increased yields and to suppression of fallowed lands which accounted for up
to one-third of the expansion of cultivated area. Substantial increases in
cereal production growth and yields have been achieved, a momentum which must
be maintained. The livestock sector has proved more intractable to change.
There was a steady growth in the numbers of livestock during the 1970s, but no
significant improvement in the feedbase or animal husbandry practices. To lay
the foundation for a more productive livestock industry is a major challenge
for the years ahead.
2.04     The intensification of land use during the 1968-1980 period was
accompanied by a considerable increase in the consumption of modern inputs and
mechanization. Fertilizer use developed in the mid-1960s. By 1979 fertilizer
consumption was more than three times the 1970 level. There was also a rapid
increase in Turkey's tractor fleet, leading to localized improvement in yields
and a reduction in fallow. Heavy subsidies for inputs use facilitated the
introduction of these new technologies. Throughout the 1960s and early 1970s
the principal instruments of policy were to guarantee high producer prices,
low cost inputs, and cheap credit. The domestic market was highly protected,



and agricultural commodity export markets were regarded as a vent for any
surplus production, with public agencies extensively involved. These inward
looking policies were facilitated by low energy prices, and abundant capital
flows. Near self-sufficiency in foodstuffs and a respectable growth and
investment performance in the agricultural sector were achieved by about 1975
but at high cost. Agricultural GDP grew at an average rate of 4.7? p.a. from
1972-75, and sectoral fixed investment grew at an average rate of 17.9Z p.a.
However, these growth rates could not be maintained due to inadequate
investment policies and a growing level of subsidization. By the late 1970s
it was clear that the shift to more intensive production systems was not
sufficiently rapid. During the late 1970s, the overall progression of crop
and animal yields stagnated, capital consumption occurred while sectoral GDP
growth slowed to less than 1.5% p.a. Ineffective public investment policies,
weaknesses in technical services, the constraints imposed on exporting, and
problems in marketing and credit contributed to sluggish growth. Throughout
the period, sectoral exports remained a small fraction of total production,
well below potential.
2.05     As part of the market-oriented stabilization program adopted by the
Government in 1980 (as supported by the Bank through SAL lending), part of the
incentive apparat:s put in plac- for farmers in the 1970s was dismantled.
Input subsidies and production price supports were reduced and the overall
restraint on monetary policy forced a curtailment of agricultural credit.
Exports were encouraged through the introduction of a competitive exchange
rate policy and new export incentives. These policies have favored
diversification in exports which now encompass barley, pulses, live animals,
meats and a range of horticultural commodities as well as the traditional
exports of wheat, nuts, citrus and specialized industrial crops. A
significant change in the direction of agricultural trade also occurred.
Exports to the Middle East and North Africa are now nearly equal in value to
Turkey's exports to the EEC. Private exporters have responded to reduced
regulation and incentives and the relative position of public agencies in
exports has declined.
2.06     This shift in strategy was not achieved without disruption.  The
growth of agricultural GDP in real terms fell to an average of only 0.9Z in
1980 and 1981, the result mainly of changing relative prices. In 1982 and
1983, however, real growth in agricultural GDP recovered to an average growth
rate of 3.1Z. During 1984 it reached 3.7X. Due to the adoption of a
realistic exchange rate and relaxation of export licensing restrictions,
agricultural exports increased by an annual average rate of 17.7Z during 1980
and 1981. If agroindustrial exports are included, the average annual rate of
growth increases to 18.9X. In 1982 and 1983, for agriculture and
agroindustries combined, the average annual rate of export growth remained at
a healthy 9.5?.
B. Major Policy Objectives
2.07     The Government has demonstrated its commitment to revitalize the
agricultural sector. The encouraging sectoral export performance since 1980
represents a response to a change in price policies and the foreign trade
regime. It is essential for these policies to be maintained and supported by



- 4 -
further institutional reform. The main objective is to complete the
transition from a highly subsidized, protected and inefficient system of
primary production to one which is essentially self-reliant, financially
independent and responsive to policy signals and incentives. This would
enable Turkey to stimulate production and exports and to reattain and possibly
exceed the long-run sector growth rate of about 3.0% p.a. (para. 8.02).   In
order to achieve these objectives, it will be necessary for Government's
intervention in agriculture to move further away from subsidies and
concentrate in areas consistent with its overall policies for economic
liberalization. Thus, in the future, Government's direct intervention will
emphasize (i) research in technological improvements, (ii) dissemination of
new techniques, (iii) improved allocation of public investment, particularly
for irrigation development, and (iv) increased provision of credit to
encourage the uptake of improved technologies, and to help finance marketing
and input distribution systems. In this context, a highly selective
strengthening of key public sector institutions will be required to enable
Government to better perform its legitimate roles.
2.08     Accordingly, the Government's program for the agricultural sector has
been set forth in a Statement of Sector Policies (Annex 1). The key
instruments of the agriculture sector adjustment program are policy reforms
to: (i) reduce producer subsidization while maintaining adequate incentives;
(ii) deepen and expand the input distribution, marketing and credit channels;
(iii) rationalize public investment with primary focus on irrigation, the key
to intensification; (iv) strengthen the agricultural research, extension,
protection and disease control services; (v) reduce the role of parastatals to
the provision of essential services, and improve their efficiency; (vi)
strengthen management, planning and policy analysis in the sector. The
program and intentions expressed in Annex 1 were confirmed during negotiations.
C. Bank Group Assistance
2.09     As of March 1985, Bank/IDA have made 17 loans and 7 credits totalling
$1,033.5 million for 21 agricultural projects in Turkey, 11 of which have been
completed so far. Agricultural projects financed by the Bank include several
major irrigation schemes and projects for credit and the development of farmer
support services in horticulture, livestock, storage, processing and rural
development. Related investment support includes two fertilizer industry
rehabilitation projects, the rehabilitation of the Turkish Sugar Industries
through a DFC loan to the State Development Bank, and support for the cotton
textiles industry to increase the domestic value-added content of textile
exports. The Bank has also financed important sectoral planning studies as
project components, including master plans for the fruit and vegetable and the
livestock products subsectors, and a fertilizer pricing and marketing study.
2.10     The principal objectives of the Bank program in agriculture are to
help increase output, productivity and exports, to contribute to reduction in
poverty through increased rural employment and to promote the necessary policy
and institutional reforms in the sector. These objectives are being pursued
through the sector dialogue and the lending program in agriculture. Under
ongoing projects, the Government has agreed to prepare a master plan for the



irrigation subsector to determine future investment priorities, together with
greater use of works contractors and increased irrigation cost recovery.-
The Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2318-TU) is implementing a
comprehensive action program to strengthen the Agricultural Bank of Turkey
(TCZB), foster the rationalization of interest rate policy in agriculture, and
investigate ways to broaden agricultural credit and resource mobilization in
the rural areas. The Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project
(Loan 2405-TU) is introducing extension and research system reforms into 16 of
Turkey's 67 provinces, as the first step toward nationwide reform.
Preparation of the irrigation master plan has begun with assistance from Bank
missions. TCZB's head office has been reorganized and lines of authority to
its branches have been simplified. The branches' loan approval authority has
been increased, and regional offices are now being strengthened. Negotiations
with consultants are in progress to automate TCZB's accounting system and
improve its internal control procedures, while good progress is being made to
implement the agreed training program. In the area of research and extension,
the ministerial study groups agreed under SAL IV nave been formed and work has
been initiated according to TOR agreed under the Agricultural Extension and
Applied Research Project. The basis for institutional restructuring called
for by these TOR was laid down by a recent reorganization of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MAFRA).
2.11     Reforms to be implemented under the proposed loan would strengthen
the policy umbrella for achieving these objectives, and lay the foundation for
future project lending. At the project level, the core of the Bank lending
strategy under consideration for agriculture would be implemented through a
series of loans for completion of large underfinanced irrigation schemes,
development of the agricultural extension services to address Turkey's
regionally diverse mixed-farming conditions, and repeater lines of
agricultural credit to strengthen the intermediaries and support farmers.
2.12     Completed projects have generally achieved their major objectives,
but have faced delays in implementation due in part to weaknesses in project
management and shortages of local funds. Recent Project Performance Audit
Reports (PPAR) have been issued for two irrigation projects. 2&  Major issues
examined were cost recovery, the adequacy of extension service support and
local financing, and the adequacy of marketing arrangements. The PPARs also
confirmed the appropriateness of removing a major constraint to intensifica-
tion in the Seyhan plain through provision of reliable water control. Most of
the issues identified in the PPARs are being addressed in projects under
implementation.
1/ IAEE Irrigation Project (Loan 2433-TU).
2/  "Turkey - Seyhan Irrigation Project Stage II" (PPAR Report No. 2747,
November 26, 1979), and "Turkey - Irrigation Rehabilitation and Completion
Project" (PPAR Report No. 3515, June 23, 1981). Production levels in both
projects exceeded appraisal estimates although they subsequently declined
in the Seyhan II command area due to white fly and bollworm attacks on
cotton, a major crop of the region. A recent draft Impact Evaluation
found that the problems with cotton had been resolved and farmers' incomes
enhanced in the Seyhan II area.



- 6 -
III. AGRICULTURAL POLICY ADJUSTMENT
A. Priorities and Role of Government
3.01     The Government is committed to completing the reorientation of its
role in agriculture during the Fifth Five Year Development Plan Period
(1985-1989). Specifically, it intends to achieve a gradual withdrawal from
direct intervention in the functioning of export and domestic marketing
systems and their financing, to one of indicative planning, broad monitoring
and provision of technical support services. In particular, the Government
intends to quickly phase down the remaining subsidies on fertilizers and
farmer credit; restructure and introduce competition for its marketing and
inputs distribution parastatals, imorove their management and financial
discipline; and refine and improve MAFRA's capabilities for agricultural
policy formation and performance monitoring.
3.02     Overall, it is Government's objective to increase the share of
investment in total public expenditures for the sector, and by the end of the
Fifth Plan period (1989), to bring down the relative importance of public
expenditures vis-a-vis credit resources in the overall provision of financing
for the sector.  At the same time, specific improvements are being introduced
in the design and execution of infrastructure development projects, farmer
technical services and credit policy.
B. Trade Policy
3.03     The most significant development in trade policy since 1980 has been
the shift to a crawling peg exchange rate and the continuous devaluations
which have resulted. The consequent lowering of the producer price structure
vis-a-vis cif parities stimulated exports. In parallel, the system of export
licensing and permissions for many agricultural products was scrapped, and a
mere recording of transactions substituted. Restrictions on meat exports were
also removed, while those on live animal exports were relaxed. Until 1983,
restrictions were retained for the export of crops managed by state monopolies
(tobacco, tea), where Turkey enjoys a significant market position, and the
export and import of grains, sugar and some oils on the basis of food
self-sufficiency considerations. In 1984, however, Government broke uE the
tobacco monopoly and allowed private tea processors to enter the tea trade.
It also began to dismantle its administrative regulation of the wheat trade,
previously a monopoly of the parastatal Soil Products Office (TMO), requiring
only that all grain transactions be registered with MAFRA to enable it to
monitor developments.
3.04     The importation of agricultural commodities is now largely
unrestricted. Exceptions are licensing requirements for the importation of
sugar, maintained to protect the production of sugarbeet which is considered
strategic both because of the supplemental cash income it provides to a wide
range of producers and a desire to avoid an excessive dependence on the
volatile world sugar market. A review of the efficiency of these policies
will be carried out by MAFRA's Planning, Research and Coordination Bureau
(APK) (Annex l: para. 2.03 and Annex 7).



3.05     Modern input usage is import dependent.  Government has significantly
liberalized the importation of plant protection chemicals since 1980 and,
beginning 1984, considerably reduced its technical restrictions on the
importation of high quality seeds. In the area of fertilizers, Government has
shifted from a licensing regime for fertilizer and raw material imports to one
of differential tariffs, though finished product imports presently remain a
monopoly of the parastatal Agricultural Supply Organization (TZDK)."'
Government also suspended the Assembly Industry Regulations in 1985, thus
effectively delicensing agricultural machinery imports, and reduced tariffs on
fully assembled imports to only 15% of the landed value.
C.  Producer Prices-Z'
3.06     The reforms already initiated have begun to have a beneficial effect
on the level and structure of commodity pricing, and on the overall costs of
farmer incentive policies. The new arrangements have also contributed to
improving the financial discipline of public agencies.
3.07     Since 1980 price policy has aimed at bringing the domestic price
structure in line with international price parities. Farmgate prices which
used to be significantly protected are now lower than their border price
equivalents (in US$ terms, the ratio of the total value of tradeables at
border prices in comparison with a valuation at the prevailing farmgate prices
increased from 0.850 in 1979 to 1.282 in 1982), and the relative price
structure at the farm gate better represents the border price relatives (the
coefficient of variation of deviations in the values of tradeables at domestic
from border prices declined from 4.2 in 1979 to 1.6 in 1982). This realistic
approach is designed to encourage exports and to promote cropping patterns
reflecting comparative advantage.
3.08     A key element of the farm production incentives was the use of
production price supports. During the 1970s, successive governments found it
necessary to expand the number of commodity supports to 25, covering most
ma,or field crops and animal products except fresh fruit and vegetables. Both
the annual increases in the announced prices and the methods of financing
placed a heavy burden on the budget. On more than one occasion during the
1970s, the support price program contributed to the inflationary spiral.3'
1/ Under the proposed loan, seeds importations would be further liberalized,
and fertilizer importation by manufacturers and traders would be permitted
beginning 1989, following the phase-out of the retail distribution subsidy
(Chapter VI).
2/ cf Loan Implementation Volume (LIV), Working Paper (WP) 7G for details.
3/ K. Somel "Agricultural Support Policies in Turkey: A Survey of
Literature," METU Studies in Development, (6)(1979), pp. 275-323, and
"Turkey - Policies and Prospects for Growth, 1979" (Report No. 2657a-TU),
Annex 1.



- 8 -
3.09     Recently, the Government has taken important steps to rationalize
production price supports. By end 1983, the number of announced supports had
been reduced from 25 to 13 and implicitly, the stabilization of farmgate
prices against downside risk has become the policy objective in lieu of rigid
income parity. The real value of commodity supports has been allowed to erode
so that the level of the announced prices is now set somewhat below seasonally
adjusted market prices.  Consequently, the share of procurement at official
prices has been reduced, thus minimizing the distorting effect of official
intervention.  For a few specialized export commodities (e.g. tobacco, tea,
hazelnuts), which are Turkey's traditional export crops, the supply response
to price incentives has proved to be inelastic since further expansion of
production is inhibited by agroclimatic and technical constraints. Here,
price supports are established only to provide remunerative incomes so that
production targets are fulfilled. The resulting difference between export
receipts and farmgate prices is captured through export levies, earmarked for
agricultural development expenditure. An assessment of the efficacy of these
export levies would be carried out by MAFRA's APK (Annex 1: para. 2.03 and
Annex 7).
3.10     The Government has begun to rationalize the financing of support
prices by providing a locus of financial control with the Central Bank. The
large resource costs of the program have thus been brought under control.
Over the medium term, 'ine-tuning of floor price announcements is required.
The improvements needed are methodological. Provision has been made in the
proposed loan to provide technical assistance to APK for this purpose
(Annex 7).
D. Input Pricing
3.11     Throughout the 1970s, official prices for seeds, fertilizers,
irrigation water, and machinery and spares were kept artificially low,
ostensibly to encourage the adoption of new crop technologies and ~he
diffusion of more productive agricultural practices. Retail prices of
fertilizers (Annex 4) were at levels only 15-48% of domestic manufacturing
costs and between 18-41X of import costs. Although most all plant protection
materials were impor:ed, the prices were held constant between 1970-1979, and
by end 1979, represented only 16-20% of import costs. This has led to
uneconomic use of inputs.
3.12     Since 1980, the Government has instituted measures to correct the
situation. The subsidy for plant protection materials was eliminated. Those
materials are now sold to farmers at cost. Seed prices were deregulated in
1984 as part of a successful attempt to encourage imports and to promote joint
venture seed companies in the private sector. The pricing of agricultural
machinery was deregulated in May 1984. As a result, machinery prices
subsequently declined, and some exporting occurred. In nominal terms, the
administered retail fertilizer prices were increased five-fold in 1980 and
1981, and more than doubled again as a result of further increases between
December 1983 and February 1985. During negotiations, confirmation was
obtained of Government's intention to pnase out the remainder of the retail
fertilizer subsidy by end 1988 according to a schedule of adjustments
discussed during negotiatiors (para. 6.17 and Annex 4). The announcement of



- 9 -
retail fertilizer prices for the second semester 1985, consistent with this
schedule, is to take place in mid-1985 (para. 6.17). The Government and the
Bank will consult on progress in phasing out the subsidy, and satisfactory
progress would be a Condition of Financing the second phase of the adjustment
program (para. 7.18). The Government was advised during negotiations of the
reference price methodology which the Bank intends to use to measure progress
in phasing out the subsidy (para. 6.17).
IV. THE NEW AGRICULTURAL PROGRAM: TARGETS, FINANCING
AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM
A. Production and Trade Objectives
4.01     The performance of agriculture is an important determinant in the
achievement of the Government's overall growth target and the planned export
drive. The Fifth Five Year Development Plan anticipates that domestic
agricultural production will continue to satisfy domestic demand (including
intermediate demand for processed agricultural products), while providing a
laiger net positive contribution to the trade. While some of the Plan
targets. particularly in respect of crop and animal production, land use,
irrigation development and input requirements are ambitious, the overall
direction of resource allocation is sound. The Government recognizes the need
to adjust the plan in light of experience and intends to treat it as an
indicative framework.
4.02     Growth in agricultural value-added during the Fifth Five Year Plan
period of 3.0% p.a. is considered feasible and would return Turkish
agriculture to its historical growth verformance, though under a different
(i.e. sustainable) policy regime. This growth is consistent with the
performance objectives for the economy- including needed increases in
agricultural exports, farm incomes and agricultural employment. The targets
imply a considerable increase in the growth of crop production, projected at
2.8% p.a. compared with the average of 1.8% p.a. during 1978-83. The increase
would be accomplished by the expansion of irrigation and intensification of
both wet and dry cultivation. There would be little increase in total crop
area (including fallow), but an expansion of the effectively irrigated area by
at least 250,000 ha between 1985-89 as a result of implementing a Core
Irrigation and Drainage Program (Chapter V).-' In the context of the new
policy environment, the provision of improved seed, increased fertilizer
consumption (N by 4.4% p.a., P by 5.9% p.a.)31 and the strengthened
technical support services (Chapter VI) would provide the key materiel and
technical inputs to improve crop yields on an average of 0.5-1.0% p.a. for
cereals, pulses, oilseeds and nuts; 3% p.a. for tea and tobacco; and 2-4% p.a.
for horticulture, to achieve the production targets. On the livestock side,
growth would be induced partially by an expansion of animal numbers but
principally by improved productivity (1.0-2.0% p.a.) stemming from feedbase
expansion, increased availability of high nutrient crop residues, and better
husbandry practices.
1/  Annex 3 and LIV, WPs 7A-7C.
2/ Also see LIV, WP 4.
3/ Annex 3, Annex 4 and LIV, WP 1D.



- 10 -
4.03     To obtain these objectives, an overall expansion of the value of
exports by about 5% p.a. would be required, entailing changes in the commodity
composition of production and exports. Aggressive marketing must continue to
be supported by shrewd market penetration strategies to achieve these targets.
The Commodity Composition of Production and Exports
Production        Exports           Differences
1982    1989     1982    1989   Production  Expo
Grains & derivatives        24.4    22.3     14.2    16.1        -2.1        1.9
Pulses & oils                4.6     4.2     27.6    29.2        -0.4        1.6
Vegetables & products        9.7    11.8       7.7     6.9         2.1      -0.8
Fruits, nuts & products    24.7    26.5      46.5    46.3         1.8       -0.2
Industrial crops            20.1    19.5      0        0.1       -0.6        0.1
Livestock products          16.5    15.7      4.0      1.4       -0.8       -2.6
Totals                   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0         0.0        0.0
B. Financing Agriculture
4.04     Between 1979-1983, public expenditures for agriculture increased in
real term by about 20% p.a., while institutional credit was increased by only
1.4% p.a. The expansion of both sources was somewhat in excess of the real
growth in sectoral GDP realized in those years. Within the public expendi:ure
category, the share allocated to investment increased slightly, which reflects
an increased emphasis given to completion of irrigation headworks. On the
other hand, the share of direct and indirect farmer lending in total
agricultural credit declined, principally as a result of the inefficient
stocking and financial practices of the agricultural State Economic
Enterprises (SEEs) and sales cooperatives, resulting in a low rate of credit
"'pass through" to farmers.
4.05     The adjustment program implies a concentration of public sector
resources on the provision of essential services, a reorientation of the
public investment program, and a marked increase in the availability of
institutional credit. Specific reforms to improve the prograsuing and
utilization of public expenditures, and to strengthen institutional
capabilities are discussed in Chapters V-VII. The overall balance between
agricultural financing from budgetary and financial sector sources would
gradually shift towards credit financing. It is expected as a result of
Government's program of reforms that the share of institutional credit
financing will increase, with a resultant decrease in the ratio of public
expenditures to financial sector sources from its 1985 projected level of 35%
to 31% by end 1989, according to the schedule contained in Annex 3 (Economic
and Financial Performance Indicators). Within these broad categories, total
public expenditures for agriculture would increase by about 2% p.a. in real
terms between 1985 and 1989. However, the share of public investment in total
expenditures would increase from the realized 1983 level of 61% to about 67%
by 1989. Finally, the real value of agricultural credit outstanding would



- ii -
increase from the programmed end 1985 level at an average rate of 2.9Z p.a.
until end 1989. Within this category, the percentage allocated to direct
farmer financing is also expected to increase. The corresponding targets for
the years 1985-1987 were derived through discussion with the concerned
authorities (para. 7.03).
C. Agricultural Credit1'
4.06     The credit institutions serving agriculture include the Central Bank
of Turkey (CBT), TCZB, the Agricultural Credit Cooperatives (TKK), and the
commercial banks. CBT provides financing for the agricultural SEEs (directly
and also through TCZB, mainly for support price operations), refinancing for
export credit, and an interest rebate on agricultural loans granted by credit
institutions at preferential interest rates. TCZB is the major element in the
credit system. It provides credit for farm production and investment, farm
input distribution, and support price operations. It also provides credit for
the export of agricultural commodities and for agroindustry.  The TKK, which
numbered 2,29' at the end of 1983, provide credit to their farmer members,
mostly for inputs acquisition using resources obtained from TCZB.
4.07     During 1983, about 75Z of Turkey's 3.65 million farmers obtained
loans from TCZB and the TRK. The coverage of direct farmer lending thus is
quite broad-although it is not very deep. Production credit in 1983 financed
about 14% of the material cost of production. While this figure appears low,
it is affected by the indirect financing involved in the fertilizer system,
and the pass-through to farmers of support purchase credits given to the SEEs
and Agricultural Sales Cooperatives (TSK), which in 1983, amounted to an
additional 77Z of production costs. Provision of medium and long term (MLT)
credit is relatively restricted in reach-with relatively high average loan
sizes explained by a selective farm plan approach to lending. Over the
medium-term, a substantial expansion of MLT credit is needed to accelerate the
spread of improved technologies and practices among medium and small farmers.
4.08     Credit to agriculture cannot be expanded substantially unless
interest rates are set realistically in relation to inflation. The difference
between the current interest rate for agricultural credit of 30-40% and the
1984 inflation rate of over 50Z p.a. is substantial. A new understanding on
the schedule for achieving positive real interest rates was obtained during
the recent SAL V tranche review. By this understanding, Government will
increase the short term agricultural interest rate to achieve, by August 1985,
and thereafter maintain, positive real interest rates for such lending.
Satisfactory progress would be a subject of the midterm performance review for
the proposed loan, scheduled for June 1986 (para. 7.18).
4.09     The Government's medi-m-term objectives for the agricultural credit
system are to strengthen its capability to carry out prospective credit
planning, initiate the monitoring of credit plans, augment the volume of
resources available for agricultural credit (consistent with overall financial
stabilization objectives), and strengthen the capabilities of the principal
intermediaries involved (Annex 1: para. 8.01).
1/ This section is developed further in the LIV, WP 8C.



- 12 -
4.10     During negotiations, Government indicated that it will continue to
introduce a system of medium-term (five-year) and short-term (annual) credit
planning for TCZB under the supervision of the High Credit Council (HCC) for
agricultural credit (Annex l: paras 8.02-8.03).  This is expected to include
proposed regional and functional credit allocations. In parallel, it is also
expected that a complementary monitoring system will be designed to provide
information on the implementation of the credit plans. Government will
investigate measures to augment the availability of resources for agricultural
lending over the medium term (Annex 1: para. 8.03). These will be reviewed
with the Bank in June 1986 during the midterm performance review.
4.11     Under the provisions of SAL IV an undated commitment was made for
Government to carry out a study of the Agricultural Sales Cooperatives with
the purpose of preparing a program for improving their efficiency and enabling
them to operate in a financially autonomous manner with credit obtained on
commercial terms. However, the SAL did not provide for the financing of
consultants, which appears to be a major reason why the study has yet to be
initiated. Under the proposed loan, an organization and work program for the
study has been agreed, which will be carried out by SPO with the assistance of
internationally recruited consultants according to TOR1' satisfactory to the
Bank. The findings of the study and action plan will be discussed with the
Bank by March 1986, and thereafter will be implemented.
V. INVESTING IN AGRICULTURE: A REVISED ACTION PROGRAM
A. Budgeting Procedures
5.01     In early June every year, SPO issues the policy guidelines to govern
public inlvestment for the coming year. Once a project has already entered the
investment stream, annual allocations are made subject to the availability of
funds without evaluation or application of criteria. However, funds are
allocated following certain guidelines. Full allocation is given to those
projects that are to be completed in one year. Large but partial allocations
are made to projects which are to be completed within two or three years.
Part of the budget is spread over the remaining ongoing projects. Because of
staffing limitations, SPO's review of new project proposals is essentially
reactive. The review is carried out on the basis of information supplied by
the agencies themselves, with only minimal independent evaluation of the
agency's assumptions, input data and project analysis.-' To improve the
quality of the portfolio, agreement has been obtained to strengthen the
analytic basis for the agencies' annual proposals through the application of
economic criteria. Furthermore, it is expected that and to establish
computerized programming and monitoring arrangements will be established by
SPO to improve portfolio management.
1/ LIV Part 5.
2/ SPO, through its Coordination Department, independently monitors and
evaluates large ongoing projects (estimated total cost greater than
TL 9 billion), which is fed back into the investment programming process.
But coverage of the irrigation and agricultural portfoiio is spotty
compared to other sectors, in view of the limited number of large projects
in these subsectors.



- 13 -
B.  Irrigation and Drainage Investment Programo'
5.02     General.  Irrigation has been a major factor in both increasing and
stabilizing agricultural production in Turkey. Roughly 40X of all crop output
depends on either full or supplemental irr:gation. An estimated 25X of all
agricultural exports are grown under irrigation. In many respects, however,
irrigated agriculture has performed considerably below its potential. Newly
developed irrigation projects often fail to meet expected yield increases,
double cropping ratios and rates for uptake of higher-valued crops. Among the
causal factors are (i) a lack of adequate drainage works in large areas;
(ii) inadequate extension and cropping systems research; and (iii) significant
lags in the completion of on-farm development works. In particular, the
increase in irrigated crop areas has fallen well behind the expansion of
irrigation infrastructure. The underutilization of infrastructure, built at
comparatively high cost, results in a large loss to the economy.
5.03     The State Hydraulic Works Agency (DSI) within the Ministry of Energy
and Natural Resources, and the General Directorate cf Rural Services (GDRS)
within MAFRA, undertake large-scale programs for developing irrigation and
drainage infrastructure in Turkey. On major irrigation projects, DSI
constructs the headworks, distribution canals, and main pumping and drainage
works, while GDRS is responsible for on-farm works. The DSI investment
program is on average abhout twice that of GDRS. Although investment in
current terms nas increased at a rapid rate, investment in real terms has been
constant, except for 1984 and 1985, when it was increased significantly
(para 5.07).
5.04     The main irrigated areas are along the Mediterranean coast and
southern reaches of the Aegearn coast. The area irrigated in any one year
varies considerably since wheat, which accounts for more than '50 of total
sown area in Turkey, is usually not irrigated when rainfall is adequate. The
maximum area under irrigation in recent years is estimated to be 4.7 million
ha. Irrigation under publicly constructed systems is now 2.3 million ha.
Private irrigation, according to a survey carried out by DSI in 1980 had
reached a total of 2.4 million ha. GDRS (and its forerunner, known as
TOPRAKSU) has achieved extensive irrigation development through various
independent small projects. The total area brought under irrigation by such
investments has increased from about 210,000 ha in 1967 to about 1 million ha
at the end of 1984. Actual area under irrigation by DSI has expanded from
447,000 ha in 1968 to 965,000 ha in 1984. The total area brought under
command by DSI projects has increased from about 500,000 ha in 1968 to 1.3
million ha in 1984.
5.05     A number of constraints have impeded the successful implementation of
the irrigation program to date, as detailed in Annex 5. These include:
(i) the spreading of available funds over a large number of widely dispersed
projects; (ii) inadequate application of evaluation criteria in project
selection and design by DSI, GDRS and SPO, so that there is no assurance that
public investment is concentrated on those projects that can be most quickly
brought to full implementation. or that alternative designs have been
1/ The material presented in this section was derived from Annex 5 and LIV,
WP 4.



- 14 -
adequately studied; (iii) lack of conjoinit planning between DSI and GDRS with
the result that on the average only 70 of the command area of completed DSI
projects is irrigated; (iv) imbalance between DSI's and GDRS' implementation
capacities1' and limited design and supervision capacities of both agencies,
which has resulted in GDRS' backlog of works for on-farm development which now
exceeds 300,000 ha, while it has been only able to complete 10,000-12,000 ha
of drainage works per year since 1977.
5.06     Investment and Funding Criteria.  The criteria used by SPO to select
new projects in the irrigation subsector include the economic rate of return
(ERR) and the location of a project, with emphasis given to the less developed
provinces. On the basis of these composite priorities for the 1985 budget,
the SPO ranked the 40 irrigation and drainage projects submitted by DSI in
descending order of priority. Twelve irrigation and drainage projects were
selected from the top of the ranking list, while another seven were selected
from the lower ranking for extenuating reasons. Another four flood control
projects were also selected which did not include irrigation, and hence were
not in the ranking list. The use of these criteria began two years ago, are
acceptable to the Bank, and will be followed by SPO in the future.
5.07     Since 1980, the scarcity of investmen: funds has forced SPO to apply
the budgeting criteria noted in para. 5.01 to DSI's ongoing portfolio. This
effectively concentrated resources on early completion, and DSI's ongoing
portfolio was reduced from 142 irrigation and flood control projects in 1980
to 83 projects in 1984. However, some of the remaining projects have been
under implementation since the 1960s and early 1970s and are of doubtful
technical and economic merit. During the Fifth Fivw Year Plan period, Turkey
will continue to face severe limitations on domestic and foreign financial
resources. Therefore to rationalize this aspect of the irrigation investment
program SPO, DSI and the GDRS have initiated a review of DSI's ongoing
portfolio using the same criteria applied to new projects. The screening is
being carried out in preparation for the 1987 investment program. It was
agreed during negotiations that the outcome of this review will be discussed
with the Bank in June 1986. lhe Government confirmed that the investment
program for irrigation beginning 1986 would be determined from a conjoint
evaluation of ongoing and new projects, with each project or proposal being
ranked according to criteria presently used by SPO for evaluating new
proposals, though with due allowance for funding commitments to contractors on
ongoing schemes.
5.08     Within the context of the revised funding criteria and priorities to
be applied to project selection in the irrigation subsector, the Government
has indicated that annual expenditures between 1985-1989 would be reoriented
I/ DSI relies principally on contract construction work, which has both
served to constrain the growth in its equipment inventory, and increased
its implementation capacity. GDRS, until recently, relied mainly on force
account work. The operation and maintenance of DSI's distribution systems
and drainage works is carried out by force account. Routine maintenance
of GDRS' on-farm works is carried out by the farmers and by irrigator
associations in areas where these have been established. Major repairs,
however, are carried out by GDRR.



- 15 -
towards an agreed Core Investment Program to (i) overcome the backlog of
on-farm works on ongoing or completed DSI projects; (ii) provide equipment and
other assistance to rehabilitate and improve the level of maintenance on all
completed surface drainage networks; (iii) provide assistance for the
reclamation of saline land within presently irrigated areas; and (iv) provide
access roads along irrigation and drainage channels to permit regular
maintenance and repairs (Annex 1: para. 6.02).
5.09      Irrigation Subsector Program.  The Government's Overall Irrigation
and Drainage Investment Program for 1985-89 is summarized in the following
table. It includes completion of irrigation infrastructure for 475,000 ha of
new lands by DSI, the small irrigation schemes (325,000 ha) to be carried out
by GDRS and the drainage and other on-farm works program. Total cost of the
program is estimated at about TL 1,200 billion (US$2,527 million).
Summary of Overall Irrigation and
Drainage Subsector Program (1985-89)
(January 1985 Prices)
Item                            Area              Estimated Cost
(ha)              (TL billion)
Surface and Subsurface Drainage
- Rehabilitation of Surface Drains       250,000                 87.5
- New Surface Drains                     125,000                 58.1
- Farm Surface Drains                    148,300                 69.0
- Subsurface Drains                     339,600                 204.8
Subtotal                      862,900                419.4
Land Reclamation & Access Roads
- Land Reclamation                        77,600                  3.9
- Access Roads                          169,300                   8.5
Subtotal                      246,900                 12.4
Other On-Farm Development Works
- Land Consolidation                      70,900                 14.5
- Land Leveling                         358,600                  37.3
Subtotal                      429,500                 51.8
Irrigation Infrastructure
- Large Irrigation Schemes              475,000                 540.8
- Small Irrigation Schemes              325,000                 176.0
Subtotal                      800,000                716.8
Grand Total                 2,339,300         TL 1,200.4 billion
or US$2,527.4 million
Under a Core Program established in consultation with the Bank, the following
agreed works targets have been established. The 1985-1987 portion of these
works is summarized in Annex 3, also agreed during negotiations.



- 16 -
Summary of Core Program Drainage and
Other On-Farm Works (1985-1989)
(January 1985 prices)
Item                        Area             Estimated Cost
(ha)       TL billion   US$ million
Rehabilitation of Existing
Surface Drains                       250,000          87.5         184.2
Excavation of New Surface Drains         273,300        127.1         267.7
Installation of Subsurface Drains       339,600         204.8         431.1
Land Reclamation                          77,300           3.9          8.2
Access Roads                             169,300           8.5         17.9
Consulting Services                            -          4.7          10.0
Training of Staff                              -           1.2          2.6
Monitoring & Evaluation Facilities             -           0.7          1.5
Total                                     438.4        923.2
Sufficient funds are available in the 1985 investment program to increase
GDRS' capabilities to 50,000 ha/year of on-farm development works. The
Government intends to allocate an average of 35% of the budgetary resources
available for the irrigation subsector to the Core Program (Annex 1: para.
1.01). This is a significant increase over the 10% previously allocated in
annual programs for the completion of on-farm works, and should enable
Government to further increase GDRS' capabilities to 100,090 ha beginning in
1986 (Annex 5), and maintain this level until the Core Program is
complete.-I  The Government of Turkey is expected to seek project loans from
the Bank and other donors to help implement the Core Program for Irrigation
and Drainage.
5.10     Implementation.  Program implementation will require further reliance
on contract construction work, staff training, the employment of engineering
consultants on a semipermanent basis, use of reviewing consultants, and
equipment replacement (particularly for DSI's O&M work). The total base cost
of implementing the Core Program, in constant January 1985 prices is about
TL 438.4 billion (US$923.2 million) over a five-year period. The foreign
exchange component is about 59% (Annex 5). For purposes of program review, it
was agreed during negotiations that DSI, GDRS and SPO will prepare detailed
indicative programs covering the years 1987-1989 for (i) completing major
rehabilitation, maintenance and repairs on DSI operated surface drainage
systems, and (ii) completion of on-farm works by GDRS, to be discussed with
the Bank by end March 1986, while the detailed Core Program for 1986 will be
reviewed by end September 1985, prior to completion of the 1986 budget cycle.
Agreement was also reached that the Overall Irrigation and Drainage Subsector
1/ Should public resource constraints make it impossible to maintain the
overall irrigation program for 1985-1989 at targeted levels, the funding
ratio of 35% would continue to be applied to funding the Core Program,
however its expected completion date (and that for the overall program)
may have to be extended by one or two years.



- 17 -
Program would be reviewed with the Bank in June 1986. The review will be
based upon the findings of the ongoing portfolio review (para. 5.07), to
contain an examination in-depth of the draft Overall Irrigation and Drainage
Program for 1987, including investment and recurrent expenditure allocations.
Before financing for the second phase of the adjustment program would be
authorized (para. 7.18), Government would be expected to (i) demonstrate
performance satisfactory to the Bank for implementation of the 1985
irrigation/drainage subsector program, and (ii) discuss with the Bank the
results of DSI's screening of ongoing projects according to agreed funding
criteria. The Government also confirmed that DSIIGDRS would be given
authority by December 31, 1985 to permit private contractors to lease-rent
their equipment on a reimbursement basis.
5.11     To support implementation of the Core Program for Irrigation and
Drainage, a portion of the ASAL proceeds have been allocated for the
importation of O&M and other equipment, a time slice of the consulting
services, and staff training. The engineering and reviewing consulting firms
would be recruited by September 1985 in accordance with TOR satisfactory to
the Bank (LIV, Part V) to assist with the programming, preparation and
execution of Core Program works and overall irrigation subsector planning and
programming. Approximately 400 man-months of training abroad for DSI and GDRS
staff in addition to in-house training with the engineering consultants would
be required to implement the program. The O&M and other equipment needed by
the works agencies is noted in Annex 5 and the LIV, Part V. Construction
equipment which may be needed by contractors will be identified by the
consultants during the course of their work.
5.12     The Core Program is expected to improve the quantity and quality of
water being returned to international rivers and streams. These conclusions
were reached on the basis of a review of DSI and GDRS' planning data for the
systems and site visits.
5.13     In connection with the Bank assisted IAEE Irrigation Project (Loan
2433-TU) the Government has agreed to (i) adjust DSI capital recovery charges
under existing legislation to include interest, (ii) progressively increase
DSI O&M charges to achieve 100% recovery of the preceding year's costs by
1986, and (iii) increase penalties for delinquent payment. It was further
agreed under the IAEE Project that legislation would be obtained to permit
GDRS to recover a portion of its capital costs for on-farm works.
Considerable progress has been made to implement these agreements. DSI's O&M
assessments were increased by 275% in real terms in 1984 over 1978 levels. As
a result the percentage of O&M costs recovered was 54.4%, compared with a mere
14.7% in 1980. Beginning in 1983, the Government also adopted a much stiffer
schedule of penalties for late payment. Under the new rules, if payment is
late by one year, a total penalty is levied equal to 46% of the initial
assessment. Before 1983, the penalty was a flat 10%. Parliament approved the
enabling legislation for capital cost recovery for on-farm works in May 1985.
Implementing regulations are now being finalized.



- 18 -
VI. MODERN INPUTS: MANAGING THE TRANSITION
A. The Role of Private Investment
6.01     Private investment in farm assets, viz. tractors, implements,
irrigation pumps, orchards and greenhouses, livestock and farm buildings fell
off substantially in the late 1970s and is only now beginning to recover.-S
An excessive inventory of tractors, pumps, etc., was purchased in the 1970s
under the prevailing pricing and subsidized financing arrangements.2'  A
marked acceleration of private on-farm investment by the late 1980s and a
stronger replacement demand for some of the machinery and equipment purchased
in the 1970s is expected to materialize. In the meantime, the intensification
of agriculture expected to ensue from Government's policies should lead to a
mor? intensive and efficient utilization of existing farm assets.
6.02     A relatively recent phenomenon is the stimulation of investment in
livestock (cattle, sheep, and poultry), orchard rehabilitation and greenhouse
construction in response to the export drive. This is being accomplished
mainly by large holding companies who are integrating their processing and
trading operations backwards through farm asset acquisition, and long term
contracts featuring farmer credit arrangements. Although their operations
have been confined to date to the coastal regions and the more accessible
parts of Anatolia, and the farmer beneficiaries tend to be larger, more
successful operators, the Government is promoting agribusiness as an
instrument for accelerating on-farm investment to contribute to exports and
the resumption of growth.
6.03     A related development is the SEE privatization/divestiture program
enunciated by the Prime Minister of Turkey in late 1983, which is now being
implemented. This program is the cutting edge of Government's policy to
reduce its direct intervention in the economy and aims to encourage private
investment in the assets of these parastatals-in toto or in part. In line
with this policy, the parastatal monopoly of tea processing and tobacco was
ended in 1984. Steps being taken to encourage private sector participation in
fertilizer distribution and seeds production/distribution are discussed below.
B.  Seeds Pricing and Distribution3'
6.04     A major constraint to the yield progression of Turkish agriculture
has been the limited availability of high quality cultivars. To remove this
bottleneck, there is scope to increase the availability of new high quality
seeds through international joint ventures, private sector development, the
further liberalization of internationally certified seed imports, and improved
coordination of the private and public sector components of the seed industry.
1/ LIV, WP 7H.
2/ For a fuller discussion, see "Turkey - Agricultural Development
Alternatives For Growth With Exports" (Report 4204-TU), Annex 1.
3/ The materials presented in this section were derived from LIV, WP 2.



- 19 -
6.05     Until 1984, the production, importation, distribution and pricing of
seeds were strictly regulated by Government. Seed production for most crops
was either carried out directly or under the supervision of Government
agencies. Because of increased farmer demand for high yielding seeds, the
system by the late 1970s proved unable to provide farmers with an adequate
seed supply. The seed produced was of variable quality, and the national seed
system did not respond to changing market conditions resulting from the export
drive.
6.06     This situation changed in 1984, following the issue of decrees which
deregulated seeds pricing, liberalized seed imports, reduced the compulsory
testing of internationally recognized seed varieties, and provided credit and
other incentives for seed industry investments. Within a relatively short
time the number of private seed companies expanded from 3 to 12, all involving
joint ventures with major international companies. Six others are presently
establishing operations in Turkey. Production of self-pollinated cereals,
such as wheat and barley seed will remain, however, within the public sector
since it is likely that private enterprise will tend to gravitate towards more
profitable seed production activities (hybrid, vegetables, etc.). To meet the
need for wheat and barley seeds the Government has formed a new SEE in late
1983, the Turkish Agricultural Enterprise (TIGEM) to take over the assets of a
number of line departments including the former General Directorate of State
Seed Farms. This new SEE is expected to operate on commercial principles and
quickly become a self-sustaining entity (para. 6.35).
6.07     To complete the restructuring of Turkey's seed industry, the
immediate tasks which Government intends to undertake include (i) the
development of a National Seed Industry Development Plan (NSIDP), guidelines
for which have been furnished by the Bank, (ii) registration of the newly
formed Turkish Seed Industry Association to advise on seed policy and
coordinate development of the industry, (iii) a strengthening of TIGEM, which
will remain an important seed producer and distributor within the new system,
(iv) revision and modernization of MAFRA's seed certification and testing
procedures, and (v) a revision of the National Seeds Law (Law 308), which
Government intends to submit for legislative approval by December 1985
(Annex 1: paras 5.01 and 5.02). It is expected that the revised law will
incorporate reforms to the existing law made effective through decrees and
regulations, contain provisions for maintenance of private plant breeders'
rights, formalize the new testing and seed certification procedures,
liberalize import procedures for internationally registered varieties, and
provide the legal framework for establishing a seeds policy body with joint
public/private participation.
C.  Fertilizer Pricing and Distribution1'
6.08     Consumption.  Fertilizer use has become fairly widespread in Turkey
following the rapid increase in consumption which took place over the last two
decades. Fertilizer consumption has increased from 115,000 tons in 1961 to
some 1.3 million tons in 1971 and 4.4 million tons in 1983 (Annex 4). At
1/ See Annex 4 and LIV, WPs lA-lE.



- 20 -
present, it is estimated that fertilizer is applied to more than 80% of the
total cultivated area. As a result of the extensive areas planted under
cereals, wheat remains the single largest user of fertilizer (over one-third
of the total). However, cash and industrial crops account for the major
portion of fertilizers consumed. Due to agroclimatic and economic reasons,
consumption has developed with greater intensity along the coastal areas than
in the less favorably endowed eastern regions. Due to the limitations in
marketing and product planning, about 50% of all consumption is in the form of
low analysis/low concentration products.
6.09     In nutrient terms, about 1.6 million tons were consumed in 1983, of
which 1.0 million tons of N and 0.6 million tons of P. Only negligible
quantities of potassic (K) products are consumed, since Turkish soils are
generally rich in potash. An analysis of survey trials on consumption and
yield response shows that, given the other elements of the technology packages
currently applied by the farmers, the existing application levels of N and P
for most crops are close to the financially optimum (i.e. profit maximizing)
level under prevailing price conditions. Crop-specific data show that
sugarbeet and a significant number of cotton farmers are currently using more
fertilizer than is economically and financially desirable. Further increases
in fertilizer consumption in Turkey would result essentially from (i) the
generation and extension of improved technology packages which, by increasing
the crop yield response to fertilizer use, would shift upwards the
economically optimum level of fertilizer application per unit area; (ii)
changes in the cropping patterns including in particular the intensification
of land use patterns on existing irrigated areas, and (iii) increases in
irrigated areas.
6.10     Fertilizer consumption in Turkey is predominantly met from domestic
production. There are 7 main fertilizer manufacturing companies with a total
production capacity of 1.0 million tons of N and 0.85 million tons of P.   The
domestic fertilizer industry, which had been about 30-40% of capacity prior to
1980, improved to about 60-70% of capacity at present, largely due to improved
availability of imported raw and intermediate materials. In 1983, 3.6 million
tons of product were produced, equivalent to some 80% of total fertilizer
consumption. The balance of domestic consumption is met by imports of
finished fertilizers, mostly nitrogenous products and diammonium phosphate.
Two World Bank supported projects are underway (Loans 1985-TU and 2131-TU) to
rationalize the domestic fertilizer industry and rehabilitate several plants.
6.11     Distribution.  Fertilizer procurement and distribution is a monopoly
of two public agencies--the Agricultural Supply Organization (TZDK) and the
Sugar Factories Company (SEKER). TZDK handles all imports of finished
fertilizers and over 90% of domestic procurement and distribution. The
balance is handled by SEKER, mostly for deliveries to its registered sugarbeet
growers. TZDK has an extensive network of 25 regional offices and 384 branch
offices. In 1983, TZDK sold a total of some 4.2 million tons of fertilizer.
Of this amount, about 39% was sold directly to farmers from TZDK's field
offices, 41% was sold to farmers through the TKK which retail fertilizer on
behalf of TZDK, 13% was sold to Agricultural Sales Cooperatives and the
balance (7%) to other institutions (Village Development Cooperatives, Chambers
of Agriculture). TZDKs own sales network, although widespread throughout the
country, provides only a limited number of retail outlets located in or around
cities and towns.



- 21 -
6.12     Under the existing distribution system, TZDK is responsible for the
organization and financing of fertilizer procurement, transportation and
delivery down to the final retail sales outlets, including the TKK, with all
associated costs compensated by Government. While TZDK's achievements are
adequate in physical terms, the lack of incentive for financial efficiency and
cost accountability has led to a wasteful use of funds. In this respect, the
main shortcomings of the system include (i) excessive inventories for most
products, which could be remedied through improvements in demand forecasts and
improved phasing of fertilizer imports to match peak consumption seasons; (ii)
excess storage capacity together with insufficient location analysis for
additional warehouses; (iii) suboptimal and costly planning of the allocation
of supplies to the consuming regions, and (iv) insufficient responsiveness to
cost saving opportunities offered by high-analysis fertilizers in transporta-
tion, packaging, handling and warehousing costs. The preliminary results of a
linear programming mcdel developed in crder to assist with future planning of
fertilizer distribution and inventory management show that savings of up to
$50 million annually could be made through improvements on these various
aspects.
6.13     TZDK sees its role as being essentially logistical and tends
therefore to limit distribution activities to a relatively small number of
basic fertilizer types already well know-n to farmers. It has no incentive to
seek customers' satisfaction through the provision of a wider range of
products or appropriate advice on soil or crop specific requirements for
particular fertilizers.  Similarly, domestic manufacturers have up to now been
shielded from their own market since TZDK is the sole customer, automatically
guaranteeing the purchase of 'actory outputbs   Therefore, the farming
community does not extensivelv benefit from the technological and scientific
developments, nor from the kinds of advisory services which would be expected
to develop under a more competitive fertilizer distribution system as part of
its marketing package.
6.14     Pricin.  Both the ex-factory prices of fertilizers and the retail
prices paid by farmers are determined by Government through semiannual
decrees. Until 1979, ex-factory prices were determined by a negotiated
cost-plus method for each fertilizer type. Beginning in 1980 and in line with
the outward oriented policies of Government, ex-factory pricing formulae were
adopted which link domestic prices with reference cif import prices. Under
these, the gap between domesric prices and their border price equivalents has
been effectively narrowed, and is targeted to close by 1988. The industry has
become reasonably competitive and moderate amounts of exports have recently
been made.
6.15     Tne subsidization of fertilizer retail prices has been and is the
largest remaining source of subsidies to the agricultural sector. It accounts
for the largest share cf the overall fertilizer subsidy estimated at about
$450 million eauivalent for 1984 (Annex 4). Retail prices are set by
Government on an ad hoc basis. In 1980, and again in 1981, retail prices were
dramatically increased (by a cumalative 5002 in nominal terms). which abruptly
reversed the previous pattern of growing subsidization. During recent months,
Government has again taken significant steps to reduce the magnitude of
fertilizer subsidies and the resulting buLrden on the budget. In nominal
terms, retail prices were increased by 60% on average in January 1984 and a



- 22 -
further 40S in August 1984 for a resultant 50S increase in real terms over the
year. As of the second half of 1984, the retail subsidy ranged from 412 to
56t depending on the product, with an average of 48X. Further progress was
made in January 1985, with the imposition of the lOZ value added tax, and
again in February 1985, with a 20Z nominal increase in fertilizer prices
reducing the average subsidization to 45Z.-
6.16     Program for Reform.  As a continuation of Government's program to
rationalize the fertilizer pricing and distribution system, a five-year action
program will be initiated under the ASAL aiming to: (i) establish competitive
wholesale distribution networks and expand the retail distribution system
through increased use of private retailers; (ii) liberalize fertilizer
imports, also a monopoly of TZDK; (iii) carry out a comprehensive management
improvement study for TZDK and an action plan to redefine its role and
strengthen its capabilities; (iv) adjust regulations governing credit
eligibility to broade_ credit availability to wholesalers, retailers and
farmers on more uniform terms and conditions; (v) adjust retail fertilizer
prices to support Government's intention to phase-out retail subsidies during
the Fifth Five Year Plan period; and (vi) transfer to the manufacturiag and
trading sectors the power to set marketing policies and fertilizer prices
within broad guidelines (Annex 1: para. 5.04).
6.17     On the pricing side, Government announced its iltention under SAL IV
to phase out the subsidy on fertilizer retail prices by the end of 1986.
Slippage occurred during the recent transformation of Turkey's political
system and it has proved necessary to prolong the period of phase-out to
mitigate possible shock effects on producti-.. The Government indicated that
it will phase out the subsidy at the retail level from the current average of
45Z to OZ by end 1988 through progressive retail price increases. It intends
to announce a further increase in retail fertilizer prices in mid-1985 to
reduce the subsidy to about 40Z and has been advised that a condition for
tranche release will be further reduction of the retail subsidy to the level
of 30S by June 1986. During the transition period, periodic adjustments in
retail prices would continue to be set by the existing ad hoc fertilizer
coummittee. ' Upon completion of the transition, when the retail price
subsidy will have been phased out, some elements of transportation and
manufacturing subsidy will need to be maintained, however, to cover: (i)
transport to remote and sensitive low income areas, such as Eastern Turkey,
which entails added costs (including seasonal overstocking), (ii) possibly
1/ These subsidies are measured against the cif spot price of comparable
products, plus appropriate allowance for domestic handling and
distribution costs. However, as prices are currently entering a cyclical
upswing, comparisons made against trend cif prices would in the next two
to three years show a lower subsidy level than those made against spot cif
prices.
2f The fertilizer committee meets semiannually to recommend to the Minister
of Agriculture and other members of the Council of Ministers, periodic
adjustments to retail and ex-factory fertilizer prices. It is
interministerial, chaired by the Minister of MAFRA, and includes
representatives of SPO, EDT, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, TZDK and
the manufacturers.



- 23 -
higher ex-factory prices compared to cif trend prices until the factory
rehabilitation program becomes fully effective; and (iii) higher than normal
(normative) distribution costs by TZDK until its operations are rationalized.
In the future, these would be specifically identified in the annual
disbursement programs of the Price Stabilization Fund (PSF).1'
6.18     The establishment of a competitive distribution system to minimize
cost at all levels and to improve service to farmers by the feedback they
provide to manufacturers and importers would be facilitated by achieving the
folloving targets, or by the actions indicated: (i) distribution through
private channels of at least 20% of domestic production and up to 50% of
imported products by end 1986, increasing these levels thereafter;
(ii) establishment by Government of normative distribution margins which
reflect regional cost variations, which are ceiling levels, and which can be
redistributed amongst any type of intermediary; and (iii) progressive
liberalization of i_ports and -nducement of domestic fertilizer availability
in line with cost savings offered by the use of higher analysis fertilizers
(Annex 4). These reforms will take place until end-1988, during which time
some degree of Government intervention and regulation is required to
administer the legal requisites. Beginning in 1989, a furLher withdrawal of
government regulation is intended (Annex 1: para. 5.06). A condition of
tranche release will be actions satisfactory to introduce the first phase of
reforms in fertilizer distribution, which would lay the foundation for further
liberalizat.on of the system after elimination of the subsidy.
6.19     To facilitate coordination while the reforms are being introduced,
the work program and staff of MAFRA's Fertilizer Monitoring Unit (FMU) will be
enlarged to enable it to serve as a focal point for ensuring smooth
implementation of the transitional measures and making recommendations for
future developments and further liberalization of the system. During the
transition period, the FMU will be responsible for the determination of
marketing areas for each distributor in the country, as well as for
recommending to Government periodic adjustments in distribution margins. It
will also be responsible for the collection and analysis of background data to
assist the manufacturers, distributors, credit agencies, farmers'
organizations and TZDK with their technical duties, and for advising the
Government on the requisite legislation and regulations needed to implement
the new distribution system. More generally, it will monitor external factors
affecting fertilizer distribution (such as credit availability for farmers'
purchases), and review areas of importance to the subsector (such as quality
control measures, registration procedures for private dealers, scope for
modifying and/or expanding the range of fertilizer products and blends
available in the country, etc.). The FMU's work program was discussed during
negotiations (Annex 4 and LIV, Part V) and is considered to be satisfactory.
6.20     The decision to phase out the retail subsidy and broaden the
distribution system requires increased credit allocation for farmers'
purchases. In 1984, credit allocations were substantially increased to TCZB
and the credit cooperatives, but the annual fertilizer credit allocations will
need to be reviewed by the Government against the volumes of domestic
l/ Used to finance the subsidies.



- 24 -
consumption and the rate of phase-out of the retail subsidy. Government has
confirmed that as the burden of subsidies is decreased in the budget, it will
ensure that adequate amounts of fertilizer credit are available, the amounts
to be determined in light of annual consumption estimates (Annex 1: para. 5.08
and Annex 4). Furthermore, it confirmed that farmers will be afforded access
to fertilizer purchase credit under uniform terms and conditions irrespective
of their source of supply (TZDK or private sector' ani that private
distributors and, ultimately, TZDK and the cooperatives will finance their
sales at commercial interest rates, with the corresponding financing charges
to be reflected in the distribution margins allowed to the industry as a
whole. During the transition period, fertilizer imports will continue to be
contracted by TZDK. However, part of these would be turned over to
manufacturers and private traders for distribution in the country. The
liberalization of fertilizer importation will take place after the subsidy is
phased out. The Government has cenfirmed its intention to establish the
procedures necessary to allow direct fertilizer imports by private traders and
fertilizer manufacturers starting in 1989 (Annex 1: para. 5.07).
6.21     To implement these wide reforms, it will be necessary for Government
to announce a legal framework for the proposed distribution arrangements to
permit manufacturers -nd private sector companies to engage in wholesaling and
retailing. The Government has confirmed its intention to remove progressively
the existing administrative and regulatory obstacles to wholesaling and
retailing by the manufacturers and traders beginning January 1., 1986 (Annex 1:
para. 5.06). It intends to issue the framework as part of the semiannual
fertilizer pricing decree scheduled for January 1986. Further, it will be
necessary for Government to issue detailed regulations to implement the
assurances and agreements described in paras 6.19, 6.20 and 6.39 (for TZDK).
Satisfactory progress in implementing these arrangements and in phasing out
the retail fertilizer subsidy are conditions for financing the second phase of
the adjustment program (para. 7.18).
D. Agricultural Machinery'
6.22     The agricultural tractor and implements market is dominated by the
private sector. However, the public sector plays a significant role. The
manufacture, assembly and importation of completely knocked down (CKD) tractor
parts used to be controlled through the "Assembly Industries Regulation"
introduced in 1964. In early 1985, Government suspended the local content
stipulations of these Regulations and waived the list of items which must be
manufactured in Turkey, thus effectively delicensing agricultural machinery
imports. The import regime was changed in December 1983 and again in 1985.
There are now three lists defining "Goods Unimportable", "Imported Goods
subject to Permission" and "Goods with revised Taxation Ratios."  The last
category of goods are freely importable but carry some customs duty. Tractors
belong to this category and previously carried a customs tax of 45%. However,
tariffs on fully assembled imports were reduced to only 15% in the 1985 import
regime. Agricultural implements and harvesting machinery were previously on
the list of goods "subject to permission", but have recently been moved to the
dutiable list, and also assigned a customs tax of only 15%.
I/ This section is abstracted from LIV, WP 3.



- 25 -
6.23     Until only recently, prices of agricultural machinery in Turkey were
controlled. On May 10, 1984, all price controls were abolished and prices
subsequently declined. At present, tractor prices are very competitive, being
substantially below European prices for equivalent models. This can be
explained by the low price of domestically produced components, the low (1X)
duty on imported CKD kits of parts, the low cost of labor, and the extremely
competitive market prevailing at the present time caused by overcapacity and
slack demand. It is not possible to compare Turkish implement prices with
European or North American prices as neither the quality nor the performance
provide a basis for comparison. Prices are, however, low in Turkey.
6.24     Although the present regulations still impose minor duties on farm
machinery imports, it is doubtful whether imported machines would be able to
compete with the very low domestic prices. Current tariffs on built-up units
are minimal, thus the need for further reform to the trade regime for farm
machinerv is no longer evident.
E. Techno9ogy-
6.25     The Turkish agricultural system has about reached the agroecological
limit for the lateral exDansion of primary production. The principal
objective of the ASAL is to strengthen the institutional underpinnings for
technology transfer in order to hasten the -ntensification of cropping and
livestock production. To achieve these objectives, it will be necessary to
(i) strengthen the structural and funrtional capabilities of applied research
and agricultural extension services through a fleshing out of crucial details
pertaining to MAFRA's ongoing reorganization and decentralization, (ii)
enhance extension and research (E&R) reforms which are being introduced under
the Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project (Loan 2405-TU); (iii)
accelerate the application of E&R reforms nationwide, and (iv) introduce a
flexible and automated management information system to enable MAFRA to
coordinate E&R under its new, and timely, decentralized organization.
6.26     Most agricultural research is carried out by MAFRA.J"  MAFRA has
about 98 separate research facilities, with most being located west of a l-ne
from Samsun to Adana (Map). Nearly one-third (31 stations) are crop, forage
and animal husbandry research oriented and employ nearly half (61) of MAFRA's
professional research staff with doctorates. Nevertheless, 72X of MAFRA's
total research professionals hold only the equivalent of a BSc degree. The
ratio of professional research staff to technicians is unsatisfactory, and is
being addressed through Loan 2405-TU-
6.27     Under MAFRA's recent reorganization, four central level units have
been set up to advise on research (the General Directorate of Projects and
Implementation (GDPI) for crops, forage and animal husbandry research; the
General Directorate of Protection and Control for plant protection research,
veterinary and food control resear:h; GDRS for soil, water and crop research
1/ Based on Annex 6 and LIV, WPs 6A-6C.
2/ Outside of MAFRA, agricultural universities conduct some research but are
severely constrained due to lack of funds and teaching responsibilities.
Minor research trials are carried out by parastatals.



- 26 -
on irrigated land; and the General Directorate of Forestry for forestry
research), which will be administered via the Ministerial line through the
office of the Undersecretary. This is consistent with MAFRA's new command,
control and budgeting structure.
6.28     Reforms to strengthen research planning and coordination are
currently being defined by MAFRA (see Annex 6 for details). The Government is
aware that the current lack of clear national research priorities has resulted
in far too many research projects having a distinctive commodity focus.
Notably missing is crop rotation research, of particular importance for the
irrigated areas, and a farming system approach for crop-livestock research
programs. MAFRA recognizes that more effective consolidation would overcome
these problems, along lines being done in four of the nine agroecological
zones under Loan 2405-TU. The project also provides for a reorientation of
applied research within the institutes serving the project area.
6.29     Farmer extension services also are administered mainly by MAFRA. The
general purpose provincial level service, formerly known as Teknik Ziraat, was
recently consolidated with other special purpose agricultural services. It
has the largest number of field staff, and is the only service located at the
village level. Under Loan 2405-TU, Government is attempting to rectify some
of the existing shortcomings in 16 provinces. A combination of the training
and visit system and media based extension techniques is being introduced to
improve the availability and quality of extension advice to the diverse
mixture of comnercial and subsistence farmers in these provinces. The loan
was declared effective September 5, 1984, and implementation is proceeding
satisfactorily.
6.30     Immediate objectives of the MAFRA reorganization are to complete the
consolidation of E&R at the provincial levels, and to firm up arrangements for
effective technical leadership of the field services. To effectuate this,
MAFRA is preparing directives for issue by end June 1985 to delineate central
authority for coordination of national and local programs, maintenance of
scientific and technical standards, functions and responsibilities of four
central level advisory units (para. 6.27), their linkages to MAFRA's APK,''
and their advisory responsibilities in regard to the newly formed provincial
directorates for extension. MAFRA also intends to complete the consolidation
of extension at the provincial levels in 1985 while conjoint programming,
budgeting and program implementation would be instituted beginning 1986
(Annex 1: para. 7.02 and Annex 6). Government's intention to appoint national
level coordinators for research and extension was also confirmed and
candidates are presently being screened to fill these positions. It is
further understood that their duties and responsibilities will conform to
terms of reference discussed with Government during the preparation of the
proposed loan. !/
6.31     The Government established a research working group in March 1984 to
guide a midterm review to be carried out in connection with Loan 2405-TU. It
has agreed to enlarge this review to encompass the totality of MAFRA's
1/ The APK has been attached to the Office of the Undersecretary to serve as
the "nerve center" for MAFRA.
2/ cf Annex 6 and LIV, Part V.



- 27 -
agricultural research programs and research station functions, with particular
emphasis on the cropping systems research needs of irrigated agriculture and
conjoint crop-livestock farming systems requirements. In light of the
findings of the review, it intends subsequently to revise its priorities,
programs, procedures, staffing and training programs, and construction and
procurement plans to improve the quality and usefulness of research. It was
also agreed that, with the assistance of internationally recruited consul-
tants, the review will be carried out in accordance with agreed terms of
reference,-I and will be completed by May 1986. The outcome of the review
will be discussed with the Bank, and research programs and research station
reforms would thereafter be implemented.
6.32     In the area of extension, confirmation was obtained of Government's
intention to formulate additional investments and staffing programs to
phase-in application of the Agricultural Extension and Applied Research
Project's extension principles nationwide (Annex 1: para. 7.04), with
modifications as necessary in light of the outcome of the midterm review of
performance under that project, scheduled for end-1986.
F. State Economic Enterprise Reform
6.33     The Government currently operates eight agricultural SEEs formed to
promote the produ.ction and internal marketing of agricultural inputs and
products as well as to provide regulated supplies of essential commodities
(e.g. wheat) to urban consumers. The agricultural SEEs cover a wide range of
commodities and enjoy varying degrees of market power.
SEE                           Sector             Share of Internal Trade
Turkish Sugar Factories           Sugar, Fertilizers      Nearly 100% for sugar,
(SEKER)                                                  10% for fertilizers
Tea Organization (CAYKUR)         Tea                     100% until 1984
Meat & Fish Organization (EBK)   Principally Red Meat   25%
Turkish Milk Industry (TSEK)      Milk and Products       Less than 20%
Feed Industry (YEMSAN)            Commercial Feeds        40%
Turkish Agricultural              Certified Seed and      90%
Enterprises (TIGEM)               Breeding Animals
Agricultural Supply               Fertilizers,            90% (fertilizers),
Organization (TZDK)               Machinery and          considerably less
various inputs         for others
Soils Products Office (TMO)       Principally Grain       10-15%
Storage
1/ cf Annex 6 and LIV, Part V.



- 28 -
Taken as a group, the eight agricultural SEEs control about 25Z of
agricultural value-added. While the situation varies from enterprise to
enterprise,'' the SEEs have been operating at less than optimal efficiency.
Most are not in sound financial condition. Reforms to agricultural SEE
organization, pricing and financing are being implemented in the context of
Government's overall SEE reform policies, the basis of which is the Council of
Ministers decree KHK/233 of June 8, 1984. Half of the Boards of Directors now
consist of officers of the enterprises rather than ministerial appointees.
Furthermore, SEEs have been allowed to set prices in relation to their costs
(previously, these were set by Government), and are now free to pay employee
bonuses in order to encourage greater efficiency. Laws of January 1984 (2974)
and April 1984 (2983) provided for the consolidation of inter-SEE debt and
established the basis for the privatization of SEEs. A new basic statute for
each SEE was issued in the fall of 1984, incorporating the provisions of the
new legislation.
6.34     In 1983, the eight agricultural SEEs received some TL 96 billion
(US$426 million) in transfers from the budget and the PSF. Following
execution of the program, improvements in efficiency, a phase-out of the
fertilizer subsidy, and the privatization of major sectors of activity now
hanCled by the SEEs, this drain on the budget is expected to be reduced to
negligible proportions by 1989. (The remaining amount would represent
contributions to enterprises which are likely to remain in the public sector,
such as TMO, TIGEM and TZDK.)
6.35     To implement the needed reforms, technical assistance is being
provided to SEKER and TMO under ongoing Bank loans2- to strengthen their
planning and management, and engineering capabilities. Under the proposed
loan, management improvement action plans for TZDK and TIGEM would be
developed with the assistance of internat:onally recruited consultants
(paras 6.37-6.39).
6.36     While it is government policy to privatize state-owned enterprises
wherever appropriate, the parastatals involved with seeds distribution (TIGEM)
and fertilizer distribution (TZDK) would continue to have important roles in
the distribution of modern inputs. To enable the recently formed TIGEM to
"get on its feet", and TZDK to perform effectively in a more commercialized
environment, reforms will be required to upgrade operational capabilities and
financial efficiency.
6.37     Government intends to clarify the roles of TIGEM and TZDK and to
establish appropriate management and financial control systems. In parallel,
it intends to improve TIGEM's system of contract seed growers by turning over
the multiplication of self-pollinated varieties to fully commercialized
certified seed growers (Annex 1: para. 5.02). During negotiations, confirma-
tion of these intentions was obtained and agreement reached that consultants
would be engaged according to TOR-' satisfactory to the Bank to assist
Government to devise a Management and Financial Improvement Action Program for
1/ cf LIV, WP 8D for more detailed discussion.
2/ The State Industrial Enterprise Finance Project (Loan 1998-TU) and the
Grain Storage Project (Loan 1742-TU).
3/ LIV, Part V.



- 29 -
TIGEM, to be discussed with the Bank by June 1986. Implementation of the
action program would proceed promptly thereafter. Besides consulting services
for TIGEM, the proposed loan will finance training and equipment needed by
TIGEM for the production of foundation seeds.
6.38     In order to improve TZDK's operating capabilities, agreement was
reached that Government will develop a comprehensive Management Improvement
Action Program to be completed by June 1986, according to TOR1' satisfactory
to the Bank and with the assistance of internationally recruited consultants.
The purpose of this consultancy will be to develop recommendations for
improving efficiency, particularly in the areas of warehouse/transport,
accounting and financial systems and marketing/promotion. Implementation of
the action program would start in the second half of 1986 following
consultation with the Bank. As a condition for release of the second tranche,
actions shall have been taken demonstrating satisfactory progress in the
formulation and implementation of TZDK's action program.
6.39     Pending completion of TZDK's Management Improvement Action Program,
it is expected that Government will take the following initial steps during
the transition period following issuance of the January 1986 decree to open
the fertilizer distribution system: (i) application to TZDK of the same
system of normative distribution margins as for other distributors, with
separate identification of any other subsidy which may be needed to help it
bridge the transition; (ii) leasing or selling of part of TZDK's excess
warehousing capacity to the manufacturers and the private sector; (iii)
encouraging TZDK to use private retailers in addition to cooperatives, and
(iv) progressive rationalization of the arrangements between TZDK and the
Cooperatives retailing on its behalf, including in particular a gradual
reduction in the grace period granted to them from 90 days at present to 45
days, so as to better reflect the t-ue value of the service actually rendered
by Cooperatives to prepare them for competition with private retailers.
Besides consulting services for TZDK, the proposed loan will finance training
of TZDK's staff.
VII.  THE PROPOSED LOAN
A. Rationale and Objectives
7.01     Bank economic and sector work provided an opportunity to review the
role of the agricultural sector in Turkey's development, its performance
prospects, and the main policy and institutional and program constraints which
inhibit its performance potential.-   The proposed loan was formulated to
assist Government to broaden, deepen and refine its agricultural adjustment
program. The specific objectives of the loan are to:
1/ cf Annex 4 and LIV, Part V.
2/ cf "Turkey - Agricultural Development For Growth With Exports"
(Report 4204-TU), and "Turkey - The Vth Five Year Development Plan in the
Context of Structural Adjustment" (Report No. 5148-TU - Draft Green).



- 30 -
(i) stimulate agricultural production, exports and intensification
through agreed policy reforms;
(ii) encourage more efficient pricing and distribution of seed,
fertilizer and machinery;
(iii) strengthen and accelerate irrigation program implementation,
rationalize investment priorities and programming;
(iv) strengthen the priorities and functional organization of
extension and research;
(v) strengthen key agricultural SEEs and TSK;
(vi) strengthen overall sector management in areas of strategic and
operational planning, policy analysis and performance monitoring;
(vii)  strengthen the financing, planning and management of public
sector programs through improved programming and monitoring of
public expenditures;
(viii) implement key subsector reforms which would provide the bases
for subsequent project loans and other subsectoral lending
operations.
The proposed US$300 million loan will disburse over a two-year period
(mid-1985 to mid-1987) to finance part of a three-year slice of Government's
modern inputs, public investment and technical assistance programs for the
Fifth Five Year Plan period.
7.02     Achievement of these objectives will be facilitated through
application of loan proceeds to finance seed and fertilizer imports;
equipment, consultants and overseas training for the Government's Core
Irrigation Program; equipment, overseas training and technical assistance
training and technical assistance for TIGEM; training and technical assistance
for TZDK and technical assistance for the agricultural research program, an
Agricultural Sales Cooperatives Study, and to MAFRA's APK for monitoring and
evaluation (para. 7.12), and the establishment of a management information
system on a pilot basis inclusive of equipment and software.
B. Impact Monitoring
7.03     To provide a basis for reviewing policy impacts, economic and
financial performance indicators for the sector have been discussed (Annex 3),
covering the first three years of the Fifth Five Year Development Plan period
(1985-1987). These contain sectoral economic and production indicators,
public expenditure program indicators, credit and financial indicators, and
physical targets for public infrascructure investment and fertilizers
consumption.



- 31 -
C. Major Features
7.04     The components of the proposed loan will comprise:
Rationalization of Public Infrastructure Investment
Application of agreed investment criteria to all new and
ongoing irrigation subsector investments, improved
programming and coordination, and implementation of an agreed
Core Program to focus irrigation subsector investment on the
completion of on-farm drainage and O&M works. The proposed
loan would finance O&M equipment, overseas training,
engineering and review consultants.
Agricultural Inputs Pricing and Distribution
(a)     Seeds.  The proposed loan would finance a share of the
Government's seed importation program for 1985 and 1986.
(b)     Fertilizer.  Implementation of an action program to
reestablish a competitive wholesale distribution network and
expand the retail distribution system through increased use
of private retailers; liberalize fertilizer imports; phase
out the remaining retail subsidy; and revise distribution
credit regulations. The proposed loan will finance a share
of Government's fertilizer import program for 1985-1987 and
overseas training and technical assistance for MAFRA's
Fertilizer Distribution Monitoring Unit (FMU).
Technical Support Services
Implementation of arrangements to decentralize and
consolidate the budgeting and operation of research and
extension, and appointment of national level research and
extension coordinators. The proposed loan will finance
technical assistance to improve the identification and
prioritization of research programs, and equipment and
technical assistance for setting up an automated management
information system (MIS) for MAFRA, including staff training.
Parastata'L Reform
(a)     Technical assistances to devise management improvement action
programs for TIGEM and TZDK. The proposed loan will finance
consulting services, overseas training and some seeds
production equipment.
(b)     Retention of consultants by SPO for completion of an
Agricultural Sales Cooperatives Study and action plan.



- 32 -
Public Expenditure Planning and Monitoring
Strengthening of APK's Department of Programs and Budget to
assist SPO/HDT with annual and medium term programming, and
to monitor initial programming, planning and utilization of
MAFRA's public investment and recurrent expenditures for the
sector (para. 7.13). The proposed loan will finance overseas
training for concerned staff (Annex 7 and LIV, Part V).
Sector Performance Monitoring
Strengthening of APK's Department of Plan.iing and
Multipurpose Projects (para 7.15) to operationalize and
institutionalize the statistical and analytical methodologies
needed for improved sectoral policy formulation, planning and
performance monitoring and the monitoring and progress
reporting for the ASAL. The proposed loan will finance staff
training and consultants for the Department to help it set up
its work program (Annex 7 and LIV, Part V).
D. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
7.05     The associated total expenditures and the share of the programs to be
financed under the proposed loan are indicated below.
Allocation
Program Costs:  1985-87    of Loan    Z to be
Local   Foreign   Total    Proceeds   Financed
____  ----US$ million) /1
Seeds                               5.4      54.0     59.4       20.0        34
Fertilizers                        45.0    450.0    495.0       152.4        31
Irrigation                        621.0    893.7  1,514.7       111.0         7
Supporting Services               184.7      90.9    275.6        8.1          3
Technical Assistance & Training    -          8.5      8.5        8.5       100
Total                        856.1  1,497.1  2,353.2       300.0        13
/1 January 1, 1985 constant prices.
The contributions of the proposed loan to the various components of the
agricultural program were determined with reference to overall foreign
exchange requirement associated with each program, and the support being given
under ongoing Bank assisted projects, or likely to be made available under
future loans.



- 33 -
E. Procurement and Disbursements
7.06     Procurement items, by agency. will include:
Overseas
AgencY                   Coads              Trainina        Consultants    . Total
Ixnc           USS'ooo   M.M.  USS'l00    M.M.    USS'000   USSl'00
TIGEN. ThO,
TZDK          Seeds            20.000              -                -    20.000
TIGEH           Equipment        5.400   25       T00    18         180    S.680
TZDK            Fertilizers     152.400   25      100    30         300   152.800
DSI             Machinery       111.000   200    1.000    200 'l   2.000   114.000
GORS                                     200    1.000    200      2.000    3.000
MAFRA
1. APK-HIS      Hardware.
Software.
CoimuJnications
Equipment       2.100     -        -    47         470    2.570
2. APK-M&E Unit   -                       25      100    15         150       250
3. GOPI                       -                     -    so /2      800       800
SPO             Computers          600    _       _       3a /3     30   _900
Total                      291.500   475    2.300   620      6.200   300.000
LI Engineering and reviewing consultants.
e For research system review.
L  For sales cooperatives study.
7.07     Goods and equipment, totaling US$288.8 million equivalent, will be
grouped in appropriate bidding packages and procured by ICB in accordance with
the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Some contracts for equipment may be
awarded to local suppliers under the Bank's domestic preference procedures.
Limited international tendering procedures will govern the acquisition of
computers and peripherals, totaling US$2.7 million, to be procured on the
basis of at least three quotations from eligible suppliers. Overseas training
programs, at total cost of US$2.3 million equivalent, will be carried out
according to programs to be approved by the Bank. Internationally recruited
consultants (US$6.2 million) will be selected in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines according to agreed TOR and schedules (Annex 2 and LIV, Part V).
While procurement will be administered by the individual agencies concerned,
overall coordination will be carried out by MAFRA's APK to facilitate timely
tendering and contract execution. For goods and equipment tenders, all
initial bidding packages will be subject to the Bank's prior review of
contract documentation. Thereafter, all bidding packages for goods over US$5
million will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Since all goods to be
procured under ICB are expected to be grouped in packages of at least this
size, with the excepcion of the hardware and communication equipment for MAFRA
and SPO, this would cover at least 80% of the total value of all goods to be
procured under the proposed loan. Contracts other than those subject to prior
review will be subject to a selected postaward review by the Bank.
7.08     Disbursements will be made on the following basis:
(a) 100% of the cif cost of directly imported goods;
(b)  100% of the ex-factory cost of locally manufactured goods
procured by ICB;



- 34 -
(c) 100X of expenditures for overseas training;
(d) 100X of foreign expenditures for foreign consultants and
90Z of total expenditures for local consultants.
Disbursements will be made against full documentation; however, to simplify
disbursement, only invoices with a minimum value of $10,000 equivalent will be
eligible for disbursement with the exception of the technical assistance and
training programs.
7.09     Most expenditures under the loan will be financed initially from a
Special Account to be established in the Central Bank of Turkey to which the
World Bank would make an initial deposit of $50 million.- The Special
Account will b- replenished against withdrawal requests at monthly intervals
or as appropriate when the undisbursed balance of the account falls below $25
million. Imports will be made directly by actual users.
7.10     The estimated schedule of disbursements of the proposed loan is given
in Annex 2. It is expected that the loan will fully disburse by June 30, 1987
and the closing date of the Bank loan will be December 31, 1987. The
disbursement profile for the proposed loan has been compared with various
program-type loan profiles for IBRD loans. These profiles show the following
characteristics:
No. of       Year from Date of Approval
Class                Projects   50% Disbursed       90Z Disbursed
Program Loans, All Regions        29      1st yr, 2nd half   2nd yr, 1st half
Proposed ASAL                      -      1st yr, 2nd half   2nd yr, 2nd half
Under the proposed loan, it is estimated that two-thirds of the loan will be
disbursed during the first year, second half from the date of Board approval,
which is due primarily to large first tranche expenditures on vehicles and
heavy equipment needed to accelerate implementation of the Core Program for
Irrigation and Drainage, and to finance roughly 502 of the homogeneous program
elements (seeds and fertilizer imports) of the proposed loa...
F. Implementation Arrangements
7.11     While the above agenda for policy and institutional reform is
focussed tightly on the agricultural sector, its scope is broad and the ASAL
action programs cut across the administrative jurisdiction of several
government agencies. Therefore, the Prime Ministry, through its SPO and HDT,
and the MAFRA, through its APK, will have primary responsibility for the
planning, coordination and monitoring of these reforms. Overall coordina-
tion would be effectuated within the existing structure of Interministerial
1/ This amount is based upon the Bank's estimated share of the four-month
average of foreign exchange expenditures to be channeled through the
revolving fund.



- 35 -
Councils and Boards, mainly by the High Planning Council and the Supreme
Economic Council (both chaired by the Prime Ministry with SPO as the
Secretariat), and the HCC for the credit system reforms. Detailed coordina-
tion will be carried out by MAFRA's APK, SPO's Sector Programs Section, and
HDT's Treasury and SEEs Departments, who interact routinely during the normal
course of their work. They will be assisted with key aspects of coordination
by the early strengthening of APK's planning and budgeting departments, the
FMU, and the technical assistance these units will receive. Within the
context of MAFRA's reorganization and decentralization, the Government
recognizes the need for improving that Ministry's internal communications and
MIS. In 1985 and 1986, the Government therefore intends to improve MAFRA's
capability to implement its decentralized technical and infrastructure
services through the creation of an automated management information system,
accounting and record keeping, and the establishment of computerized data
banks at the regional and central levels, with better communication links.-
The proposed loan will finance internationally recruited consultants to
provide preparatory technical assistance and training in accordance with
agreed terms of reference.-'  The hardware and software needs for a pilot
segment of MAFRA's MIS will also be financed by the proposed loan, after these
have been reviewed by the consultants.
G.  Monitoring and Evaluation!'
7.12     For smooth implementation of the ASAL reforms, planning, monitoring
and evaluation, and policy analysis capabilities need to be strengthened_ It
was agreed during negotiations that these capabilities would be developed in
accordance with work programs acceptable to the Bank. Government intends to
accomplish this under the proposed loan through staff augmentation, training
and/or use of consultants for existing departments in four areas as follows:
Purpose                              Department
Public Expenditure Programming
and Monitoring                           MAFRA's APK
Irrigation Investment Planning            SPO's Economic Planning
and Monitoring                            Department (Irrigation
Section)
Sector Analysis and Performance           MAFRA's APK
Monitoring
Fertilizer Distribution Planning          MAFRA's APK
and Monitoring (FMU)
The proposed work programs for these departments were reviewed during
negotiations and are considered satisfactory.
1/ cf Annex 6 and LIV, Part V.
2/ cf Annex 7 for details.



- 36 -
7.13     Public Expenditure Programing and Monitoring.  Under the proposed
loan, the work program for the Department of Program and Budget within MAFRA's
APK will be expanded to include the conjoint programning, recording and
monitoring of all MAFRA's expenditures in the sector,-' and to monitor the
public expenditure aspects of the performance indicators (Annex 3). A
homogenization of the definition and classification of investment and current
expenditures will be accomplished to facilitate programming of annual
recurrent expenditure and investment programming and forward budgeting. This
will permit Government to identify and reduce current expenditures being
included in the investment program, and relate public expenditure to tangible
outcomes. The work program of the Department of Program and Budget, covering
the bulk of Government's agricultural expenditure programs, will be
coordinated closely with the work program of SPO's Irrigation Section.
7.14     Irrigation Investment Planning and Monitoring.  Due to the importance
of improved irrigation planning and program coordin'tion, the Irrigation
Subsector Section within SPO's Economic Planning Department will closely
monitor implementation of the Core Program for Irrigation and Drainage. In
addition, this unit will prepare project profiles for all irrigation
investments for the purpose of continuous monitoring of their execution and
expected benefits, and to improve the selection of priority projects for
funding. Under the proposed ASAL, a computer system will be installed within
SPO to facilitate, inter alia, the creation and updating of these profiles.
This unit would coordinate closely with APK for the preparation of the
agricultural budget and monitoring of expenditures for the sector as a whole.
7.15     Sector Analysis and Performance Monitoring.  The work program of
APK's Department of Planning and Multipurpose Projects will be expanded to
enable it to (i) monitor the sectoral performance aspects of the performance
indicators (Annex 3); (ii) provide analysis and recommendations for Government
in the areas of land use and production policies, technology policies,
producer prices, inputs and investment incentives policies, public investment
policies, and the marketing and trade policy aspects and the income and
employment dimensions of these. In addition, this unit will (iii) be
responsible for monitoring and progress reporting of the ASAL components.
Consultants will be engaged according to TOR-' satisfactory to the Bank to
systematize and improve the analytical bases for producer floor price
determination and periodic refinements to the structure of agricultural
tariffs, quotas and export levies. They will also assist the unit with
installation of the Turkey Agricultural Sector Model (TASM2) and staff
training in its use. Provision has also been made in the ASAL for overseas
training of selected APK staff in the field of sector policy analysis.
7.16     FMU.  The recently established Fertilizer Monitoring Unit will
monitor fertilizer consumption and distribution in the country by both TZDK,
the producers and the private sector, according to an enhanced work program.
A fertilizer distribution model developed by the Bank and MAFRA will be
operated by the FMU on APK's computers to assist it with its coordination and
1/ The work program is discussed in Annex 7 and LIV, Part V.
2/ Work program and TOR discussed in Annex 7 and LIV, Part V.



- 37 -
M&E duties. Technical assistance and training on model operation will be
provided by the Sector Analysis and Performance Monitoring consultants.L'
7.17     Post Evaluation.  To support the performance monitoring work
described above, APK's Depart-ment of Coordination and Monitoring will carry
out an ex-post evaluation of all large agricultural sector projects (total
cost greater than TL 9 billion in 1984 prices) for which project implementa-
tion has begun since 1975. It is expected that the initial screening will be
completed by October 1985 and that the post evaluation process will begin by
end April 1986 (Annex 7).
7.18     Monitoring of Government's progress in carrying out the agreed
reforms will be based upon the Implementation Schedule (Annex 2) and the
Statement of Sectoral Policies (Annex 1). Impact monitoring will be based on
the economic and financial performance indicators (Annex 3). With the
exception of "carry-over" training and consultant's contracts, ' financing
of the second $100 million phase of the program will depend on satisfactory
performance of the first phase of the program. The decision to release
financing for the second phase would be based upon a midterm progress review,
expected to take place in June 1986.
7.19     It was further agreed that Government will submit to the Bank a
progress report prior to the midterm review to be prepared by the APK's
Department of Planning and Multipurpose Projects, with summaries from the Head
of SPO's Economic Planning Department, HDT's Deputy Undersecretary for
Treasury, the General Director of MAFRA's APK, the Department of Program and
Budget, FMU and APK's procurement unit on the progress of work. The report
will be prepared according to a format suggested by the Bank. In addition,
APK will prepare a completion report and submit it to the Bank within six
months of the loan closi-ng date.
7.20     HDT will maintain separate accounts for tne loan and will prepare at
the end of each semester a detailed statement of expenditures during the
period. In addition, an annual audit will be carried out by the Ministry of
Finance inspectors and submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of
each fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
VIII. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
8.01     The appropriateness of agricultural sector adjustment lending for
Turkey is grounded in the combination of (i) the excellent performance
potential for Turkish agriculture; (ii) Government's resolve to pin down at
the sectoral level the policy and institutional reforms needed for its export
led growth strategy and economic stabilization and liberalization policies;
1/ cf Annexes 4, 7, and LIV, Part V for the FMU work program and TOR.
2/ Which would continue to be financed during the midterm review process.



- 38 -
(iii) Government's past actions and current initiatives to revise agricultural
policies at the macro and sectoral levels to conform with the requisites of
the new strategy; (iv) the package of ASAL reforms, which would enhance
current efforts to revitalize public institutions serving agriculture; (v) the
gradual withdrawal of direct intervention in those production, marketing and
input supply activities which could be more effectively carried out by private
initiative; and (vi) the continued need for supplemental foreign exchange
resources in 1985-87 to finance imports critical for sustaining primary
production and sectoral investment. The package of reforms to be implemented
under the proposed loan would lay the foundation for medium-term agricultural
growth-crucial for improved macroeconomic performance. The policy package
aims to (i) maintain sustainable terms of trade for producers and facilitate
the sector's response to opportunities provided by Turkey's comparative
advantages (pricing reforms and trade liberalization), (ii) improve investment
resource allocation, particularly for irrigated agriculture (investment
program reforms), and (iii) accelerate the transfer of innovations to the farm
level and the use of improved techniques (TSS, inputs distribution, credit
system and parastatal reforms). As a result, it is expected that the
historical sectoral growth of about 3.0X p.a. would be reattained and possibly
exceeded (para. 8.02), though under a regime of intensified resource use, more
efficient input combinations and considerably less subsidization than was
required when such growth was last realized during the first half of the 1970s.
A. Economic Impact
8.02     The performance prospects for Turkish agriculture are extremely
good. Through growth and increased specialization, agriculture can contribute
substantially both to the export drive and to a more productive absorption of
Turkey's rural labor force. These possibilities were examined in the recent
agricultural sector study.1' A quantitative model was constructed to assess
the impact of public investment, technology, price and trade policies. The
results suggest medium term value-added growth prospects for Turkish
agriculture of about 3X p.a. through 1990. Exports may be expected to expand
by '-8Z p.a., depending on the product, and production for the domestic market
by slightly less than 3X p.a. This would be accompanied by an ':acrease in net
farm income of 2.8Z p.a. and a i.5S increase in agricultural employment.
Total fertilizer demand over the period would increase by about 40Z (N and P
nutrient equivalents) assuming no consumer subsidy.2" These prospects are
sensitive to the pace of two major policy variables: (i) trade policy-needed
to keep agricultural exports profitable, and (ii) irrigation development--to
expand the scope for agricultural intensification. The achievement of both
prerequisites is central to the proposed adjustment program.
1J Turkey - Agricultural Development Alternatives for Growth with Exports
(Report No. 4204-TU, June 30, 1983), and LIV, WPs 7A-7D.
2/ cf Annex 4 and LIV, WP ID for details.



- 39 -
Agricultural Sector Performance Possibilities, 1985-1990
(annual growth rates)
All Remaining Subsidies Phased Out /1
Moderately             Highly
Category                       Successful           Successful
Performance/2       Performance/3
(S p.a.)
Gross Farm Income                      3.8                  4.2
Gross Production Costs                 4.0                  4.3
Value Added                            2.7                  3.1
Total Exports                          6.3                 14.0
Total Employment                       1.5                  1.5
/1  Assuming retail fertilizer prices made equivalent with cif price
parities (these are currently set at about 55X of import parities),
and agricultural interest rate made positive in real terms.
/2  Moderate increase in irrigation and yields.
/3  Achievement of Core Irrigation Program targets, a more than doubling
of the rate of crop and animal yield improvements, and successful
export market penetration.
Note: For further details and assumptions, see LIV, WPs 7A-7C.
8.03     The analysis underlying the projections confirms the wisdom of
emphasizing agricultural extension to further accelerate the introduction of
export crops and the adoption of intensive cropping patterns, and applied
agricultural research to augment the availability of technical packages for
mixed crop-livestock systems and improved animal husbandry practices.
8.04     The model confirms the minimal effect on value-added growth from
phasing out the fertilizer subsidy and the pos-tive employment effects from
doing so. Such a policy would result in higher export growth by stimulating
intensification. By 1990, the production pattern would be intensified in
irrigated and high rainfall areas and would emphasize export crops and animal
feedstuffs (haard wheats, barley, corn, vetches, pulses, fruits and vegetables)
at the expense of traditional grains and industrial crops (e.g. breaa wheat,
cotton, and sugarbeet). Much of the growth would originate in the
geographically and climatically favored coastal regions. These zones have the
largest untapped irrigation potential, and enjoy proximity to the main ports
and export marketing centers.
8.05     An average annual growth of exports in the neighborhood of 5-8X p.a.
appears feasible, with higher than average growth for the pulses, fruits and
vegv.tables group, but lower than average growth for the cereals and livestock
group and Turkey's traditional -ash crop exports (tea, tobacco, hazelnuts and
cotton). Exports as a share of production are expected to increase from the
current 7Z to 9Z by the end of the present decade. The likely progress of
exports, by main commodities, is indicated below:



- 40 -
Contribution to                    Contribution to
Increase in    Share in Total    Increase in       Share in Total
Total Agricul-    Agricultural   Total Agricul-        Agricultural
tural Exports        Exports       tural Exports         Exports
between 1978-83      in 1983       between 1984-89       in 1989
Live animals       53.6            (29.4)             1.3             (18.7)
Wheat             -47.8             (9.6)             9.7              (7.8)
Barley             19.0             (8.5)             8.7              (5.7)
Lentils            16.5             (9.6)            13.9             (11.9)
Chickpeas          11.9             (5.9)             5.0              (6.0)
Citrus fruits       6.8             (6.9)             6.2              (7.1)
Others /1           6.0            (10.1)            14.4             (12.3)
Subtotal           66.0            (80.0             59.2             (69.5)
Total of the      107.8            (60.3)            52.9             (44.8)
five largest
contributors
to the increase
in exports
/1 This includes fruits and vegetables other than potatoes, cnions, tomatoes,
grapes and apples which together accounted for 46% of the increase in
agricultural exports between 1978-83 and are expected to contribute 21% cf
the increase between 1984-89.
Source: Staff estimates and the Fifth Plan.
8.06     Real growth in the total value of domestic consumption of 2.8% p.a.
is associated with the "moderately successful" performance expectation of
para 8.02, while the net population growth rate between 1985-1990 is expected
to be about 1.8% p.a.
B. Farm Income Effects
8.07     In the absence of relEable farm management statistics, it is
difficult to present a comprehensive picture of the net impact of the opening
for export, domestic price trends and the increases in input prices on farm
incomes. There is no doubt that some farming groups have been hurt by the new
policies, especially those comnercialized farmers who were already using
significant levels of purchased inputs but did not or could not alter their
production mix to benefit from the export drive. By way of contrast, there is
ample evidence that farmers who were able to intensify their production and
shift their cropping patterns have benefited handsomely. A forward looking
analysis was carried out to assess the proposed phasing out of the fertilizer
retail subsidy which has been and remains the largest source of direct
subsidies to farmers. The analysis was structured to detect the effect on



- 41 -
incremental net farm income and production from the six main crops which
consume fertilizers. The results show that most Turkish farmers currently
apply fertilizers at levels which are close to or even above the economic
optimum given their production practices and other constraints. Subsidies of
fertilizer retail prices have thus largely accomplished their purpose of
introducing fertilizer to farmers over the last two decades. At present,
subsidization leads to negative effects such as utilization of fertilizer
beyond recommended dosages on some crops and distortions in resource
allocation between high-value, exportable crops and less intensive ones.
Furthermore, it diverts public resources from needed inf-astructure and other
investments.
8.08     With the elimination of the retail subsidy, the economically optimum
level of fertilizer application on a given crop with a given technology will
shift downwards. However, the analysis shows that the value-cost ratios of
fertilizer use (Annex 4, Table 6.1) provide sufficient incentives to sustain
high levels of fertilizer consumption. Were the current cropping patterns and
technology packages to remain unchanged, the reduction in fertilizer
consumption (at net income-maximizing levels) caused by elimination of the
subsidy would amount to only 13% (Annex 4, Table 6.3). The impact on current
agricultural production would be much less (under 2%), since the levels of
application are already high and the optimum economic and technical (yield
maximizing) levels of application are fairly close to each other. By
comparison, the fertilizer subsidy currently represents around 7% of the gross
output of crop production. In terms of value-added growth (para. 8.02), the
attainable rate would be slightly lower with more efficient fertilizer pricing
(2.7% p.a. instead of 3.2% p.a.), which is not significant given the probable
margin of error. This would be likely offset by higher exporc growth (6.3%
p.a. vs. 6.0% p.a.) and a significant increase in the growth of agricultural
employment (1.5% p.a. compared with 0.7% p.a.). The latter two effects are
associated with the shift in cropping patterns and increased intensification
which follow from pricing fertilizers at resource costs. Under these
conditions, maintenance of the fertilizer subsidy is not economically
justified. Accordingly, a major objective of the Government's new approach to
agriculture is the removal of fertilizer subsidies.
C. Employment and Regional Balances
8.09     The regional composition of growth would reflect and enhance
comparative advantage. The good production potential of the irrigable areas
would be tapped. Encouragement of increased specialization should also lead
to an expansion of cultivation to the less favorably endowed regions. Never-
theless, production would be expected to increase faster in the developed
regions than in the remote (less developed) regions.1'  Specialization would
be evident, particularly for exportable crops. Pulses, horticulture and
industrial crops would grow faster in the Black Sea, Aegean/Marmara/Thrace and
Mediterranean regions, while cereals, fodder and livestock products would
1/ LIV, WPs 7A-7C.



- 42 -
increase more slowly. A different pattern would hold for the Anatolian
Plateau and Eastern Turkey, where less specialization would occur and more
uniform growth across all commodity groups is expected.
8.10     The projected regional employment patterns in crop farming and animal
husbandry show that the increase in utilization of family labor in all regions
except the highly urbanized Aegean/Marmara/Thrace region can be expected to
exceed or be equal to population growth.-" Total employment growth (family
and hired) would be highest in Central Anatolia, Eastern Turkey and the Black
Sea regions, which contain the less developed provinces. By way of contrast,
total employment growth would be negligible in the Aegean/Marmara/Thrace and
Mediterranean regions. This reflects an expected overall reduction in the
seasonal availability of migratory agricultural labor which the latter two
regions presently absorb from the less developed regions,-' and the probable
substitution of mechanization for seasonal labor tasks as a result of
specialization in production and changing cropping patterns. This could
become particularly evident in the areas amenable to large-scale, contiguous
irrigation development, which-for geohydrological reasons-tend to be located
in the developed regions.
D. A More Effective Public Sector
8.11     At the project and subproject level, the reforms to be agreed for
evaluating public sector irrigation projects will lead to a more efficient
rationing of scarce public investment resources (Chapter V). Within the line
ministries, the proposed agreements to review the totality of research station
priorities and functions and set up action programs to focus these on export
priorities (para. 6.31), formulate investments to extend the mix of Training
and Visit and mass media extension principles nationwide which are currently
being applied by th. Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project in
fe.r a-roecological nones (16 provinces) (para. 6.32), and the strengthening
of APK's planning axa monitoring capabilities (paras 7.13, 7.15-7.17), will
markedly improve Government's ability to manage agriculture.
8.12     For DSI, MAFRA's GDRS, and SPO, the agreements described in Chapter V
to improve coordination at the levels of project selection (i.e. formulation
of annual programs) and implementation, to focus irrigation investment on the
completion of on-farm irrigation works and O&M, accelerate use of contractors,
provide equipment and replacements to carry out the agreed on-farm works and
O&M program, and provide standing technical assistance, will be key for the
rapid expansion of wet farming. Amongst the parastatals, agreements to
develop and implement management improvement action programs for TZDK and
TIGEM in their new roles would render more efficient the use of government
resources operated by these institutions, and smoothen the introduction of
liberalized fertilizer and seed distribution systems (paras 6.37-6.39).
1/ LIV, WPs 7A-7C.
2/ Due to increased demand for family labor in the less developed regions.



- 43 -
E. Risks
8.13     1985 should witness the transition in Turkey between economic
stabilization and the beginning of sustained growth. At tt macro level, and
also for its agricultural sector development programs, the Government has put
in place many of the policies designed to bring about a fundamental change in
the sector towards outward orientation and reliance upon market mechanisms.
However, these actions have to be balanced against the possible disruptive
effects on agricultural production while the program is being introduced.
8.14     The main risk is the shock effect of reduced subsidization associated
with the proposed agreement to increase retail fertilizer prices to border
price levels. The possibility of a major shock effect is considered slight,
however, since the rate of phase-out through end-1988 would proceed at a
considerably slower pace than occurred in 1980-81 and again in 1984 (para.
6.15).1" The expectation of a minimal shock effect is derived from an
analysis of fertilizer demand and farm level income patterns ' as a result
of adopting the entire policy package for agriculture as detailed above.
8.15     On the other hand, the annual amount allocated to finance the
fertilizer subsidy presently is equivalent to about 0.8X of GDP. In value
terms, this represents a sum equivalent to the incremental value-added of
two-three years' real growth in sectoral GDP. Were the subsidy to be
maintained, the amount would likely increase substantially over the medium
term as a result of agricultural intensification. The financing of the
subsidy would therefore pose a far greater risk in that the additional fiscal
resources are unlikely to become available except through inflationary deficit
financing or increased reliance on the PSF. 3' Such could effectively
endanger the import liberalization policies, as well as effectively discourage
the agricultural export drive. Maintenance of retail subsidization under
these conditions presents a far greater risk to the entire stabilization and
agricultural sector adjustment program than the possible shock effect of
raising fertilizer prices. A rapid phase-out of the retail subsidy is
therefore an essential element of the policy reform package.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01     The Government's agricultural adjustment program has been set forth
in a Statement ot Agricultural Sector Policies (Annex 1). On the basis of
this program, the confirmed schedules for implementation (Annex 2), and the
agreements and specific assurances obtained during negotiations, the approval
of the proposed loan to the Government of Turkey in the amount of $300 million
is recommended for a term of 17 years at the standard variable interest rate
with a grace period of four years.
1/ The resultant production tremors proved inconsequential.
2/  cf LIV, WPs ID, 7A-7D.
3/ The former would entail a loss of fiscal discipline while the latter would
require an augmentation of PSF sources (levies on selected imports and on
agricultural exports).



G N\
ol



- 45                                ANNEX 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Statement of Agricultural Sector Policies - 1985



lll
,\s



Annex 1
- 47 -                                Page 1
Hr. A. W. Clausen
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Clausen:
The Turkish Government has now completed the fifth year of the
Government's program for restructuring the economy. The adjustment program
has helped Turkey to expand exports and realize external balance. Under the
Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (1985-1989), the Government will continue to
encourage improved productivity in areas of comparative advantage and further
progress in increasing export earnings. We have also begun to broaden the
adjustment process by emphasizing policy and institutional reforms at the
sectoral level, which vill be developed further over the next five years.
During this period, the Government has assigned highest priority to reforms in
the agricultural sector.
The annexed Statement of Agricultural Sector Policies sets forth the main
elements of the Government's medium-term program for adjustment in primary
production policies and for further rationalization of public investment, and
our economic and financial policies for the agricultural sector. It
encompasses policy and institutional reforms underway or to be undertaken in
1985 and 1986. I am therefore writing you at this time to request an
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan in the amount of $300 million during 1985
to support the Government's program for structural change.
/a/ Danet Kaya Erdem
Deputy Prime Minister
and Minister of State



Annex 1
-48-                                    Page 2
STATEMENT OF ACRICULTURAL SECTOR POLICIES - 1985
1. Macroeconomic Perspective
1.01     The medium-term framework for economic restructuring has been set out
in the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (1985-89) which was approved by the
Parliament in mid-1984. The basic theme is a continuation of outward oriented
development with increased reliance on market forces. The development
strategy will continue to be based on sustained export growth. Agricultural
exports will continue to play a significant role with agricultural growth
increasingly coming from higher productivity and through a crop mix which
better reflects Turkey's comparative advantage. The Government's medium-term
policy is that import restrictiohs should not be used to protect domestic
producers. Bence the further liberalization of fertilizer feed stocks, seeds
and certain processed agricultural commodities have been included in the
import liberalization program during 1985. The strategy requires that the
private sector be allowed to play a leading role. since export growch is
critically dependent on private entrepreneurs developing their comparative
advantage. In this context, the direct activities of the state would be
confined mainly to the development of infrastructure (including irrigation)
geared to supporting the development of the private sector. In order to raise
output growth, public investment in agriculture will be maintained at least at
a Level of about 10% of total public investment, and we intend to allocate an
average of 352 per annum of the funding for irriRation and drainaze to the Core
Program for Irrigation and Drainage.
II. Azricultural Sector Perspective
2.01     In the agricultural sector, attainment of the Government's
macropoLicy objectives has been and will continue to be facilitated by trade
liberalization, improved producer price policies. reduction of subsidization,
and redirection of government resources toward productive investment in areas
supporting private sector initiative and fostering technological change.
2.02     Under the Government"s outward oriented strategy, the agricultural
sector is expected to continue to play an important role in
the economy over the medium term. The basic objective of the strategy is to
complete the transition of farming during the Fifth Plan period from the low
technology. low growth and highly subsidized system of the late 1970s to a
more cdmmdrcialized, export oriented and self-reliant system. The transition
would be realized mainly through the reinforcement of programs wbich aim to
(i) enhance the value-added in production through crop intensification on
irrigated and rainfed lands; (ii) increase animal productivity; (iii) improve
export marketing, and (iv} stimulate raw material supplrs eo the
agroprocessing industries. The policy and institutional reforms needed to
achieve these objectives have been identified and considerable progress has
been .adq since 1980 to implement these. The adoption of an appropriate



- 49 -                                 Annex 1
Page 3
exchange rate and improved export incentives has helped agricultural exports
to increase by over 501 between 1979 and 1984. while export values of
processed agricultural goods by 1984 had increased five-fold since 1979.
Although a period of adjustment was required to permit farmers to adapt to the
new policies, the average rate of growth of agricultural CDP (net of
inflation) in 1982 and 1983 reached 3.11 (as compared to an average annual
growth rate of 1.42 during 197C-79).  Agricultural GDP growth in 1984 is
estimated at about 3.7%.
2.03     Government's interventions in the sector have been significantly
redirected from subsidies and regulation to investments' and technological
improvemencs. In addition to the general liberalization of agricultural
trade, livestock and wheat exports (and all grain imports) were liberalized in
1984. Opportunities to export since 1980 have resulted in a broad rise in
producer prices.  This obviated the need for extensive state involvemenc to
provide attractive prices for farmers. The system of comuodity support prices
was therefore replaced by one of protective floor prices in 1984, and the
number of affected conmodities was reduced from 25 to 13.  In addition to the
general Liberalization of agricultural trade, livestock and wheat exports (and
wheat imports) were further liberalized in 1984. We shall concinue to
review cte efficiency of floor pricing policies and imporc restrictions
for sugar and of export duty levels for traditional export crops.
2.04     On the production inputs side, plant protection subsidies have been
eliminated and private sector distribution of chemicals has been introduced.
Regulations impeding the introduction of imported seeds and inhibiting private
investment in seed production have been substancially reformed. Fertilizer
shortages have been eliminated while the fertilizer retail price subsidies
have been sharply reduced and the local fertilizer manufacturing industry made
more efficient. Farm machinery prices were set free in 1984, which both
resulted in a lowering of domestic farm machinery prices and facilitated farm
machinery exports  We have recently reduced tariffs for machinery
imports and eliminated quantitative resErictions for equipment
imports. In the area of public investment, the share of agriculture in
Government investment has increased from 72 in 1980 to an average of
9.5Z during 1982-1984. This investment has been made more effecilve througn
greater emphasis on quickly gestating projects, concentrating resources in the
irrigation sector on a smaller number of projects to accelerate their
completion, and delaying the start of new, large projects. Organizational
reforms have been implemented to create the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry
and Rural Affairs (MAFiA) by merging the previous MAF and the rural services
directorates of various ministries.  These reforms aim to hasten the
completion of.on-farm irrigation works and the Government's basic rural
infrastructure package. An attendant decentralization of MIAFRAs maim servi_e
agencies will accelerate the transfer of improved technology to tarmers.  To
this end, a general reorganization, program reformulation, redeploysent of
staff aid a devolution of expenditure authority is being carried out to
introduce more flexible and responsive farmer tecbnical support while
con3oli4ating MAFRAls diverse field services for agricultural research,
extension, crop protection and animal disease control.



- So-                                  Annex 1
-- 50 ~Page 4
2.05     To finance future agricultural development, the Government's policy
is to augment the recovery of public investment ecxpenditures from identifiable
beneficiaries, reduce the growth of recurrent costs, and gradually shift
responsibility for the financing of primary production and agricultural
marketing from general revenues to the banking system. Thus, irrigation water
charges have been increased to have the beneficiaries of government investment
bear a larger share of the costs, while agri:ultural interest races have again
been increased to close the gap between these and current intlation. In
parallel, organization reforms are being implemented for the Agricultural Bank
of Turkey, to improve both its financial planning and management capabilities
and the effectiveness of its agricultural credit service to farmers.
III. Directions for Agricultural Sector Reform
3.01     As outlined below, the reforms to be carried out in 1985 and 1986
will aim co revitalize primary production, and to render more effective the
public investment program for agriculture and sectoral economic and financing
policies. The Government intends to extend and deepen the reforms in the
agricultural sector with emphasis on (i) reducing producer subsidization while
maintaining adequate incentives; (ii) further improvement in the input
distribution, marketing, and credit channels (concentrating on fertilizer, but
also including improved seeds); (iii) improved allocation of public investment
in agriculture, particularly in irrigation (66S of government agricultural
investment); (iv) strengthening MAFKA's research, extension, Irotection and
disease control services; (v) increased infrastructure investment, with a
higher priority in the 28 less developed provinces; and (vi) strengthening
management, planning, policy analysis and public expenditure programing in
the sector.
3.02     In parallel, the L985-1986 program will include the development
within MAFRA of a capability to carry out sector policy analysis. During 1985
and 1986, reviews will be carried out to improve the overall flow of resources
for agriculture. MAFRA, through its Planning. Research and Coordinacion
Bureau (APK) will undertake systematic post-evaluation of completed sectoral
projects. Reforms will be idencified to improve overall planning and monitoring
for the agricultural credit system, in order to augment direct farmer lending.
Actions will also be identified to reform the agricultural state enterprises
and the Sales and Credit Cooperatives, to enable them to operate more
efficiently within the new commercial environment, and to augment the flow
of indirect financial resources through these entities to farmers.
IV. Sector Economic Policies
4.01    Planning and Analysis.  The Government's ability to provide
appropriate policies to guide the agricultural sector in accordance with the
above objectives was strengthened in June 1984 with the establishmenc of a
Policy Analysis Unit within MAFRA's APK with responsibility to (i) review
the performance of Government's entities which intervene in Turkey's



- 51-
Annex 1
agricultural operations; (ii) advise on agricultural trade policies; (iii) advise on
produ:er floor price and inputs policies; and (iv) review performance under
five-year plans and annual investment programs. The Government also recently
established a fertilizer monitoring unit within APK to assist in programming
and monitoring of the fertilizer distribution system.
4.02     Public Expenditure Policies.  We intend to give top priority in
resource allocation to the completion of essential irrigation works and to
meet the increased need Eor effective agricultural research and extension. To
increase their effectiveness. we intend to prioritize projects and concencrate
investment on those having high economic and social benefits, and quick'
gestation.
4.03     The Covernment also intends to improve the overall planning and
programming of public expenditure for agriculture, and to strengthen the
project selection, monitoring and evaluation capabilities ot NfMA's APK. In
this connection, APK has already been given general authority to review
agricultural programs and plans,
4.04     Trade Regime.  The agricultural trade regime has been progressively
liberalized since 1980. Reforms vhich were introduced in January 1984
effectively freed grain exports and liberalized agriculcural commodity and
factor imports, particularly improved seed varieties. The Government has
also further liberalized seed imports.
V. Inputs Pricing and Distribution Systems
A. Seeds Pricing and Distribution
5.01     The Government has given high priority to reforms in the Turicish
seeds industry, to stimulate the importation and diffusion of superior
varieties, and thereby rapidly raise crop yields. The Government's
medium-term objectives in the area of seeds are to improve the seedc
multiplication and distribdtion system and encourage competition by
strengthening the capabilities of the private sector. Major policy retorms
were incorporated in a series of decrees issued in 1983 and 1984 to encourage
the development of a private sector seeds industry through fQreign seed
companies' participation in joint ventures; relaxed importatton, testing and
ce?tification procedures; and by deregulating seed pricing.  These measures
have already produced significant results in attracting the establishment oi
private sector seed companies. Production of vwieat and barlqy seed will
remain, however. primarily within the public sector since thqir high retention
rate -by farmers preve6ts profitable private marketiig of theqe seeds.



- 52 -
Aninext
Page 6
5.02     During 1985, the Covernment intends to submit a revised seeds law for
legislature approval, consolidating and incorporating the reforms of the
existing law contained in the subsequent decrees and regulations.
Concurrently, Government intends to devise a national seed industry
development plan to provide detailed policies for promoting a national seeds
industry under the new law, and intends to help establish a Turkish Seed Industry
Association as a recognized coordinating entity for private seed producers.
The previous system of contract seed growers will be improved, and
multiplication of self-pollinated varieties will be turned over to fulLy
commercialized certified seed growers.
B. Fertilizer Pricing and Distribution
5.03     Much progress has already been made in improving the fertilizer
distribution system. The production of Turkey's fertilizer industry has
reached about 60-70% of capacity, due to improved availability of imported raw
materials and more favorable ex-factory prices. A fertilizer factory
rehabilitation program has been undertaken which when completed and fully
operational in L988 should enable most factories to sell fertilizer at prices
compecitive with world market prices.
5.04     Pricing.  The heavy burden of the current subsidies on the budget and
the financial system (with fertilizer subsidies amouncing to more than 1% of
GDP) preempts resources which could be more effectively employed in increasing
agricultural production through other means. Nevertheless, the Government has
recognized chat too abrupt changes in fertilizer pricing policies could
disrupt agricultural production in the short run. Therefore, we have followed
a policy since 1983 of gradually reducing the retail Eerti-lizer subsidy. In
line with these policies, the Government increased fertilizer recail prices by
60% in nominal terms in January 1984 and again by 40% in Augusc 1984 and by
20% in February 1985.  We intend to continue to phase out the
remaining subsidy by the end   of 1988 except that needed for (i) transportation
to remote, low income areas; (ii) the higher cost of domestic fertilizer
manufacturing over CIF trend prices, until the factory rehabilitation program
is fully effective; and (iii) tge higher than normal costs of fertilizer
distribution until the improvements in the distribution system are fully
operacional.
5.05     Our goal is to provide the domestic manufacturers with clear signals
on policy reference prices by bringing ex-factory prices to levels of imparct
prices of comparable products. At the same time, we. intend to provide
manufacturers with the opportunity and incentives to improve their product to
meet the dem4nd of farmers.  As part of this process, in_Augus:t 1984 we
announced'a ubstancial improvement in the basic ex-faccory pricing formula.
Ex-factory prices are now linked to a doLlar price adjusted semiannual.y for
each product, with monthly adjustments for exchange rate fl_: _              -



Annex 1
- 53                              Page 7
5.06     Distribution System.  Our goals are to reestablish a competitive
distribution system to promote efficiency and improve services to farmers.
This will be done through (i) encouraging participation in fertilizer
distribution by fertilizer manufacturers and private traders at the wholesale
level and expansion of the retail network to areas not currently well served
through the introduction of private sector retailers. To this end, we will
progressively remove the obstacles to such participation, starting with the January
1986 fertilizer pricing decree         (ii) improving DONATIM's management
structure and financial and operating capabilities in order to reduce the
burden of its current stockirg and distribution management practices on the
Government budget and extra-budgetary resources; (iii) liberalizing imports
and bringing domestic fertilizer availability in line with cost-saving opportunities
offered by use of higher analysis fertilizers; and (iv) providing adequate access
to fertilizer purchase credit to farmers under revised pricing and liberalized
distribution arrangements. These reforms will be introduced in two phases. The
first will last until December 31, 1988, while the retail subsidy is being phased
out.  During the second phase, a further withdrawal of Government regulation
is intended, managed carefully to prevent inadvertent disruption of fertilizer
supplies.
5.07      To support implementation of this policy framework, the Government has
established a fertilizer monitoring unit within its MAFRA which will coordinate
the introduction of manufacturers and private traders into fertilizer distribution,
and the delineation of the marketing areas to be taken up by each distributor to
ensure adequate availability of all types of fertilizer throughout the country.
To liberalize progressively fertilizer importation, Government intends to
establish procedures to allow direct fertilizer imports by private traders and
fertilizer manufacturers following the phlase-out of the retail subsidy. It is
expected that this system will begin to operate in 1989. To improve DONATIM's
capabilities, and enable it to effecitvely adjust to the new system, Government
intends to carry out a comprehensive Management Improvemenc Study for TZDK
during 1985 and 1986.
5.08      Financing/Credit Arrangements.  Measures will be taken to make
adequate amounts of credit available through TCZB/Credit Coops to meec farmers'
increasing credit requirements as the fertilizer subsidy is phased out, and
to provide farmers with access to such credit under uniform terms and conditions
whether they purchase through TZDK, the Credit Cooperatives or alternative (new)
channels. The fertilizer manufacturers, private distributors and at some later
date'TZDK and cooperatives will be expected to finance distribution through
commercial channels.



54 -                         Annex 1
Page 8
-   .        VI.  Irrigation and Drainage Investment Program
6.01      The Government continues to assign the highest priority to public
irrigation investment, As part of an effort to accelerate completion of
on-farm development works, we have begun to use private contractors for such
works which had previously been carried out almost entirely by force account.
The Agrarian Reform Law vas revised in December 1984 so as to require land
consolidation only in such large, contiguous irrigation service areas where
the benefits of extensive use of agricultural machinery can be realized. We
bave also made pcogress in incresing the share of the operation and
maintenance costs financed tbrough irrigation water charges, increased t.he
penalties for delinquent payment of such charges, and recovering the capital
costs for on-farm works.
6.02     The Governmeat recognizes, however, that the current backlog between
areas with compLeted major irrigation works and the completion of on-farm
development is large (exceeding 300.000 ha) and is increasing with the
progress achieved La accelerating completion of major works.  To help            _
alleviate this problem we will, beginning with the 1986 Public Investment
Program, Increase the sbare of resources being provided for on-farm work oan
about 65 completed and ongoing projects of the State Hydraulic Works Agency
(OSI), with particular concentration on drainage and soiL conservation baving
hlgb incremental benefits; To these ends, an investment program for tbe
irrigation and drainage subsector would be carried out between 1986-1989 to
(i) overcome the backlog of on-farm woris on ongoing or completed DSI
projects, (ii) provide equipment and othor assistance to rehabilitate and
improve the level of maintenance on all completed surface drainage networks,
(iii) provide assistance foc the reclamatiou of saline lands withia irrigated
areas, sad (iv) provide access roads along irrigation and drainage channels co
permit regular maintenance and repairs. It is intended that Such work will be
our Core Investment Program for the irrigation subsector, and it will be
assigned the highest investment priority until the on-farm irrigation
developmeat backlog bas been overcome. During the past three years we have
been assigning top priority for new OSI projects to those having high bconomic
returns aod we propose to continue this policy. begisaing in 1986. we intend
also to make our decisions for the continued funding of ongoing projects on
the basis of the same criteria, to be screened conjointly with OS1's new
proposals. To effectively implement these policies, steps will be taken
to strengthen the planning, coordination and implementation capabilities of che
responsible agencies.



Annex 1
Page 9
VIZ. KAFRA's Agricultural Technology
and Informatlon Services
7.01     A major initiative was announced by Government on June B. 1984, to
reorganize and consolidate the main service deparcuents of HAFMA, broaden the
ministry , responsibilities for the planning and managemeAt of agricultural
sector policies, and decentralize program formulation and execution, including
pooling of facilicles, staff, equipment and budgeting for MAFRA's diverse
field services. The implementation of this reform. particularly as it azfects
the field operations of ERARA's extension. research, crop protection and
vsterinary services, thus constituces a third pcimry techAnicl requisite -
along with the seeds and irrigation development program - for stimulatlng
improved production technologies at the farm level.  Uader :be new KAFRA
organization, Governmnt fully. Lteands to implement the reform  to research
and extension agreed under the Agricultural Extension and Applied Research
Project.
7.02     Our imediate objectives are co complete the consolidation of
extension and resesrch at regional and provincial levels and to firm up
arrangements for affective technical leadershlp of the field services, and, to
this end, Government intends to appoint during 1985 a National Agricultural Research
and a National Agricultural Extension Coordinator. The ongoing consolidation of
MAA's diverse extension activities at the provincial level will be compleced
iu 1985 while conjoint prograiming, budgeting and program implementation will
be instituted beginning 1986.
7.03     An important area needing reviev is the prioritization and
impLementation of crop and animal husbandry research. Our medium term
objective is co strengthen the process of identifyicfg and prioritizing
national and local research projects, then to strengthen the capability of the
research network to satisfy these priorities. As a first itep, the Government
established a ministerial research working group in March L984 to guide a
mid-term review whicb Government intends to carry out in connection itI the
Bank-assisted Agricultural Extension and Appiled Research 2rojeci. On the
research side, MAFRA intends tco enlarge this review to encompass the totality
of ita agricultural resenrch programs and research station functions, chen
revise its griorities, programs, procedures, staffing and training programs,
and constrrution and procurement plans as necessary to improve the qualicy and
usefulness qE research. At the same time, n ongoing evaluation system will
be developeq and established to monitor the efficiency of the approved
research prqjects and programs.



-56 -                                Annex 1
Wage 10
7.04     In the area of extension, we will carefully review the performance of
the new system being introduced ln the 16 provinces covered by the
Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project by end 1986. make
modifications as necessary, then formulate additional investment and staffing
programu to phase-in application of the project's extension principles
natlonwide.
VIII. Agricultural Financing Policies
8.01     The Government intends to prepare financial reforms affecting the
agricultural sector, augment the resources available for agricultural credit
and channel these in an efficient manner by strengthening the institutions in
this field. and improve the financial management of the agricultural SEEs.
These measures will complement actions being addressed in the context of the
SALs and the Second Agricultural Credit Project.
8.02     Agricultural Credit.  In the area Of agricultural credit, the
Governmenc's objectives are to strengthen its capability to carry out
prospective credit planning, lnitiate continuous monitoring of credit
utilization, augment the volume of resources available for agricultural credit
(consistent with overall financial stabilization objectives). and strengthen
the capabilities of the principal intermediaries involved. The Goveroment's
principal actions to date have beer the ;.atroduction of annual credit plans
and the progressive raising of inteoast rates with the objective of
eliminating their subsidization and thereby improving resource allocation,
increasing the availability of credit resources for the sector, and
-main.tainin  the financial viatility of sector financial institutions.  The
Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) has initiated the implementation of ics
action plan for insLitutional development, which is being supported under the
Second Agrciultural Credit Project. These reforms, chough still in the
initial stages of implementation, are expected to result in major improvements
in TCZB's efficiency.
8.03      The need for more systematic and comprehensive credit planning, both
annually and for the medium-term, will be addressed by Govqrnment during the
Fifth Five-Year Development Plan period.- In view of the priority given to
the agricultural sector, the Government intends to augment the availability
of resources for agricultural lending over the medium-term.
8.04      In addition to the ongoing work under the TCZB action program, the
Government will cause TCZB to review the adequacy of TCZB'q branch neEwork and
staffing in those regions where agricultural development it likely to be
focused during the Fifth Five-Year Plan period.



- 57 -
ANNEX 2
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Implementation Schedules and Semesterly
Schedule of Disbursements



I   X
"Ii
L



- 59  -                                                ANNEX  2
Page 1
TURKEY
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
Implementafon Schedule - Consultants
S Mlao               19S                            1                             1967
dALocmon    I    I_       III IV                      _I VI                          III
P    5ee    1213d5878  9    1111 21314 156  78911012 1 23456  7891112
1 DSI
Engierering& Reviwing                           TR II C ~V
Consultng Seivices              2 00             _                                                   _       __
2 GORS - kitgation
Engineering Consulting                          TR 1I   cNB
Servoces                       200              mmi  1                  T     :                                   E
TR A                RF
3 APx-MAFPA/MIS                    047                     mm
4 APK(M&E Units
TASKA2                        OO                   III       CWJF                                         
Floor Pnces                   003                                                                              1
FMUA                          0 03
5 MAFRA
TR I      C              RFI
- PesearCh Review               080
6 rZDK Temtdzef
-Management impovwement         030                   _                               I  _]
7 TIGEMfTZDI( (Seedis)
Sale Caoperahng Stud_y        030                                                           j                      l I
TOTAL (Consultant)    62
TR    Agree TORs
II   Issue Invitation
CS   Contract Signed
'NB   Wodk Begins
RF    Revew Findngs/Progress with Bank
a     Implemnentation of Results/Action Program Starts
_      mControct Financing Continued by Government                             Woed Bonk-27450



-  60 -                                               ANNEX  2
Page 2
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Implementation Schedule - Overseas Training
S Mlion             1985                         1986                        1987
AllocIion    -                      I   1 1                   I      I w   l              IV
Prced   11  3 4 51617 8 910 1111211213 4 56  718 19 10 1112 11 21 3 4 56 781a 9 10 1112
O SI                                                                 HE   EE    EEE EIEIE    i
BI
2 GOIS                      1ui 
DD I    ggOD BP
4 rLDK                      010                                               mm * *****
5 TlGEM                     010
TOTAL      2,30
(Training)____
DP Draft 1raning FaWogm to Banik
BT Training Begis
World Bank-27451



- 61 -                                                     ANNEX  2
Page 3
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Implementation Schedule - Procurement of Goods
S Mllbn               1985S 966                                                     1967
Alklicemon              III     IV       I      ifII   III  I  IV      I       It     IIII    IV
t Loan      _                             _
Proxeeds  123 4 516  78  9 10 1112 1 213 4 5 617 8 _910111 21 23 4 516  78 a 9101112
I INVESIMENT GOODS
I1 IrigIpwn0 - DSF
Lcpumoont [OF Rt~ObICIatAiaon &
Maintenanceofa Surface Drain                     pi      1I     BE CA     D
aguSystom                     11 X 
1 2 Soocis Multiplication  11LkM
PT        IT      BE C      DB
Equipment                        540 
1 3 ~4AfIAIS - APK
PT IT DO
Equipment (I ardware) &                                        PrI 
SoftWOFO                        210                                             n 1    0
PT     CAntect ArP
(invetrnen Goods)                                                                                    W
2 IMPORTED AGRICLILTURA[ INPUT
2 1 Feritiie - TZDI(
PT T          D
2200                        f
5000                                          ff      BE      D
5040                                                       I        EC 
2 2Seocls- TIGE M                                             PT000                     D 
10.00
SuBloTA                     17240
(inputs)                     10
(Goods)                  I
Pr  Prepae renders
IT  Issue TenGers
BE Bid Evaluation
CA Controct Awaird
D   Delh(ov                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank - 2 74)2



- 62 -                               ANNEX 2
Page 4
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Semesterly Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
(US$ million equivalent)       Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year             During Semester   Cumulative         (X)
1986
July 1, 1985-Dec. 31, 1985              35.0             35.0          11.7
Jan. 1, 1986-June 30, 1986             165.0            200.0          66.7
1987
July 1, 1986-Dec. 31, 1986             60.0             260.0          86.7
Jan. 1, 1987-June 30, 1987             40.0             300.0         100.0



-3ANNEX 3
- 63 -
TURKEY
AGRICULTJRAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Performance Indicators



NI
I



- 65 -                          ANNEX 3
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Performance Indicators
Tables
3.1   Agricultural Production:  1980-84 (actual), 1985-89 (projected)
3.2   Use of Major Agricultural Inputs:  1980-83 (actual), 1985-89
(projected)
3.3   Sector Contribution to GDP:  1980-84 (actual); 1985-89 (projected)
3.4   Sector Contribution to Exports and Imports:  1980-83 (actual),
1984 (estimated), 1985-89 (projected)
3.5   Estimates of Budgetary Expenditures in Agriculture (Financial):
1979 and 1983 (actual), 1985-89 (projected)
3.6   Investment Financing for Eight Agricultural SEEs:  1980-83 (actual?;
1984 (program), 1985-89 (projected)
3.7   Historical and Projected Agricultural Credit:  1980-83 (actual),
19&8 -89 (projected)
3.8   Summary Performance Ratios



,,,
Q



- 67 -EK .
Table 3.1
TURKEY
AGRICULTUtAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT LOMI
Agricultural Production
('000 tons)
Actual                      Adiustment Proagram           Projec-    Avg. Annual
Average                                                               ted          Growth X
198Q-82       198      198          lq8        Mm8       lw8          1989         1985-89
CROPS /I
Cereals             25_=E    24-366          M S 1.              24-I10     24-416       ZL2S!          1I
Wheat              17.000    16.400    17.200        15.230    15.481    15.736        16.260          1.6
Barley              5.867     5.425      6.200        6.516     6.555      6.594        6.674          0.6
Corn                1.267     1.480      1.200        1.482     1.525      1.570        1.662          2.9
Others              1.244     1.061        991          570       544        516          454         -5.1
Pulses                  974     1-370      1.426        1-361     1.414      1A469        I586           3.9
Industrial Croos
Sugar beet         10.221    12.770    12.000        13.591    13.890    14.196        14.827         2.2
Cotton (lint)         492       522        514          520       531        543          566          2.1
Tobacco               201       226        220          230       238        246          263          3.4
Oilseeds              1 546     1.694      1_697        1.71S    1799       1.887        2-079
Cotton seed           788       835        816          832       850        868          904          2.1
Others                758       859        881          883       949      1.019        1.175         7.4
Citrus Fruits         1.177     1.299        n/a        1.617     1.716      1.821        2.049         6.1
ther Fruits           2.661     3.096      2.884        2.188     2.255      2.323        2.469          3.0
ubits                 0S1        641        520          604       624        645          688          3.3
I~a                   324       436        570          491       521        553          622         6.1
LIVESTOCK LZ
Red Meat              900       928        9S9          989     1.021      1.054        1.122          3.2
Milk                5.431     5.064        n/a        5.838     5.984      6.133        6.444          2.5
LI  Source:  Historical data from SIS Sumnary of Agricultural Statistics (1980-83) and SPO
(1984).  Projections of annual growth rates derived from TASM2 (base run).  The base year
for projections of production has been estimated by cross-checking the SIS historical data
with a variety of other sources (see WP 7F and 7A). Oue to some recognized shortcomings in
the SIS historical data. the projected series is therefore not entirely consistent with the
1980-84 historical data. In particular. present production of wheat is estimated at only
about 14.500 tons.
/2 Source: Oata for meat based on SrS. SPO and mission's estimate (see WP 7F). Historical
data (for milk based on SIS statistics and projections derived from TASM2/base run).



- 68 -
ANEX 3
Table 3.2
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Use of Haior Acricultural Innuts
Actual /1                   Adiustment Proaram /2
Average                                                          Projected
1980-82     193        18             2S       g6       lB            9S4
Ferttilzers
( 000 nutrient tons)          1-272.9   1iZ69.4      n/a        1.708.5   1.689.1   1.822.3   2L116.7
N                          7.577.3      994.2     n/a        1.028.9   1.005.3   1.080.S    1.245.5
p                            515.6      635.2     n/a          679.6      683.8     741.8       871.2
Certified seeds ('000 tons)        11i       223        n/a                                          __ _2  1  3
Cereals seeds                 86        185       n/a          224        246       271         328
Others                        45         38       n/a           46         51        56          68
Tractors (1000)                    414       458        n/a         460        460        460        493
Lf   Source: MAFRA/APK
LZ   Sougr:  derived from TASM2 base run proJections.



- 69 -
aMcX 3
Table 3.3
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Sector Contribution to Gross Damnestic Product
Actual /1                 Adiustment Program /2         Projec-    Avg. Annual
Average                                                           ted LZ      Growth S
1990-82        1983?M              I8 1829              133Z      19892m
Gross Damstic Product
GOP: billion TL (constant
1983 prices)                    -      11.467.9   12.121.6   12.699 .7  13.366.4  14.1:4.3  IS.898.9
Annual growth rate (:)            2.8          3.7         5.7        4.8        5.2        5.6        6.2        5.6
Of Which
Agriculture: billion TL
(constant 1983 prices)         -       2.058.0    2.132.1    2.191.8   2.255.4   2.320.8   2.469.3            -
Annual growth rate (ZI            2.7         -0.3         3.6        2.8        2.9        2.9        3.2        3.0
Share of Agricultural
Sector (:)                       21.7         17.9       17.6        17.3       16.9       16.4        5.S       -
a Source: SPO
LZ Source: Staff estimates of feasible growth rates fron RMSM (base case).



-70-                                             AINEX 
Table 3.4
TLREY
ACRICULTURAL SECTIR ADJUSTMENT LOU
sector contribution to Exoorts and !uorts
Actual                Adlustmaent Proor a. 
Projec-  Avg. Annual
Average                                                         ted a      Growth S
1980-82/1   19A3/1   ]iA9f42      7i8      i2m       J2L    -J989-89
(estimate)
Exoorts of Goods
(million US$)
Total value                  4.453.0   5,727.8    7.241.9   7,820.3   8.507.0   9.328.9   11.358.4          -
Amual growth rate (S)           36.5      -0.3       26.4         8.0       8.8       9.7       10.4       9.4
e/w Crops: million USS         1.734.3   1.498.5    1.644.9    1.691.0   1.748.4   1,811.4    :.953.S         -
Annual growth rate (S)          14.1     -13.3        9.8         2.8       3.4       3.6        4.0        3.5
./w Livestock:
(million USS)                    276.5    382.4       369.8      406.4    447.9    498.0         620.3       -
Annual growth rate (M)          70.3      -7.6        -3.3        9.9      10.2      11.2        11.6      10.9
Total Agriculture:
(million USS)                   2010.8   1.880.6    2.014.7    2.097.4   2.196.3   2.309.4    2.573.8        -
Anual growth rate (M)           16.8     -12.2        7.1         4.1       4.7       5.1        5.7       S.0
Share of Agriculture in
total exports of goods tS)       45.2      32.8       27.8        26.8      25.8      24.8       22.7
rmorts of Goods
(Million USS)
Total value                  S.561.8   9.235.0   10.063.0  10,754.1  11.472.4  12.296.6   14.2S0.7          -
Annual growth rate (X)          20.4       4.4        9.0         6.9       6.7       7.2        7.7       7.2
oI' Agricultural products:
(million USS)                    117.4    138.0       337.1      352.5    369.4    387.6         430.1       -
Anual growth rate (X)           69.0    -21.7        144.3        4.6       4.8       4.9        5.4       S.0
Share of Agriculture in
total iports of goods CX)         1.4       1.S        3.3         3.3       3.2       3.2        3.0
LI Source: S70.
LI Staff esti1tes of feasible growth from RH145  (base case), in constant 1983 prices.



4SICLUaL  iTOl AnJU4TMMT LOm
11979 am  1903 atu as  19S-19S9 In projected  Current-L bIllion)
-----------------Actual---------                _            ------------------------------------Adjustnt Progrm ---Projected-
1970                      i,~~~~~~~sal                    19tin                             115fi                           19117                               ltea
nv as                            In, as                           Inv as                           Inv as                            t3t as                             Inv  as
Im    Rec   Total  S Total   Inv   tet   Total  1 Total   Inv   Rec   Total  % Total   Inv                  ec   Total  I Total   Inv   hec   Total  X Total    Inv    ac   Total   I Total
Tiniaativa A.rieultural Pro.ras
IZrrigation Program                     13.4     2.6   16.0    54        70,1   17.4   *7.9        00    200.0   46.7  246.7    II    241.2   45.1    5  7    90             291.5   12       221.5   90       214.s    40.4   40.         go
Mural Infrastructure (Roads.
llectricIty *nd Water Supply)   11.9          3.2   16.1    75        43.3   20.9   64.2 6U     7        3.0   40.1  123.1    s7        102.2   10.7  111.9    57         III.s   61.4   151.7   66         15.2    54.U   243.0 e      5
rTeChnicl Support Services             O.      6.1    6.6        7      10.9   24.1   35.4    31         22.0   46.3   05.3    32         U8.4   57.7   S6.1       33       31.5   65.5   104.3   34         41.       IS.!   i31.7       33
lags LI                                  NA6                    NA         NA                     NA       7.9     -       7.9   Igo       10.0      -     10.0   lOS         IN.#    .        12.0  Ida       IS.$      -       u.s    iee
Prtrm  Overhead U                      _L       Li   1          ii      .J4    iL       .LLI      A      .U .L_ Lf2      -.        A tIL           ALl  iLl         .1 JJ.    Al A                    .1 2.1           iLl    -AL l1
Total Current                     25.9   12.    30.7    67         121.6   50.0  201.6    61        314.e  167.5  452.1    G1    314.2  194.7  178.9    66              443.9  217.0   610.9   65    506.3   295.0   570.3    67
Total Constant 1983               66,4    32.5   99 2    S7        125.6   50.0  203.6    61    170.2   90.3  260.7    65             173.1   07.7  260.5    64         101.9   85.1   267.0   64        184.9    92.1   277.e    67
forestry a                              0.0     3.0     1.6    16         0.5     1.3    1.e       9      16.1   64.9   01.0    20         36.2   54.1  110.7    30          25.1   42.2    70.3   40          37.1    13.6    92.7    45
fishwrIes                               -       0.1    0.1        0       0.3    0.1      0.5    37        0.9     1.0    1.9    47          III    1.1    2.3    so           1.3     1.2      2.5   &I        1.6      1.6 ".2    so
other Social Infrastructure             e            -  -  Z. 7           LA      34    iL        I         lu 1L Uu7               U       L      ILl   iL1         ia1     ZL7 1     A      _Ll    U         iL       i       4         11
Total Current                       0,4     2.1    3.7    16         9.5     9,7   19.3    l0        33.0   76,5  I1O,7    31          077 90.4  116.1    37             13.1   17.9   111.0   40         69.1     77.0        Is4,  47 
Total Constant 19I3 1.S    7.9    9.4                       16       9.6    9.7   19.3    S0         15.3   41.1 S    90.     31      26.0   44.3   70.3    37          20.5   22.7    43.1   40          21.9    24.3    44.a    47         -
Prtc  OSt  1l,atton FLid.
Current                                 .       -       -         -       -       -                        -      43.0   43.0       S       -      37.7   37.7        0              4.3    43.3       o                13.9    13.9 
Constant 19U3                           -                    -       -                 -                          23.2   23.2       0              17.0   17.0        0              17.0      17.0    0        -       17.0    '7.0       0
6EMI  TOTAL (current)                     26.5 1S.9   42.1 S         2     136.2   59,7  224.9    G0        345.6  257.4  536.0   1S    441.9  330.5  772.7    17              *17.9  310.2   531.2   62    61U1.   422.9 1.178.7    61
COAe TOTAL (constant 19,3)                 67.9   40.7  100.6    62        131.2   19.7  224.9    *0        las'.  111.52  3437        SS    199.1  149.0  145.1    17         319.7  124.2   3327.1       2    204.5   133.4   140.1    ii
Not"s:  inflation Indices:  197  * 39. 191  * lo. 1954 * 140. 190 UI INS. 1900 * 222, le7 * 20fS, 1905   2e9, 199   317
Inv * Invstmnt budeet
lec * Recurrent budqet
3 A4ricultural Seotar sllocatiOns only
L    AFIA exPenseS uiIch cUmot be attributed to specific proora.
U oes not Include revolvine fwud allocatIonS.
'a



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3.6
TURKE]Y
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Investment Financina for Ei1ht Aoricultural SEEs
(Current TL Billion)
Actual            Program        Adiustment Proaram        Prolected
1980-1982 1983           1984                      J816 9          1989
(Avg)
I. Sources
External
A. Budgetary transfers                    11.9      2.4          9.4        50.6    63.2    30.4          37.1
B. CBT and SIB credit                    37.4      -0.6          8.2        50.6    63.2    73.1          89.0
C. Short-term domestic borrowing         97.1    183.5         213.9       235.1   3^9.9   449.8         546.8
0. Price Stabilization Fund               0         0            0          43.0    37.7    43.4          53.9
E. Foreign borrowing                     -..2      -0.3         3.6-        42.1    52.6    12.2          14.8
Subtotal (current)                   146.2    185.0         235.1      421.4   526.6   608.9          741.6
Subtotal (constant 1983)             252.0    185.0         158.8       277.8   237.2   238.8         233.9
Internal
Profits/losses, minus taxes
due. plus depreciation              -51.5   -122.6        -1Z4.7       -40.5   -32.1   -31.0         -15.9
Total                                 94.7      62.4        110.4       380.9   494.5   577.9         725.7
* I. ADD1lications
A. Fixed investnent                       18.2     26.1         31.7        66.6    81.6    93.9         108.0
B. Stocks                                76_5      36.l        7Z.7        314.3   412.9   484.0         617.7
Total (current)                       94.7      62.4        110.4       380.9   494.5   577.9         725.7
Total (constant 1983)                163.2      62.4         74.3       205.9   222.7   226.6         228.9
Note:  SEEs included:  EBI (meat). TSEK (milk). SEKER (sugar). CAYKUR (tea). YENSAN (feed).
TIGEM (seeds). TZDK (fertilizer). ThO (grains)
Source:  Financing of Investments by Agricultural SEEs. SPO. October 1984. and
mission calculations from Working Paper 80.



- 73 -                                    MNELI
Table 3.7
TURltEY
ACRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Historical and Proiected Agricultural Credit
(current TL billion)
Outstanding                  Proiected Disbursements
Balances                Adiustment Proaram
1980-1982  fl8           12ti       im        12187 
(av)
I. Sources
A. Central Bank
1. Direct                                151      178           415        499       574        709
2. Indirect (through TCZB3               106       67            52         61        45         85
B. TCZ8                                     Z11      487           555        69Z        849     1.098
Total Sources                            468      732         1.067      1.332     1.633      2.112
11. ARltcatigns
A. Farm Credit
1. Normal                                114      253           456        561       662        862
2. Incremental Fertilizer Credit           -         -          196        272       397        541
B. Support Purchases                        283      A2Z           415        499        574       7Q9
Total
Current                               403      650         1.067      1.332     1.633      2.142
Constant 1983                         717      650           577        600       640        666
Sources:  For applications. WP BC. Annex 1. pp. 2. 4; for TZDK's. UP IC.
For sources. UP SC. page 6.
Note 1:   The projected disbursements result in outstanding balances which are within the warranted
credit limits for agriculture given below:
i983       T986        187        Jim         I89
------------- (current TL billion) -------------
1.194      1.517       1.870      2.274       2,719
Note 2:  Incremental fertilizer credit requirements are derived from Annex 4. Working Paper IC.
The requirements assume that retail fertilzer subsidies are phased out by end-1986. that
retail prices are 151 above ex-factory prices to allow for distribution marketing
margins, and that beginning in 1987. 90X of fertilizer sales are in credit. The figures
have been translated into current terms by applying the following inflation indices:
1984=100: 1985=125: 1986=150; 1987=172; 1988=195: and 1989=214.
Mote 3: Support purchases (mostly ThO) are financed by the Central Bank credits. Central Bank
also offers some minor amounts for rediscounting to TCZB.



-74 -                                      MhEX 3
Table 3.8
Page 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAU
Summary Performance Ratios
ctual   Adjustment Pro@ram LI          PriJected
1. Real Sectoral GOP Growth (X)                       -0.3     3      3         3              3
2.  Share Ag GOP/Total GOP (S                         17.9    17.3   16.9      16.4           15.5
3.  Real Export Growth (X)                           -12       5      5         S              5
4.  Share Ag Exports/Total Exports (X)                32.8    26.8   25.8      24.8           22.7
5. Production Growth Indicators (X)
Wheat                                                   1.6    1.6       1.6            1.6
Barley                                                  0.6    0.6       0.6            0.6
Industrial crops                                        2.2    2.2       2.2            2.2
oilseeds                                                7.4    7.4       7.4            7.4
Citrus                                                  6.1    6.1       6.1            6.1
6. Inputs Growth (Z)
Fertilizer (N. P)                                       3.8    3.8       3.8            7.7
Certified Seed                                         10.0   10.0      10.0           10.0
Tractors                                                0.0    0.0       0.0            3.5
7. Public Expenditure for Agriculture
and Village Infrastructure LZ                205.6   256.4  260.8    267.0            277.0
Growth Rate                                        -      11.0    1.6       2.4            4.8
8. Ratio of Agricultural Public
Expenditures to Agricultural GDP (X)          11       12     11        11             13
9. Ratio of Investment to Total
Agricultural Expenditures (X)                 61       65     66        68             67
10. Share of Investment Allocated to:
(i) Irrigation Program                         56       63     63       63             62
(ii) Technical Support Services                  9        7      7         a              7
OM1i) Rural Infrastructure                       34       26     27        26             27
LI Growth rates per annum in constant 1983 terms; values in constant 1983 TL billions.
Li  Includes irrigation. rural roads. electricity and water supply. technical support
services, and overhead expenditures for KAFRA. Excludes forestry, fisheries, other
social infrastructure and the Price Stabilization Fund.



- 75 -                                      MNEX 3
Page 2
Sunumry Perfonrance Rat1us (cont'd)
Actual    Adiustment Prooram            Prniected
11. Financial Sector Flows to
Agriculture (TL billion)                       713     730    756        786            802
Growth Rate                                                 1.2    3.6       4.0             1.0
12. Ratio of Oirect and Indirect Farmer
Lending to Other Credit Applications           75       62      61       65              66
13.  TCZB Financial Sources LI                        476      300    312       333             346
Growth Rate                                                 -      4         7              2
14. Central Bank and Other
Financial Sources                             237      430    444       453             456
Growth Rate                                                 -      3         2              0.3
IS.  Ratio of (13) to (143 (%)                        200       70      70       74              76
16. Ratio of Agricultural Public
Expenditures to Financial
Sector Sources (1)                             29       35      34        34             32
LI In 1977 the proceeds of the Price Stabilization Fund (PSF) for financing fertilizers
were transferred by Treasury to TCZB's accounts. Furthermore, until end of 1983.
TCZB1s resource position contained sizeable interest-free Government deposits which
later were reallocated. principally to Central Bank.



IN~~~~~~~~~~~
N\
I      i C
k~~~~ 1(
I    1\



ANNEX 4
- 77 -
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJIISTMENT LOAN
Fertilizer Subsector



- 78 -                            ANNEX 4
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Fertilizer Subsector
Table of Contents                                                   Page No.
I.      Current Situation
Fertilizer Consumption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Fertilizer Supply, Procurement and Distribution. . . . .  2
Pricing and Subsidies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Financing of Fertilizer Distribution and Purchases . . .  5
II.     Policy Objectives in the Subsector
Main Policy and Institutional Reforms . . . . . . . . .   7
Transition Period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Medium/Long Term Outlook. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
Impact at the Farm Level. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
III.    Managing the Transition
Eliminating the Subsidy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Phasing, Coordination and Monitoring in the Subsector    10
Distribution Margins and Payment of the S;ibsidy . . .    11
Financing and Credit Arrangements . . . . . . . . . .   12
Strengthening of TZDK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
import Liberalization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
Attachments
1. Tables
1. Fertilizer Production and Consumption by Products, 1972-1983
2. Fertilizer Consumption per Hectare of Arable Land, 1980
3. Estimate of Fertilizer Subsidies, Sept. 1984
4. Estimate of Fertilizer Subsidies, Feb. 1985
5. Fertilizer Subsidies in Turkey, 1974-1984
6. Impact of Subsidy Elimination on Fertilizer Consumption
Projections
7. Procurement of Fertilizer
2. Charts
1. Present Distribution System - Product Flow
2. Proposed Distribution System - Product Flow



79                              ANNEX 4
Page 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Fertilizer Subsector!Y
I. Current Situation
Fertilizer Consumption
1.01     Fertilizer use has become fairly widespread in Turkey following the
rapid increase in consumption which took place over the last two decades.
Fertilizer consumption has increased from 115,000 tons in 1961 to some 1.3
million tons in 1971 and 4.4 million tons in 1983 (Table 1). At present, it
is estimated that fertilizer is applied to more than 80Z of the total
cultivated area. As a result of the extensive areas planted under cereals,
wheat remains the single largest user of fertilizer (over one-third of the
total). However, cash crops such as cotton, sugarbeet, sunflower, tobacco and
some fruits and vegetables, if taken together, account for the major portion
of fertilizers consumed in Turkey. Due to agro-climatic and economic reasons,
fertilizer consumption has developed with greater intensity along the coastal
areas while the remote and less favorably endowed eastern areas have been
lagging behind.
1.02     In nutrient terms, about 1.6 million tons were consumed in 1983, of
which 1.0 million tons of N and 0.6 million tons of P. Only negligible
quantities of potassic (K) products are consumed, since Turkish soils are rich
in potash and do not require additional applications except in very localized
areas and/or for specific secondary crops.
1.03     Survey and trials on consumption of major nutrients (N and P) and
corresponding yields, conducted over several years, provide detailed data on
actual fertilizer application levels for various crops in each major
agro-ecological zone of the country and on corresponding yield responses to
increasing fertilizer application. The analysis of production functions
derived from these data shows that, given the other elements of the technology
packages currently applied by the farmers (i.e. seed varieties, weed control
and tillage practices, soil moisture conservation practices in dry areas,
etc.), the existing application levels of N and P are for most crops fairly
close to the financially optimum (profit maximizing) level. On the whole,
total fertilizer application in 1983 is estimated at 73Z of the level of
1/ This annex summarizes the current status of the fertilizer subsector in
Turkey and presents the rationale for specific policy and institutional
reforms to be introduced in fertilizer distribution and pricing. It also
outlines specific arrangements and measures for ensuring the transition to
increased efficiency in this subsector, and presents an agenda for a first
phase of action to be supported by the ASAL. All these aspects are
analyzed and described in more detail in Working Papers IA through 1E.



-80-                                   ANNEX 4
Page 2
application which would have maximized farmers' net income under the
prevailing cropping patterns, technological packages and fertilizer/crop price
ratios to the farmers. If only those areas actually receiving fertilizer are
considered, the average application levels are close to 90% of the profit
maximizing level. The amount of fertilizer used in relation to this level
does, however, vary significantly between different crops. Crop-specific data
show that sugarbeet and a significant number of cotton farmers are currently
using more fertilizer than is financially and economically desirable.
1.04     Despite the already high proportion of area cultivated with
fertilizers and the relatively high levels of application per unit area in
relation to the optimum, the average fertilizer consumption per hectare of
arable land appears to be relatively low in Turkey as compared to some of the
more developed Mediterranean countries (Table 2). Differences in resource
endowment (including climatic and soil conditions as well as irrigation
development) and in the ovezall technological level in agriculture, largely
account for these differences. Further increases in fertilizer consumption in
Turkey are to be expected essentially frcm (i) the generation and extension of
improved technology packages which, by increasing the crop yield response to
fertilizer use, would shift upwards the economically optimum level of
fertilizer application per unit area; (ii) changes in the cropping patterns
including in particular the intensification of land use patterns on existing
irrigated areas, and (iii) increases in irrigated areas.
1.05     Another noticeable feature of fertilizer consumption in Turkey is
that the range of products which is made available to farmers is fairly narrow
and standardized throughout the country. Low-analysis fertilizers are
predominant, particularly in the case of nitrogenous products, despite the
savings in transportation and field application costs which can be made at the
farm level through the use of high-analysis products. Similarly, phosphate is
offered to farmers largely in the form of triple superphosphate, despite
similar advantages offered by diammonium phosphate and compound products.
Most farmers have access to only one type of compound of fairly low analysis
(20-20-0). Outside of the standard product range, products and/or blends
adapted to the particular requirements of specific crops or soils are not
available in any part of the country. This situation reflects some of Lhe
shortcomings of the existing distribution/marketing system (para 1.11) and
would also have to be corrected in order to promote further progress in
fertilizer use and efficiency.
Fertilizer SuRply, Procurement and Distribution
1.06     Fertilizer consumption in Turkey is predominantly met from domestic
production. There are currently 7 main fertilizer manufacturing companies (2
in the public sector, 3 in the private sector and 2 jointly owned) with a
total nominal production capacity of 1.0 million tons cf N and 0.85 million
tons of P. The domestic fertilizer production, which had been about 30-40% of
capacity prior to 1980, has improved to about 60-70% of capacity at present,
largely due to improved availability of imported raw and intermediate
materials. In 1983, the domestic fertilizer production amounted to 3.6
million tons of product, equivalent to some 80% of total fertilizer
consumption in the same year. The balance of domestic consumption is met by



-81 -                                   ANNEX 4
Page 3
imports of finished fertilizers, mostly nitrogenous products and diammonium
phosphate. In addition, the import content of domestic production is
substantial, since the domestic industry is largely based on imported raw or
intermediate materials (representing up to 70S of the value of domestic
production of nitrogen). Two World Bank supported projects are underway
(Loans 1985-TU and 2131-TU) which support the rationalization of the domestic
fertilizer industry and the rehabilitation of several plants.
1.07     Since 1973, fertilizer procurement and distribution has been a
monopoly of two public agencies-the Agricultural Supply Organization (TZDK)
and the Sugar Factories Company (SEKER). TZDK handles all imports of finished
fertilizers and over 901 of domestic procurement and distribution. The
balance is handled by SEKER, mostly for deliveries to its registered sugarbeet
growers.
1.08     TZDK has an extensive network of 25 regional offices and 384 branch
offices. In 1983, TZDK sold a total of some 4.2 million tons of fertilizer.
Of this amount, about 391 was sold directly to farmers from TZDK's field
offices, 41Z was sold to farmers through the wide network (about 2,000) of
Agricultural Credit Cooperatives which retail fertilizer on behalf of TZDK,
131 was sold to Agricultural Sales Cooperatives and the balance (71) to other
institutions (Village Development Cooperatives, Chambers of Agriculture).
TZDK's own sales network, although widespread throughout the country, provides
only a fairly lingited number of retail outlets mostly located in or around
cities and towns. Penetration down to the village level is ensured by the
Cooperatives; the density of their coverage, however, varies between regions
with a relatively less intense market penetration in the eastern regions.
1.09     Under the existing distribution system, TZDK is responsible for the
organization and financing of fertilizer procurement, transportation and
delivery down to the final retail sales outlets, including Credit
Cooperatives. It bears the totality of the inventory carrying costs
associated with inter-seasonal storage. The arrangement between TZDK and the
Credit Cooperatives is on of a consignment basis, with payment due to TZDK
after actual sale to farmers.
1.10     Historically, TZDK's main duty has been to ensure the availability of
fertilizers throughout the country in adequate quantities and in a timely
manner, with all associated costs compensated by Government. While TZDK's
achievements are quite adequate in physical terms, the lack of incentive for
financial efficiency and cost-accountability has led to a wasteful use of
scarce Government funds. In this respect, the main shortcomings of the
existing distribution system include (i) excessive inventories for most
products, which could be remedied through improvements in demand forecasts and
improved phasing of fertilizer imports to match peak consumption seasons; (ii)
excess storage capacity together with insufficient preliminary location
analysis for additional warehouses; (iii) suboptimal and costly planning of
the allocation of supplies to the consuming regions; and (iv) insufficient
responsiveness to cost saving opportunities offered by high-analysis
fertilizers in transportation, packaging, handling and warehousing costs. The
preliminary results of a linear programming distribution model developed in



-82 -                                 ANNEX 4
Page 4
order to assist with future planning of fertilizer distribution and inventory
management show that savings of up to $50 million annually could be made
through improvements on these various aspects.
1.11     The virtual monopoly of TZDK as a supplier of fertilizer also has a
negative effect on the quality of the service provided to farmers. As TZDK
sees its role as being essentially logistical, it has limited its distribution
activities to a relatively small number of basic fertilizer types already well
known to farmers. At the same time, domestic manufacturers have up to the
present been shielded from their own market since TZDK is the sole customer,
automatically guaranteeing the purchase of factory outputs. There is no
incentive in the system to seek customer satisfaction through the provision of
a wider range of products, the promotion of new products and/or the provision
(either directly or through the extension service) of appropriate advice on
soil- or crop-specific requirements for fertilizers.
Pricing and Subsidies
1.12     Both the ex-factory prices of fertilizers and the prices paid by the
farmers (retail prices) are determined by Government through semi-annual
decrees. The Government's policy since the late 1960s has been to (i) protect
the domestic fertilizer industry through a system of administered ex-factory
prices set above the border equivalent of international prices, and (ii) set
uniform retail prices throughout the country at a low level in order to
encourage the use of fertilizers.
1.13     Until 1979, ex-factory prices were determined by a ne'otiated "cost
plus" method for each fertilizer type. Beginning in 1980 and in line with the
outward-oriented policies of Government, ex-factory pricing formulas were
adopted which link domestic prices with reference c.i.f import prices. Under
the original formula, temporary prices in TL terms were announced
semi-annually, with adjustments after the end of each six-month period to
account for changes in exchange rate and prices of imported materials. The
formula was simplified and substantially improved in August 1984. Ex-factory
prices are now linked to a dollar price adjusted semi-annually for each
product, with monthly adjustments in TL terms based on the prevailing exchange
rate. In this way, domestic manufacturers now operate under more certainty as
to ex-factory prices and are assured of adequate compensation for increases in
costs of imported materials resulting from exchange rate fluctuations. Since
1980, the gap between domestic prices and their border price equivalents has
been effectively narrowed, and is targeted to close by 1988. As of the second
half of 1984, ex-factory prices were at about par with their border
equivalents for the nine fertilizer types produced in Turkey, -.th the ratios
ranging from 1.15 to 0.96 (Table 3). This range has been further reduced in
early 1985 (Table 4).
1.14     The subsidization of fertilizer retail prices has been and is the
largest remaining source of subsidies to the agricultural sector. It accounts
for the largest share of the overall fertilizer subsidy eLtimated at over $450
million equivalent for 1984 (Table 5). Retail prices are set by Government on
an ad hoc basis without any fixed formuLa. In 1980, and again in 1981, retail
prices were dramatically increased (by a cumulative 500% `.n nominal terms),
which abruptly reversed the previous pattern of growing subsidization. During



- 83 ~.ANNEX 4
Page 5
recent months, significant steps have again been taken by Government to reduce
the magnitude of fertilizer subsidies and the resulting burden on the budget.
In nominal terms, retail prices were increased by 60% on average in January
1984 and a further 40% in August 1984 for a resultant 50% increase in real
terms over the year. As of the second half of 1984, the retail subsidy ranged
from 41% to 56X depending on the product, with an average of 48% (Table 3).
Further progress was made in February 1985, with a 20% nominal increase in
fertilizer prices reducing the average subsidization to  l5% (Table 4).*'
Financing of Fertilizer Distribution and Purchases
1.15     As a result of the fertilizer subsidy, the agencies in charge of
fertilizer distribution (TZDK and SEKER) sell both domestic and imported
fertilizers to the farmers at prices that are substantially below
corresponding procurement costs. The difference between procurement costs and
sales revenues is added to the actual operating and distribution expenses to
form the "duty loss" which is compensated for by Government. For 1983, TZDK's
duty loss is estimated at TL 118.8 billion, and SEKER's duty loss at TL 7.2
billion. The duty loss represents the total subsidy to the fertilizer
subsector, including the farmers' subsidy and the manufacturers' subsidy
(measured against equivalent import prices) as well as a distribution subsidy
corresponding to suboptimal cost efficiency of fertilizer distribution. For
1983, these various components of the overall fertilizer subsidy are estimated
at, respectively, about 67% (farmers), 12% (manufacturers) and 21%
(distribution).
1.16     In principle, the duty loss is paid to TZDK and SEKER by the
Treasury. In fact, throughout the late 1970s, only very small amounts were
budgeted and TZDK's procurement was financed by the Agricultural Bank (TCZB).
Starting in 1980, part of the resources of the Price Stabilization Fund (PSF),
which is an off-budget device drawing its resources from import and export
levies and administered by the Treasury on behalf of the Central Bank, were
allocated for financing the duty losses of TZDK and SEKER. In 1982, most of
TZDK's accumulated debt to TCZB was consolidated through Treasury bonds. At
present, the bulk of the duty loss is paid directly from the PSF on wnich
bonds are drawn for direct payment to domestic manufacturers of the
fertilizers purchased by TZDK and SEKER. In this way, TZDK's and SEKER's
working capital needs for fertilizer distribution are financed from the PSF on
an interest-free basis; they also benefit from lower than commercial interest
rates (set by Government) in case of late payments to domestic manufacturers.
Under the system of duty loss, TZDK and SEKER have no real incentive for cost
control and efficiency. Furthermore, the intricacies of TZDK's financial
procedures and relationships with other ^gencies make it virtually impossible
to carry out any serious ex-post monitoring of distribution costs and
efficiency.
1/ These subsidies are measured against the c.i.f. spot price of the
comparable products, plus appropriate allowance for domestic handling and
distribution costs. However, as prices are currently entering a cyclical
upswing, comparisons made against trend c.i.f. prices will probably in the
next 2-3 years show a somewhat lower subsidy level than those made against
spot c.i.f. prices.



-84-                                  ANNEX 4
Page 6
1.17     In addition to wholesale and retail distribution through its own
field offices, TZDK also finances (directly or indirectly) retail distribution
by the Agriculture Cooperatives, since (i) in the case of Credit Cooperatives,
the fertilizer is merely consigned by TZDK and the cooperative essentially
acts as an intermediary putting together on TZDK's behalf the orders of its
members; and (ii) in the case of Sales Cooperatives, TZDK extends to the
cooperative a supplier's credit at an interest rate set more or less at par
with the prevailing (subsidized) short-term agricultural interest rate. The
cooperatives receive from TZDK a 0.5% discount on retail prices, together with
a lump sum compensation for use of their storage capacity and a 3-months
interest free grace period for payment to TZDK from the date of fertilizer
sale to farmers. Under the short-term agricultural interest rate prevailing
in 1984 (28%), this corresponds to an overall margin of up to 8.5% in the case
of Credit Cooperatives, which is clearly excessive given the very limited
responsibilities they assume in fertilizer distribution.
1.18     Farmers' purchases of fertilizer are mostly on credit (an estimated
78% of total purchases in 1983). The main source of fertilizer purchase
credit is the Agricultural Bank (TCZB), which finances the quasi-totality of
farmers' fertilizer purchases from the Credit Cooperatives, as well as part of
the purchases made directly from TZDK's own retail outlets. In addition, TZDK
provides credit from its own resources to Sales Cooperatives (which is passed
on to farmers) as well as to some large-scale farmers who can obtain a
guarantee from a commercial bank. In both cases (TCZB and TZDK credit), the
interest rate applied is set by Government. It was raised from 28% in 1984
to, respectively, 34% (TCZB credit) and 36% (TZDK credit) in early 1985.
11. Policy Objectives in the Subsector
2.01     As part of its overall strategy for the agricultural sector, the
Government has decided to introduce policy and institutional reforms aimed at
removing the limitations and constraints imposed by the existing fertilizer
distribution and pricing system. The primary objectives which are pursued in
the subsector are:
(a) to re-establish a competitive distribution system so as to
promote cost-efficiency in fertilizer distribution while at the
same time improving the quality of the service provided to
farmers;
(b) to further reduce the burden imposed on Government's budget by
the fertilizer subsidy, with the aim of eliminating this subsidy
over the medium-term.
At the same time, a secondary goal is to reduce Government's direct
involvement in fertilizer distribution and pricing and ultimately limit its
role mainly to regulatory and monitoring functions needed to ensure the
adequate availability of fertilizer in the country and promote its efficient
use by farmers.
2.02     On both the distribution and pricing side, modifications to the
existing system will have to be introduced in a progressive way so as to avoid
undue disruption in fertilizer distribution and availability to the farmers



- 85-                                  ANNEX 4
Page 7
and/or disruption in fertilizer consumpt -n and agricultural production as a
result of too abrupt changes in pricing policies. On the pricing side,
substantial steps have already been taken to reduce subsidies, and the
Government has announced its intention under SAL IV to phase out the subsidy
on fertilizer retail prices by the end of 1986. The ASAL will support this,
together with a first phase of reforms in fertilizer distribution, which aims
at laying the foundations for further liberalization of the system after the
subsidy will have been eliminated.
Main Policy and Institutional Reforms
2.03     Transition Period.  The fertilizer subsidy will be gradually phased
out by end 1986, with the exception of that needed for (i) transportation to
remote, low income areas; (ii) the higher cost of domestic fertilizer
manufacturing over c.i.f. trend prices, until the factory rehabilitation
program is fully effective, and (iii) the higher than normal costs of
fertilizer distribution until the improvements in the distribution system are
fully operational. During this transition period, the system of administered
(Government-set) prices will be retained.
2.04     During the transition period, fertilizer distribution will
simultaneously be opened up to private trade through:
(a) the marketing by domestic fertilizer manufacturers of a percentage
(about 20% in the first year) of their production through private
trade channels, together with a percentage (up to 50%) of the
fertilizers imported by TZDK;
(b) the use by TZDK of private retailers in addition to cooperatives so
as to expand its retail network in those areas which are not
currently well-served at the village level.
In addition, measures will be taken to:
(a) strengthen TZDK's management and operating capabilities, so as to
reduce the burden of its current stocking and distribution management
practices on Government's resources, and gradually enable TZDK to
effectively compete with the private sector;
(b) streamline TZDK's financial procedures and provide it with adequate
incentive_ to operate in a financially efficient way.
The introduction of private trade in fertilizer dist-ibution and concomittant
improvements in TZDK's financial discipline will imply, in particular, an
overall rationalization of financing and credit arrangements in the
distribution system with a shift towards a fully commercial system.
2.05     In order to avoid any temporary disruption in fertilizer availability
in the country as a result of the introduction of these changes, substantial
planning, coordination and monitoring efforts will be required during the
transition period. In line with Government's desire to reduce its direct
day-to-day involvement in sectoral management, institutional steps will be
taken to encourage increased involvement of interested parties (including



-86 -                                  ANNEX 4
Page 8
manufacturers, private distributors aud farmers) in assuming responsibility
for coordination in fertilizer distribution. However, during the transition
period, Government's involvement will remain extensive as it will have to
control remaining subsidies and corresponding prices and ensure smooth
introduction of the new distribution system.
2.06     Medium/long term Outlook.  Once accomplished, the elimination of the
fertilizer retail subsidy will vastly reduce the number of administrative
controls needed to operate and finance the system and, ultimately, facilitate
a shift from administered to market pricing. By late 1988, after the subsidy
has been phased out, retail prices of the various fertilizer types available
in Turkey will be in line with border equivalents trend c.i.f. prices.
Similarly, following completion of the fertilizer industry rehabilitation
program, domestic manufacturers will be in a position to fully compete with
world market prices. With a gradual increase of private sector involvement in
fertilizer distribution, a fully competitive distribution system will be
re-established under which the private and public (TZDK) sector will compete
subject to the same conmuercial rules and market forces. Under these
conditions, it will be possible for Government to completely withdraw from the
system of administered prices and free fertilizer prices on the domestic
market.
2.07     The elimination of the fertilizer subsidy will also permit the
liberalization of fertilizer imports, thus enabling private distributors to
contract the totality of their supplies (including imports) independently from
TDZK. Freeing importations will also provide for automatic regulation of
domestic ex-factorv prices once they cease to be administered and set by
Government.
2.08     With the freeing of retail prices, they will no longer be uniform and
varying prices will reflect differentials in distribution costs to different
regions. If considered desirable, a separate subsidy to cover
transport/inventory costs differentials to the remote and less developed
regions of the country could be maintained for a few years in order to promote
fertilizer consumption in these areas. With a competitive distribution
network this would not, however, require direct administration by Government
of retail prices in these regions. Instead, once the subsidized regions would
have been defined, a separate subsidy could be budgeted and granted to
fertilizer distributors on the basis of the tonnage distributed in t.'--e
regions, independently from the retail pricing mechanism.
2.09     While fertilizer retail prices would be in line with trend c.i.f.
prices by the end of the transition perir--!, it may still be desirable to
continue-at least for a few years--to protect farmers from the wide cyclical
fluctuations which affect world fertilizer prices. This could be achieved
thrcigh a price stabilization mechanism whereby Government's intervention
would take place at factory gate (or port of import) level, leaving retail
prices free thereafter.
2.10     Under a fully competitive and commercial distributior. sya:em, care
will need to be taken to ensure that adequate buffer stocks a;o Icept in the
country to provide secure supplies in case of unanticipated discuptions in
domestic production or imports and to regulate prices in case .sf abnormal



- 87-                                   ANNEX 4
Page 9
situations developing in some parts of the country. As a public agency, TZDK
would be expected to play an important role in this, in addition to the purely
commercial operations it will carry out in competition with the private
sector. The responsibility for carrying security stocks may be shared between
TZDK and other distributors, with appropriate mechanism for compensating them
for the associated costs.
Impact at the Farm Level
2.11     The direct involvement of manufacturers in marketing their own
production through competitive distribution channels will permit improved
feedback to the domestic industry on market demand and induce the development
of new products adapted to the farmers' needs. Incentives for
cost-consciousness at all levels of the distribution system will, in
particular, induce a shift towards higher-analysis fertilizers and compounds
more in line with the farmers' evolving demand. More generally, the
competition between distributors will result in the development of market
promotion and advisory services to farmers, thus improving the quality of the
service. The strengthening of MAFRA's TSS under complementary reforms
(Annex 6) would also improve farmer advisory service in regard to fertilizer
use.
2.12     The phasing out of the retail subsidy by end-1988 is not expected to
have any serious negative impact on fertilizer consumption and agricultural
production and growth. The analysis of present consumption patterns at the
farm level (para 1.03) shows that most Turkish farmers are fully aware of the
benefits they can derive from fertilizer use and, in most cases, apply levels
which are close to the financial optimum given other technological
constraints. Subsidies of fertilixer retail prices have thus largely
accomplished their purpose of introducing fertilizer to farmers over the last
two decades. At present, subsidization leads to negative effects such as
utilization of fertilizer beyond rezommended dosages on some crops and
distortions in resource allocation between high-value, exportable crops and
less intensive ones.
2.13     With the elimanation of the retail subsidy and the resulting changes
in fertilizer prices relative to output prices, the financially optimum level
of fertilizer application on a given crop with a given technology will shift
downwards. However, th! analysis shows that the value-cost ratios of
fertilizer use (Table 6.1) provide sufficient incentives to sustain high
levels of fertilizer consumption as the subsidy is phased out. Under the
existing cropping patterns and technology packages, the reduction in
fertilizer consumption (at income-maximizing levels) caused by elimination of
the subsidy would amount to only 13% (Table 6.3). The impact on agricultural
production would be mucih less (under 2%), since the levels of application are
already high and the economic and technical (yield maximizing) levels fairly
close to each other. By comparison, the fertilizer subsidy currently
represents around 7Z of the gross output of crop production. Under these
conditions, the costly fertilizer subsidy is not economically justified.
2.14     Over the coming years, increases in fertilizer consumption and
agricultural production will have to be sought through technological
improvement, changes in the cropping patterns to better reflect Turkey's



ANNEX 4
- 88 -                                    Page 10
comparative advantage and irrigation development. Taking tl.se into account,
and with allowance for the elimination of the subsidy, fertilizer consumption
in nutrient terms is expected to increase by about 35Z for N and 49% for P by
1990 as compared to 1983 actual consumption levels (Tables 6.2 and 6.3). To
achieve this, the ASAL will support Government's efforts to strengthen its
research and extension capability (Annex 6) and rationalize the irrigation
subsector (Annex 5).
III. Managing the Transition
Eliminating the Subsidy
3.01     Pending the completion of ongoing industry rehabilitation programs
and the intended improvements in cost efficiency of fertilizer distribution,
the elimination of the retail subsidy will be monitored against refr _nce
prices based on c.i.f. import trend prices for major products, plus a
normative allowance for reasor.able handling And distribution costs to the
developed areas. As a continuation of Government's actions in reducing the
retiil subsidy and in order to avoid too abrupt changes in pricing at the farm
level, the subsidy measured in this way will be reduced gradually from the
present average of 45% to 40% by mid-1985, 30% by mid-1986, 15% by mid-1987
and 0% by end-1988. In accordance with Government's policy, retail prices
during the transition period will be kept uniform throughout the country and
hence a residual subsidy granted to the remote and Less developed regions.
3.02     With regard to ex-factory pricing, the recently improved formula
should be further refined by linking systematically the dollar amount used in
the formula with cif import prices of comparable products, plus an appropriate
allowance as necessary for bagging and handling down to the factory-gate
level. Any subsidy needed over and above such c.i.f. based reference prices
to support the operations of particular plants until completion of the
rehabilitation program should be granted separately on a case-by-case basis
and independently from the pricing mechanism. Government-set ex-factory
prices during the transition period will be ceiling prices, with the
possibility for the more efficient domestic manufacturers to offer rebates
and/or seasonal discounts.
3.03     During the transition period, recommendations for periodic
adjustments in retail and ex-factory prices in accordance with the above
guidelines will continue to be made by the existing ad hoc Fertilizer
Committee.
Phasing, Coordination and Monitoring in the Subsector
3.04     Recognizing the need for extensive government support and involvement
during the transition period, a Fertilizer Monitoring Unit (FMTJ) has recently
been established in the Ministry of Agriculture to serve as a focal point for
ensuring smooth implementation of the transitional measures and making
recommendations for future developments and further liberalization of the
system. During the transition period, the FMU will be responsible for the
determination of marketing areas for each distributor and the planning and



ANNEX 4
- 89 -                                     Page 11
monitoring of fertilizer imports and distribution in the country. as well as
for recommending to Government periodic adjustments in distribution margins
(paras 3.06-3.07). More generally, and in consultation with the existing
Association of Fertilizer Manufacturers, farmers' associations, TZDK, private
traders, the banking sector including TCZB and Government's entities such as
the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Planning Organization, the Ministry of
Finance and the Ministry of Industry, the FMU will be expected to monitor
external factors affecting fertilizer distribution (such as credit
availability for farmers' purchases), to review areas of importance to the
subsector (such as quality control measures, registration procedures for
private dealers, scope for modifying and/or expanding the range of fertilizer
products and blends available in the country, etc.) and make corresponding
recommendations to Government.
3.05     The FMV will also be responsible for the collection and analysis of
background data to assist the distributors in their technical duties, and for
advising the Government on the requisite legislation and regulations needed to
implement the new distribution system (see Annex 8).
Distribution Margins and Payment of the Subsidy
3.06     In order to provide adequate incentives for cost-minimization at all
levels of distribution and to permit private sector involvement in fertilizer
distribution in a context of subsidized retail prices, a system of normative
distribution margins (covering reasonable distribution costs to the various
regions of the country) will be developed. The subsidy element (procurement
price plus distribution margin minus retail price) will be paid by Government
upon dispatch of the fertilizer from the factory or port of import for
distribution, either through TZDK or through pri-vate channels. In this way,
private distributors will be assured of adequate compensation for price
differentials due to farmers subsidy, and both the private distributors and
TZDK will have an incentive to operate in a cost-efficient way. Private
distributors and TZDK will be allowed to redistribute the distribution margin
between the wholesale and retail level as they find appropriate, thus
permitting more flexibility in business transactions and enabling the use of
marketing tools and techniques such as discounts or rebates as and when needed
to improve the disposal of materials.
3.07     A normative distribution margin will be set and revised at least
annually tor each fertilizer product and each distributor, taking into account
the average transportation cost to the distributor's agreed marketing area,
plus a reasonable inventory carrying cost at prevailing commercial interest
rates and adequate provision for other marketing costs (overhead, promotion,
profit, etc.). The FMU will be responsible for recommending periodic
adjustments in distribution margins to Government. After elimination of the
subsidy and freeing of retail prices, the need for setting normative
distribution rrargins would disappear.



-90-                                    ANNEX 4
Page 12
Financing and Credit Arrangements
3.08     Financing of working capital needs for private distributors will be
made through normal comnercial channels, with associated costs reflected in
the distribution margins. During the transition period, the financing of
TZDK's working capital needs will also be shifted from direct Government
sources such as the PSF to normal commercial channels.
3.09     As domestic ex-factory prices of fertilizers will be systematically
linked to reference c.i.f. import prices, payment procedures to manufacturers
by both private distributors and TZDK will be streamlined on a fully
commercial basis, with normal commercial interest rates applied in case of
late payments.
3.10     In order to permit private sector involvement in fertilizer
distribution, existing regulations will be modified as necessary to ensure
farmers access to fertilizer purchase credit under uniform terms and
conditions, irrespective of their source of supply (TDIDK or private sector),
i.e. to permit the use of a letter of credit from TCZB to purchase fertilizer
from any distributor with direct payment from TCZB to the distributor as is
currently done for TZDK.
3.11     As the retail subsidy is phased out, increased credit allocations
will be made to TZCB and the Credit Cooperatives to finance farmers'
purchases, so as to avoid -indue disruptions in fertilizer consumption.
Strengthening of TZDK
3.12     In order to improve TZDK's operating capabilities and enable it to
effectively adjust to the new system, a comprehensive Management Improvement
Action Program will be developed during 1985 and 1986 with the assistance of
internationally-recruited consultants. The purpose of this consultancy will
be to redefine TZDK's role and objectives in the new distribution system and
develop recommendations for improving its efficiency, particularly in the
areas of warehouse/transport, accounting and financial system and
marketing/promotion. Implementation of the action program would start in the
second half of 1986.
3.13     Pending completion of TZDK's Management Improvement Action Program,
initial steps will be taken during the transition period to improve TZDK's
operational and financial efficiency, including (i) application to TZDK of the
same system of normative distribution margins as to private distributors, with
separate identificafion of any other subsidy which may be needed to sustain
its operations until it is fully adjusted to the new system; (ii) leasing or
selling of part of TZDK's excess warehousing capacity to the private sector;
(iii) encouraging TZDK to use private retailers in addition to cooperatives,
and (iv) progressive rationalization of the arrangements between TZDK and the
Cooperatives retailing on its behalf, including in particular a gradual
reduction in the grace period granted to them from 90 days at present to 45/30
days, so as to better reflect the true value of the service actually rendered
by Cooperatives and prepare them for competition with private retailers.



-91-                                   ANNEX 4
Page 13
Import Liberalization
3.14     During the transition period, fertilizer imports will continue to be
contracted by TZDK. However, part of these would be turned over to
manufacturers and private traders for distribution in the country_ The
liberalization of fertilizer importation will take place after the subsidy is
phased out, and procedures will be developed to this effect by the end of the
trazsition period in order to allow direct fertilizer imports by private
traders and fertilizer manufacturers starting in 1989.



IN
1-;
,/o
"I             I
j
I
-ks



. fertilizer PrWction and CmnwMition by Producta1 1972-1983
('000 tona proidct)
1972     1973    1974    1975      1976    1977       1978      1979    1980    198L       1982      1983    198  /l
A. 1'DWr)LIFLt
tA  ium  sulfate (212 N)      82.6    64.9    56.7    66.1   107.7    145.1    136.5   128.9   168.9    292.6    328.7    222.7    250.0
Aumonium nitrate (212 N)      64.2    44.4    45.2    55.0    62.6          57.3      66.6     61.2    55.0      49.3      56.4      44.0      50.0
Am2nium nitrate (262 N)      437.4   423.5    297.6   487.3   483.5    389.7    363.7   477.1   516.4    902.4    976.2   1,026.7   1,000.0
Ikea                           -        -        -        -        -        70.2    219.3   276.7   429.7    456.5    424.7    430.0    475.0
Single superpomphate         175.8   185.7   358.3   154.0    72.7          42.3      45.3    45.1    25.6       39.7      38,9      39.9      40.0
Wiiple mperphos,ate          218.9   148.0   182.1   514.2   606.4    549.5    350.7   407.0   468.6    631.8    348.5    634.1    640.0
DimmiuminhoeFhate              2.6      4.3    47.9   142.1   158.9    130.8          84.0    99.3   183.3    31.1.7    322.3    292.0    320.0
CIoion  fertilizera            -        -        -        -        -         -        65.4   233.6   262.5    615.9    54C.0    909.2    930.0
T&L ('000 tom)         981.5   870.8   987.8  1,418.7  1,491.8   1,384.9   1,331.5  1,728.9  2,110.0  3,299.9   3,043.7  3,598.6   3,705.0 5
B. aLWTIQ
A  i,in iulate (2U N)        230.3   408.5   359.1   286.4   451.1    4C'.9    593.2   630.4   517.5    441.2    432.9    451.8
Auuxiui  nitrate (212 N)      42.9     37.7    43.5    64.1    61.5         56.5      64.5    66.3    51.7        42.0      50.6     52.2
AmuniLn nitrat.e (262 N)     560.0   523.9   581.0   645.5   861.6   1,071.3  1,051.9   970.4   707.2  1,091.9   1,290.4   1,493.1
Urea                           71.4   149.1   139.8   131.7   297.7    243.4    359.1   329.7   369.9    426.3    396.1    505.9
Single superpioplaate        169.8    188.3   230.9   190.6   107.2         93.6      90.9    54.7    27.1        27.8     39.7      39.1
Triple auperomphate           245.2   148.3   136.9   419.3   675.2    598.5    610.3   548.6   415.8    374.0.   423.2    502.8
Diaawniun phosphate           83.3   187.1   137.2   173.9   429.7    500.8    579.3   680.5   493.7    497.3    480.0    472.3
Cdous  fertilizers           434.7   477.1   223.3   188.0   109.6    379.3    490.6   550.9   394.4    535.9    732.7    911.9
Potassitu sulfate              10.4      1.7      2.0     0.7    17         2.8       4.9    32.3    39.3       43.9      35.7       7.1
Pot siuo chloride              0.4      0.5      0.1      -       24.3       3.7       0.6      1.3      -        0.6       0.1       0.5
TmL  ('OUO taum)      1,848.4  2,122.2  1,853.8 2,100.2  3,019.6  3,431.8  :5,95T  3,865.1 1,016.6  3,430.9   3,882.( 4,7
v I,
11Progvm.                                                                                                                                              Z
NAmrce; State Planning Organization.



ANNEX 4
- 94 -                             Table 2
Fertilizer Consumption Per Ha Arable Land: 1980
(Nutrient kg/ha)
To al
Country               (N + P + K)        N           P              K
Morocco                    33.6           15.9        12.4           5.3
Algeria                    32.0           11.8        15.4           4.8
Tunisia                    .13.5           4.0         8.5           1.0
Italy                     170.1           81.2        59.0          29.9
Portugal                   73.0           38.5        22.9          11.6
Spain                      81.a           44.0        23.2          13.8
Turkey                     41.2           22.2        17.3           1.7
Yugoslavia                104.5           52.9        26.5          25.1
Developing Countries       32.9           17.9         9.8           5.2
Source:  FAO, Fertilizer Yearbook 1981.



-95-                                         ANNEX 4
Table 3
Estimate of Fertilizer Subsidies
(September 1984  - USS - IL 400)
Normotiw    NKmCi'ae    Accu&I
hteXzuci   prica  eu.1 afitmy                           hkecizg        Retail     retail    Retail
CW       cW        For           Price /b   P t.              R!gin     Pr Lrie    Subsidy (:
SIto     lJot   fLjrcn   S/otm    fI.to    (2)/Cl)   tL/J-c   (1).3)-(4)   I/oon   (4M5)l(4
(1)               (2)                    (3)                     CS)
ffizM   SuLfae        93      37.200    40,000     15      46,000      i.15      7,3I         47,317     23,000      5L:
(21%)                93      37,200   40,000      LD    44,O0D       1.10      7,138        47,138     22,000       53
Amis 
(26%)               110     44,000    46,800      120    48,000       1.03      7,496        54,296     27,000       50
Urea                 U0       72,000    74,800     192     76,800      1.03     10,074       8&,874      47,000       45
yq~er~*aoshae        70      28,000    30,800      75     30,000      0.97      5,885        36,685     16,000       56
ipI
uerasitace           165      66,000    68,800     190    76,000       1.10     10,002        78,802     44,000       44
YIP                  254.5  l01,800   114,600      250    100,000      0.96     12,150       116,750     69,000       41
20-2-0               174      69,600    72,400     187     74,800      1.03      9,895        82,295     45,000       45
15-.5-15             170     68,000    70,800      183    73,200       1.03      9,751        80,551     45,000       44
/a BsUi o  actal CIF price quocatixu reported 1 Sb        =  for firs  snter of 19W, plus an esti-cid US7 equivaler
faw porct hwlling an  loadx o    xuck to arrive at For.
/b  B.se an detree of Auzac L9W'.
/c Bhsd on Wi) escicated averp crnsport cost equivalent to I.S/tm (M  3,MJO/ton; tii) inventory carryizig cost appiLec
to actul exfactory price 8,mug 2 maths iwito  aF  40Z iz -         t ra  p.a. (i.e. 6.7J of ex-factory price); an
(iii) awgin of 2.25% for other iholesalizg ani retailing services ;appliad to x-factozy price).



Estimate of Fertillzer Subsidies
(February 1985 - US$ - TL 450)
-ori --ative         uooaa    tual
Actual Mz-V ctory                Hark t.ng             tive   Ietatl    atial
jnt j9ati  alPjca I P  ic/a  Price lb        katio   -     ahain TL/t C/       mtiAl price       bubsiay
Cyr CTP          FM      afton       SL/t  (2)/(1) Trans inven Ratail Total  Prie  'xL/tjtn (4)-15)J14J
$/ton  TL/ton  TL/ton                 (2)           port  tory  serv.  (3)              ISJ
(1)                                      be71  2.251
02(2) of(2)
Asmonius  ulphate    100   45,000  49,150   liS           51,750  1.07  3,500 3,467 1,104   U,231  56,JI1 2b0OOU        bU
Ammnium Witirate
(21)     f             93   41,850  45,000   110          49,500  1.10  3,600 3,316 1,114   9,030  b3,03u 26,UUU        51
Aseonium Nitrate
126)                  114   51,300  54,450   120          54,000  0.99  3,600 3,618 1,215   9,433  62,bb3 32,UUU        49
Ura                   187   64,150  87,300   203          91,350  1.04  3,600 6,120 2,055  11,155  99,055 bb,OO0        43
Single Superposph.    70   31,500  34,650    75           33,750  U.97  3,600 2,261   759  6,620  41,270 )I,UUU         b4
Triple Superpoeph., 165   74,250  77,400   1U5            83,250  1.07  3,600 5,b78 1,73  11,051  UU,451 S3,00U         4U
DMP                   225  114,750 117,900.  250         112,50  0.95  3,6U0 7,53U 2,531  13,66V 131,5bV U3,UUU        37            0%
20 20 0               174   78,300  81,450   190         95,500  1.05  3,60u 5#728 1,924  11,2b3  9217U2 54,000         42
s15 1S  5             170   76,500  79,6S0   1LS         63,250  1.05  3,600 5,57U 1,b73  ll,Ubl  9U,7U1 b4,UU4    JU
Uaa4Le Average    49
La farod on actual Clr price quotation& reportod by sPO/TSUK for latest isports plus an estimatod 0s47 eequ1va1ent tor
port handling and loading on truck to arrive at VOl.
b Otticial aasette, January 14, 19D5
/c Based on Ii) estimated average transport cost equivalent to US* 9/ton (SL 3,6vu/ton)o (iij Inventory carryinf cost
Aptlied to actual e*-ftatory price assuming 2 months inventory at 40% interest rato pa. (i.e. o.7% ot ex-*actory
prce)g  a4d (ii) margin ot 2.25& gor other wholesaling and  etailing services   pylied to em-factory prioed.
Febr%ury 23, 1985
.  *~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
/,



ANNEX 4
- 97 -                          Table 5
Fertilizer Subsidies in Turkey, 1974-1984
Subsidies          Subsidies in          Subsidies
in Current         Real Terms-              in
Year                Frices           1974 Prices             US$ M
(TL billion)                (current terms)
1974                  1.0                 1.0                  71
1975                  2.6                 2.6                 173
1976                  3.7                 3.2                 231
1977                  4.5                 3.1                 237
1978                 11.4                 4.7                 438
1979                 24.6                 5.4                 586
1980                 38.1                 3.9                 605
1981                68.1                  5.3                 619
1982                64.6                  3.7                 445
1983                125.0                 5.3                 554
1984                167.4                 4.7                 459
Source: State Planning Organization.



ANNEX 4
- 98-                        Table 6
Impact of Subsidy Elimination on
Fertilizer Consumption Proiections
6.1: Value-Cost Ratios of Fertilizer Consumption, 1982
The Case of With and Without          Incremental
Fertilizer                  Application
At ex-factory      At prices paid      At prices paid
prices            by farmers          by farmers
Wheat - Rainfed                1.62                 3.26                1.59
Wheat - Irrigated               2.44                4.95                2.13
Barley - Rainfed               1.57                 3.26                1.41
Corn - Irrigated               5.16                10.75                1.49
Cotton - Irrigated              7.02               14.76                1.81
Sugarbeet - Irrigated          2.64                 5.46                1.57
Sunflower - Rainfed            4.04                 8.19                1.79
Sunflower - Irrigated           3.19                6.46                1.76
6.2: Annual Fertilizer Demand With and Without Consumer Subsidy
(thousand tons of nutrients)
N                             P
(1)         (2)               ()(2)
1983 (actual)          994.2          -             , 632.5          -
1984                 1,056.8          -              679.3           -
1985                 1,123.4     i,028.9              729.6       679.6
1986                 1,194.2     1,005.3              783.5       683.8
1987                 1,269.4     1,080.5             841.5         741.8
1988                 1,349.4      1,160.5             903.8       804.1
1989                 1,434.4     1,245.5              970.9       871.2
1990                 1,530.4     1,341.5            1,043.0       943.3
(1) Subsidy maintained at 1983 level.
(2) Retail subsidy phased out by end 1986.
6.3: Sources of Demand Growth For Fertilizers
Demand in Thousand Tons
of Net Nutrients for
Nitrogen       hhosphate
1.  Actual applications for six major crops -1
in 1983                                               753.5           548.9
2.  Total consumption in 1983                               994.2           632.5
3.  Levels of application which maximize
farmers incomes: at prices paid by
Earmers in June 1984                               1,299.8            899.)
4.  Income maximizing levels:  at ex-factory
prices as of June 1984                              1,l109           800.7
5.  Impact of adding 300,000 hectares to area
irrigated                                              16.2            11.5
6.  Impact of technological change                          134.4            81.1
7.  Impact of changes in the cropping pattern                80.0            50.0
Total demand in 1990                                1,341.5           943.3
Increase over the 1983 level (percent)                 34.9            49.1
A   Six major crops are wheat, barley, cotton, sunflower, corn and sugarbeet.



99                           ANNEX 4
Tab le -7
Procurement of Fertilizer
Unit
Type and Amount              Who        When          Price       Total Price
T it        US$ Million
400,000t       CAN        TZDK     March 85         134            53.6
100,00t       CAN       TZDK      July 85          134            13.4
150,000t       DAP       TZ)K    Oct. 85           284             42.6
150,000t       AS        TZDK      Oct. 85         112             16.8
50,000t       AS        TZDK      March 86         118             5.9
80,000t       UREA      TZDK      March 85         150            12.0
20,000t       UREA      TZDK      July 85          150             3.0
147.3



100 -                       ANNEX 4
Chart 1
E ~~    ~      ~
cl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Proposed Dlstdbutlon  ytem  -  Product Flow
WORT
I         I      M~~~~~Jef ion 19EJ7                   
I    'OR[                                                    DOMESTIC MAWAuRa
TRADER AaFTER |
4AiI                        . ONA  1                   1                SL1                                                                 
RETAILER             SALES COOPS            c I COPS~                                         REIALER
RETAUR
FARMhER
1 M" 19d
, 1CDoneld i  kI  cde & op  hopiled by DONAW4 bui ntehd by douirlc movAn xu.
12) Malkaibig 31w0ub prhe loads v be i him  ilf' wlNh appq 2D% d pkbied pwodLzCkn & hpads                                V *    26769



-  ,72   -
,,'S~~~~'6 eo0   4<-  //,t/<



- 103 -                       ANNEX 5
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Irrigation and Drainage Subsector



4 l!
Il         "
\1
r. 



- 105 -                        ANNEX 5
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Irrigation and Drainage Subsector
Table of Contents                                                 Page No.
I.  Present Setting
Performance of Irrigated Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Past Investments in Irrigation and Drainage  . . . . . . . .   1
Area Utilization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
II.  Obiectives of the Irrigation and Drainage Subsector
& Public Investment Criteria
Objectives of the Irrigation and Drainage Subsector  . . . .   3
Rationalization of the Public Investment Program . . . . . .   4
Selection Criteria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Investment and Budgeting Procedures  . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
DSI's Investment and Recurrent Budget (1979-1985)  . . . . .   6
GDRS' Investment and Recurrent Budget for Irrigation.
Drainage and Other On-Farm Development (1979-1985) . . .     7
1985 Investment Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
III. Organizational Roles and Functions
Organizational Roles .                 . .                    8
General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works (DSI).           8
General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS)
- Irrigation Department .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
IV. Irrigation Subsector Program
Investment Objectives and Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Indicative Investment Program during the Five-Year Plan
(1985)89) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
The Agreed Core Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Description of Agreed Core Program in the
Irrigation and Drainage Sub-sector . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Estimated Cost and Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
International Water Rights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Attachments
1. List of Machinery & Equipment for the Care Program
2. Time Schedule of Implementation
3. Schedule of Expenditure for the Irrigation and
Drainage Subsector Core Program



I            l-N



ANNEX 5
- 107 -                            Page 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMEMT LOAN
Irrigation and Drainage Subsector
I. PRESENT SETTING
Performance of Irrigated Agriculture
1.0      Irrigation in Turkey has been a major factor in both increasing and
stabilizing agricultural production especially in those amongst the major
agricultural regions that have low and erratic rainfall. An estimated 25% of
all agricultural exports are grown under irrigation. In many respects,
however, irrigated agriculture has performed considerably below its capacity.
Irrigation projects have often failed to meet expectations in way of yield
increases, double cropping and the adoption of higher-valued more intensive
crops. Among the factors that explain this disappointing performance are:
(i) lack of adequate drainage works in large areas and an increase in salinity
problems; (ii) lack of adequate extension and cropping systems research; and
(iii) lag in on-farm development works. The increase in irrigated crop areas
has, therefore, lagged significantly behind the expansion of irrigation
infrastructure. The underutilization of this infrastructure, built at
comparatively high cost, results in a large loss to the economy.
Past Investments in Irrigation and Drainage
1.1      Public Investments.  Responsibility for the Large bulk of irrigation
development resides in the public sector. Two agencies of the Government, the
State Hydraulic Works Agency (DSI) within the Ministry of Energy and Natural
Resources (MENA), and the General Directorate of Rural Services' (GDRS)
Irrigation Department (formerly known as TOPRAKSU), within the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MAFRA), undertake large scale
programs for developing irrigation infrastructure throughout the country. On
major irrigation projects, DSI has responsibility for constructing headworks,
distribution canals, and main pumping and drainage works, while GDRS is
basically responsible for on-farm works. The DSI investment program on the
average is about twice that of GDRS. The investment program in current and
constant prices for both agencies has been as follows in recent years.
Public Investment of Irrigation and Drainage Subsector
Current Prices                Constant 1985 Prices
DSI       GDRS     Total        DSI       GDRS        Total
TL Billion                     TL Billion
1979             8.1        5.3      13.4       60.4        39.3        99.7
1980            16.9       8.6       25.5       60.0        30.5       90.5
1981            37.0      19.9       56.9       88.8        47.8       136.6
1982            42.2      23.8       66.0       81.0        45.6      126.6
1983            58.7      31.4       90.1        94.0       50.3      144.3
1984            78.3      42.2      120.5        98.0       52.8       150.8
1985           112.4      50.3      162.7       112.4       50.3       162.7
Note:  Actual expenditures from 1979 to 1984, and budget allocations in 1985.



ANNEX 5
-108-                               Page 2
Although investment in current terms appears to have increased at a very rapid
rate, investment in real terms has been increasing gradu&!ly, except for 1981.
Area Utilization
1.2      The lag in area utilization of completed DSI projects and percentage
utilization has been as follows for recent years:
Use of Areas Developed and Operated for Irrigation by DSI
(1965-1984)
Year    Area Developed       Area Utilized      Area Not Utilized
('000 ha)     ('000 ha)   (2)        ('000 ha)  (X)
1965           289            161       56           128     44
1966           309            199       64           110     36
1967           397            220       56           177     44
1968           447            247       55          200      45
1969           499            236       47          263      53
1970           521            285       55          236      45
1971           524            314       60           210     40
1972           563            363       65           200     35
1973           584            397       68           187     32
1974           628            464       74           164     26
1975           671            420       63          251      37
1976           711            421       59          290      41
1977           742            483       65          259      35
1978           765            499       65          266      35
1979           779            508       65           271     35
1980           755            494       65           261     35
1981           773            561       73          212      27
1982           814            606       74          208      26
1983           879            623       71          256      29
1984           965            699       72           266     28
Source: DSI's Statistical Sources.
DSI did not start new projects between 1981-1984 in order to concentrate
resources on the completion of ongoing projects and as result increased the
developed areas at a faster rate than that prevailing prior to 1981.
1.3      Total Irrigated Area.  The report of a special survey of private
irrigation in 1980, shows irrigation in all but one of the 67 provinces. The
main irrigated areas are along the Mediterranean coast and southern reaches of
the Aegean coast. The total area put under irrigation in recent years is
estimated to be about 4.7 million ha which includes private irrigation, 2.4
million ha, GDRS schemes 1 million ha and DSI projects 1.3 million ha.
1.4      Irrigation Potential.  According to the last available comprehensive
study by GDRS, an estimated 8.7 million ha total could be irrigated. The
application of economic criteria would likely considerably reduce this



- 109 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 3
"potential".  The average annual surface water run-off in Turkey is about
181 billion m3 of which an estimated 95 billion m3 is available for
beneficial uses. Ground water surveys thus far completed in 342 plains
comprising about 600,000 kmz, indicate that the safe yield is on the order
of 9.5 billion m3 per year. About 5 billion m3 of this safe yield could
be available for the irrigation of about 600,000 ha. In 1983, 15,000 wells
were already supplying water for the irrigation of 164,000 ha. In 1984, 291
new wells have been developed for the irrigation of about 20,000 ha.
L.5      The Government is presently engaged in a very aggressive program to
further develop irrigation. The irrigation and drainage development completed
to date and that scheduled for completion is given in the following table:
Irrigation and Drainage Development
Achieved through 1983 and Planned for Completion
By DSI                     By GDRS
~~----ha-
End 1983                      1.265,065                   1,007,184
1984                            114,777                      39,873
1985-89                         475,000                     325,000
Total end 1989                1,854,842                   1,372,057
The achievements in irrigation and drainage development by DSI and GDRS have
been quite impressive. Moreover, private irrigation has also been expanding
rapidly primarily from the use of ground water.
II. Objectives of the Irrigation and Drainage Subsector
and Public Investment Criteria
Objectives of the Irrigation and Drainage Subsector
2.0      The development of irrigation and drainage is crucial to attaining
the planned growth in agricultural output through both an increase in the area
cropped as well as through a rise in productivity (yields). Responsibility
for the bulk of irrigation development resides with the public sector and a
high priority has been accorded in the Fifth Plan to investment in irrigation
and drainage as part of the Government's policy of directing public investment
to infrastructural works. The Government's strategy for irrigation and
drainage development during the Fifth Plan relies on a considerable increase
in areas, improved utilization of water and a greater emphasis on land
development and drainage works. The planned targets for new irrigation and
associated works are listed below:



ANNEX 5
- 110 -                                Page 4
Five Year Development Plan 1985-89
(Development of Areas)
(ha)
(1)   New Irrigation
(including drainage)
-Large Schemes                 475,000
-Small Schemes                 325,000
Subtotal                       800,000
(2)   On-farm Development            300,000
(3)   Flood Protection               130,000
(4)   Soil Conservation              200,000
Rationalization of the Public Investment Program
2.1.     The major constraint to effective development of irrigation and
drainage has been the poor investment allocation. Public investment policies
in the past have led to the financing of a large number of projects located in
widely dispersed parts of the country, and therefore, the annual allocations
to most of the on-going projects have been such a small part of the total
project cost that little progress towards completion could be made and
benefits had to be deferred.  Recognizing the importance of achieving maximum
benefits as quickly as possible, the Government began in 1980 to identify
priority investments and to concentrate its limited resources by providing
full funding for projects scheduled for completion within one year. Thus the
Government commendably reduced the number of irrigation and flood control
projects from 142 in 1980 to 83 in 1985, so as to expedite the completion of
projects, (see Table below).
Number of Projects
Year                    Under Implementation
1980                             142
1981                             108
1982                              98
1983                              91
1984                              88
1985                              83
It is essential to follow a similar policy in formulating the future
investment program as there still are a number of projects scheduled for
completion which are likely to be carried over to succeeding year's program.
Selection Criteria
2.2      Criteria for selection of new projects.  The SPO selects new projects
in the irrigation and drainage subsector on the basis of the following eight
criteria:
(a) Internal Rate of Return (IRR);
(b)  Population dens,ty;
(c) Ratio of agricultural population to total population;
(d) Level of annual precipitation;



ANNEX 5
-1.11 -                               Page 5
(e) Location in underdeveloped area;
(f) Ratio of irrigated land to irrigable land;
(g) Irrigation Intensity;
(n) Cost per hectare.
In applying the above criteria for the 1985 budget exercise, the SPO gave a
greater weight to the ERR and locations in under-developed areas and lesser
weight to the other six criteria. On the basis of these composite priorities,
the SPO ranked the 40 irrigation and drainage projects submitted by DSI in
descending order of priority. Twelve irrigation and drainage project works
were selected for the 1985 budget from the top of the ranking list, while
another seven were selected from the lower ranking for extenuating reasons.
Another four flood control projects were selected which did not include
irrigation, and hence were not in the ranking list. These criteria have been
applied since 2 years and are generally adequate and acceptable and would be
followed by SPO in the future. However it is too early to assess their impact
on the investment program.
2.3      Criteria for Allocations to On-going Proiects.  Once a project enters
the investment stream, annual allocations are made subject to the availability
of funds, albeit following certain broad guidelines. Full allocation is given
to those projects that are to be completed in one year. Every effort is made
to provide a full or neazly full allocation to project considered important,
such as World Bank projects and large projects located in under-developed
areas. Large but partial allocations are made to projects which are to be
completed within two or three years. The balance is spread over the remaining
on-going projects. Application of the above guidelines, however, has given
rise to a large number of on-going projects some of which have been under
implementation since the sixties and the early seventies.
Investment & Budgeting Procedures
2.4      In early June every year, the SPO revises and issues the policy
-uidelines governing investment policies for the coming year. These policy
guidelines include the forecasts of revenue receipts, the historical rate of
inflation, the growth rate expected in each sector during the year and the
size and scope of the annual sectoral investment plans. Major policy
decisions on investment issues are made by the High Planning Council (HPC)
which is headed by the Prime Minister and is composed of representatives of
the Ministries, the SPO and the Treasury. The agencies within the Ministries
submit to the SPO by the end of June their proposals on investment program
consisting of the lists of projects and detailed project documents for new
projects. The SPO reviews and analyses the investment programs and conducts
review meetings with the concerned agencies in order to match the proposals
with the available funds. By August/September the SPO submits the agreed
investment plans to the HPC. Simultaneously, the Ministry of Finance and the
Treasury submit the estimates of revenue and expenditures to the HPC. The HPC
subsequently submits a balanced budget proposal for approval by mid-October at
a special session of the Parliament.



ANNEX 5
- 112 -                              Page 6
DSI's Investment and Recurrent Budget (1979-1985)
2.5     DSI's Irrigation Drainage Budget has shown an overall real increase
of 86Z since 1979. The 1985 Investment Program indicates a continued
significant increase in the investment allocations to DSI. The personnel
budget of DSI as contained in the Investment Budget and as shown below in 1985
constant prices have, however, undergone a slight reduction between 1979 and
1985. The personnel budget as a percentage of the total budget has declined
from 24% to llZ. The personnel budget does contain a small element of
expenditures for completed irrigation p;ojects which should normally be
included in the recurrent budget.
DSI Investment Budget in Agriculture
(Irrigation and Drainage)
Current and Constant 1985 Prices
Construction        Personnel       Miscellaneous       Total
Current Constant Current Constant Current Constant Current Constant
Year                        -- (TL Billion)                           -
1979         6.2      45.7    1.9       14.4      0.0      0.3     8.1       60.4
1.980       11.5      40.7    5.3       19.0      0.1      0.3    16.9       60.0
1981        29.8      71.5    7.0       16.9      0.2      0.4    37.0       88.8
1982        34.9      67.0    7.1       13.6      0.2      0.4    42.2       81.0
1983        48.8      78.1    9.7       15.6      0.2      0.3    58.7       94.0
1984        64.8      81.1   13.3       16.6      0.2      0.3    78.3       98.0
1985       100.1     100.1   12.0       12.0      0.3      0.3   112.4      112.4
2.6     DSI does not prepare a separate recurrent budget for irrigation and
drainage.  The following table includes the provision for agriculture as well
as energy and services subsectors:
DSI's Recurrent Budget
(including Agriculture, Energy and Services)
Current and Constant 1985 Prices
Personnel           Supplementary    O&M           Total
Year        Headquarters     Region         Works
Curr. Const. Curr. Const.  Curr. Coast. Curr.  Const. Curr. Const.
TL Billions--------
1979         0.3    1.9    -              1.7   12.6   0.2    1.5    2.2    16.0
1980         0.4    1.3    -      -       2.0    7.4   0.3    1.0    2.7      9.7
1981         0.4    0.8    0.6    1.4    4.0    9.7   0.9    2.2    5.9    14.1
1982         0.2    0.5    0.6    1.2    3.0    5.7   0.9    1.8    4.8       9.2
1983         0.3    0.4    0.7    1.2    4.8    7.6   1.6    2.5    7.3    11.7
1984         0.4    0.5    1.0    1.3    4.5    5.6   1.9    2.4    7.8       9.8
1985         0.6    0.6    1.7    1.7   10.1   10.1   4.6    4.6   17.0    17.0
Note:  1979-1984 - actual expenditures and 1985 - allocations



- 113 -                    ~~~~~ANNEX 5
- 113 -                        Page 7
In 1985 prices, the recurrent budget for 1985 shows hardly any increase since
1979. On the other hand, the allocations were considerably reduced during
1980 to 1984 when compared to the 1979 figures. The personnel budget of DSI,
for the headquarters and the regions has also been relatively constant,
showing an increase of about 20% since 1979. However, the concern of the
planners to provide adequate financing for O&M is evident from the 200%
increase in the budget since 1979.
GDRS's Investment and Recurrent Budget for Irrigation, Drainage and other
On-farm Development (1979-1985)
2.7      The investment and the recurrent budget of the Irrigation Department
of GDRS for the years 1979 to 1984, is given below. Due to the merger of the
former TOPRAKSU with GDRS, separate allocations under the recurrent budget of
1985, for the irrigation department of GDRS, are not available.
GDRS' Investment and Recurrent Budget
(Irrigation, Drainage and Other On-farm Development)
Current and Constant 1985 Prices
--Investment-  --Recurrent--- Transfer Payment ---Total--
Current Constant Current Constant Current Constant Current Constant
------- TL Billion
1979           5.3   39.3        0.3      2.4       0.0    0.1      5.6    41.8
1980           8.6   30.5        1.0     3.7        0.0    0.0      9.6    34.2
1981          19.9   47.8        1.1     2.7        0.0    0.0    21.0    50.5
1982          23.8   45.6        1.7     3.3        0.0    0.0    25.5    48.9
1983          31.4   50.3        1.7     2.8        0.0    0.0    33.1    53.1
1984          42.2   52.8        2.3     2.9        0.0    0.0    44.5    55.7
1985          50.3   50.3        n.a.    n.a.       n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    n.a.
Note:  1979-1984 - actual expenditures; 1985 - allocations
While GDRS's budget in the crisis year of 1980 showed a significant reduction
in constant 1985 terms, overall since 1979 the budget has shown an increase of
about 30%. This increase has been reflected entirely in the investment
portion of the budget. However, this does not reflect the high priority
placed on on-farm development works in the five year plza or affect the
allocations of 1984 which have been somewhat reduced in 1985.
1985 Investment Program
2.8      The objectives and policies governing the 1985 Investment Plan are
completely in line with the fifth Five Year Plan (Para 2.0). The 1985 Program
investment allocation for the agricultural sector is 9.9 percent of total
public investment as compared with the overall Five Year Plan allocation of
9.7 percent. The share of investment in irrigation and drainage is about 66
percent of public investme-nt in agriculture. Of this 66 percent over
two-thirds (69 percent) has been allocated to DSI for construction of



ANNEX 5
- 114 -                        Page 8
irrigation and drainage infrastructure. The remaining 31 percent has been
allocated to GDRS for the construction of small scale irrigation schemes,
small dams, valley development and on-farm development. Of the total
allocations to GDRS, only 29X are meant for on-farm development works.
Details of the DSI and GDRS investment budget for 1985 are summarized below:
Investment Program 1985
Allocations to Irrigation and Drainage
DSI                    (TL Million)      (Z)
Major Works                         71,557          64
Small Scale & Completion Works      15,920          14
Operation, Maintenance & Repairs    8,349            7
Machinery & Supply Services         12,344          11
Project Planning & Design            2,297           2
Other                                1,933           2
Subtotal                           112,400         100
GDRS
On-farm Development                 13,376          27
Drainage & Soil Reclamation          1,189           2
Small Scale Irrigation              16,274          32
Small Dams & Valley Development    17,611           35
Project Preparation & Mapping          950           2
Research & Other                       900           2
Subtotal                            50,300         100
Total                              162,700
2.9      The SPO has taken cognizance of the relaLively low level of
allocations to GDRS for on-farm works, and pointed out that, 1985 being a
transitional year, the 1985 allocations has been limited to cover about 50,000
ha. SPO has given assurances that in 1986 and thereafter, these allocations
would be increased to enable GDRS to complete 100,000 ha of on-farm
development works.
III. Organizational Roles and Functions
Organizational Roles
3.0      Responsibility for the bulk of irrigation and drainage development
resides in the public sector with two Government agencies, viz DS[ and GDRS.
General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works (DSI)
3.1      DSI was established in 1954 and brought under the Ministry of Energy
and Natural Resources in 1964. Its responsibilities include the multiple
utilization of surface and groundwater resources, and the prevention of soil



ANNEX 5
- 115 -                              Page 9
erosion and flood control. Specifically, on major irrigation and drainage
projects, DSI is responsible for planning and construction of primary,
secondary and tertiary canals, surface drainage systems and the subsequent
operation and maintenance of completed works, other than those works which DSI
hands over to other institutions and cooperative groups. DSI operates about
80X of the irrigation works which it constructs.
3.2      DSI is headed by a Director-General with four assistants, a bureau
and council of advisers. The headquarters' organization has 13 departments
concerned with planning and implementation of activities, the operation and
maintenance of services, research and planning, land expropriation, accounts,
administration etc. Operations at field level are carried out through 25
regional directorates. DSI has 24,500 permanent employees (1984), of whom
3,380 are technical staff. Of the latter, 17 percent are located at
headquarters.
3.3      DSI's technical staff are experienced and adequate for its continuing
program of operation and maintenance and construction supervision. However,
the concentration of resources in the coming five year program will require a
sustained and intensive input involving updating feasibility studies for new
projects, initiating new studies for on-going projects, reassessing
agricultural and economic factors on a micro geographical basis, and
determining project priorities under a more rigorous selection criteria. DSI
would need assistance from local consulting firms (or local firms, in
consortium with international firms as needed). In addition, DSI would be
further assisted by outside reviewing consulting firms in carrying out these
tasks. At the same time implementation of DSI responsibilities under the core
program would require training and reorientation of the concerned technical
staff towards drainage activities. It would also be necessary for DSI to
redeploy regional staff from regions of low to regions of high activity.
General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS) - Irrigation Department
3.4      The predecessor of the current Irrigation and Drainage Department was
established in 1952 as the Irrigation and Drainage section of the Ministry of
Agriculture. It was reorganized as the General Directorate of Soil
Conservation and Farm Irrigation (TOPRAKSU) within the Ministry of Village
Affairs in 1964. With the integration of the latter Ministry and the Ministry
of Agriculture and Forestry, in late 1983, into the new Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs, TOPRAKSU was absorbed by the MAFRA's
newly formed General Directorate for Rural Services. While GDRS organization
and scope of work currently are under review, the main responsibilities of its
rrrigation and Drainage Department are to construct subsurface drainage and
carry out on-farm works on publicaly constructed irrigation and drainage
schemes, to develop small water resources (up to 500 lls) for irrigation, to
carry out surveys, soil analyses, soil classification and soil maps, conduct
research on soil, water, plants and fertilizer, and control erosion and floods
in arable land.
3.5      GDRS Irrigation and Drainage Department to date retains largely its
size and structure prior to the recent merger. At the time of the merger, it
mainly consisted of a central organization, 18 regional planning offices,



ANNEX 5
- 116 -                               Page 10
three project offices, 11 research centres, three training centres. Present
permanent staff total about 9,200 of whom about 1,200 are technical, 800 are
other and 7,200 are laborers. About 20% of the technical staff are located at
headquarters.
3.6      GDRS staff are involved primarily in force account works and to a
lesser extent in design and contract construction of minor works. With the
expected increase in the on-farm development program, (para 2.9), GDRS would
be charged with the implementation of a large program for subsurface drainage
design and identification of most severely affected areas. In this
connection, GDRS will have to intensify its monitoring, and data collection
and engineering design facilities. These tasks, under the expanded program
would require assistance from local consulting firms (and, if necessary, local
firms in consortium with international firms). In addition GDRS would be
further assisted by outside reviewing consulting firms.    With the large
increase in onfarm development works, GDRS would make greater use of private
contractors. GDRS would also redeploy regional staff from regions of low to
regions of high activity and impart necessary training.
IV. IRRIGATION SUB-SECTOR PROGRAM
Investment Objectives and Strategy
4.0      Objectives.  During the remainder of the Fifth Five Year Plan period,
when Turkey will likely continue to face severe limitations on domestic and
foreign financial resources, it is essential to concentrate available
resources on projects which can be brought into production most quickly and
for which the incremental investment in completion would result in high
economic returns. The main objectives for continued Bank involvement in the
irrigation and drainage subsector would be:
(i)    to accelerate completion of ongoing irrigation projects so as to
maximize production from past investments as quickly as possible;
(ii)    to help induce a concentration of Government resources in the
subsector to those subprojects where they can have fastest and the
greatest impact in raising productivity; and
(iii)   to assist in institution building to improve implementation capacity,
design efficiency, planning and coordination in the subsector.
4.1      Strategy.  The strategy and criteria currently employed by the
Government in the selection of DSI projects is discussed in para 2.2. To
rationalize and achieve more effective utilization of public irrigation
investment resources, towards the above objectives (para 4.0), a departure
from the current practice of financing a large number of new projects, or the
completion of large-scale headworks would be necessary. The plan is to
concentrate irrigation and drainage investment on measures aiming to achieve
further utilization of completed or ongoing major projects through completion
of drainage and other on-farm development works. Therefore, with the
exception of a few ne-_ project starts having quick gestation and high ERRs
(say 15% or higher), only essential headworks on ongoing schemes would be
financed, while the bulk of annual investment expenditures would be reoriented



ANNEX 5
- 117 -                               Page 11
towards (i) overcoming the backlog of priority on-farm works; (ii) providing
equipment and other assistance to rehabilitate and improve the level of
maintenance on all completed projects; and (iii) providing assistance on land
reclamation so as to avoid serious deterioration. The strategy would
therefore shift to one of development of the subsector by completing drainage
and land reclamation followed by other on-farm development works.
4.2      Measures to reorient irrigation and drainage subsector investment
priorities would be introduced into the Government selection procedures.
Adoption of these measures would provide a basis for providing the proposed
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan, a portion of which would finance initial
elements of the irrigation subsector investment program, such as employment of
consulting firms and provision of equipment for rehabilitation and maintenance
of surface drains within the irrigated areas.
4.3      Completion of priority elements of the backlog of drainage and other
on-farm works would comprise a Core Program of investments within the
reoriented irrigation and drainage subsector investment program which may form
the basis for any future Bank assistance. Measures proposed under the Core
Program have the primary objective of concentrating investments on the
completion of drainage and other on-farm development works associated with
irrigation projects which have been fully or substantially completed by DSI.
Drainage and other on-farm development would be undertaken in a manner to
insure that priority is given to those investments where works can be quicly
completed and which result in the highest economic return. Studies thus far
made indicate that first priority should be given to drainage works, both
surface and subsurface, as well as access roads and land reclamation. A lower
priority should be accorded to land leveling and land consolidation. GDRS'
backlog of on-farm development works is given in the following table:
GDRS' Backlog of On-Farm Development Works
(up to end 1989)
End 1984            1985-89           Total
---------------ha--
Farm Surface Drainage                  85,700              62,600          148,300
Subsurface Drainage                   222,103             117,497          339,600
Land Reclamation                       60,997              16,603           77,600
Access Roads                            78,700             90,600          169,300
Land Consolidation                     43,823              27,077           70,900
Land Levelling                        180,531             178,069          358,600
Indicative Total Investment Program for the Irrigation Subsector during the
Five-Year Plan (1985-89)
4.4      A recapitulation of the estimated back-log at the end of 1984 of
drainage and uther on-farm development works in areas where DSI has completed
construction of irrigation infrastructure, follows. In addition, an
indicative estimate is given of the additional irrigation and drainage
infrastructure expected to be completed by DSI during the Five Year Plan
(1985-89) and the additional on-farm works which would be generated from these
completions.



ANNEX 5
- 118 -                              Page 12
Summary of the Total Irrigation and Drainage
Investment Program (1985-89)
(January 1985 - Constant Prices)
Item                              Area                 Estimated
Baseline Cost
(ha)              (TL Billion)
A.  Surface and Subsurface Drainage
- Rehabilitation of Surface Drains         250,000                  87.5
- New Surface Drains                       125,000                  58.1
- Farm Surface Drains                      148,300                  69.0
- Subsurface Drains                        339,600                 204.8
Subtotal                        862,900                 419.4
B.  Land Reclamation & Access Roads
- Land Reclamation                          77,600                   3.9
- Access Roads                             169,300                   8.5
Subtotal                        246,900                  12.4
C. Other On-Farm Development Works
- Land Consolidation                        70,900                  14.5
- Land Levelling                           358,600                  37.3
Subtotal                        429,500                  51.8
D.  Irrigation Infrastructure
- Large Irrigation Schemes                475,000                  540.8
- Small Irrigation Schemes                 325,000                 176.0
Subtotal                        800,000                 716.8
Grand Total                   2,339,300          TL 1,200.4 billion
or US$2,527.4 million
The indicative total investment program shown in the above table also includes
completion of irrigation infrastructure for 475,000 ha of new lands by DSI, as
provided in the Five Year Plan (1985-89) and the small irrigation schemes to
be carried out by GDRS.
The Agreed Core Program
4.5      In line with the investment priorities and the strategy discussed in
paras 4.1 to 4.3, the agreed Core Program would include surface and
sub-surface drainage land reclamation and access roads. Implementation of
other items of on-farm development, having a lesser priority would be deferred
and the extent of the program for increasing the irrigation infrastructure
would depend on the available resources. The proposed Core Program is
tabulated below and would be implemented through the following works:



ANNEX 5
- 119 -                              Page 13
Drainage and On-Farm Development Subsector:
The Agreed Indicative Core Program (1985-89)
(January 1985 - Constant Prices)
Estimated Baseline Cost
Item                                                 TL Billion      US$ Million
Rehabilitation of Existing Surfrace Drains                87.5            184.2
Excavation of New Surface Drains                         127.1            267.7
Installation of Subsurface Drains                        204.8            431.1
Land Reclamation                                           3.9              8.2
Access Roads                                               8.5             17.9
Consulting Services                                        4.7             10.0
Training of Staff                                           1.2             2.6
Mouitoring & Evaluation Facilities                         0.7              1.5
TOTAL                                                    438.4            923.2
(a)  Rehabilitation of surface drains over an area of about 250,000 ha to
restore these channels to their planned performance and subsequent
naintenance through provision of machinery and equipment;
(b) Excavation of main, secondary and tertiary surface drains by DSI over
an area of about 125,000 ha;
Cc) Excavation of farm drains by GDRS over an area of about 148,300 'un;
Cd) Installation of sub-surface drains over about 339,600 ha of
water-logged land;
Ce) Land reclamation through construction of small dykes and leaching
over an area of about 77,600 ha;
(f) Construction of access roads along the irrigation and drainage system
covering an area of about 169,300 ha;
(g) Employment of engineering consulting firms by DSI and GDRS, for
preparation of inception reports, feasibility studies and bidding
documents for execution of work through contractors;
(h) Employment of reviewing consulting firms by DSI and GDRS for review
of the work done by the engineering consulting firms;
(i) Training of GDRS and DSI Headquarters and regional staff in selected
fields in appropriate countries; and
(j) Employment of a specialized consulting firm to prepare a program for
monitoring and evaluation of the plannina A>A i-lem-ntation of the
investment program including computerization of the system and
provision of hardware and software. A brief description of these
components is given in the succeeding paras 4.6 to 4.15.



-120-                       ~~~~~~ANNEX 5
- 120 -                               Page 14
Description of Agreed Core Program in the Irrigation and Drainage Sub-Sector
4.6      Rehabilitation of Existing Surface Drains.  Silt clearance and weed
removal from surface drains and repairs to damaged portions and structures are
some of the essential maintenance requirements. In Turkey, main surface
drains are required to be cleared every 3 years and secondaries and tertiaries
every 5 years. Due to lack of appropriate equipment, the maintenance of the
drainage systems is generally neglected and therefore drainage ditches are
choked with silt deposits and weed growth. Consequently sub-surface drainage
outlets from adjoining landscape are submerged and broken at places. Proper
functioning of surface drains is a pre-requisite to the implementation of the
entire Core Program. Choked drains reduce the efficiency of drainage works,
albeit negate the very purpose of their construction. At present drainage
systems over an area of about 250,000 ha are unable to perform their function
and require rehabilitation. The maintenance sections in the regional
directorates of DSI are adequately staffed and well experienced and are
regarded as first-rate maintenance units. However, the machinery pool of DSI
used for maintenance and repairs is old and has served most of its useful
life. Due to excessive usage, the normal amortization period for such
equipment is usually five years. However, as shown irn the fc'lowing table
over 91 percent of the machinery is older than five years and 43 percent of
the machinery is older than 10 years.
Status of Machinerv -.u Equipment with DSI
In DSI's  Over     Over      Over     Over      Over
Equipment   5         7        10        15       20   Average
Pool     Yrs.      Yrs.     Yrs.     Yrs.      Yrs.     Age
(in nos-)  Old      Old       Old      Old       Old     (Yrs)
1.  Excavator          501     401      401       219       131       48        10
2.  Dozer              490     490      490       304      102        64        11
3.  Loader             233     233       233       76        31       22        10
4.  Grader             135     135       135       76        41        6        11
5.  Dump Truck       1,055     913       814      337       251      162         9
6.  Motor Scraper       28      28        28       10        10       10        13
7.  Ditcher             11      11        11       11       11         5        20
8.  Compressor         234     233       233      115       105       24        12
Subtotal        2,687   2,444    2,345    1,148        682       341
(X)                         91       87        43       25        13
Source:  DSI's report on "Renovation & Balancing of Machinery & Equipment Pool
of DSI", 1984.
The on-farm development works by GDRS cannot be carried out until the drainage
system has been rehabilitated by DSI. GDRS has unequivocally made this
rehabilitation a pre-requisite to their agreement to carry out the farm
drainage and sub-surface drainage works under the agreed Core Program. This
position of GDRS is coherent and acceptable, as on-farm development works
cannot be carried out unless the excess water can be evacuated through surface
drains. The renovation of DSlI's machinery pool is an urgent necessity which



- 121-                               ANNEX 5
Page 15
has the highest priority within the Core Program. Immediate requirements for
this purpose have been estimated based on the quantities of work which have to
be carried out by tne DSI's maintenance units and are given in Attachment 1.
4.7      Excavation of Surface Drains by DSI.  DSI's jurisdiction extends to
main, secondary and some tertiary drains. In projects which have been opened
by DSI for irrigation, surface drainage has been completed simultaneously;
however as a result of irrigation application, some salinity and water-lGgging
problems over significant areas have since arisen. In areas of on-going
projects, however drainage works have been only partly completed, even though
irrigation has started after partial completion of the irrigation systems. An
area of about 75,000 ha remains to be provided with surface drainage.
Additional drainage over an estimated area of about 50,000 ha would be
required for DSI projects due to be completed during the Fifth Five Year Plan
(1985-89)- Pumping stations would also be needed in certain cases where
gravity flow of surface drains is not feasible.
4-8      Surface Draiuage by GDRS.  All quaternary farm drains fall within the
purview of GDRS. Under the Core Program about 148,300 ha of land would
require farm drains to eliminate surface ponding during rains and uneven
irrigation application in cropped lands. These farm drains also form the
collectors for the sub-surface drainage system. Presently crop yields are
depressed with considerable loss of benefits. The above area requiring
surface drainage would be completed by 1989.
4.9      Sub-Surface Drainage.  Water table stands at 0-1 meter depth during
most of the year in large areas where irrigation has already been opened by
DSI. Only in: very dry years agriculture is possible in such areas. Crop
yields are also affected badly most of the time. Sub-surface drainage is the
urgent need to acnieve planned targets in production. it is aimed to maintain
the water table at about 1.2 meter below the ground surface, during the crop
season. An area of about 339,600 ha would require subsurface drainage which
would be completed by 1989.
4.10     Land Reclamation.  Some areas are affected by salinity and/or
water-logging due to irrigation in the absence of drainage facilities. After
the installation of drainage works about 77,600 ha would require reclamation
through construction of dykes and leaching.
4.11     Access Roads.  Access roads are necessary for maintenance of drainage
systems, their structures and pumping stations. These will be constructed
along the irrigation and drainage channels and linked with main and other
roads of the area. The total area served by access roads would be about
169,300 ha.
4.12     Employment of Engineering Consulting Firms.  The existing staff of
DSI and GDRS would require technical assistance through consulting engineering
firms to assist them with the intensive work under the Core Program.
Consulting engineering firms would be recruited by the Government in
accordance with Bank Guidelines and under terms and conditions and scope of
work acceptable to the Bank. The responsibility of these firms, inter alia,
would include the preparation of the following:



- 122 -                              ATOMX 5
Page 16
(i)  inception reports for the irrigation sub-sector investment program;
(ii) feasibility studies for the irrigation sub-sector investment program
for the period, 1985-89; and
(iii)  final designs, cost estimates and bidding documents for
implementation of the Core Program.
4.13     Employment of Reviewing Consulting Firms.  In view of the complexity
of the task, review of the economic, engineering and agricultural work by the
consulting engineering firms employed by GDRS and DSI would be required by
specialized reviewing consultants to be recruited in accordance with Bank
Guidelines by DSI and under terms and conditions and scope of work acceptable
to the Bank.
4.14     Training of Staff.  DSI and GDRS staff would be provided with
technical training in selected fields related to the works of the Core
Program. The training program would extend over about 400 manmonths of
training abroad in addition to the in-house training with the consulting
engineering firms and would cover about 35 trainees from DSI and GDRS.
4.15     Monitoring and Evaluation.  Under the present system of monitoring,
DSI & GDRS report on their project portfolios to the SPO once a year at the
time of budget preparation and usually do not provide any economic
indncators. Information on physical implementation is also inadequate. DSI,
GDRS and SPO as the key institutions dealing with the Core Program would
establish monitoring and evaluation programs and would streamline and
consolidate periodic reporting methods, to be coordinated by the Sector
Planning Department (Irrigation Subsector) of the SPO.
Estimated Cost and Financing
4.16     The estimated total base cost of implementing the Core Program
excluding taxes and duties is about TL 438.4 billion (about US$923.2
million)."' The foreign exchange component which includes both direct and
indirect foreign costs is estimated at about US$54C.6 million or about 59% of
the total cost. The cost estimate is based on unit rates currently applicable
(December 1984) on similar works in Turkey and in neighbouring countries of
the region. Physical contingencies at 15% of the base cost have been added on
civil works. Price contingencies in TL terms have been compounded annually at
25%, 20%, 15%, 12.5% and 10% for the years 1985 to 1989, respectively. The
cost estimate is summnarized in the following table; the indicative
implementation schedule is given at Attachment 2 and the annual schedule of
expenditures, from 1985 to 1989 is given in Attachment 3.
I/ US$ 1.0 = Turkish Liras 475.0



- 123-                                  ANNEX -
Page 17
Estimated Cost of the Core Proaram for Irr1aation S DraInage
Foreign
Local   Foreinn  Total   Local  Forcian  Total  Exchane
--n million------   ------US$ Million----               X
Surface Drainace Works
Surface Drainage Rehab.
- Civil Works (Less
equipment)             33.600    5.900   39.500    70.8   12.4        83-2      15
- Equipment                 -      48.000   48h000            101.0    101.0    100
Sub Total                 33.600   53.900   87.500    70.8  113.4    184.2        62
Surface Drainage Works
Mew DSl                      26.200   31.900   58.100    55.2   67.2    122.4         SS
Surface Drainage Works
New GDRS                     31.100   37.900   649000   fi 5j   Zf.        145.3      55
Sub Total                 57.300   69.800  127.100   120.7  147.0    267.7        SS
Sub-Surface Drainage and
Land Reclamation
Tile Drainage                 81.900  122.900  204.800   172.4  258t7    431.1         60
Land Reclamation               2.300  1. 600   3.900         4.8    3.4    8.2.z       40
Sub Total                 84.200  124.500  208.700   177.2  262.1    439.3        60
HisAcellaneous Works
Access Roads                   5.100    3.400    8.500    10.7    7.2        17.9      40
Facilities for 05H and
Monitoring                      300       200       S00     0.6    0.4       1.0      40
Computer Equipment & soft-
ware for Monitoring
and Evaluation                    -       240                             2     40 . 5 0  5  100
Sub Total                  5.400    3.540    9.240    11.3    8.1        19.4     42
Consulting Services
Consulting Services
for OSI                         575    1.550    2.125       1.2    3.3       4.5      73
Reviewing Consulting
Services for 0SI                 25       225       250     0.1    0.4       O.S      80
Consulting Services
for GDRS                         i       .775    2-37S      1_1    3I.      -5.       74
Sub Total                  1.200    3.550    4.750       2.5    7.5      10.0     75
Training abroad of DSI a
GORS Staff
Training of DSI Staff              -       600       600     -       1.3      1.3    100
Training or GDRS Staff             -       600       600     -..    1I        1I.    100
Sub Total                     -      1.200    1.200      -      2.6       2.6    100
Total Base Cost              181L700  256.790  438.490   32L.  540.6    923.1         59
Physical Contingencies
15Z on Civil Works           27.070   30.580   57.650
Base Cost & Physical
Contingencies               208.770  287.370  496.140                                 58
Price Contingencies          109i785   46.530  1S6.31S
Grand Total              318.5S5  lL3900  652.45S                                 S



- 124 -                               ANNEX 5
Page 18
4.17     The full implementation of the Core Program during 1985-89 requires
that certain works be completed and advance actions taken during 1985 which
are as follows:
(a) equipment required for rehabilitation of the surface drainage system
is procured and deployed;
(b) consulting and reviewing consulting firms are engaged at least for
the 1986 assignment out of a four-year program;
(c) the training program for the DSI and GDRS staff is given concrete
shape and inaugurated.
4.18     The following portion of the foreign costs of the Core Program will
be financed under the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan:
US$ Million
1.   Equipment for Rehabilitation and
Maintenance of Surface Drains and Spares           105.6
2.  Consulting and Reviewing Consulting
Services for DSI                                     2.0
3.   Consulting Services for GDRS                          2.0
4.  Training Program for DSI and GDRS                      2.1
5.   Computer equipment & Software                         0.5
Base Cost                                        112.2
Contingencies                                         5.4
117.6
These costs have been estimated net of taxes and duties.  Most of the
procurement is expected to be completed in early 1986.
4.19     Financing of the Agreed Core Program.  The total cost of the Core
Program including contingencies has been estimated, net of taxes and duties,
at about TL 652 billion with a foreign exchange component of about TL 334
billion. In addition to the financing to be provided from the ASAL ($117.6
million), the remaining foreign exchange requirements would be met either
through a second irrigation subsector loan an/or cofinancing or through
financing by other international organizations.
Procurement
4.20     Equipment.  All equipment for rehabilitation and maintenance of
surface drains would be procured under International Competitive Bidding
procedures consistent with the World Bank and IDA Guidelines (1984). The
actual execution of rehabilitation works through utilization of this equipment
would be carried out by the existing staff of DSI. This procedure would be
the most economical and consistent with Bank procedures as it would permit
procurement of equipment through international competitive bidding, while the
rehabilitation works which are complex and spread over the whole of Turkey,



ANNEX 5
- 125 -                              Page 19
would be carried out by the existing 25 Regional Directorates of DSI.  In
addition, DSI/GDRS would devise leasing rental arrangements to permit
contractors to use DSI/GDRS construction equipment on reimbursement basis.
4.21     Consulting & Reviewing Firms.  Employment of Consulting Engineering
Firms and by DSI and GDRS and Reviewing Consultants by DSI would be carried
out according to Bank Guidelines and under terms of reference and scope of
work acceptable to the Bank. Employment of Local Consultants, for feasibility
studies and final design would be encouraged. In case sufficient local
expertise is not forthcoming, the local firms would be required to enter into
consortium agreements with outside firms. However independent reviewing
consulting firms would be recruited internationally to permit objective review
and advice.
4.22     Computer Equipment and Software. Based on pronosals prepared by the
SPO, computer equipment and software would be procured under ICB procedures,
consistent with Bank Guidelines (1984).
International Water Rights
4.23     The proceeds of the proposed loan would be used to finance a time
slice of a program of rehabilitation of surface drains, an on-farm works
completion program and to strengthen the O&M capabilities of the implementing
agencies. The works included in the program consist of (a) rehabilitation of
surface drains, (b) excavation of new surface drains, (c) subsurface drainage,
Cd) land reclamation and (e) access roads (para 4.5). The lack of completed
on-farm works and the generally poor condition of surface drains have resulted
in water logging and some salinity problems, thereby lessening of return flows
and causing a deterioration of the quality of water being returned to
international rivers and streams. This drainage investmrnt program, by virtue
of its design and inherent technical features, would alleviate these problems
and would not have adverse effects on downstream riparians.



- /l? a -
Le-7/ , 5  /,-&-"    C-  - '3 /"P 5"1



- 127 -                    ANNEX 5
Attachment 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Irrigation Subsector)
List of Machinery & Equipment
for the Core Program
Unit      Total
Machinery                           No.           Cost       Cost
($'000) ($Million)
1.    Excavators: different
capacities                         150          170         25.5
2.    Bull dozers                           60           110         6.6
3.    Graders                               30            70         2.1
4.    Station wagons                        60            14         0.8
5.    Pick-ups                             240            12         2.9
6.    Jeeps                                 10            10         0.9
7.    Trucks                                90            16         1.4
8.    Dump Trucks                          180            85        15.3
9.    Loaders                              120           105        12.6
10.   Mobile Repair Vehicles                60           150         9.-
11.   Welding Machines                      60            20         1.2
12.   Concrete Mixers                       60            15         0.9
13.   Vibrators                             60            10         0.6
14.   Pulverizers                           60            10         0.6
15.   Ditchers                              30           115         3.5
16.   Water Tankers                         30            12         0.4
17.   Compressors                           60            10         0.6
18.   Trailors                              30            95         2.8
19.   Wreckers                              30            10         0.3
Total        88.0
Spares 20S         17.6
Grand Total       105.6



- 128                                  ANNEX 5
Attachment 2
Tim Schedu1e of Iqla tiaLigxi
1rM                          L985       1986       1987        1988        1989
1. EquIdint for Rehabilitation
& Subsequecn Mintmance of
Surface Drainage:
-Preparation of Draft
Bid    DDcUnents
-Siging of Cmotracts
-Delivery of Equipment
2. Ccmputer Eqlipnent &
Software for Mnitoring
& Evaluation:
-Draft Bidding Documents
-Signing of Contracts
-Delivery of Fquipment
3. Ccmsulnng gineerimg
Services for DSI & GRS
-Draft Bidding Domets
-Siging of Contacts
-wzbi,ization & Services
4. Reviwing Consulting
Services for DEE
-Draft Bidding Docuents
-Signing of Conracts
-Mobilization & Services
5. Training of DSI & GRS Staff
-Draft Proposals
-Siping of Cotracts
-Iplementation of Training
Progran
_ To be financed    e ASAL.
-_-____    To be finazed  d  the proposed irrigatio  & drainage subsectr loan.



hM1hTIuJ   S1CTO& AfSlT. ilt LAUN
la atri. AhAduI,  .o tLK   Otrtaur Par  ltla  lrrIuitan a           alna  5&aetgr Care fira.rm
Local PCrioI           Tatal   Local    oersion    Total       Lol Foril Total    Lc                   rarit                  n TTral                           t7          lTt    a          Porol a
111.111.1ARK-112111                .....................................---I.....................-t. TL   Ntn-   ---.....................................         ................................................... 
5.urPat. Orutna.* rkrt
Surtce Or,ln  I,. Reabilltatlon
Civil wartOs (ltst awt_ntl                         33,400      0.000   30,100    26.000       4.700   31.600    I,70         1,120     7,0-
*g,wt gmt                                                   411,102  4SLA1                  M i         AM        -        LI        JIf       .                                                                            --isO
5 I b *1           e33,600   03,000    17,100    20,000   43,100   70.000    0.700    10.000   17.100                                    .            -2
Surfatc  orsruas  wrt%4 saw oss                         as.ae 1  .2 1,       ss,o*0 4.00           o.100    11,000     4.0e 0 s,1 n0 11.000    0,e00            7,e00    14,100             0 s   S100      11,000    4.e00 *.10e   11eu1
Surtfce Oraagmet ltrl%00 Now GM             Z            LLeo    A7L0   .ILI1          -A10   7l.20  *'LOi0    LiIo    1.Ls               iiLL                                                                         LM
5   17.000    0.00   137,100    10,000    13,400    24.300   10.e00    13,400   24,200    1,7100    1000   20. 0W              10,000   13.400   24,0          0,00     13,400    24.200          0
Susrfc  Or&ilu.& 0 LaMd f.locltitio
* tIle Orailo.                                     81.00   122,.00  204,000    15,000   20,300 1e,000    11,000   23,300   30.000    10.500    20,700   40.2K                     10,100    213.30     16,000    11,.006    3,300      6,.900 e0
Land 0t-I_at                                                                                                      4          sn o.Li  -.41  ..  .   .   t.l  Id  ?Oa  ,   .      .             0    .fl 7fil                                        0
Ijk1,n1A            04.700  124.100   0,70          10,000   31.6002   10,100    10.000   23,000   30.40          000      3,0         036100 0-n_A           --I00     30.00                   so00  3.0  400          6
* Ot00  Od                                         01t        ,40       0,0       1,000       6000    1,000      1,000        400     1.600     3,100     1.000      lI             ,0         00      300       3,0          0       2004 
t*faciItoita SPleer Co and Monitoring                300       t00        00         0         40       soo 10                40 l0 40  0         id       4e                       00        400      100 1soe0             add0      lOG          00
COmpt.r  1,uint   SpPt.drq for
HIitorlin  and Evaluatlon                 _                          21e            l_              .           *                                                                                             - I
su      L              4i       3.e40    1,140       3,000       010     1.940 *0I               0 se        0         o       4 e    l0 lIie    10 Ie                                                                lea i ee  We  e  le  4
CmlaolLlM.Jarslcu
conaultl mi  SrIvces for OS[                         070     1.11      2,I20        %i   11 st          4011                                310 %                     030           11*       310       4251            31  330       421          71
0-it1..AC;osnultins Ser,3,as Par 01I                as         its        o0          I        40        s o                  45        s0o                  4e        14             o        41        of         a ei5              is          K
G rznfreor% Or'CSt  at  GM                                     S00        soe LA    in          e        no       -          ine        In        uo at                                        l          e       *           X                     e
TO11LILAW            1,200     3,110     4,7SO        240      710        ISO        240       710       IS 01e               Ito 20 3                24         u         in        240       710       in0          70
Tra unng  fe      ps 10110.                                       000        000      .           30         10      -          30          302430                       14                       10        110      - 1430 110014                     7
Nts cost . Pttyslea  corlnetl f7"X7ae*sIe *   s                                                 se  se         ele s a             sse ^s                %r        f@ 640@ 602 Ito| lie       Ila       liea                           Ila*       Is
Prlt  Cor.tlngantla                                    300,700    40,130   300,330      7.072     2,244   10,210    11,200       0.300    20.100    20.110    10,022    30.003         37,300    12,200    30.010    34.077    10,004   00,003, 
Tratin  ofL CDR  Stsa1 ffi  s5 71ta sseli            e           Xs e     eae112  -An *se Es a                                                               --111** *z * *l Xls  
MTAL  WE COST                                                                                                             330       220                  111141~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 
QICkl II&A                                             330,110   333.000  002,400    713,301   900,104  303,000    00,300    00,300  310.600    01,740   00,412  131.001               00.740    00.400   330,120   0U.447   01,124  127.001               &I



E 6y       --9 <v0,    rS-A
q Q6/1



ANNEX 6
- 131 -
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Technical Supporting Services



A -/ lasy 4        s./'
- (!:: El -



- 133 -                          ANNE 6
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSIHENT LOAN
Technical Supporting Services
Table of Contents
Page No_
I.    Status and Constraints                                           1
Agricultural Research . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Extension . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
Overcentralization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
Bank Involvement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
Management Information System .  . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
II.   Reorganization of TSS                                             8
III.   Coordination in Streamlining of Supporting Services              10
Coordination of TSS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Agricultural Research Review and Assessment . . . . . . .  10
MIS Automation for Decentralized MAFRA Operations . . . .  11
IV.   Procurement & Cost Estimate                                      12
V.   Actions under the ASAL                                           13
Attachments
Tables
1. Research Facilities and Staffing of MAFRA
2. MAFRA Research Programs and Projects
3. National Commodity Research Programs of the GDPI
4. External Support for Research
5. Extension Services and Staffing of MAFRA
6. Estimate of Future Budget Requirement for MAFRA's Technical Services
7. MAFRA - Inventory of Installed Computer Systems
8. Procurement List for Strengthening MAFRA's MIS



-/3 Y-
YW11           15>f vloi



-135-                           ANNEX 6
Page 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADWUSTMENT LOAN
Technical Supporting Services
I. STATUS AND CONSTRAINTS
Agricultural Research
1.01     Current Organization. As in most developing countries, agricultural
research in Turkey is primarily in the public sector domain. No research is
conducted by the private sector which, until recently, played a relatively
minor role in providing inputs for agricultural producers. This may change
with the new Government's approach to providing incentives to private
agro-industries enterprise and to encouraging foreign investment: a more
direct input of advanced foreign technology can be expected to flow into the
sector. Nevertheless, for some time to come, Turkey must rely heavily on its
own resources in the public sector to develop and disseminate the improved
technology essential for agricultural development.
1.02     in the public sector, most agricultural research is with the Ministry
of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MAFRA). Outside of MAFRA, only
the Agricultural University Faculties conduct some research but they are
severely constrained due to lack of funds and the primacy of their teaching
responsibilities. Minor research trials are carried out by the government
sugar beet enterprise (SEKER) and also the tea enterprise (CAYKUR).
1.03     MAFRA has about 98 separate research facilities scattered throughout
Turkey (Table 1). However, about three-fourths are located west of a line
from Samsun to Adana, with particular concentration (33 stations) in the
Ankara, Izmir, Antalya and Adana areas (see Map). Nearly one-third (31
stations) are crop, forage and animal husbandry research oriented and employ
nearly half (61) of MAFRA's professional research staff with Doctors'
degrees. Nevertheless, 85Z of the research professionals hold only the
equivalent of the B.Sc. degree with no training in research methodology. For
all research facilities of NAFRA, the figure is not much better with some 72Z
of the total professional staff (1,524) holding only a B.Sc. degree
equivalent. Furthermore the ratio of technicians to professional research
staff which should be at least 2 to I is reversed with 2.7 professionals
sharing one technician, an unsatisfactory situation.
1.04     Prior to the June 1984 reorganization of MAFRA, crop, forage and
animal husbandry research was in the former General Directorate of
Agricultural Affairs (GDAA); plant diseases, insects and weed control research
in the former General Directorate of Plant Protection and Quarantine (GDPPQ);
veterinary research in the former General Directorate of Veterinary Affairs
(GDVA); Food and Feed Research in the former General Directorate of Food
Control; and forestry research in the General Directorate of Forestry. Soils
and water research (TOPRAKSU) was in a separate Ministry of Village Affairs.



- 136 -                              ARNEX 6
Page 2
As might be expected, duplication of effort and staff resulted since crop,
forage and livestock research could hardly be expected to conduct research
without soil scientists, plant pathologists, entomologists, weed control
specialists or veterinarians.
1.05    Although MAFRA has been reorganized as per Law decree 212, research
is still fragmented among four General Directorates of Project and
Implementation (GDPI) for crops, forage and animal husbandry research; the
General Directorate of Protection and Control (GDPC) for plant protection
research, veterinary research and food control research; the General
Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS) for soil, water and crop research on
irrigated land; and the General Directorate of Forestry (GDF) for forestry
research. The need to consolidate research activities to more efficiently
utilize the human and physical resources is self evident. It is likely that
such consolidation would, as a corollary, lead to a determination as to the
continued usefulness of a number of the research stations.
1.06    The difficulties in research planning and coordination which arise
from this fragmentation among the general directorates are further compounded
by inadequate policy guidance and support at the national level. Each of the
agencies involved in research has a national research council or committee
which meets once a year in order to review the findings of the previous year
and decide on the research program for the following growing seasons. In
MAFRA, a Ministerial Research Board is in charge of approving the decisions
taken by the various Research Councils of MAFRA and its budgetary allocations
which are then submitted to the State Planning Organization (SPO) for final
allocations. Although this mechanism, in theory, would permit some degree of
research planning and programming coordination, in practice the lack of clear
national priorities and limited sectoral planning has led to MAFRA and SPO
merely endorsing programs submitted by the Research Councils.
1.07    Collaboration of research between different agencies is minimal and
often depends on individual reseachers and personal contacts, but is hampered
by the fact that researchers belong to separate General Directorates with
different policies and cumbersome bureaucratic procedures. Besides leading to
duplication of research activities, the lack of clear guidelines on national
research priorities has resulted in far too many research projects attempting
to cover all aspects of crop and livestock production and a concomitant
dilution of scarce professional manpower and financial resources.
1.08    Current Programs.L'  Responsibility of GDPI Research is for all
major crops, forages and animal husbandry but excluding sugar beets and tea.
Their major thrust is on plant improvement and breeding and the development of
new or adapted varieties of various field and horticultural crops, some
research an improved cultivation practices, livestock breeding and animal
nutrition on a more limited scale. Beginning in 1969, with the assistance of
the Rockefeller Foundation and Oregon State UTniversity, the Government
established a national wheat research program which used a multidisciplinary
l/ See Working Paper 6A (Annexes 1-7) for further details.



- 137 -                              ANNEX 6
Page 3
approach and established research teams with representatives from different
General Directorates in Crops Research, Plant Protection, Soils and
Extension. It resulted in the release and adoption of a number of improved
wheat varieties which have been responsible for increasing Turkey's wheat
yields from about 0.8-1.2 t/ha. in the early 1970s to an average of two
tens/ha in low rainfall areas to nearly 4 tons in high rainfall areas.
1.09     The success of the national wheat research program, led in 1972 to
realigning activities on a commodity oriented basis, wherever possible. The
33 research institutes and stations were grouped into seven agroecological
regions devoted to agricultural commodities of regional and/or national
.nortance (Table 2). At present 517 separate projects are underway with 434
er projects completed. This large number of projects are allocated among
30 national commodity research programs which are listed in Table 3. Each
national research program is under the supervision of a national coordinator
who resides at the lead research institute and coordinates the annual work
program which may include several research stations in different
agroecological zones.
1.10     The justification of 33 research institutes and stations for crops,
forages and livestock complemented by 65 additional facilities for soils,
plant protection, veterinary, food and forestry research needs to be reviewed
in the light of national priorities, allocation of scarce human, physical and
budgetary resources. There is also a need to evaluate whether 30 national
commodity research programs are required. Allocating 70 professionals to cool
climate cereals (wheat, barley, oats, rye) may make sense in view of the
importance of cereals, especially of wheat, to Turkish agriculture. It is
questionable, whether the second largest allocation of professionals of 55
should be for olive research and only 10 to sheep and goat research. The
technology of poultry production is so well defined and efficiently operated
in the private sector, that the need to have a national commodity research
program Is open to question. It may be far more efficient to concentrate on
priority commodity programs where a technological input is required and is of
economic significarce to the agricultural sector. Adequate attentior is being
given to research in different cropping patterns, especially in the irrigated
areas, however there is a lack and an urgent need to focus on a farming
systems approach to agricultural research, particularly in the rainfed areas.
1.11     External Support.  A number of the research institutions and
professional staff have had contacts, cooperating arrangements and support
with international organizations. Support since 1979 is shown in Table 4.
Financial support has come from eight different agencies and since 1981, the
World Bank has been the major doror ($34.7 million) compared to $2.6 million
for the seven other donors combined. Good contacts and cooperating programs
have been established with six of the International Research Centers (CIMMYT,
ICARDA, ICRISAT, CIP, IRR: and CIAT) and with national research programs in
the USA, Italy, Bulgaria and Romania and with IDRC of Canada and ODA of the
United Kingdom. UNDP and FAO have been very supportive and were responsible
for assisting in the establishment of the Ataturk Horticultural Research
Institute at Yalova and participating in a number of research programs.



- 138 -                               ANNEX 6
Page 4
1.12     Research Contributions.  Despite a number of handicaps outlined in
previous paragraphs, major contributions to impzoved technology have been
developed by a number of the Research Institutes and programs. As might be
expected, those institutions in Ankara and Western Turkey have the most
adequate research staff, facilities and equipment and accordingly have been
responsible for the bulwark of contributions to improving Turkish
agriculture. In contrast, the East Anatolia Regional Research Institute at
Erzurum, does not even have its own research building, laboratories or
greenhouse and has only seven agricultural engineers and one recently returned
M.Sc. in forage research. The contributiens are understandably minimal when
compared to the Aegean Regional Research Institute near Izmir which has 11
Ph.D., 7 M.Sc. and 69 B.Sc. and substantial facilities and equipment to carry
out their work. Some recent contributions include the release to farmers of 5
durum and 15 bread wheat varieties, 5 barley varieties, and 3 tobacco, 2
lentil, 91 grape, 15 pepper, 2 red cabbage, 2 apricot, 6 walnut varieties, and
new varieties of strawberry, chickpea, drybean, pistacio and winter vetch.
Improved meat and wool by crossing Akkaraman and Malya sheep breeds as well as
increased milk production through crossing local goats with the Sonsun breed,
also has been accomplished.
Extension-L
1.13     Current Functions.  Agricultural extension in one form or another has
been practiced in parts of Turkey since the mid 1940s. As with agricultural
research, extension services to farmers is predominantly in the public
domain. Advice to farmers from the private sector come from retail outlets
for pesticides which are to be folnd in most towns with each having at least
one licensed agricultural engineer in its employ, or from a few vegetable seed
companies. Some well to do farmers also hire private veterinarians or have
access to information on farming operations outside of Turkey. As more inputs
are provided by the private sector, advice to farmers should also increase.
1.14     In the public sector, extension services are provided primarily by
MAFRA. Many other organizations concerned with agricultural development also
provide extension facilities as part of their services but, in terms of
numbers, these are small compared with those in MAFRA and in many cases are
crop specific (SEKER - sugarbeet; CAYKUR - tea; etc.) and by cooperatives such
as Cukorbilik and Antbirlik for cotton. The Agricultural Bank (TCZB) employs
some agricultural engineers to assist farmers prepare development plans and
loan applications but this can hardly be considered an extension service.
1.15     In MAERA, the agency with the largest number of field staff covering
virtually every aspect of crops, forages and animal husbandry was formerly
called Teknik Ziraat (TZ). It is represented in all 67 provinces of Turkey
and is practically the only agency with technicians located at the village
level (Table 5). Of all the agencies devoted to extension in MAFRA, TZ has
the most technicians (72S of the total). Other agencies providing a
comprehensive coverage down to the provincial or county level are the plant
protection services for plant disease, insect and weed control and the
1/ See LIV, WPs 6A & 6B.



- 139-                                ANNEX 6
Page 5
veterinary services for animal vaccination campaigns. The other extension
services have only a minimal presence scattered over specific regions. In
this regard the Forestry Service (ORKOY) provides an extension service to
forest villages on bee keeping, carpet making and arts and crafts but not on
crop or livestock production.
1.16     Limitations of Organization and Approach.  Duplication and
coordination problems have occurred with the various agencies. The
responsibilities of TZ covered virtually every aspect of crop and livestock
agriculture, whereas plant protection and veterinary field staff, on the other
hand, were not strictly concerned with extension but mostly with conducting
plant protection or animal vaccination campaigns. Plant protection
collaboration with Teknik Ziraat for the provision of extension advice to
farmers on crop diseases and pests was fairly good at the field level, with TZ
staff doing plant protection work on this organization behalf in counties
wnere the latter had no direct representation. Collaboration between TZ and
the Veterinary Service, on the other hand, was virtually non-existent. This
has created substantial inefficiencies and has hampered the provision of a
good extension service for animal husbandry in general, which requires that
both health care (encompassing vaccinations against diseases as well as
control of parasitism) and other aspects cf animal husbandry (breeding,
feeding and forage production, husbandry techniques) be provided on an
integrated basis at the farmer or village-level. Duplication also arose in
the area of animal breeding, since the field staff of the Veterinary Service
was also in charge of artificial insemination, besides its
strictly-veterinarian duties of disease control. As a result, both TZ and
veterinary field staff were engaged in distributing improved breeding animal
to farmers, with uncoordinated and only scattered actions to improve feeding
and management, itself being a prerequisite for obtaining full benefit from
such improved animals. Rivalry between TZ and the Veterinary Service also led
the latter to undertake special projects (such as lamb fattening in western
Anatolia) duplicating similar activities under TZ's purview. Aside from this,
duplications existed between TZ and other agencies involved in extension such
as TOPRAKSU and SEKER, but these concerned only limited areas and/or a small
number of farmers as a result of the fairly specific areas dealt with by the
latter agencies.
Overcentralization
1.17     The problems created by the multiplicity of agencies involved in
agricultural technical supporting services (TSS), and the somewhat arbitrary
and at times unclear distribution of responsibilities among them, have been
compounded by the fact that each of these agencies was until recently highly
centralized. In most cases, all but the most routine project- or
program-related expenditure at the local level had to receive central
sanction. Very little delegation of authority was made by the headquarters of
each General Directorate to its regional or provincial organizations. For
instance, in the case of Teknik Ziraat, budget resources for each county
office were sent directly from headquarters with no direct control from the
provincial TZ office to which the county is attached. All staff appointments
were similarly made from the headquarters. As each General Directorate had
developed over time its own regulations and procedures, field staff of
different agencies were reperting to their own bureaucracies



- 140 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 6
independently from each other. This excessive centralization effectively
stifled initiative and any attempt at coordinating actions at the field level
and created excessive paperwork diverting the field staff from its true
duties. It also overburdened the General Directorates headquarters with
administrative tasks of minor importance at the expense of broader issues. At
the same time, the lack of a strong Ministry-wide planning and coordination
capability at MAFRA's headquarters together with the entrenched attitude of
the various General Directorates led to a situation where each agency was
defining its programs on an individual basis with insufficient attention paid
to the formulation of coherent policy and programs. Very little feedback from
the field offices to the central level took place, as they tended to be
considered by their headquarters as mere way stations for passing on orders
rather than a valuable depository of field knowledge.
Bank Involvement
1.18     Turkey was the first country to establish an extension operating unit
on the Training and Visit (T&V) system as a component of the Seyhan Irrigation
Project II (Loan 587/Credit 143-TU) in 1969. This was the first of a number
of Bank-assisted projects which included an extension component as support to
specific investments in irrigation, commodity or rural development. In most
cases a special project extension unit was established independent of the
existing extension services. Such extension units were established in the
Fruit and Vegetables Export Project (Loan 762/Credit 257-TU), the Irrigation
Rehabilitation and Completion Project (Credit 281-TU), the Ceyhan-Aslantas
Multipurpose Project (Loan 883/Credit 360-TU), the Corum-Cankiri Rural
Development Project (Loan 1130-TU) and the Fruit and Vegetable II Project
(Loan 1967-TU).
1.19     The Erzurum Rure. Development Project (Loan 2094-TU) provided for the
first time (1982), a st' gthening and reorganization of the existing
provincial extension service (Teknik Ziraat) rather than the creation of a
separate project unit. During the same year, Government, as a result of the
experience of a vitalized extension service and its impact on agricultural
development in the Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project (Loan 1130-TU),
decided to merge all existing project-specific extension units into TZ and to
strengthen and reorganize the extension service along the lines successfully
applied in Bank-assisted projects. It led in 1984 to the Agricultural
Extension and Applied Research Project (Loan 2405-TU) to strengthen the
extension services in 16 provinces representing four different agroecological
zones and six research institutes backstopping these regions. Prior to this
Project, the Bank had provided little assistance to strengthening the
agricultural research services. Only in the Fruit and Vegetables II Project
and the Erzurum Rural Development Project was some support given for crops
research-
1.20     The separate extension units established under the Bank-assisted
projects beginning with the Seyhan Irrigation Project, demonstrated the
benefits to be derived from a systematic approach to extension using village
level extension staff backstopped by county and provincial agricultural
engineers dedicated full time to extension and relieved of administrative and



- 141 -                               APNEX 6
Page 7
regulatory services. The special extension units have had a substantial
immediate impact on agricultural production in their areas but their impact on
institution building has only recently begun to materialize. When the
Seyhan II Irrigation Project was completed, the .pecial extension unit was not
maintained despite its success nor did Government attempt to apply its basic
principles to restructure the existing nationwide extension services. The
failure to achieve an institution building impact probably stemmed from
creating a separate unit outside the jurisdiction of existing government
agencies and accordingly did not receive support needed to exact institutional
change. Despite the recognized weakness in design of an extension component
in subsequent projects, similar units were established as a practical solution
to provide meaningful extension to farmers benefiting from investments in
infrastructure and farm development until such time when Government became
committed to improving its own extension service. This change has now
occurred as described in the paragraph above.
1.21     The importance of viable applied research services effectively linked
to and backstopping extension in providing improved technology packages
clearly became evident in a number of Bank supported projects. In the
Seyhan II project, yields of cotton were sharply reduced by white fly
infestation due to slow recognition by research for the need to develop
effective means of control and thereby weakening the credibility of the
extension service. This was also noted in the Fruit and Vegetable Export
Project where improved citrus production was hampered by a lack of viable
research and was remedied by including a research component in the Fruit and
Vegetable II project.
1.22     The fragmentation of research and extension among an array of
Ministries and agencies creating duplication of effort and a lack of effective
linkages was the basis for an understanding reached under the Fourth
Structural Adjustment Loan. Government agreed to establish two working groups
to:
(i) "set priorities for the use of research and to develop medium term
plans for reorganizing and consolidating agricultural research
activities; and
(ii) develop medium-term plans for reorganizing and consolidating the
government's diverse extension services including decentralization of
responsibility to the regional level in addition to improving links
with agricultural research."
Following up on these understandings, Bank assistance for the Agricultural
Extension and Applied Research Project (AEAR) was approved (Loan 2405-TU)
whose design included formation of these groups to carry out their work
according to agreed purpose and scope. The design was also intended as a
prototype for future consolidation and decentralization of the research and
extension services, which would be extended to other agroecological zones in
Turkey with possible future Bank assistance in accordance with the priorities
and plans identified by the two working groups. The Research and Extension
working groups were subsequently established by the Minister of MAFRA under
the chairmanship of a Deputy Undersecretary of MAFRA and Loan 2405-TU was
subsequently declared effective September 5, 1984.



- 142 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 8
1.23     Current and projected expenditures for MAFRA's Technical Services to
1992 including a possible AEAR II & III project is shown in Table 6 and are
based on the assumption of no growth in veterinary and plant protection
services because of likely privatization of some of these services.
Management Information System (MIS)2'
1.24     There is a clear need for MAFRA to create an all-MAFRA/MIS in order
to support the heavy management function requirements that will appear with
its new decentralized organization, as well as MAFRA's intended active role in
support of expansion of agricultural (crop and livestock) production by
Turkish farmers, and the post-harvest management of agricultural storage,
distribution and export. Individual organizational approaches have taken
place in the development of a partial MIS in various institutional areas of
MAFRA. There are several mainframe and microcomputers and peripherals in six
of MAFRA agencies (Table 7). However, their operations are uncoordinated and
function only in Ankara without any computerized data bank links with the
regLunal or provincial level. The computer capacities of MAFRA's former
General Directorates of Rural Infrastructure (YSE), the parastatal Soil
Products Office (TMO) and General Directorate of Forestry (OGM) have ample
room for expansion, if and when needed. The computer centers of MAFRA are
understaffed, undertrained and underpaid when compared to the private sector
with existing computer capacity underutilized.
II. REORGANIZATION OF TSS
2.01     The Need for Reorganization.  The problems summarized above have been
recognized for a number of years. Indeed, as far back as 1964 the Ministry of
Agriculture issued a report ("A Reorganization of Turkish Agriculture") which
provided a comprehensive review and critical analysis of its objectives and
operations together with recommendations for improvement. Since then, a
number of important changes in ministerial jurisdictions over the agricultural
field services have taken place. Most notably, the three separate Ministries
which used to deal respectively with agriculture, forestry and village affairs
(the latter including TOPRAKSU and other rural infrastructure agencies as well
as agricultural cooperatives), have been merged under the umbrella of MAFRA.
Similarly, the fragmentation of responsibilities for crop agriculture used to
be even greater than described above. At one time or another, there have been
separate General Directorates for agricultural research, horticultural
affairs, fresh fruit and vegetable projects, and cotton affairs, before all
were merged within the former General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs
(GDAA). Previously, the responsibilities of the former General Directorate of
Veterinary Affairs (GDVA) were also split among separate general directorates
for veterinary services and for breeding. Although some consolidation at the
top has occurred in recent years, the main field services remained all along
under the jurisdiction of separate general directorates. Interministerial
consolidation has had little effect on overall coordination, since each GD
retained a large degree of autonomy in the definition and execution of its
operations.
1/ Further details may be noted in Working Paper 6A (Tables 18-25).
2/ See Working Paper 6C for further details.



- 143 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 9
2.02     Coordination and Consolidation.  The reorganization of MAFRA by Law -
Decree 212 in June 1984 consolidated its main service departments with the
intent to broaden central level responsibilities for planning and management
of agricultural sector policies and to decentralize program formulation and
implementation functions and to pool and coordinate field services of staff,
facilities, equipment and budgets. To this end, MAFRA has merged the research
and extension activities of the four former GDs of Plant Protection, Livestock
Services, Livestock Development and Food Affairs into a new GD of Protection
and Control. At the Provincial level (in a subsequent Ministerial
regulation), all extension services of Agriculture (Teknik Ziraat), Plant
Protection and Veterinary Services have been placed under one Provincial
Director for each of the 67 Provinces which will go far to consolidate these
services to more efficiently service farmers and promote the coordination
envisaged in the Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project. Under
the new reorganization, MAFRA has indicated that it fully intends to carry out
the policies and principles agreed to under the AEAR Project.
2.03     With the absorption of the technical supporting service of the former
Ministry of Village Affairs in late 1983, most public sector TSS is now in
MAFRA. Agricultural research is presently located among four General
Directorates with Crop, forage and livestock research in the GD of Projects
and Implementation, soil and water research in the GD of Rural Services, plant
protection, veterinary and food research in the GD of Protection and Control
and forestry research in the GD of Forestry Services.
2.04     MAFRA officials intend to have all General Directorates and agencies
in Ankara act only in an advisory capacity with line authority stemming from
the Minister, Undersecretary and Deputy Undersecretaries directly to the
regions and provinces. Delegation of authority to the field level in most
matters is highly recomnended but the decision making process for establishing
and directing a consolidated viable technical support service to Turkish
farmers needs to flow from the Central level to the Regions, Provinces,
Counties and Villages under strong central technical leadership.
2.05     Technical and Administrative Leadership.  The justifications for
maintaining technical and administrative coordination authority in Ankara are
several:
(i) priorities for crop and livestock production set by Government are
national in scope and often encompass agroecological zones which
often cut across regional and provincial boundaries;
(ii) uniformity of standards of research and extension methodology must be
set and directed at the national level by technically qualified
leaders;'
(iii) national commodity and livestock research programs require decision
making at the national level (involving experiments on research
1/ The need for such is jointly mandated by the very limited number of
research personnel holding advanced scientific degrees, and the difficulty
of converting an existing-and large -xtension service to the training and
visit discipline, retraining staff, and reassigning them to the village and
county levels as well as to remote regions.



- 144 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 10
stations and sub-stations with further testing and demonstrations in
farmers' fields with extension service participation).  The
determination of regions which are to be included can only be made
centrally, while the necessary coordination of implementation must be
carried out from this level as well;
(iv) establishing and maintaining a uniformity of highly qualified
research personnel, extension subject matter specialists and
extension agricultural engineers and technicians can only be assured
by competer1t technical direction at the top;
(v) detailed proposals for research and extension projects, and their
subprojects covering numbers and locations of experiments at research
stations and farmers' fields, and technology tests and demonstrations
on farmers' fields (including information on objective work plans,
methodologies, resources required, costs and sources of funds), will
originate from the national leveL as well as from the regional
level. In all cases national approval will be required to assure
uniformity of methodology, conformance with national goals and
avoidance of duplication; and
(vi) in areas where research has not or cannot be undertaken, further
extrapolation of research results for the generation of improved
technology will be required at the national level prior to
dissemination to farmers through the extension service. (It is also
worth noting that accumulated experience in agricultural research
suggests that various research disciplines are needed to focus on
solving problems of crops, livestock and farming systems. It is a
science-based undertaking to be differentiated from simpler
engineering approaches, thus highly successful breakthroughs occur as
a result of using a multidisciplinary approach to agricultural
research.)
III. COORDINATION IN STREAMLINING OF SUPPORTING SERVICES
Coordination of TSS
3.01   For the reasons outlined in para 2.05, MAFRA recognizes the need to
appoint a National Research Coordinator and a National Extension Coordinator
at the Central Level. They would be directly responsible to the
Undersecretary with duties and responsibilities as agreed with the Bank.
Furthermore, MAFRA would issue directives delineating authority for
programming, budgeting, implementation, monitoring and coordination of
national and local agricultural research and extension programs.
Agricultural Research Review and Assessment
3.02   Establishing a consolidation of MAFRA's technical support services with
strong technical and administrative leadership is an essential step in
strengthening these services in support of Turkish farmers. However, once
this is accomplished, there is a need to conduct an in-depth review on how
best to utilize the technical staff, facilities and equipment representing
some 98 MAFRA agricultural research institutes, stations and laboratories to
focus on the priority needs of 1985-90 and beyond. For this purpose,



- 145 -                               ANNEX 6
Page 11
MAFRA's Agricultural Research Working Group, under the Chairmanship of the
Deputy Undersecretary, should conduct an in-depth review of all aspects of
MAFRA's agricultural research, with technical assistance from short-term
agricultural research scientists and administrators of international
reputation to accomplish the following:
(i) establish national and agroecological priorities for agricultural
research programs and projects;
(ii) estimate manpower and training requirements to conform with
established programs and projects;
(iii) determine budgetary needs for capital investments and recurrent
expenditures to attain target goals of (i); and
(iv) assess the functions of all research facilities to provide specific
recommendations for reducing duplication and promoting consolidation
and coordination for attaining targeted goals of (i);
(v) determine measures for closer coordination between research and
extension; and
(vi) review programs undertaken ane evaluate results.
3.03     The conduct of the review outlined in para 3.02(i) through (vi) to
cover all 98 MAFRA research facilities will require international research
specialists in field crops, horticulture, soils, plant protection, animal
husbandry, veterinary, forages, foods, forestry, economics and farm management
as well as experts in research administration and management.  Such a review
should be initiated in early mid-1985 and completed by  April 1986.
3.04     The specific recommendations of that review affecting research
programs, staffing, facilities and equipment would be put into effect by end
May 1986. Suggested terms of reference for such a Review and its timetable
are set forth in the LIV, WP 6A and Part V.
MIS Automation for Decentralized MAFRA Operations
3.05     Given MAFRA's limited staff capabilities in the areas of MIS and
automated data processing, the organizational phase of the MAFRA/MIS should be
developed by the joint work of a Systems Analysis Consulting Team and MAFRA
groups or counterpart teams from APK, the Affiliated (GDRS, etc.) and
Administrative Support Units, and MAFRA's specialized operational areas. This
being a major undertaking, it should be conducted by a specialized consulting
firm over a period of up to four months starting in July/August 1985.



- 146 -                               ANNEX 6
Page 12
3.06     The systems analysis and configuration design for the MAFRA/MIS
should be completed and reported by the end of October 1985. The
recommendations included in the report should serve as a basis for
incorporation of specifications by MAFRA into a tender document for the
procurement of hardware, software and maintenance and support services for a
pilot operation to begin in L6 of Turkey's 67 provinces to correspond to the
16 being strengthened in the AEAR Project, to be acquired on the basis of
international bidding. It is envisioned that a preliminary tender for some 16
microcomputers and training services could be issued by August 1985. These
would be needed to initiate training of personnel in the provinces, starting
in September/October 1985, on a rotational basis, with four provinces
undergoing training simultaneously (4 portable computers and 8 students per
province per month; 16 provinces undergoing training until end of January
1986). The mainframe hardware, regional computer network equipment for eight
provinces, software development, software packages, and support and
maintenance services and training, would be incorporated in a second tender,
planned to be issued in November 1985. The balance of the provinces--four of
them-and upgrades to present computer systems, would be tendered in May L986.
3.07     The identification of number and types of distributed data processing
professionals and supporting staff should also be completed by July 1985. So
should be a training program, including a chronogram and types of training to
be given to MAFRA scientists, extension and promotion professionals,
administrative and managerial staff, on the use of MAFRA/MIS and the tools to
operate it (microcomputers with their operating systems, software,
communications and access protocols and MIS protocols, printers and other
peripheral equipment). The timetable for reviewing system organization and
procedures, determining hardware, organization and system design, procurement,
installation and concomitant services is presented in the LIV, WP 6C.
IV. PROCUREMENT AND COST ESTIMATE
4.01     For the Review of MAFRA's Agricultural Research Service, about 14
internationally recruited experts in various disciplines (para 3.03) would be
requited for about 80 man-months to conduct the in-depth review over a period
of six months at an estimated cost of $800,000. Technical assistance for MIS
training and MIS needs identification through an international consulting firm
would be about $476,000.
4.02     Purchase of all computer hardware and software (Table 8) amounting to
some $2.1 million would be in accordance with ICB procedures acceptable to the
Bank.



- 147 -                              ANNE  6
Page 13
V. ACTIONS UNDER THE ASAL
5.01     The Government has decided to implement reform n-asures to address
the issues discussed in Chapters II and III. It would include the appointment
of a national research coordinator and a national extension coordinator, an
in-depth review of research priorities, management, staffing, equipment and
facilities needs and technical assistance for an improved management
information system. The objective is to improve the efficiency of the
research organization and integrate it more closely with extension through
improved research planning, coordination and policy guidance. It would
complement the key reforms being established under the AEAR Project, whereby
the extension services in 16 provinces are being reorganized and strengthened
through a defined system of village extension agents and subject matter
specialists backstopped by improved research serving the area. These actions
would address most of the outstanding technical support system issues
mentioned above over a 3-5 year period. The subsequent expansion of AEAR
principles nationwide would round out the package of reforms needed to
revitalize the TSS.



I
b-
IN



ANNEX 6
- 149 -                            Table 1
Research Facilities and Staffing of MAFRA
No. of
Institutes  Ph.D or  [.Sc. or  B.SC. or           Technician
Research Area      & Stations  Equiv.   Equiv.    Equiv.    Total    Staff
Crops, forages and
livestockE1             33         61        44       578      683        148
Plant protection-z         9         31       101       106       238        94
Soils and water'3         11         14         4       145       163       156
Veterinary4               30          11      132       188       331         -
Food controlzs             6          9        16       124       149       162
Forestry "                 9          -        -         66        66         7
Total                   98        126       297     1,101    1,524        567
/I Presently in the General Directorate (G.D.) of Projects and Implementation
and previously in the G.D. of Agricultural Affairs.
/2 Presently in the G.D. of Protection and Control (GDPC), and previously in
the G.D. of Plant Protection and Quarantine.
/3 Presently in the G.D. of Rural Services and previously in the G.D. of
Soils and Water (TOPRAKSU) of the Ministry of Village Services.
/4 Presently in the GDPC and previously in the G.D. of Veterinary Affairs.
/5 Presently in the GDPC and previously in the G.D. of Food Affairs
1   Presently in the G.D. of Forestry and previously in the Department of
Forestry-Village Relations (ORKOY).



-150 -                                            ANMEX 6
Table 2
NAFRA Rasearrh Proor    and Pro1ects
Proilets Underway
Field                 Ant-el   Projects
Nam  of the Institutin          Place       Croos  Horticulture   Nusb*   CuImsud  Major Fields of Study
ariara-Thrace RPoon
1- Regional Agr.Rms.snst.      Halkali        8         -           -        22       Wheat, barley. oat. sunflower
2- Agr. Res. Inst.             Edirne         9         -           -         6       Wheat, barley. rice. sunflower
3- Agr. Res. Inst-             Sakarya       10         -           -        29       Wheat. maize. potato
4- Sericultural Res. Inst.    Bursa           -         -           4         4       Sericulture. mulberry leaf prod.
5- Ataturk Horti1Res-Inst.    Yalova          -        55           -        46       Vegetables. fruits. viticulture.
agr. economics. olives. ornamentals.
food tech.
6- Viticultural Res.Inst.      Tekirdag       -         11          -          S      Viticulture, stone seeded fruits
7- Vegetable Seed Prop.        Balikesir      -          -          -          3      Vegetable seed production
and Trial Station
Ae*ean Re10n
8- Regional Agr.Res.Inst.      Menemen       45        27           7        62       Wheat. barley, vegetables, fruits.
second crop. legumes, dairy cattle.
apiculture. genetic resources
9- Agr. Res. Inst              Erbeyli        -         9           9         10      Ftgs. poultry
10- Olive Res. Inst.            Bornova        -        28           -        19       Olive production. oil technology
11- Viticultural Res.Inst.      Manisa         -         7                     7       Seedless grapes
12- Tobacco Res.& Train.Inst.  Mensto         12         -           -         7       Tobacco production, breeding
13- Olive Res. Sta.             Edrenit         -        5           -         3       Olive production, canning
Megsterranean Reaion
14- Akdeniz Agr. Res. Inst.    Antalya        16         -           1        19       Second crop (soybeans. maize, rice.
sunflower. sorghumn. sesame. peanuts)
15- Agr. Res. Inst.             Adana         11         -           1         3       'heat. second crop. animal
husbandry. forage crop
16- Agr. Res. Inst.             Gaziantep      -        19           -          -      Pistachio nut production
17- Vegetable Res. Inst.        Antalya                 14           -         11      Early vegetable production in
greenhouses
18- Citrus Res. Inst.           Antalya        -        12           -         8       Citrus fruits
19- Horticultural Res.&         Alata          -        25           -         S       Citrus fruits. vegetable production
Train. Center                                                                      under coverage. ornuoetals.
berries. stone seeded fruits
Central Anatolia Region
20- Regional Agr.Res.lnst.      Ankara        23         17          -        25       'heat, barley. winter vegetables.
cereal technology, food legumes
21- Agr. Res. Inst-             Eskisehir    17         11           -         19      Wheat, barley. food legumes, maize.
potato. vegetables
22- Forage crops & Anim.        Ankara        19         -          19        49       Forage crops. beef cattle. sheep
Husb. Res. Inst.                                                                   breeding & produc.. range management
23- Poultry Res. Inst.          Ankara         -          -          4         29      Poultry. apiculture
24- Agr. Res. Sta.              Afyon          1          -          -         9       Forage crops. buffalo breeding
2S- Agr. Res. Sta.              Nevsehir       3         -                      2      Potato. viticulture
Black sea Renton
26- Regional Agr.Res.Inst.      Samsun         7                     1          5      maize. vegetables, poultry
27- Filbert Res.& Train-Cent.  Giresun         -                               12      Filbert produc. leaf and soil
analyses
Eastern Anatolia Region
28- Regional Agr-Res.Inst.      Erzurum        7         -           -          2      Wheat. barley. potato, food legumes.
forage crops. poultry
29- Horticul.Res.Prod. and      Erzincan       -          -          -                 Field crops, horticulture. viti-
Train. Center                                                                      culture. animal husbandry
30- Agr. Res. Sta.              Igdir          5          -          -          -      Cereals. forage crops
31- Trial & Produc. Sta.        Kars           -          -          3         S       Cattle. sheep. poultry
South-eastern Anatolta Reaton
22- Regional Agr.Res.Inst.      Diyarbakir   19                      1          6      Wheat. food legumes. second crop.
animal husbandry
33- Agr. Res. Sta.              Malatya                                         2      Stone and soft seeded fruits
212       255          50       434



ANNEX 6
- 151 -                       Table 3
National Commodity Research Programs-
of the General Directorate of
Proiect and Implementation (GDPI)
No. of       No. of
Coop. Res.    University
Organizations Graduates
1- Tobacco Research Project                                  4            11
2- Food Legume Research Project                              6            14
3- Maize Research Project                                     7           16
4- Reduction of Fallow Land Research
- Extension Project                                       6             ?
5- Cool Climate Cereals Research Project                     11           70
6- Plant Genetic Resources Research Project                   1           12
7- Sunflower Research Project                               12            24
8- Rice Research Project                                     10           13
9- Potato Research Project                                   8            15
10- Forage Crops Research Project                             6            14
11- Grassland Research Project                                2             4
12- Pome Fruits Research Project                              6            25
13- Stone Fruits Research Project                            11            26
14- Berries Resea.rch Project                                11            15
t5- Fig Research Project                                      1             7
16- Nuts Research Project                                    12            16
17- Hazelnut Research Project                                 2             8
18- Pistachio Nut Research Project                             7            9
19- Citrus Research Project                                   3            34
20- Other Sub-Tropic Crops Research Project                   2             6
21- Viticulture Research Project                             11            42
22- Vegetable Research Project                                8            18
23- Vegetable Production Under Coverage Research Project       7           24
24- Tomato Research Project                                   8            19
25- Mushroom Research Project                                  1            3
26- Olive Research Project                                    6            55
27- Economical Research Project                              12            25
28- Sericultural Research Project                              3            5
29- Poultry Research Project                                  6            36
30- A) Small Ruminants Research Project                        2           10
B) Big Ruminants Research Project                          6           15
/1  Detailed description of the research programs are available in Annex 1 of
Working Paper 6A.



ANNEX 6
- 152 -                        Table 4
External Support for Research
A. Financial Support
Amount
Research Program                     Organization   US$ '000   Period
Wheat improvement                          UNDP/CIMMYT        224.0   1983-85
Maize improvement                          CIMMYT              30.0   1980-
Agronomic practices                        FAO                136.0   1983-84
Plant Germ Bank                            UNDP               992.9   1983-86
Durum wheat lab. & trng.                    Italy             172.0   1982-83
Food Legume Improvement                     IDRC              240.5   1979-84
Barley Improvement                          IDRC              201.0   1980-84
Potato Improvement                         CIP                 45.0   1984-86
Solar-heated Greenhouses                   UNDP/FAO           250.0   1984-86
Olive improvement training                 FAO                  -      1978-83
Horticulture-Post Harvest Technology       ODA                103.4   1982-85
Silkworm Technology                        UNDP/FAO           202.0   1980-83
Fruit & Vegetable Research (1967-TU)       World Bank       9,700.0   1981-85
Erzurum Agric. Research (2094-TU)          World Bank         770.9   1982-86
Agric. Research (2405-TU)                  World Bank      24,200.0   1984-90
Total                             34,267.7
B.  Cooperating Organizations                           Research Area
ICARDA, ICRISAT, CIAT                               Food legumes
CINMYT                                              Maize
CI! MYT, IDRC, FAO. Oregon St. Univ.                Cereals
Bulgaria, Romania, FAO                              Sunflowers
IRRI, Italy, USA, Bulgaria                          Rice
CIP                                                 Potatoes
Int'l Olive Oil Council, FAO                        Olives



Extension Services and Staffina of MAFRA
Enalneers and Veterinarians                            Technicians
No. of
Provinces    Provincial                         Provincial
Extension Area                or RegiWnS   Center         Cunties  oItal   Center            Counties   Viagag  ITotal
Crops, Forages & Livestock L1          67           668           448      1,116       1,213        3,090       1,262      5.665
Plant Protection LZ                    67           688             -        588         777            -           -        777
Soil and Water LI                      16            17             -         17         lie            -           -        118
Veterinary Services LA                 67             -             -        922           -            -           -      1,270
Vet. health Control Services LI        12            29             -         29           -            -           -          -
Animal Marketing Services LI           10            10             -         10           -            -           -          -
Quarantine & Custom Services LA         7            11           -_          " .                                -          -
1,323           448     2,693       2,108        3,090       1,262      7,730
LI  Presently in the General Directorate of Organization and Support Services and previously known as Teknik Ziraat in
the G.D. of Agricultural Affairs.  In addition there are 982 Home Economists.
L2  Presently in the G.D. of Protection and Control (GDPC) and previously in the G.D. of Plant Protection and
Quarantine.
LI  Presently in the G-O- of Rural Services and previously in the G.D. of Soils and Water (TOPRAKSU) of the Ministry
of Village Affairs.
/I Presently in the GOPC and previously in the G.D. of Yeterinary Affairs.
LAO



Estimate of Future Budoet Reauirements for HAFRA's Technical Services
(million 1983 constant TL)
Actual 1983    1984
Budget      Budget                                           Proaicted Budaet Expenditures
Expendi-    Alloca-
tures       tlion LI        1985          1986         1987         1988         1989         1990         1991          1992
1. Veterinary Service                8.300 LI    (9,648)          8.300        8.300        LIQ         _.1QQ         8.300        a,300        8.300        L
2. Plant Protection Service         fij4  La    (6,113)    6. 048              LISA         LISA         LiA       6. 048           L6SI   6     L.0           iU6A
3. General Extension and
REsearch Services LI
(a) Investment expenditures
Prior to AEAR 1            2,830              n.a.          -             -            -            -            -            -             -            -
AEAR I                                        -         6,315        7,184         5,843        2,957          375             -            -
AEAR II                                -                     -            -        2,500        5,343        5,157        3,483        1,319           149
AEAR III                               -                     -            -            -            -        2,500        5,343        5,157         3,483
Subtotal                          2,830              n.a.      6,315        7,184        8,343        8,300         8,032        8,826        6,476        3,632
(b) Current expenditures
Prior to AEAR I           13,417              n.a.     13,417       13,417       13,417        13,417       13,417       13,417       13,417       13,417
Increment AEAR I                -                         746        1,805        2,460         2,613        2,653        2,654        2,654        2,614
Increment AEAR II               -             -             -             -          295        1,010        1,688        2,008        2,085        2,101
Increment AEAR III              -             -             -             -            -            -          298        1,010        1,688        2,006    F
Subtotal                         13,417              n.a.     14,163       15,222       16,172       17,040        18,053       19,089       19,844       20,180    4
Total Budget for General
Extension and Research              JA.L247      (17,090)LI    20.478         22.406       24.515        25.340       26.205       27.915       26.320       23.12
o/w investment                     (21X)             n.a.       (31%)        (32X)        (34Z)         (33%)        (31%)        (32%)
Extension and Research as X
of Agricultural GOP"$                  0.65X           -            0.64X        0.67S         0.6a         0.69S        0.71X        0.72S
Lt  Corresponds to former GOAA (including Cotton Affairs) after exclusion of agricultural technician schools.  For 1983, figures from Working
Paper 6A, Table 20 have been reallocated between investment and current expenditures in the strict meaning.
Lt  Estimates provided by MAFRA.
LI  From Working Paper 6A, Table 18, converted in 1983 constant terms.
LA  After subtracting an estimated TL 1,879 million for agricultural technician schools.
Li  Agricultural GOP in constant 1983 prices.
mx
0% O



MAFRA - Inventory of Installed Comruter Svstems lOecemherl9a4l
MAKE/         MAIN HEMORY                                                                               LANGUAGES
LOCATION         MODEL       PRESENT MAXIMUM   STATUS           FEATURES             PERIPHERALS          USE            COMPILERS        APPLICATIONS
THO           IBM-4331/Jl    2MB       4MB       Rental   Disks Jx671 MB           8 terminals       Stock control        Assembler       UHELP
Main frame                                  Syst disk lx271 MB        I line printer  Administration        PL/I
computer                                    External disk 1x6MB   1200 LPH             Underutilized
2 tapes x 1600 BPI
6 diskette readers
Orman Genel  UNIVAC           0.5MB   4MB        Owned    Disks 2x118 MB (P)        12 terminals    -Data entry for        Fortran
Hudurlugu    Syst 80                                      Disks lx118 MB (0)        (data entry)      forest manage-       Cobol
(OGM)         (2 computer                                 Disks lx72 MB (P)        5 terminals        ment planning       Assembler
units)                                   P=processing fixed         (program)       -Payrolls Forestry  Basic
Main frame                                  D=Oata, removable         I Plotter         KAFRA                RPGII
computer                                    2 tapesx(800/1600 DPI)                     -Some statistical   Escort
2 diskette readors                         work for MAFRA       IHS
Underutilized       OHS
Y.S.E.     Burroughs        0.5MB   l.SM      Owned    Disks:                                                           Cobol 256 KS
B-96                                      lx80 Ha fixed            8 terminals      No programs           Basic 256 KB
minicomputer                                 I tape x 1600 BFPI                        Underutilized         RPG 128 KS
MPL 128 KB
YEMS-EBIM    Burroughs        384KB   0.5MSB    Owned    Disks:                                      Various programs    Fortran 64 KG Feed formulation
B-21                                      lx80 HB fixed            I terminal        Feed formulation    Cobol 128 KS  Data tests
microcomputer                                I diskette reader        (own screen)                          Basic 128 KB  Population acet.
Regression analysis
Stock control
Statistics
APK           IBM-XT        256KB   64OKB    Owned    Disks;                                       I program             BASICA         DASI (FAD)
(2 units)                                   lxla MB fixed            I terminal        Investment           0 BASE II      Project Analysis
microcomputer                                I diskette reader        (own screen)    proJect analysis    Supecalc 2
Lotus 1-2-3
TOPRAKSU      No information
available



- 156-                                 ANNEX 6
Table 8
Procurement List for Strengthening MAFRA's MIS
(a) Hardware
- Mainframe acquisition for Ankara Center:
hardware operating system
software and peripherals                    up to USS    900 ,Oool'
(options are to substitute this
computer to the TIIO computer, or add
this computer to the present series)
- Sixteen provincial computer networks:
hardware, operating system network
and peripherals (this assumes an
average of 4 terminals per province
at US$27,500 per province)                          $    440,000L'
- Additional institutional microcomputers:
hardware, including some 31 micro-
computers, peripheral equipment for
research and service institutes of MAFRA.
Annex 1 lists the institutes, service
agencies and other offices of MAFRA
preliminarily included in the estimate            $    125,000
(b) Service and Spare Parts
- Spare parts only for provincial computer
systems, about 5Z of value of hardware            $       6,250
- Provision for service contract (turnkey)
portion of supplying firm (otherwise to be
included in GOT budget) 52 of value of
hardware of provincial systems                    S       6,250
(c) Technical Assistance
For international consultancy                       $    420,000
(d)  Packaged Software                                   $    100,000
(e)  Custom Software Development                         $    290,000
(f) Training
Outside Turkey (14 traineeE)                        $      12,500
In Turkey     ( 75 trainees,                        $      43,750
(g) Communications
Hardware, services                                  $    100,000
(h) SuDplies
Beginning stock of supplies                         $      35,000
Ci)  Upgrade of MAFRA Computers                          $      75,000
Estimated Foreign Base Cost  =    $2,553,750"'
1/   C and F prices; duty not included.



- 157 -                          ANNEX 7
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Programming, Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation



e 9-
X-1-7,.-S EK 67-s m         -/;'I'l



- 159 -
ANNEX 7
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT LOAN
Programming, Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    CURRENT STATUS .............................................  1
A. Public Expenditure Programming and Constraints .........  1
B. Fertilizer Distribution ................................  2
C.  Sectoral Policy Analysis, Planning and Coordination ....  2
II.    MAIN INSTITUTIONS, ROLES AND LIMITATIONS          .     .      4
III.    OBJECTIVES AND ASAL REFORMS ................................  5
IV.  ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS                  ..                   8
CHART



C   /rA 4--
Wow          ) 6 <:f>    AS/,? 4 /vA



- 161 -                          ANNEX 7
Page 1
TURE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Programming, Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
I. CURRENT STATUS
A. Public Expenditure Programming and Constraints
1.01     One of the principal instruments of the Government in pursuing its
development strategy has been through the allocation of public investment.
Since 1980, the agricultural sector's share in total public investment is
about 10% of total annual allocations. In 1983, the total agriculture budget
of US$225 million was composed of US$135 million in investment expenditures
(60X) and US$90 million in recurrent expenditures. When excluding
expenditures for forestry and fisheries, about 60% of investment expenditures
was allocated to the irrigation subsector, 20% to rural roads and village
electricity, and the rest for other ministerial activities.
1.02     Several constraints to improved policy formulating and monitoring
exist which Government intends to address through measures to develop and
strengthen the APK during the ASAL's disbursement period and thereafter. At
the macro level there are two stages to the process: medium-term planning and
'annual programning. For the medium term (Five Year Plan period), global
projections are made by the State Planning Organization (SPO) and the Ministry
of Finance and Customs of investment expenditure, current expenditure and
transfers, but this is not disaggregated at the sector level except for
investment expenditures. While all annual investment programs are approved 'y
SPO, which also places an aggregate ceiling (based on macro conditions) on
total current expenditures, the current budgetary allocations are approved
separately by the Ministry of Finance and Customs prior to submission to
Parliament. This system results in an artificial compartmentalization of
capital and current expenditures and weakens the overall planning and control
of public expenditure. It also precludes effective performance monitoring.
With current expenditures in agriculture forming about 30-35% of the total
public expenditure for the sector, the financial planning exercise should
incorporate composite expenditure requirements. It is particularly important
in the case of the agricultural sector as a large part of the current
expenditures may be considered developmental expenditure and the recurrent
cost implications of new projects and programs should be taken into account
much more systematically than is presently done.
1.03     As a result, a direct correspondence does not exist between the
classification of projects in SPO's Annual Programs and the line item
classification of expenditures in the Budget. This renders difficult the
monitoring of expenditures to physical targets and needs; apart from
expenditures on physical infrastructure which are more readily mcnitorable,
expenditures in other programs may be shifted within the "program" as broadly
defined in the Budget (e.g. actual expenditures on agricultural extension



- 162-                               AMIEX 7
Page 2
related to specific crop programs are not readily available and cannot be
evaluated). It also is impossibl.e to evaluate, even roughly, the differences
in the productivity of expenditures and the relative impact of expenditure
cutbacks on various projects. For these reasons a more useful recording of
expenditure at a more disaggregated level, by projects, is needed at a central
place.
B. Fertilizer Distribution
1.04     At present, the need for interagency coordination in fertilizer
procurement and distribution planning is minimal, since TZDK has a virtual
monopoly for over 90Z of the fertilizer distributed in the country, the rest
being handled by the Turkish Sugar Factories-SEKER (Annex 4).  Over recent
years, a small and well staffed fertilizer unit in SP" has been dealing with
planning in the fertilizer subsector, mostly on the pr_duction side (domestic
fertilizer industry). Prior to the recent reorganization of MAFRA, the former
General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs had a Ferti:izer Section which
maintained a data base on semi-annual production programs by domestic
manufacturers, and allocations of domestic production and imports by the
Agricultural Supply Organization (TZDK) and SEKER. This unit was also in
charge of recalculating ex-factory prices on a semi-annual basis in accordance
with the prevailing ex-factory pricing formula for submission for Government's
approval.
1.05     In view of the intended diversification of fertilizer distribution
channels, Government has recently created a Fertilizer Monitoring Unit (FMU)
in MAFRA. It will permit effective support by Government to ensure smooth
introduction of the new distribution system (Annex 4), to monitor
implementation of the new distribution system, and provide overall
coordination to ensure adequate supplies throughout the country in a
cost-efficient manner.
C. Sectoral Policy Analysis, Plrnniii and Coordination
1.06     Throughout the 1970s and early 1980s, the efficiency of Government's
intervention and support to the agricultural sector has been constrained by
weaknesses in defining consistent policies and programs aimed at well-defined
agricultural objectives. Insufficient attention was paid to assessing
alternative policies and the trade-offs involved and to formulating coherent
strategies at the national level. At the same time, Government's intervtntion
in the sector had developed over the years into a wide array of incentives,
subsidies, taxes, licenses, etc., accompanied by extensive direct involvement
of public or semi-public agencies in infrastructure development, production
and distribution of agricultural inputs and marketing of farm products.
Responsibility for administration of these policies and execution of numerous
agricultural programs was diffused widely among ministries and departments.
Varying degrees of administrative and financial autonomy were enjoyed by the
General Directorates of the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as other agencies
and parastatals involved in agriculture which hampered the establishment of
coherent agricultural programs. These institutional constraints, together
with weak capability at the central level for policy analysis, program



- 163 -                              ANNE  7
Page 3
evaluation and medium-term planning, resulted in the development of a
bewildering and often conflicting array of incentives, and a situation whereby
each of the numerous agencies involved in agriculture was defining and
conducting its own operations largely in isolation from what could have been
mutually supportive directions.
1.07     Starting towards the mid-1970s, MAFRA adopted an increasingly active
role in agricultural policy-making. This was attempted without an adequate
information base and with only limited staff. Prior to the recent
reorganization (para. 2.05) the Advisory Council of Research, Planning and
Coordination (APK) in MAFRA had been conducting, on an ad hoc basis, economic
studies and statistical compilations for high level officials of the
Ministry. However, it did not have the capability to supply high level
policy-making officials with sound and complete policy analysis upon which to
base their decisions.
1.08     Since 1980, the Government has taken important steps to rationalize
price support and trade incentives, steps which have already had profound and
very beneficial effects on the level and structure of commodity pricing, and
the overall financing costs of providing farmer protection. The domestic
price structure has been brought in line with international price
parities.L'  A general delicensing of agricultural exports, some import
liberalization, and the shift to a crawling peg exchange rate regime carried a
profounb change in the structure and level of agricultural prices. For
medium-term performance targetting and policy a=nlyss, sthe primary future
task is to operationalize and institutionalize within APK the statistical,
modeling and analytical methodologies associated with more systematic short-
and medium-term sectoral planning than could be practiced in the past. These
would applied to land use and production policy analysis; technology policies;
producer price, inputs and investment incentives policies; public investment
and expenditure policies; and the marketing and trade aspects and the incomes
and employment dimensions of these. The recent work by KAFRA under its Remote
Sensing Project for Grains and Current Agricultural Statistics and Crop
Forecasting Project (both assisted by FAO), as well as its unfunded proposals
to UNDP for an "Agroecological Zoning Project" (1982) and "Training and
Technical Assistance for Agricultural Sector Analysis and Planning" (1984) are
germane. The Bank, in parallel, has revised, updated and regionalized its
Turkey Agricultural Sector Model (TASM) which could usefully be applied by
HAFRA to strengthen its policy analysis. Familiarization training to APK
staff in its uses and applications will be provided under the ASAL.
1/ Reviewed in LIV, WP 7G.



- 164 -                              ANNEX 7
Page 4
II. MAIN INSTITUTIONS. ROLES AND LIMITATIONS
2.01     The SPO has several roles in the investment decision and budget
preparation process. Its Economic Planning Department undertakes
macroeconomic analyses and projections to delineate broad parameters. The
Sector Planning Department (subdivided in individual subsector units)
consolidates information and prepares the Five-Year Plans. It also approves,
together with SPO's Annual Programming and Finance Department, the annual
programming for each sector and evaluates, as staff is available, proposals
for new projects. The Coordination Department monitors and makes mid-term
reviews of the annual investment program. This Department obtains detailed
quarterly reports from the most important 50 to 60 projects under
implementation, and monthly financial statements from the some 8,000
investments listed in the annual program. It is charged with an accounting
task-reallocations within project accounts, cost overruns, etc.,-which takes
a great deal of the Department's attention. The Department's role in
monitoring will, by necessity and for the sake of efficiency, need to be
reduced to follow up only some of the most important projects and leave to the
operating departments, the follow-up of smaller projects and program-type
activities. MAFRA, therefore, will need to take up in short notice the
monitoring and evaluation (MHE) of almost all its activities.
2.02     The Ministry of Finance and Customs' General Directorate of Revenues
estimates revenues for the annual budgets in cooperation with SPO's Public
Finance Unit. Recent changes in the tax system have rendered historical
revenue growth rates unreliable. The General Directorate of Budget estimates
levels of current expenditures and transfers, and finalizes the budget. HDT
deals with the funds and transfers to the SEEs' debt service payments and
inflows. There are eight SEEs active in the agricultural sector, and besides
dealing with the administration of price supports and subsidies, they engage
also in productive or distributive activities. The distribution of budgeting
functions is therefore divided among three Departments (two in Treasury and
one in SPO) and expenditure estimates among three. M&E activities are divided
between at least two in SPO and one in Treasury for SEEs.
2.03     MAFRA has recently been reorganized, from a traditional structure of
semi-independent line departments to a structure of very few departments by
tasks or activities (project preparation, project implementation, etc.), while
shifting all operational activity to the field. In headquarters, there remain
basically six coordinating General Directorates, some auxilliary units and the
Research, Planning and Coordination Bureau (APK). With the disapperarance of
the traditional line departments, the role of programming, coordination,
monitoring and evaluation has fallen by design to APK.
2.04     APK has eight departments with a total staff of about 132 technicians
and 118 support personnel (see organization chart). Amongst these, the
Department of Research and Statistics is charged with the collection of basic
agricultural statistics and execution of special economic studies concerning,
in particular, subsidies and other incentives. The Department of Planning and
Multipurpose Projects is the main sectoral policy unit of APK. It is charged



ANNEX 7
- 165 -                              Page 5
with (a) the formulation of agricultural and rural development strategies and
policies; (b) the development of sector and subsector plans conforming to the
national plans; and (c) research and development of improved and computerized
economic models to aid in the sectoral planning process. The Department of
Program and Budget prepares MAFRA's annual investment program and the regular
ministerial budget. Finally, the Department of Coordination and Evaluation is
directly charged with the monitoring and evaluation of MAFRA's investments,
although not the current expenditures. The basic institutional framework
therefore exists within MAFRA to plan and monitor the action programs of the
ASAL. The proposed loan would provide necessary technical assistance to
strengthen APK's capabilities for these purposes.
III. OBJECTIVES AND ASAL REFORMS
3.01     The Government's ability to provide appropriate policies to guide the
agricultural sector includes the strengthening within MAFRA of a capability to
carry out sector policy analysis; monitoring, reporting and evaluation of
public expenditures in the sector; review the performance of all government
entities which intervene in Turkey's agricultural operations; and advise on
trade policies, producer floor price and input policies. The objectives are
detailed below.
3.02     Consolidation of Monitoring and Evaluation Activities.  To improve
the monitoring and evaluation of Government expenditure for agriculture,
MAFRA's Department of Coordination and Evaluation in APK would consolidate the
data base on all projects and the most important programs ongoing in
agriculture, irrigation and rural infrastructure. These projects are mostly
in MAFRA's jurisdiction. The data base would be finalized by May, 1986 to
consist of project profiles with streams of budgeted and actual expenditure,
and physical targets and achievements. It will serve as an input to the
systematic post-evaluation to be carried out by APK for all large agricultural
and irrigation projects whose execution was begun in 1975 or thereafter (large
projects being defined as those whose total costs exceed TL 9 billion in 1984
prices). A screening of projects will be carried out by October 1985 and
post-evaluation will begin by April 1986 after the requisite data have been
assembled. APK is expected to provide homogeneous guidelines for and
coordinate the work of the other units in MAFRA carrying out M&E for specific
projects. Since SPO has delegated to the ministries the follow-up of all but
the largest projects, APK will take up M&E of the remaining projects and will
coordinate with SPO the follow-up of the largest projects.
3.03     Sectoral Policy Analysis and Monitoring.  The specific objectives of
the reforms to be implemented under the ASAL in the area of sector economic
policies will be to strengthen Government's institutional capabilities in the
area of policy formulation and improve the methodological basis for monitoring
sector policies and making adjustments from time to time.



A-MNEX 7
- 166                                 Pae-
Page 6
3.04     The recent steps taken by Government (paras 1.07-1.08) provide
initially an adequate institutional framework to achieve these objectives,
with APK being converted into a policy advisory and analysis unit and given
formal authority to coordinate vith other MAFRA's departments and related
agencies and plan and review their programs and operations in the sector. The
ASAL will provide technical assistance to support the effective development of
APK into a policy analysis and advisory unit and permit training of its staff
to enable it to effectively assume these new responsibilities.
3.05     Primary responsibility for sector policy analysis and performance
monitoring has been given to APK's Department of Planning and Multipurpose
Projects. The primary task of this unit is, in coordination with the
Department of Research and Statistics, to operationalize and institutionalize
the statistical and analytical methodologies associated with sectoral
policies, planning and performance monitoring in the areas of: land use and
production policy; technology policies; producer prices, inputs and investment
incentives policies; public investment and expenditure policies; and the
marketing and trade aspects and the income and employment dimensions of these.
3.06     To achieve these objectives, the ASAL will provide technical
assistance to:
(a) assist the Department of Planning and Multipurpose Projects with
installation of the Second Turkey Agricultural Sector Model (TASM2),
developed by the Bank in the course of its sector work, and provide
training to staff of MAFRA, SPO, Treasury and others in the use of
this model. Consultants will be engaged under the ASAL according to
approved TOR; and
(b) systematize and improve the analytical bases for: (i) floor price
determination of commzodities under the government' s remaining price
support program; and (ii) periodic refinements to the structure of
agricultural tariffs, quotas and export levies. A fine-tuning of
floor price announcements is required to accommodate the side effects
from the increased exposure of agriculture to the volatile
international commodity price trends. The differences between export
receipts and farmgate prices in specialized crops such as hazelnuts,
tobacco and tea are captured through export levies, earmarked for
agricultural development expenditures. Licensing requirements for
imports of sugar (to protect sugarbeet production from international
cane sugar price fluctuations), and for imports of vegetable oils (to
promote domestic oilseed production) are exceptions to largely
unrestricted imports of agricultural commodities. The Government has
indicated its intention to have APK assess the efficacy of these
policies under a work program suggested by the Bank.
In addition, provision has been made in the ASAL for the overseas training of
selected APK staff in the field of sector analysis and programming and
monitoring of public expenditures.



ANNEX 7
- 167 -                              Page 7
3.07     It was also agreed that the Department of Planning and Multipurpose
Projects will be responsible for monitoring and program reporting of the ASAL
components, in coordination with APK's Department of Coordination and
Evaluation. Prior to tranche review, the Department of Planning and
Multipurpose Projects will prepare for submission to the Bank a progress
report with suimmaries from the Head of SPO's Economic Planning Department,
HDT's Deputy Undersecretary for Treasury, the Chairman of MAFRA's APK and from
APK's Department of Program and Budget, SPO's Irrigation Subsector Section,
the FMU and ASAL's procurement task force in APK on the progress of their
work. The report will be prepared according to a format agreed upon with the
Bank. Also, a completion report will be prepared by APK and submitted to the
Bank within six months of the Loan closing date.
3.08     To reduce some of the shortcomings associated with current budgetting
procedures, APK's Department of Program and Budget will be strengtbened to
enable it to better program, record and monitor MAFRA's investment and
recurrent expenditures for the sector. A homogenization of the definition and
classification of investment and current expenditures is required to compare
and prioritize projects amongst MAFRA's General Directorates and Provincial
Directorates. Sectoral annual recurrent expenditure programming should be
carried out in conjunctior. with investment programing. This would enable
estimating and allowing for future expenditure requirements more explicitly,
relating them to more tangible outcomes, and also would reduce the problem of
current expenditure items being included in the investment program. It also
would permit the quantification of recurrent expenditures of ongoing projects
(and some related new investments) which are not systematically quantified at
present, and would allow for the forward budgeting of these expenditures,
critical in large projects, such as in the irrigation and rural roads
projects. In carrying out these tasks, the Department of Program and Budget
would need to work jointly with the Department of Planning for the sectoral
investment planning and with the Department of Coordination and Evaluation in
providing guidelines and data for M&E purposes.
3.09     Given its overall coordination role, the Fertilizer Monitoring Unit
(FMU) has been placed in APK. Besides its general duties of advising
Government on requisite legislation and regulations to encourage private
sector participation in fertilizer distribution (Annex 4), the FMU will
monitor fertilizer consumption and distribution in the country by both the
Agricultural Supply Organization and the private sector. One of its main
coordinating responsibility in this regard will be to ensure that the planning
of imports and the allocation of domestic supplies and imported fertilizers to
the various distributors/regions is made in a cost-efficient way.
3.10     A fertilizer distribution model has been developed by the Bank, which
is a transport-storage linear programming model calculating least-cost routing
and storage patterns for given supply capacities and fertilizer demands at
each consuming location. This model will be transferred to the FMU to assist
it in its coordination and M&E duties. Staff of the FMU operating this model
will work in close collaboration with staff of APK's Department of Planning
and Multipurpose Projects (which, under the current organization chart of APK,
has major responsibility for modelling) and will benefit from technical



ANNEX 7
- 168 -                               Page 8
assistance for introducing the model and training its future users under
agreed TORs. Close coordination will also be effected with TZDK, which is
expected to remain the largest fertilizer distributor at least in the short to
medium term, in order to apply the model's findings to improving the planning
of imports and TZDK's distribution and inventory management practices.
3.11     In order to fulfill its duties, the FMU should be staffed by at least
two agricultural economists (one of them needing a working knowledge of
English) and one research assistant/statistician. It should be headed by a
sufficiently senior officer from MAFRA to permit access to the necessary data
from TZDK, manufacturers and private distributors, and permit effective
dialogue with the FDCA. The FMU's agricultural economists should similarly be
well qualified and experienced, able to travel often and deal with industrial,
agricultural and trade audiences.
IV. ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
4.01     Part of the proceeds of the ASAL will be used in direct support of
the sectoral and investment programming, monitoring and evaluation, as follows:
(a) consultant services to install the TASM2 model and train staff of
APK, SPO and Treasury in its use for sectoral policy analysis (nine
man months);
(b) consultant services to the Fertilizer Monitoring Unit to install the
Fertilizer Transport and Distribution Model developed by the Bank and
to train staff of FMU, TZDK, SPO and Treasury on its use for
planning, programming and monitoring of fertilizer distribution
(three man months);
(c) consultant services to ASMU for the development of price policy
methodology and review of import licensing and export levies (three
man months through the ASAL in addition to the technical assistance
to be provided by FAO) (para 1.08); and
(d) overseas training for MAFRA's staff on programming, monitoring and
evaluation of sectoral investments, and agricultural sector policy
analysis geared to plan and monitor the sector's performance (90
staffweeks).
4.02     Consultants will be recruited in accordance with Bank Guidelines.



-169 -                                               ANNEX 7
Chart
TURKEY
ORGANIZATION CHART OF HAFRA's
ADVISORY COUNCIL OF RESEARCH PLANNING AND COORDINATION
(A P R)
I   CHAIRMAN
DEPARTMENT OF   IIIDEPARTMENT OF   IIIDEPARTMENT OF   I                      IDEPARTMENT OF           I
RESEARCH &     I  I I PROGRAM & BUDGETIII FOREIGN RELATIONSII     AFFILIATED &                  I I
STATISTICS     I  I  I (Preparation of            (Liaison with                REIATED UNITS 
I(Basic statistics, I  I I investment and   II    international    I  I  I(Oversee activitiesl   I
I research, special    II current budget III and bilateral                    I  I of institutions I I
studies)       IIIfor MAFRA)              III affairs)               IIIaffiliated withb  
III       III                        III   ~~~~~HAMR)               I
1IPublic Expenditurel  I I  Fertilizer    I        I
IIMonitoring Unit  I TP1 Monitoring Unit           II
I                                                   I
I  DEPARTNENO  OF   I I                             1  DEPARTMENT OF I  I           DEPARTMINT OF
IPLANNING & MULTI- 6REGULATORY 1                                                1 COORDINATION I
IPURPOSE PROJECTS  I                                I    AFFAIRS        I      I EVALUATION
I(Broad sectoral   III(Reviews sector-  I                                      I(N&E of NAPRA's
I planning and        i           I                 I wide legialation |        1 investments,
I analysis; prepa- IIIand prepares                                       I      Icoordinate workI
I ration of|  ulti- I               I                  MAFRA's own                 a | |mong |sA's    I
I purpose projects)l                I |                legislation)    I        i      units)
|~~~ Itde)       ||frHFA                       I      *f   irs           |   afl-e   it              I
lAgricultural Sector]                I
M        |onitoring Unit                              |                                 I
II I
| PAISECTION OF
IADMINISTRATIVE&I
P  FINANCIAL AFFAIRS            A
|(internal support |
I  for APK)
note: Major tasks of APK' Departments are shown within parentheses. The Irrigation Investment Monitoring Unit
would be located in the State Planning Organization but would liase cloaely with the relevant units in APK.



.~~ ..r.......       AN
> tAOhtOhZI2/<gShA.,  ANA  ........ .... _.                                                               SINOPE 
N .        M    F D /r                          E    Nt                    KSTFAM!                                           .    ACA   EGO                           NRhESNUIO                        ;;      CNRA- TRGO
Itl;OMfTERS tballwlubr = ei Gr S t 1 UARUAn~~~AMRGIYSOUT"eS EIN CMRLSunR
.~~~3 .......                                                                                                                                   TF A >
_    i   "   fi   w  -  "  rs s~~~~~~~~~~~~~T



