The Wo:
FYOR OMICL
Report No. 10025
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2585-TU)
OCTOBER 25, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dutie.s. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                         2.20 pounds
1 metric ton                            1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton                            0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                       c     1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                  =     0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                    c     2.47 acres
1 decare - 0.1 ha                 =     0.25 acre
1 square kilometer (km2)          2     100 ha 0.386 square mile
1 liter (1)                       =     0.264 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APK      -   MAFRA's Planning, Research and Coordination Bureau
ASAL     -   Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
DSI      -    State Hydraulics Works Agency (within the Ministry of Public
Works)
FAO/CP   -    Cooperative Program Between the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations and the World Bank
ICB      -    International Competitive Bidding
MAFRA    -   Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
SAL      -    Structural Adjustment Loan
SEE      -    State Economic Enterprise
SPO      -    State Planning Organization
II&V     -   Training and Visit System
TIGEM    -   Agricultural Enterprises of Turkey, an SEE
TOR      -   Terms of Reference
TZDK     -   Agricultural Supply Organization of Turkey, ar. SEE
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Turkey         -         January 1 - December 31
World Bank                             July    1 - June      30



FOR OFFMCIUL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, DOC. 20433
U.S.A.
Oifke of Di,fcttorGenetJ
OpelAt,ons Evelwtinf
October 25, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Turkey
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2585-TU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Turkey - Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2585-
TU)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office with
Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance   I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2585-TU)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE.              ...........................................    i
EVALUATION SUMMARY..,,,.........,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,. iii
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.                               1
A. PROJECT IDENTITY.                                                       1
B. BACKGROUND.                                                             1
Macroeconomic Developments.                                            1
Sectoral Context ................,                                     2
C. LOAN OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION .......................    3
D. IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE ............................    7
- Second Tranche Release.                                              7
- Post Second Tranche Release Developments.                            8
- Causes of Slow Disbursements ........................   10
E. PROJECT RESULTS .......................................   12
F. LESSONS LEARNED ........................ , . , .                      14
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                . .        16
A. Performance of the Bank ...............................   16
B. Performance of the Borrower (Implementing Agencies)...   16
C. Comments ..............................................   17
D. Borrower's Comments on Part I .........................   18
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION............................   19
TABLES:
A. Related Bank Loans ....................................   19
B. Cumulative Loan Disbursements .........................   20
C. Mission Data .......................                                  20
D. Use of Loan Proceeds .......................                          20
E. Status of Studies .......................   21
F. Weighted Average Net Fertilizer Subsidy ...............   23
G. Status of Legal Covenants .............................   24
H. Staff Inputs by Stages of Project Cycle ...............   26
ANNEX
Statement of Agricultural Sector Policies, 1985 ..........   27
MAP
IBRD 16766R.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2585-TU)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Agricultural
Adjustment Loan to the Republic of Turkey (Loan 2585-TU) in the amount of
US$300 million, which was signed on June 27, 1985. The Loan Closing Date,
originally June 30, 1987, was extended subsequently to June 30, 1989. The
accounts were closed effective May 15, 1990, with the cancellation of about
US$49.8 million.
The PCR was prepared jointly by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Department I, Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II). The
Statement of Agricultural Policies, 1985, submitted as a basis for the loan,
is attached as an Annex.
The PCR was initiated during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
project in June 1990 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report;
the Loan Agreement; supervision reports; correspondence between the Bank and
the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2585-TU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The loan was a policy-based adjustment loan to support Government of
Turkey's medium-term agricultural sector adjustment program by financing
essential imports, staff training and sector studies. The policy adjustments
for achieving these goals focussed on: (i) ending the parastatal monopoly on
wholesale fertilizer distribution and fertilizer imports, and introduction of
private sector retailers; (ii) phasing out the retail price subsidy for
fertilizer; (iii) improving the distribution and marketing of seeds; (iv)
im;roved allocation of irrigation investments throvgh preparation of an
irrigation investment plan and impiementation of an agreed core program for
completion of drainage and on-farm development works; (v) achievement of
positive real agricultural interest rates; (vi) decentralization and improved
coordination of research and extension services; and (vii) strengthening the
capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MAFRA)
for planning, policy analysis, and public expenditure programming and
monitoring.
Implementation Experience
2.    The Loan was signed on June 27, 1985.  The first tranche became
available upon loan effectiveness, on August 9, 1985. The second tranche of
$100 million was released on February 5, 1987, about six months later than
anticipated. The tranche release was based on better than anticipated
performance with the fertilizer reform program, achievement of positive real
agricultural interest rates, and sufficient progress on the other components
to conclude that, in spite of delays, the agricultural reform program remained
on track. Subsequent to tranche release, there was backsliding on the
fertilizer subsidy and agricultural interest rate issues. The undertakings of
a July 1988 letter providing revised schedules for meeting the fertilizer
subsidy reduction and interest rate targets were not achieved. The Loan
Closing Date, which had been extended from June 30, 1987 to June 30, 1989, was
not extended further. Accounts were closed on May 15, 1990 (allowing for some
delays in equipment shipment and subsequent time for resolvi.ng accounting
issues) and the undisbursed balance of $49.8 million was ca.acelled.
Results
3.    Liberalization of fertilizer distribution, import and pricing progressed
further than anticipated. The share of sales by the two state enterprises,
which had formerly handled all fertilizer distribution, was reduced to about
30 percent. Progress in liberalizing seed imports, distribution and pricing
has also been good. However, the net fertilizer subsidy to farmers, which was
to be reduced from about 45 percent at appraisal to zero by end of 1988, has



iv
been reduced only to 25 percent (as of October 1990). Minimum agricultural
interest rates were brought to positive levels during 1986, but became
negative thereafter with increased inflation. The average agricultural
interest rate (including agroindustries and sales cooperatives) was brought to
positive levels by March 1990, in accord with a revised agreement under a
Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 3090-TU), but bringing the minimum
rate to positive levels has not yet been achieved. The core program for
improving drainage Lnd reducing salinity is about three years behind the
original schedule, but appears to be picking up momentum. The irrigation
master plan had major deficiencies, but these are being eliminated under a
revised consultants contract which is now supervised by an inter-ministerial
committee. Some progress was made in strengthening the capacity of MAFRA's
Research, Planning and Coordination Department (APK) in monitoring investment
and recurrent expenditures, but further strengthening would be required to
enable APK to take a lead role in coordinating sector policy and evaluating
policy alternatives.
Sustainability
4.    The liberalization of fertilizer and seed imports, distribution and
pricing appears unlikely to be reversed and is having a major positive impact.
The importance of adequate drainage to maintain productivity of irrigation has
been recognized and a start has been made in dealing with this issue.
Equipment financed under the loan is helping to improve irrigation
maintenance. The interest taken by the State Planning Organization (SPO) in
the revised irrigation master plan provides grounds to expect that it will
achieve its intended objective. On the other hand, the fluctuation between
progress and back-sliding on the fertilizer and interest rate subsidy issues
indicates the difficulty of achieving sustained progress in these areas.
Lessons Learned
5.    While the support of Treasury and SPO for the subsidy reduction goals of
the loan was initially successful, it appears in retrospect that greater Bank
effort to convince MAFRA officials of the merits of the proposals might have
improved sustainability. Greater emphasis on output pricing issues would have
also been beneficial and progress in raising farmer prices to world market
levels would have supported efforts to combat wasteful input subsidies. An
unintended effect of Bank procurement requirements, combined with private
sector reluctance to accept interference in its procurement decisions, is that
progress in liberalization may result in reduced disbursements. Measures to
avoid this problem should be considered. Institutional reform studies are
more likely to be successful if supervised by inter-ministerial steering
committees rather than only the institution being reformed. Greater realism
is needed in estimating time and technical assistance requirements for ICB
procurement. A portion of the loan allocated to general imports would have
assisted in providing the quick disbursement features intended for the
operation. Finally, preparation of future loans of this type should
concentrate on a few issues of greatest importance, without attempting all-
encompassing sectoral coverage.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2585-TU)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
- Project Name:         Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL)
- Loan Number :          2585 - TU
- RVP Unit    :          EMENA
- Country     :          Turkey
- Sector      :          Agriculture
B. BACKGROUND
Macroeconomic Develoments
2.01     In the late 1970s, Turkey began to suffer from its failure to adjust
its economic policies to changes in the external environment. The result was
the build up of a massive debt burden--a decline in GDP, an untenable rise in
the government deficit, severe import shortages, and a critical rise in levels
of unemployment and inflation. Efforts to rectify the situation began early
in 1980. The Government embarked on a structural adjustment program based on
increasing reliance on market forces and reorienting the economy towards
export production. The program soon began receiving joint support from the
IMF (in a series of standby arrangements) and from the Bank in the form of
five Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) which totalled more than US$1 billion
dollars. (Five is the maximum, number of SALs permitted in one country).
Since then, Turkey has achieved notable progress in regaining external balance
by liberalizing trade, deregulating the exchange rate and interest rates,
increasing export growth and in shifting government investment from
manufacturing (to reduce excess capacity and encourage the private sector) to
the priority sectors of agriculture, energy, and transport. Improvements in
the banking system have also been initiated. But despite such positive steps,
the economy still faces serious problems with inflation and unemployment.
Further continuation of export-oriented and efficient import-substitution
strategies based on comparative advantage is necessary to sustain growth in
the economy. Increasing the value-added to production is also essential.
2.02     The major macroeconomic structural reforms undertaken during the
1980-1985 period included:
o   commercial bank interest rates deregulated (July 1980)
o   substantial devaluation followed by flexible exchange rate to
maintain competitiveness
o   reduction in quantitative import restrictions and tariffs
o   Value Added Tax (VAT) introduced in January 1985
o   increased export incentives



-2-
2.03     Following the launching of an economic adjustment program in 1980,
the Turkish economy rebounded impressively, registering a real growth rate of
4.1% and 4.6% in 1981 and 1982, respectively. Inflation was reduced from
107.2% in 1980 to 25.2% in 1982 while the external current account deficit
declined from 5.6% of GNP in 1980 to 2.0% of GNP in 1982. The economic
adjustment program lost its momentum in 1983, in the face of new elections,
with a slack-ning of monetary and fiscal discipline. This led to a resurgence
in inflation rising to 31.4%, a rise in the external current account deficit
to 3.4% of GNP and a fall in the growth rate of the economy to 3.2%.
2.04     The new Government which was installed in November 1983  moved to
address these economic problems. Inflation control and cxport growth were at
the center of its 1984 Program. Along with a tighter fiscal and monetary
policy, the Government introduced further trade liberalization and pursued
interest rate policies designed to provide a positive real rate of return on
savings while largely freeing the lending rates of commercial banks.  Efforts
were also made to improve the financial discipline and performance of the
State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) and to implement policies for promoting the
private sector in manufacturing. The Government's overall development
strategy, as spelled out in the Five-Year Development Plan (1985-.9),
continued to be based on a greater reliance on market forces (rather than
quantitative controls) for improving the efficiency of resource allocation and
on policies designed to sustain high export growth over the medium term.
Implicit in the goals and targets of the Plan was a continuing structural
adjustment program designed to stabilize the economy while concurrently
strengthening the foundation for a sustainable medium-term growth path which
would gradually reduce unemployment. The Plan was intended to provide the
final leg of the transition from an economic strategy based on import
substitution to one based on outward orientation.
Sectoral Context
2.05     While the relative importance of the agriculture sector in Turkey's
economy is declining, the sector still represents about 17% of gross domestic
product (GDP), 20 of export earnings and about 50% of civilian employment.
The growth rates of agricultural GDP and exports are projected to remain below
those of the economy as a whole, but the sector will continue to play a
significant role in generating employment, meeting domestic food requirements,
supplying industrial raw materials, and sustaining export levels.
2.06     Through the 1970s, Turkey's agricultural policies were inward-
looking, stressing food self-sufficiency through subsidized inputs and
producer prices. This led to relatively rapid growth of production through
the first half of the 1970s, averaging 4.7 percent from 1972-75. However,
with a deteriorating overall macroeconomic situation, these growth rates could
not be maintained due in part to the strain placed upon the budget by the
level of subsidization, and the competing demand for resources from the
manufacturing sector. As a result of the overall economic crisis, growth in
the sector slowed to less than 1.5 percent per annum during the late 1970's.
Ineffective public investment policies, weaknesses in technical services, and
problems in marketing and credit also contributed to sluggish growth. During
this period, sectoral exports remained a small fraction of total production
(less than 1 percent of agricultural GDP in 1979) due to the overvalued
exchange rate and other disincentives to export.



- 3 -
2.07     Under the SAL program (1980-1.984) significant reforms were instituted
affecting the agriculture sector. The share of agrie!ulture in the
Covernment's investment program increased from 7% in 1980 to 11% in the 1984
program, with greater emphasis on quickly gestating projects. Project
completion rates increased significantly. In the irrigation subsector, for
example, as against only 18,000 ha. of new irrigation put into operation by
State Hydraulic Works (DSI) in 1981, 86,000 ha. were put into operation in
1984. Moreover, several large projects, the economic viability of which had
not been established, were dropped, deferred for study or substantially
reduced in scope. The system of commodity support prices was replaced by one
of protective floor prices, and the number of affected commodities reduced
from 25 to 13. Plant protection subsidies were eliminated and fertilizer
subsidies reduced. Livestock and grain exports were liberalized. Significant
organizational reforms were implemented in an effort to improve delivery of
research and extension services, and to create an organization with
responsibilities for medium-term sector policy plar.ning. Irrigation water
charges and agricultural interest rates were increased. The agriculture
sector adjustment loan (ASAL) was designed to build on the progress already
achieved and to assist in fostering continued progress in structural reform of
the agricultural sector.
2.08     The new Government elected in 1983 took several steps prior to Board
presentation of ASAL indicating its intention to revitalize the agricultural
sector. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MAFRA) was
reorganized with the objective of simplifying and decentralizing decision
making to render the operation more efficient. The prices of seed and
agricultural machinery were decontrolled, the restrictions on seed imports
were removed, and the time required for testing and registration of new seeds
was reduced. In addition, under other Bank-financed agricultural projects,
the Government agreed to implement a comprehensive action program of reforms
to the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB),1 to aropt the T&V extension system
on a phased basis and to initiate a review of the organization of the research
and oxtension services and of operational policies and priorities for these
entities.2
C. LOAN OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.01     The loan was based upon substantial sector dialogue following the
June 1983 Report "Agricultural Development - Alternatives for Growth and
Exports". This report identified the priority areas for further reforms
leading to improved efficiency as (a) deepening and expanding the input
distribution, marketing, and credit channels; (b) rationalizing public
investment with primary focus on irrigation, since it absorbs about 65% of
public investment in agriculture and is key to further intensification; (c)
strengthening MAPRA's research, extension, protection and disease control
services in the context of the June 1984 reorganization; (d) improving
parastatal efficiency; (e) reducing producer subsidization while maintaining
adequate incentives; and (f) strengthening management, planning and policy
Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2318-TU).
2       Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project (Loan 2405-
TU).



-4-
analysis in the sector. Based upon this policy dialogue, while differences
remained on matters of pace and detail, broad agreement on these goals for
sectoral reform were expressed by key officials involved with economic policy,
before the formal process of loan identification began. In the case of the
major reforms agreed in the fertilizer subsector, the loan built upon work to
develop reform proposals initiated by the State Planning Organization (SPO)
prior to the Bank's identification mission. This work was stimulated in part
by a consultant's study financed under a fertilizer industry rehabilitation
loan (1985-TU).
3.02     The loan was intended to be the first of several of sectoral
adjustment loans designed to support the Government's efforts to broaden and
deepen the structural adjustment process through reform programs in key
sectors.   Preliminary discussions on the possible content of the agricultural
reform program were held witn the Government in August 1983 and preparation
missions took place in May-July 1984 and September 1984. The proposed loan
was appraised in December 1984 and February 1985. Negotiations were held in
Ankara in May 1985 with a Government delegation headed by the Deputy
Undersecretary of the Undersecretariat for Treasury and Foreign trade.
Loan Objectives and Description
3.0      The loan supported the Government's medium-term Agricultural
Adjustment Program by financing essential imports, staff training, and sector
studies. A letter from the Deputy Prime Minister dated May 21, 1985 attaching
a Statement of Agricultural Sector Policies (attached as Annex) set out the
main elements of the program. The specific objectives of the Loan were to:
(a) stimulate agricultural production, exports and intensification
through agreed policy reforms;
(b) encourage more efficie"it pricing and distribution of seed and
fertilizer;
(c) strengthen and accelerate irrigation program implementation,
rationalize investment priorities and programming;
(d) strengthen the priorities and functional organization of
extension and research;
(e) strengthen key agricultural SEEs and sales cooperatives;
(f) strengthen overall sector management in areas of strategic and
operational planning, policy analysis and performance monitoring;
(g) strengthen the financing, planning and management of public
sector programs through improved programming and monitoring of
public expenditares; and
(h) implement key subsector reforms which would provide the bases for
subsequent project loans and other subsectoral lending
operations.



5 -
3.04     The policy adjustments for achieving these goals focused on:
Agricultural Inputs Prixinand Diatribution
(a) Fert_i_e_r.  Implementation of an action program to phase out the
remaining retail. subsi.dy, establish a competitive wholesale
distribution network, expand the retail distribution system
through increased use of private retailers, and revise
distribution credit regulations;
(b) Seeda. Implementatix f actions to revise and implement the
relevant seed laws an  -- crees with a view to improving seed
selection, handling and pricing, and to encourage comnercial
seeds production;
IXrratio9nDrainaee In estment Program
Application of agreed investment criteria to all new and ongoing
irrigation subsector projects, improved programming and coordination,
and implementation of an agreed Core Program to focus irrigation
subsector investment on the completion of drainage works, on-farm
development and improved O&M for completed schemes;
Technical Support Services
Implementation of a'rangements to decentralize and consolidate the
budgeting and operation of research and extension, and appointment of
national level research and extension coordinators; and
Sector Planning and Monitoring
Strengthening MAFRA's Research, Planning a-d Coordination Department
(APK) to improve sectoral policy formation, performance monitoring,
and planning and monitoring of agricultural recurrent and investment
expenditure.
3.05     Main Agreements Reached;
o Retail fertilizer subsidy to be phased out by end 1988. (Promised
first step reductions were announced in August 1985.);
o   End of parastatal monopoly in wholesale fertilizer distribution
with introduction of private sector retailers on a phased basis,
starting in 1986, and permission by 1989 for private traders to
import fertilizer directly;
o   Core Program of Drainage and On-Farm development investments to
be undertaken;
o Government to review portfolio of ongoing irrigation projects,
based upon agreed criteria, and discuss findings with Bank;
o Preparation of management improvement action programs for
parastatals engaged in fertilizer and seed distribution, and an
action program for improvement of agricultural research.
3.06     The loan financed imported inputs, capital goods, training and
consulting services designed to support the adjustment program described
above. A total of $300 million was provided for financing the following:



-6-
(i) Fertilizer: $152.4 million of fertilizer imports during 1985-
87; and overseas training and technical assistance for a
Fertilizer Monitoring Unit to be established in MAFRA and for the
main fertilizer distribution state enterprise TZDK (which handled
90% of fertilizer distribution, with the remaining 10% handled by
the Turkish Sugar Factories, another state enteiprise);
(ii) Seeds: $20 million of imported seeds (to be distributed by the
state enterprises), $5.4 million of seed production equipment,
and technical assistance and training for TIGEM, a recently
created state enterprise designed to operate Government seed
production activities on a commercial basis;
(iii) Irrigation/Drainage: $111.0 million of equipment needed by DSI
(State Hydraulics Works Agency) for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of surface drains, consultant services for
preparation of an irrigation master plan and for preparation of a
Core Investment Program for completion of on-farm and drainage
works (which had fallen significantly behind the completion of
main irrigation works), and overseas training;
(iv) Technical Support Services: Technical assistance to improve the
identification and prioritization of agricultural research
programs, and $2.7 million of equipment for an automated
management information system for MAFRA, plus technical
assistance and staff training for setting up the system; and
(v) Sector Planning and Monitoring: Overseas training and technical
assistance for APK.
In total the loan included $6.2 million to finance the technical assistance
services listed above and $2.3 millijn for the training programs.
3.07     Total foreigrn exchange costs were to be financed for goods and
training, and foreign consultants. The loan also covered the ex-factory costs
of equipment contracts won by local firms through ICB and 90% of costs of
local consultants' contracts. The loan was composed of two tranches. The
first of $200 M was to be released upon loan effectiveness, based upon both
the agreements in the Loan Agreement and the letter setting forth the content
of the adjustment program. The conditions for the release of the Second
Tranche were satisfactory progress in carrying out the ASAL program outlined
in the Government's policy letter and in particular in:
(a) reducing the subsidy element in retail fertilizer pricing;
(b) opening up fertilizer distribution to private sector wholesalers
and retailers;
(c) preparing and implementing a management improvement action
program for TZDK;
(d) carrying out the Irrigation Core Program for completion of on-
farm and drainage works; and
(e) achieving positive real interest rates in the agriculture sector.



- 7 -
3.08     In addition to the Turkey-rplated objectives listed above, mention
must also be made of an internal Bank objective. In view of the outstanding
success of the Turkey SAL program, this loan was looked upon by some as a
model. to establish the "New Product of the Bank". This led to major
theological debates on issues such as whether there would be a separate Staff
Appraisal Report or merely an expande& President's Report (as in SALs), the
relative emphasis on the policy letter vis-a-vis covenants, and the advantages
of positive vs. negative lists. It also led to efforts to make the loan all
encompassing to incl.ude agricultural equipment, rural roads, water supply and
electricity and overall reformn of agricultural SEEs. These additional
subsectors, which had not been included in the original proposals for the
loan, eventually dropped out during preparation but diverted staff attention
in the meantime. The precedent setting role of the loan added considerably to
the delays and stress in its preparation and negotiations. In addition,
significant Borrower resentment occurred whenever decisions were made to alter
the SAL precedents the Borrower expected (e.g. a negative list with SAL-type
procurement requirements, and conditionality in a policy letter).
D. IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE
4.01     The loan was signed on June 27, 1985.  It became effective on August
9, 1985, leading to release of the first tranche.
Second Tranche Release
4.02     The second tranche of $100 million was released on February 5, 1987,
about seven months later than anticipated.
4.03     Of the tranche release criteria listed in paragraph 3.07 above,
progress at tranche release under conditions (a), (b), and (e) exceeded
intended targets:
(i) Fertilizer prices (both retail and wholesale) had been completely
decontrolled (which went beyond ASAL expectations). The retail
fertilizer subsidy (net of taxes) was reduced to 27 percent of
estimated retail prices without taxes or subsidies, below the
tranche release target of 30 percent.
(ii) Fertilizer imports and domestic marketing were opened in July
1986 to all fertilizer manufacturers, and to farmer cooperatives
and their agents, ending the virtual monopoly of TZDK. The
private sector had already opened about 560 retail outlets in the
first three months after the liberalization decree.
(iii) Positive real agricultural interest rates were achieved before
the December 31, 1986 deadline. The minimum agricultural
interest rate to farmers was 30 percent, as compared to the
December 1986 over December 1985 inflation rate (measured by the
wholesale price index) of 25 percent.
4.04    iProgress in the formulation of a management improvement program for
TZDK was about 15 months behind schedule. However, a contract had just been
agreed with consultants for the preparation of the management improvement



-8-
program. The Bank had agreed to the Government's request for revision of the
relevant dated covenant based upon the revised schedule of the consultants'
work.
4.05     Progress in implementation of the Core Program for Irrigation and
Drainage was also 15 to 18 months behind schedule, due to delays in hiring
consultants and procurement of equipment. However, based on progress on these
matters, the Bank agreed to a Government request for revision of deadlines in
the Loan Agreement and side-letters for implementation of the Core Program,
based upon a revised schedule for procurement of equipment and hiring of
consultants.
4.06     Progress was also under way in meeting most of the other actions
referred to in the Loan Agreement and in the Agricultural Sector Policy
Letter.  While serious delays had occurred in the consultant selection
process, most of the technical assistance components had now at least reached
the stage of invitation of consultants to submit proposals, and one was about
half-completed. The two largest training programs, covering the irrigation
agencies, had been approved and were being actively followed up, while the
other training programs were being prepared. Staffing of MAFRA's APK had been
improved and additional senior staff positions had been authorized. On
balance, progress on the overall sectoral adjustment program was considered to
be adequate to justify release of the $100 million second tranche.
Post Second Tranche Release Developments
4.07     As noted above, delays in procurement of irrigation equipment and in
hiring of consultants had delayed disbursements under the loan. In addition,
fertilizer disbursements were also below expectations due to initial delays in
developing fertilizer tender documents acceptable to the Bank. For these
reasons, by the original Closing Date, December 31, 1987, only $139 million
had been disbursed (excluding the revolving fund) out of the $300 million
loan. However, there had been good progress since tranche release in hiring
most of the consultants and procurement of irrigation equipment. Contracts
had been signed for all of the irrigation equipment other than dump trucks,
for which it had been agreed that a new tender with revised specifications
could be issued. It was estimated in December 1987 that full disbursement
could take place by December 31, 1988 if we were willing to accept curtailment
of the training cormponent, finance some consultants services under other
loans, and transfer this funding to fertilizer and seed procurement.
4.08     However, 1987 was an election year.  There was backsliding on the
understandings concerning agricultural policies, including in particular
introduction of new interest subsidies and an increase in the level of retail
fertilizer subsidy from about 27% to about 33% (excluding the interest
subsidy). New subsidies on pesticides, animal feed and milk sales were also
introduced in 1987. Government officials indicated that these changes should
not be interpreted as abandonment of the policy goals agreed under ASAL letter
of sectoral policies. Instead, they were asserted to be temporary deviations
to alleviate a decline in farmer net incomes due, in particular, to adverse
development affecting the prices of some agricultural commodities (including
the effects of European Community dumping of livestock and livestock products,
subsidies being given by competing wheat exporters, and the reduced purchasing
power of Turkey's Middle East customers). During the Bank's Annual Meetings,
the Government representatives stated that the Bank would be pleased by policy



- 9 -
announcements to be issued in December 1987, following the elections. When a
court decision required a one month postponement of the elections, it became
clear that no decisions on new subsidy reduction targets could be expected
until after the Closing Date. In the circumstances, the Bank agreed to extend
the Closing Date by six months (to June 30, 1988) to allow time, following the
elections and expected new cabinet appointments, to reach revised agreements
on those portions of the ASAL policy reform program which could no longer be
achieved by the originally scheduled dates.
4.09     Post-election performance during the first half of 1988 with respect
to the major areas of concern, fertilizer subsidies and agricultural interest
rates, was positive. The level of fertilizer price subsidy (net of taxes and
duties, and excluding interest subsidy), which had been 45% at the time of
loan approval, declined from a 1987 average of 34% to 24% (as of June 1988).
Interest rates on loans to farmers were increased by 7 to 11 percentage points
and ranged from 29-45% (cf. 22-35% in 1987). While these actions were not
sufficient to meet the originally agreed schedules, they appeared to
demonstrate the direction of the Government's policy intentions. The major
reform of the ASAL, liberalization of fertilizer imports, pricing, and
distribution, continued to show good results. In 1987, the former monopoly
SEEs' shares of imports and sales were 23% and 33%, respectively. Progress
was also made on institutional issues. Consultants were at work preparing an
irrigation master plan and on the design of the drainage and on-farm
development Core Program. Consultant studies on institutional improvements
for the seed production and fertilizer distribution SEEs were completed and
were under review by the Government and the Bank. Consultants were also close
to completing work on a computerized user-friendly agricultural sector model,
for use by the Ministry of Agriculture.
4.10     In the above circumstances, the Bank informed the Government that a
further postponement of the Closing Date to June 30, 1989 could be considered
provided thct an acceptable new agreement was reached on revised schedules for
meeting the interest and fertilizer subsidy reduction targets, which could no
longer be achieved as originally scheduled. In response, on July 14, 1988 the
Bank received a letter, signed by the Minister of State responsible for
economic affairs, postponing and updating the earlier statements of intent on
agricultural interest rates and fertilizer subsidies, as follows:
(i) Agricultural Interest Rates. The letter stated the Government's
intention to adjust interest rates in the light of inflationary
trends with the aim of bringing those preferential rates which
had become negative to positive real levels during 1989 as
inflation declined. This was consistent with the understanding
under the Second Financial Sector Adjustment Loan, under which
achieving positive interest rates on all preferential credits for
the productive sectors was a condition for the release of the
second tranche (expected about June 1989).
(ii) Fertilizer Subsidy. The net fertilizer subsidy (excluding
transport subsidies to remote, low-income areas) was originally
to be brought to zero by December 31, 1988. The letter
reaffirmed the aim of achieving zero net fertilizer subsidy, and
specified Government's intention to achieve this objective by not
increasing the current level of TL subsidy. For the purposes of
this loan, a zero net subsidy implies that the average gross



- 10 -
subsidy, is less than the effect on fertilizer prices of the
value added taxes (at that time 12%) plus import levies
(averaging about 8%). Given expected inflation and devaluation,
holding the subsidy constant in TL terms was expected to reduce
the gross subsidy to about 20% by December 1989, bringing the net
subsidy to zero.
4.11     In the above circumstances, after consultation with the Senior Vice
President, Operations, the Bank decided that the revised commitments in this
letter provided an adequate basis for postponement of the Closing Date by one
year to June 30, 1989. In particular, the statement of intent to keep the
fertilizer subsidy constant in TL terms, allowing it to bo eroded by inflation
and world price che ges, was considered a significant step forward.
4,12     Unfortunately, on August 10, 1988 the Government announced an
increase in fertilizer subsidy levels by a weighted average of 57%, in clear
violation of the letter of intent. Taking account of inflationary increases
in fertilizer prices, the average net subsidy was increased from 24% to 28%.
Average net fertilizer subsidies declined again to 24% during the first four
months of 1989. However, a sharp increase in subsidy levels was introduced in
April 22, 1989 in response to a major drought, raising average net subsidy
levels to about 43.5% (almost back to pre-ASAL levels). Since then the
subsidy has been held constant in TL terms, in spite of inflation, reducing
the average net subsidy (as of January 1991) to about 20%.
4.13     In view of the Government's failure to live up to its subsidy
reduction undertakings, the closing date (originally June 30, 1987 and
extended subsequently to June 30, 1989), was not extended further. The Bank
agreed to hold accounts open to December 31, 1989, and thereafter extended the
date to March 31, 1990 with respect to a few pieces of equipment for which
shipment had been delayed. Accounts were finally closed on May 15, 1990 after
resolving some accounting issues and the undisbursed balance of $49.8 million
was cancelled.
Causes of Slow Disbursements
4.14     While policy based, this was a hybrid operation with all
disbursements against a positive list of imported agricultural inputs and
agricultural equipment (plus small amounts for consultants and training).
There was only minor modification of standard ICB procurement requirements.
The use of a positive list combined with Bank ICB procedures caused slower
disbursements than would have occurred with a negative list. Government had
originally expected, following earlier SALs, that a negative list without ICB
procedures (except for large purchases) would be the procurement mechanism.
This issue was addressed early in the identification stage of the operation
and the Government was advised that for the bulk of the sector-specific items
likely to be financed (fertilizer and construction equipment), ICB procedures
would be required. Nevertheless, the Government made clear its continued
preference for SAL disbursement arrangements. While attaching Bank funds to
specific import items using ICB procurement procedures is inherently more
time-consuming than the SAL arrangements, there is a trade-off in sector
adjustment lending between the need for quick-disbursing funds and the
possible advantages of linking the items to be financed to specific sector
needs. In the case of the ASAL, this issue was complicated by the difficulty
some agencies had in meeting Bank procurement requirements.



- 11 -
4.15     Even Turkey's largest Governmental agencies (DSI, TZDK) had
difficulty in handling the exacting tendering procedures required by ICB
following Bank guidelines. The tightened enforcement of the guidelines in
recent years meant that even experienced agencies had to develop revised
standard bidding documents. After working through the first tender documents
for fertilizer and for seeds, models were established which for a time allowed
procurement to proceed without major difficulties. Further adjustments of
fertilizer procurement procedures were agreed thereafter, both to accelerate
the process and to assist TZDK to adjust to the new competitive environment
introduced in 1986. Despite frequent and specialized help from the Bank, it
took DSI about one year to complete tender specifications and contract
documentation satisfactory to the Bank. The time required for developing and
debating the bidding documents delayed the arrival of needed equipment, slowed
disbursements, and generated frustration. It took a great deal of Bank and
Treasury staff time to explain the reasons for specific Bank procurement
requirements to the agencies concerned and to assist the agencies in
developing procurement documents to the Bank's standards.
4.16     Similar difficulties delayed preparation of invitations, contracts,
and short lists for consultant services. The situation was made more
difficult by a court ruling that a provision in Turkey's procurement law
allowing for special procedures for internationally financed contracts applied
only to grant financing. While some agencies found other legal provisions
permitting use of short lists for recruiting consultants, others interpreted
the court ruling as requiring a prior step of advertising to obtain statements
of interest from consultants. This has added to delays in consultant
selection.
4.17     In retrospect, the Bank underestimated the technical assistance
required for the preparation of tender documents, consultants terms of
reference and contracts, and the frequency of reminders needed to ensure that
the steps to implement agreed actions received sufficient priority. More
interventions at the technical level, in connection with visits for the
preparation/supervision of other projects, would have probably been useful,
without waiting for appropriate timing for a formal supervision mission. The
recent appointment of staff in the Resident Mission with procurement expertise
makes possible the type of assistance needed to expedite solution of
procurement issues. Such staffing, unfortunately, was not available when most
ASAL procurement took place. In retrospect, it is clear that Bank
disbursement estimates were unrealistic as to the time needed for handling ICB
procurement requirements.
4.18     Of the final undisbursed balance of $49.8 million, about $30 million
are funds originally allocated for imports of fertilizers and seeds. The
inability to use these funds, in spite of 1 1/2 years of Closing Date
extensions, reflects in part the better than expected progress in increasing
the private sector share of fertilizer and seed imports, combined with private
sector unwillingness to use Bank procurement procedures. The loan was
designed on the assumption that most fertilizer and seed imports would
continue to be carried out by SEEs. By 1987, the share of fertilizer
distribution of the two SEE's (who formerly had a monopoly of imports and
distribution) was only 33%. In addition, the private sector had taken over
most seed imports. Various efforts were made to adjust to these developments.
The eligible imports were expanded to include fertilizer raw materials as well



- 12 -
as finished fertilizer. The agreement was amended to permit private sector
firms and other fertilizer manufacturers to finance fertilizer and raw
material import contracts below $5 million, awarded based on price quotations
from three eligible suppliers. However, since liberalized access to foreign
exchange enabled the private sector to import fertilizer and fertilizer raw
materials without utilization of the loan, there was no incentive for private
firms to do paper work to demonstrate even the collection of three price
quotations. For seeds, since most private firms are affiliated with overseas
joint-venture partners from whom they import directly, requesting price
quotations is not a viable option. Therefore, funds for fertilizer and seed
imports were only used by SEEs.
4.19     The other major cause of cancellation of loan proceeds was the
financial problems of a Turkish truck manufacturing firm which had won a bid
(through international competitive bidding) for 400 dump trucks for DSI. Due
to these financial problems, the firm was only able to deliver 35 trucks prior
to the Closing Date, leading to a cancellation of about US $17 million.
E. PROJECT RESULTS
5.01     While there have been some significant positive achievements under
this loan, including, in particular, the liberalization of fertilizer
distribution and pricing, the overall accomplishments must be considered
disappointing.
5.02     The average net fertilizer subsidy to farmers, which was about 45% at
appraisal, was to be reduced to zero by end 1988. Good progress was achieved
through 1986 when the average subsidy was reduced below the 30% tranche
release target. Thereafter, as described in Section IV (and summarized in
Part III, table F), subsidy levels fluctuated in the 25%-35% range until April
1989 when, in the face of a major drought, average net subsidy levels were
raised to abou- 43.5%.  Since then, fertilizer subsidy levels have been held
constant in TL in spite of inflation, reducing the average net subsidy to
about 20% (as of January 1991). Meanwhile, progress in liberalizing
fertilizer distribution import and pricing ptxgressed faster than anticipated.
The share of sales by the two SEE's which formerly handled all fertilizer
imports and distribution was 21% for 1990. Competition has 'iproved farmers
access to fertilizer through private retailers, encouraged the introduction of
new products, and reduced overstocking. Progress in liberalizing seed
imports, distribution and pricing (in accordance with measures announced prior
to ASAL signature) has also been good, leading to the establishment of many
new joint venture seed companies, the virtual elimination of seed imports by
SEEs, and substantial progress in the introduction of new seed varieties.
5.03     Minimum agricultural interest rates were brought to positive real
levels during 1986. However, reduced interest rates for fertilizer and
livestock combined with increased inflation made minimum interest rates
negative in 1987. Thereafter, interest rates were increased but inflation
accelerated faster. A revised schedule was agreed in May 1989 under
Agricultural Credit III (Loan 3090-TU) whereby average rates (including
agroindustry and sales cooperatives) would be brought to positive levels by
March 1990), while minimum interest rates were to be positive by March 1991.
The March 1990 target for positive average interest rates was met (through a
combination of interest rate increases in mid-1989, and inflation reduction



- 13 -
thereafter.) However, minimum interest rates were not brought to positive
levels by March 1991. The lowest rate 36% (34% interest plus 2% taxes and
fees), remains below the average of inflation for the 12 months ending March
1991 (49%) and expected inflation for the next 12 months.
5.04     With regard to the irrigation investment program,  a start has been
made in implementation of the Core Program of investments to improve drainage
and reduce salinity in areas where major irrigation works have been completed
or are close to completion. While this program is about three years behind
the original schedule, it appears to be picking up momentum. Most of the
equipment financed under the Loan for improving irrigation maintenance was
received (following significant procurement delays) and is now in operation.
The irrigation master plan, originally scheduled to be completed in 1986, was
received in early 1989. However, it had major deficiencies, due in part to
instructions given to the consultants by DSI (outside the officially approved
terms of reference) to assume that all irrigation projects under implementa-
tion would be continued and should not be analyzed. The consultants contract
has been extended (with finance from another loan) to remove these
deficiencies. Treasury and SPO have expressed interest in this work. An
inter-ministerial advisory committee has been established for this study with
Treasury providing coordination.
5.05     MAFRA's Research, Planning and Coordination Department (APK) has made
progress in monitoring investment and recurrent expenditures. However, APK
staffing has not been strengthened sufficiently to enable it to take a lead
role in coordinating sector planning and evaluation of policy alternatives.
An agricultural planning model suitable for desk-top computers was produced.
However, strengthening is required if APK is to make full use of the results
of this work. The intended component for establishment of a pilot management
information system for MAFRA was not utilized, due to objections to proposals
for hiring consultants (to be financed under the loan) to design the
component. An agricultural research study was finally completed after long
debates as to the consultants manpower required. It was at least an initial
step toward the design of a research project, facilitating follow-up
assistance work by FAO/CP. The study intended to asssist APK to improve the
methodology for floor price determination was of disappointing quality, but it
did provide useful inputs to a subsequent Bank study of price and trade policy
issues.
5.06     The value of the management improvement study for TZDK (the main
fertilizer distribution SEE) was severely diminished by assumptions that
warehouse and warehouse handling costs and branch distribution structure are
fixed, and that TZDK would have a fixed share of the market for products and
areas served, independent of any TZDK efforts to improve marketing in
competition with other distributors. The consultants report states that they
were specifically instructed (outside the official TOR) not to consider
restructuring TZDK's distribution structure, changing the number, size, and
location of branches, or alternative distribution methods such as direct
deliveries to farmers. The Bank did not receive TZDK or Government comments
on the report or their action program for improving TZDK management and
operations. The reports for the seed consultancy study and for the
agricultural sales cooperative study were not so hobbled by restrictive



-14 -
assumptions, but had limited effect in improving operations in these fields.
The sales cooperative study was useful in highlighting problems which may have
influenced later reform actions.
5.07     Sustainabilitv - The liberalization of fertilizer and seed imports
and distribution has had a major positive impact and is considered unlikely to
be reversed. The importance of adequate drainage to maintain productivity of
irrigation has been recognized and a start has been made to deal with this
issue. The irrigation equipment financed is expected to make a significant
contribution to improving maintenance. Some improvement in the efficiency of
the fertilizer distribution SEE is being induced by the need to compete with
the private sector. While the initial irrigation master plan had major
deficiencies, the interest taken by SPO and the formulation of an
interministerial steering committee provide reason for hope that the master
plan will achieve its intended effect. On the other hand, it appears that
input and interest subsidy levels may continue to be adjusted up and down with
the political circumstances, and that sustained progress on these issues will
be difficult to achieve in the near future.
F. LESSONS LEARNED
6.01     The mixed record of accomplishment and back-sliding reflects internal
Government policy divisions, as well as the effects of external events
(election schedules, droughts, international price movements). The Borrower,
particularly the Treasury and SPO, were deeply involved in defining the
strategy and criteria for the operation. In MAFRA, however, commitment to the
objectives and design of the operation was uneven. Some senior officials of
MAFRA were involved and agreed with the reform objectives and performance
criteria (although not always with the pace of reform), but others kept
themselves out of the process. This may reflect the greater interest in a
quick disbursing loan on behalf of Treasury and SPO due to their concerns with
the balance of payments, their sharing Bank objectives for reducing the burden
of subsidies on the budget, and their greater familiarity with policy based
lending under the SALs. However, during a period of frequent elections in
1987 and 1988, the relative influence of economic technicians within the
Government weakened. Nevertheless recognition must be made of the adjustment
fatigue which Turkey is now facing after making outstanding overall progress
during the 1980-86 period. It may be that some period of relaxation and
consolidation is necessary after five or six years of dramatic change, and
that little the Bank could do would have made much difference in these
circumstances.
6.02     A significant weakness in ASAL preparation was that little effort was
made on issues of agricultural output prices beyond statements of principle in
the Government's letter of intent and consultants studies of the support price
policies and the sales cooperative system. This omiss'on reflected both
belief in the intent of the Turkish economic team based upon their record of
achievement during the 1980-85 period, and the substantial statistical work
which would have been required to analyze domestic prices. Subsequent
analysis under the June 1989 (Green Cover) Review of Agricultural Pricing and
Trade Policies indicates that on average reductions in farm income from
agricultural pricing policies have significantly exceeded increases in income
from agricultural subsidies. These distortions include not only .7ormal export



- 15 -
taxes but also informal understandings witl: exporters unions limiting exports.
An additional distortion arises from requirements that crops be distributed
through organized markets, which add to distribution costs and reduce the
share of the consumer price received by the farmer. Future efforts to combat
wasteful input subsidies should also seek progress on output pricing issues.
Dialogue on these issues, initiated during the discussions of the draft report
on pricing and trade policies, is continuing.
6.03     A major issue identified under this loan is that an unintended effect
of Bank procurement requirements combined with private sector reluctance to
accept interference in its procurement decisions is that progress toward
meeting the liberalization goals, shared by the Government and the Bank, may
result in reduced disbursements. In the case of this Loan, the faster than
expected progress in expansion of the private sector role in fertilizer and
seed imports as well as in the liberalization of private sector access to
foreign exchange reduced the utilization of funds intended for financing such
imports. In such cases, possibilities should be considered for limiting
procurement requirements for private sector firms, at least in cases where
there is adequate competition so that commercial self-interest can be trusted
to ensure economic procurement.
6.04     In retrospect, it was not prudent to entrust supervision of
consultants engaged in institutional reform studies entirely to the
organizations being studied. Even when the management of the institution
being studied is fully behind the reform efforts, too much opportunity is
provided for vested interests within the organization to provide additional
instructions to the consultants, outside the terms of reference, and to
influence unduly the consultant's recommendations. Clearly it is important to
have the full cooperation of the organization being studied, but a balance of
influences is desirable to help maintain the consultant's objectivity. The
inter-ministerial steering committee introduced for the revision of the
irrigation master plan provides a useful model for future efforts of this
type.
6.05     Greater realism is needed in future sector adjustment loans in
estimating the time required for ICB procurement. Particularly for the
initial tenders, greater Bank assistance to those preparing the tenders would
have been beneficial. (The current addition to our Resident Mission in Turkey
of staff with procurement expertise puts the Bank in a better position to
provide the appropriate assistance.) While there are advantages in a sector
loan of providing some imports directly benefiting the agencies undergoing
reform, a portion of the loan allocated to general imports would have assisted
in providing the quick disbursement features intended for the operation.
6.06     It is important in the preparation of future loans of this type to
concentrate on a few issues of the greatest importance and to resist demands
that sectoral coverage be all-encompassing. The efforts to try to prepare
suitable components covering rural roads, water supply, and electrification,
agricultural machinery, and overall reform of agricultural SEE's resulted in
unnecessary staff costs and diversion of attention from the preparation of
those issues originally identified as having highest priority.



- 16 -
PART II.  PRJECT REVIEW FROM BOERRWERSPRSETV
~~R                                 R_  PERSPECTIVE
A. Performance-of the Bank
Performance of the Bank during the implementation and progress of the
project did not create serious problems in terms of relationship with the
implementing agencies and procedure of the Bank. However, some organizations
comment on the procedures for disbursement of the credit and procurement, and
that reconsideration of them might facilitate implementation of similar
projects in the future. The comments are:
- As it is known, TZDK purchased fertilizer from abroad under the
project. In the purchasing process, TZDK faced difficulties in
applications of the terms and conditions of the Bank's standard
bidding documents for fertilizer procurement, since the standard
procurement does not allow the evaluation of spot bargain offers
and payments in terms. Although the loan agreement amended to
permit spot bargain and purchase later, many fertilizer
distributors avoided using the loan for fertilizer import because
of the difficulties in disbursement and procurement procedure.
- On the other hand, TZDK also found it difficult to supply the
documents required for the payments, specifically against letter
of credit. It took a long time to provide the documents
evidencing the payment of the corresponding bank to the relevant
firms. This caused delay in procurement of fertilizer on time
which is very important.
- As part of the project conditions, fertilizer distribution was
liberalized. However, TZDK was not supported for its financial
loss accrued for its fertilizer distribution on the unprofitable
areas.
- TIGEM indicates that, it also encountered difficulties in
procurement and disbursement process because of the Bank's
conservative disbursement and procurement procedures. Delay of
tender documents' approval by the Bank is the common complaint of
the implementing agencies. In evaluation of the bids, the first
priority for the Merit Point Systems is given to the price.
Implementing agencies suggest that technical factors must also
have priority in evaluation and in determining the technical
factors implementing agencies' opinions should be taken into
account.
- All the implementing agencies find the special account useful for
speeding up disbursement.
B. Performance of the Borrower (Implementing Agencies)
Most of the implementing agencies find their performance satisfactory
under the project. However, there are some issues that could be raised:
- Implementation of the training component of the Droject which
belongs to the GDRS was very slow because of the internal



. 17 -
bureaucracy and the Bank's long procedure to evaluate it. For
this reason GDRS could not use its training component fully.
-  For TIGEM, it was the first experience to use a World Bank credit.
The credit was used in the most appropriate areas which cover the
major needs of the General Directorate. Procurement of
cultivation, planting, harvesting and seed processing machinery
and equipment comprising the main machinery park of TIGEM were the
main items of credit spending. In terms of seed production the
loan is used in a most productive way. TIGEM suggests that in the
event of a complaint by a bidder company to the Bank, the
implementing agency should only give the response to the Bank not
to the company, and the Bank should correspond with the company.
If the bidder informs TIGEM directly about its complaint then,
TIGEM should make the necessary attempts.
- TIGEM indicates that it paid an unfair interest for two years
because the loan was allocated to them in 1985 but they were able
to use it in 1987-88 due to completion of performance analysis,
which was a condition for using the credit. Therefore, they
suggest the performance analysis should have been made prior to
the credit allocation to avoid delay in using it.
- TDZK has faced difficulties in application of the terms and
conditions of bidding documents for fertilizer procurement
approved by the Bank, since the Bank's procurement procedures are
applicable for fixed capital good purchases.
- Other than the above issue all implementing agencies find that
disbursements under the credit were made regularly in conformity
with the loan categories and both the agencies and the Bank
fulfilled commitments in a favorable manner.
C. Comments
For contribution of solving future procurement problems, Turkish Law
and procedures should be taken into account while applying the Bank's standard
bidding formalities. Any step to shorten the procurement process will
contribute to the speed of the use of the credit.
The special account established in the Central Bank of Turkey
contributed to the speed of disbursement and facilitated the procedure for the
implementing agencies.
Bank procedure should be flexible to be modified, when it is
possible, according to the type of project or to the specific character of the
project activity.
Other than delay in the evaluation process of bids and procurement,
the relation of the borrower and implementing agencies with the Bank had no
difficulty. Both parties fulfilled their commitments in conformity with the
project's terms and conditions.



- 18-
D, Borrowger'sC Cmments on PartI
With regard to paragraph 3, page (iii), of the Evaluation Summary,
raising agricultural interest rates to a positive level was among the
objectives of ASAL. This objective has been reached on the average interest
rate. Raising all agricultural interest rates to a positive level has become
a condition of Agricultural Credit III Project and the necessary process is
continuing to comply with that condition.
We share the comment made in paragraph 5 of page (iii) of the
Summary, that SAL programs should not try to cover all the issues in the
sector. It should address a few basic issues of greatest importance and try
to be effective on them. In line with this, having a staff appraisal report
may not be necessary, and an expanded President's Report may be enough as
commented on page 7.
With regard to the relations between the Bank, borrower and
organizations, there is no difficulty encountered in these relations, with the
exception of the delay in evaluation process of the bids and procurement due
to the Bank's complicated and time consuming procedures on the subject.



- 19 -
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Original Loan Amount            $300.0 million
Disbursed               :       $250.2 million
Cancelled                       $ 49.8 million
Ori-inal Loan Date             Actual Date
Initiating Memorandum                                          October 2, 1984
Negotiations Completed                                          May 11, 1985
Letter of Development Policy                                   May 21, 1985
Board Approval                                                  June 18, 1985
Loan/Credit Agreement                                          June 27, 1985
Effectiveness                   September 25, 1985             August 9, 1985
Second Tranche Release         June 30, 1986                    February 5, 1987
Loan Closing                   June 30, 1987                    June 30, 1989
Accounts Closed                                                 May 15, 1990
A. Related-Bank Loans
Loan/Credit                                                     Year of
and Title                       Purpose                         A1proval   Status
1. Structural         To support policies to shift Turkey's        1980-   Completed
Adjustment Loans       inward looking development strategy,        1984
I-V                    emphasizing import substitution, to
outward looking, emphasizing export-
led growth
2. Agr.Credit         To strengthen the Agricultural Bank of    1983    Completed
Proj. II (Ln.2318-    Turkey (TCZB) and to broaden
TU)                    agricultural credit and resource
mobilization in rural areas as well as
to foster the rationalization of
interest rate policy.
3. Agr. Credit        To support the lending and                   1989    Ongoing
Proj. III (Ln.         institutional development programs of
3090-TU                TCZB and the credit operations of the
TKK (Agricultural Credit
Cooperatives).
4. Agr. Extension      To introduce extension and research         1984,    Ongoing
& Applied Research    system reforms into 37 of Turkey's 71        1990
Proj.I & II (Ln.       provinces as the first steps towards
2405-TU, 3177-TU)     nationwide reform.
5. Drainage & On-     To assist the Government to finance          1986    Ongoing
Farm Development       the Core Program of priority drainage
(Ln. 2663-TU)         and on-farm development works



- 20 
B. Cumulative Loan Disbursements ,US$ Millions)
FY86     fyf8       FY88      FY89      FY90
(a) Planned           200.0      300.0     300.0     300.0     300.0
(b) Actual              94.3     133.5     239.5     250.0     250.2
(c) Percent of (a)    47          45        80        83        83
C. Mission Data'/
No. of           No. of       Staff
Month/Year       Weeks        Persons   Weeks       Date of Report
Identification        August 1983          2            4         8        September 1983
Preparation           May-July 1984        8           12        40       Augusc 6, 1964
Post-Preparation      September 1984       4           20        60       October 1984
Appraisal             Nov/Dec 1984         3           11        18        May 22, 1985
Post-Appraisal        February 1985        4           11        35        February 28, 19852/
Supervision 1         November 1985        3            2         6       November 22, 19852/
Supervision 2         June/July 1986       2            9        18       July 30, 1986
Supervision 3         Sept/Oct 1986        4            7        28       November 12, 1986
Supervision 4         April 1987           2.5          4        10       June 26, 1987
Supervision 5         Jan/Feb 1988         1            2         2       March 16, 1988
Supervision 6         April/May 1988       1            2         2       June 24, 1988
Supervision 7         June 1989            1            2         2       August 18, 1989
Supervision 8         June 1990            1            2         2       July 30, 1990
1/   List excludes some supervision missions where mission members assisted on specific
issues (e.g., procurement, irrigation master plan), while supervising other
projects.
2/   Date of Aide Memoire (BTO report not found).
D.   Use of Loan Proceeds (in US $M)
Original
Plan            Actual
1.   Imported Seeds                                         20.0               13.9
2.   Seed Multiplication and Processing Equipment            5.4                6.5
3.   (a) Imported Fertilizer                               152.4              123.3
(b) Imported Fertilizer Raw Materials                   -                  5.0
4.   Irrigation Operation and Maintenance Equipment    111.0                   94.3
5.   (a) Computer Hardware, Software and
Communication Equipment                             2.7               0.6
(b) Artificial Insemination Equipment
and Materials                                                         0.4
6.   Training                                                2.3                1.5
7.   Consultants Services                                    6.2                5,1_
Subtotal                                              300.0              250.6
Less Cross Currency Gains on Special Account              -t-)-0,4
Total                                              300.0             250.2



- 21 -
E.  Status of Studies
Purpose as Defined
at ADppraisal                     Status                    Impact
1.    Preparation and            Basic Core Pro-        Initial Subprojects
Assistance in              gram Developed.        under implementation;
Implementation of         Assistance in           additional subprojects
of a Core Program          implementation         being prepared.
of Drainage and On-        under way with
Farm Development           financing from
Works                      Loan 2663 (Drain-
age and On-Farm
Development).
2.    Preparation of an          Initial Plan had       To be determined.
Irrigation Master         major deficiencies.   Involvement of SPO and
Plan                       Revision being pre-   creation of Interminis-pared
pared with financing  terial Steering Committee
from Loan 2663.       are hopeful signs.
3.    MAFRA Agricultural         Abbreviated study      Provided initial infor-
Research Review            completed.             mation for FAO/CP
preparation of proposed
Agricultural Research
Project.
4.    Design and assist          Not started.           None.
implementarion of
MAFRA Management
Information System
5.    Modificaion of             Revised Model          Limited due to shortage
Agricultural Sector        prepared suitable      of Government staff with
Model and Staff            for use on a PC.       necessary background.
training to enable         Staff training in-    However, knowledge by
it to be used by           complete, but Turkish Turkish consultants
MAFRA APK, SPO, and        consultants avail-    provides potential for
Treasury staff             able to provide        future impact.
training to
appropriate staff.
6.    Assisting MAFRA APK        Completed, but of      Provided inputs to
in improving metho-        disappointing          subsequent Ag. Sector
dology for floor           quality                Report (Price & Trade
price determination                               Policy Review)
and refining struc-
ture of agricultural
tariffs and export
levies



- 22 
7.    Management Improve-        Completed.             Limited usefulness,
ment Study of TZDK's                              since consultants were
Fertilizer Distribu-                              instructed not to consider
tion Activities,                                  changing the number, size,
including assista.ace                             or location of branches on
redefinition of                                   or alternative distribution
role and objectives                               methods.
in new competitive
market.
8.    Management Improve-        Completed.             Identified TICEM investment
ment study of TIGEM                               requirements financed under
and TZDK Seed Pro-                                ASAL.  Some management
duction and                                       improvement recommendations
Distribution activities                                      have been implemented.
9.    Recommendation of          Completed.             No action directly
measure to improve                                attributable to study was
cooperative system,                               taken. Study useful in
particularly with                                 highlighting problems
regard to systems of                             which may have influenced
crop procurement and                              later reform actions.
marketing



- 23 -
F. Weighted Average Net Fertilizer Subsidy a/
Percent
1983                                  54
1984  First half                      54
1984  Second half                     46
1985  First half                      45
1986  Second half                     27
1987                                  35
1988  First half                      24
1988  Second half                     28
1989  January-March                   24
1989  April                           43.5
1990  March                           35
1990  October                         25
1991  January                         20
a/    For the period through 1985, the equivalent price, without taxes,
subsidies, or duties, has been estimated based on CIF price plus port
unloading/truck loading charges of $7-8 per ton plus an assumed 15%
distribution margin. Under the new distribution system established in
July 1986 where distributors are free to set their own price, in
practice in most periods the private sector has set its prices slightly
above or below the TZDK price, indicating that the TZDK price to farmers
net of the subsidy deducted at the time of sale, was reasonably in line
with CIF prices plus import duties plus distribution margin (including
profits) plus value added tax minus subsidy. Tests in early 1988 based
on actual TZDK CIF prices during the end of 1987 showed a reasonably
close fit based on a distribution margin of about 18%. (A reasonable
distribution margin will vary from time to time given interest
fluctuations and similar factors.) On this basis, net subsidy as a
percent of the price farmers would have paid in the absence of all
subsidies, taxes and import duties has been calculated as:
Subsidy - Value Added Tax - Import Duties
TZDK net price to farmers + subsidy - Value Added Tax - Import Duties



24 -
G.   usoe         va
Agree-                    Original  Revised
ment   g=        Status    Date   _pate        Description of Covenants          Comments
3.01      About 3   Various    Various   Schedule Core Program for  Proceeding generally about 1 year behind
Loan              years    dates       dates    Irrigatlon and Drainage.   revised schedule. While Initial delays
behind   9/85       8/87                                occurred in hiring consuRtants and
initial    through    through                           procurement of equipment needed for Core
schedule  1989      1991                                Program, progress is now proceeding at a
reasonable pace.
3.02      In       6/86       5/88      Irrigation Master Plan    Received in eady 1989 but has major
Progress                                                deflciencles. Agreement reached to extend
consultants contract to remove these
deficiencies. Work now underway to
prepare revisions.
3.04      OK       Tranche              Progress Report
Release
3.05 and   NO                           Pilot Management          Consultants never hired to design
Sch.3.11                                Information System for    component
MAFRA
3.06 and   Partial    6/86     12/87    Management Improvement   Consultants' reports received and some
Sch.5                                   Action Programs for TIGEM   actions taken but no formal action
and TZDK.                 programs prepared by the Government.
3.07 and   Partial                      Overseas Training Program    About half of what was originally planned
Supple-                                                           was completed.
mental
Letter 2
3.09      OK but   5/86        8/87     Agricultural Research     Consultants report received 12/89.
late                          Review.
3.10      OK       Every year           Audits
by 9/30
Sch.3 11 A  OK                          Consultants' studies on   Quality of study of price policy dis-
(e) and (f)                             price policy, fertilizer,  appointing. There has been no follow.
Policy                                 transport, improving sales    through on study of sales coops (but this
Letter 2.03                             cooperatives, and         was not a covenant).
and 3.02                                agriculture sector model.
Sch. 5    NO       Tranche    Tranche  Phasing out retail fertlizer    Net subsidy reduced from 45% to below
and Policy         release    release   subsidy.                  tranche release target 7/86 and reached as
Letter             and 12/88  and                                 low as 24%, but was increased back to 43%
(5.04-                        albout                              in 4/89. Reduced (through inflation) to 25%
5.06) and                      12/89                              as of October 1990.
Bank 6/85
letter of
interpret-
athon
Sch. 5 &   Very good Tranche            Uberalization of Fertlizer  Progress further and faster than expected.
Policy             release              Distribution and Imports
Letter             and 12/88
(5.06 &
5.07)



- 25 -
Sch. 5    See corn- Tranche    see      Posltive real agricultural  Achieved by 8/86 but by 1987 increased
mints   release    comment Interest rates.              Inflation made rates negative again. New
schedule agreed under Ag. Credit Ill.
Policy   1.01,    Partial                       Agriculture Investment to be  Agricultural Investment dropped to 7% of
Letter   3.01                                    10% of total Government    total In 1985 and 1986, but restored to 9-
Investment, of which 66% to  10% range thereafter. Core Program not
irrigatlon, 35% of Irrigation    held back by budget, but rather by design
Investment to Core        delays.
Program.
Policy   2.01,    NO                             Improved Producer Prices.   New subsidies added in 1986/87 for
Letter   3.01                                    Reduction in Subsidies    livestock feed, pesticdes, and milk.
Producer prices on average below world
market prioe equivalent. Uvestock subsidy
eliminated in 8/89.
Policy   3.02,    Some                          Strengthening MAFRA
Letter   4.03     Progress                       planning programming and
evaluation unit.
Policy   3.01,    Reason-                       Seed distribution reform.  Seed liberalization in 1984 has been
Letter   5.02     ably OK                                                  maintained, but Incorporating various
decrees into a new seed law has not been
accomplished.



- 26 -
H. Staff Inputs by Stage of Project Cycle in Staff Weeks
Stage of
Proj ect                                                                  Total
Cycle           FY83   FY84   FY85    FY86  FY87  FY88   FY89    FY90  (STWs)
Preparation      1.6   68.3  193.0                                        262.9
Appraisal                     121.8                                        121.8
Negotiations
through Board
Approval                       25.3                                         25.3
Supervision        .-           0.3   35.2  110.3   72.1   45.9    8.1  271.9
Total            1.6   68,3  340.4   35.2  110,3   72.1   45.9    8.1  681.9



-27 -                             ANNEX
1. C.
BA6BAKANLIK
HAZINE ve DI$ IICARET MOtSTE$ARLI1I
Hazinc:  DEI-IV-       1j 94 7
Say :  56909-85
Konu
Mav 21, 1985
Mr. A. W. Clausen
President
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Develooment
1818 H Street, N.W.
WashinRtan, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Clausen:
The Turkish Government has now comDleted the fifth vear of
the Government's oroeram for restructurinz the economv. The adiustment
urogram has heloed Turkev to exoand exoorts and realize external balance.
Under the Fifth Five-Year DeveloDment Plan (1985-1989), the Government
will continue to encouraRe imoroved oroductivitv in areas of comparative
advantaae and further proaress in increasing exDort earninRs. We have
also beaun to broaden the adiustment Drocess bv emohasizing oolicv and
institutional reforms at the sectoral level, which will be developed
further over the next.five vears. Dur .na this period, the Government
has assigned highest Drioritv to reforms in the agricultural sector.
The annexed Statement of Agricultural Sector Policies sets forth
the-main elements of the Government's medium-term program for adjustment
in 3rimarv oroduction Dolicies and for further rationalization of public
investment, and our economic and financial policies for the agricultural
sector. It encompasses poliev and institutional reforms underwav or to
be undertaken in 1985 and 1986. I am therefore writing vou at this time
to reouest an Aericultural Sector.Adjustment Loan in the amount of
S. 300 million durine 1985 to support the Government's proeram for
structural change.
Sincerelv Yours
/-Kava ERDEM
utv Prime Minister and
Minister of State



- 28 -
STATEMENT OF AGRICULTURAL SECTOR POLICIES
1 9 8 5
I.   Macroeconomic Perspective
1.01     The medium-term framework for economic restructuring has
been set out in the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (1985-89) which
was approved by the Parliament in mid-1984. The basic theme is a
continuation of outward oriented development with increased reliance
on market forces. The development strategy will continue to be based
on sustained export growth. Agricultural exports will continue to
play a significant role with agricultural growth increasingly coming
from higher productivity and through a crop mix which better reflects
Turkey's comparative advantage.  The Government's medium-term policy
is that import restrictions should not be used to protect domestic
producers. Hence the further liberalization of fertilizer feed stocks,
aeeds and.certain processed agricultural commodities have been included
in the import liberalization program during 1985. The strategy requires
that the private sector be allowed to play a leading role, since export
growth is critically dependent on private entrepreneurs developing their
comparative advantage. In this context, the direct activities of the
state would be confined mainlv to the development of infrastructure
(including irrigation) geared to supporting the development of the private
sector. In order to raise output growth, public investment in agriculture
will be maintained at leastat a level of about 10 % of total public fixed
investment, and we intend to allocate an average of 35 % per annum of the
funding for irrigation and drainaee to the Core Program, for Irrigation
and DrainaRe.
II.   ARricultural Sector Perspective
2.01     In the agricultural sector, attainment of the Government's
macropolicy objectives has been and will continue.to be facilitated
bv trade liberalization, improved producer Price Policies, reduction of
subsidization, and redirection of government resources toward productive
investment in areas supporting private sector initiative and fostering
technological change.
2.02.    Under the Government's outward oriented strategy, the agricultural
sector is expected to continue to plav an important role in the economv
over the medium term. The basic objective of the strategy is to complete



- 29 -
the transition of farming during the Fifth Plan period from the
low technology, low growth and highly subsidized system of the late
1970s to a more commercialized, export oriented and self-reliant
system. The transition would be realized mainly through the rein-
forcement of programs which aim to;
(i)   enhance the value-added in production through crop
intensification on irrigated and rainfed lands;
(ii)   increase animal productivity;
(iii)   improve export marketing, and
(iv)   stimulate raw material supplies to the agroprocessing
industries.
The policy and institutional reforms needed to achieve these
objectives have been identified and considerable progress.has.been
made since 1980 to implement these. The adoption of an appropriate
exchange rate and improved export incentives has helped agricultural
exports to.increase by over 50 % between 1979 and 1984, while export
values of processed agricultural goods by 1984 had .ncreased five-fold
since 1979. Although a period of adjustment was required to permit
farmers to adapt to the new policies, the average rate of growth of
agricultural GDP (net of inflation) in 1982 and 1983 reached 3.1 %
(as compared to an average annual growth rate of 1.4 % during 1976-79).
Agricultural GDP growth in 1984 is estimated at about 3.7 %.
2.03   Government's interventions in the sector have been significantly
redirected from subsidies and regulation to investments and technological
improvements. In addition to the general liberalization of agricultural
trade, livestock and wheat exports (and all grain imports) were libera-
lized in 1984. Opportunities to export since 1980 have resulted in a
broad rise in Producer prices. This obviated the need for extensive
state involvement to provide attractive prices for farmers. The svstem
of commodity support Prices was therefore replaced by one of protective
floor prices in 1984, and the number of affected commodities was reduced
from 25 to 13. In addition to the general liberalization of aRricultural
trade, livestock and wheat exports (and wheat imports) were further
liberalized in.1984. We shall continue to review the efficiency of
floor pricing policies and import restrictions for sugar and of export
dutv levels for traditional export crops.
2.04   On the production inputs side, plant protection subsidies have
been eliminated and private sector distribution of chemicals has been
introduced. Regulations impeding the introduction of imported seeds and
inhibitinz Private investment in seed production have been substantiallv
reformed. Fertilizer shortages have been eliminated while the fertilizer
retail price subsidies have been sharply reduced and the local fertilizer
manufacturing industry made more efficient. Farm machinery prices
were set free in 1984, which both resulted in a lowering of domestic farm



- no -
machinerv prices and facilitated farm macbinerv exoorts. We have
recentlv reduced tariffs for machinerv imports and eliminated
quantitative restrictions fbr equipment imports. In the area of
public investment, the share of aericulture in Government investment
has increased from 7 % in 1980 to an average of 9.5 % during 1982-
1984. This investment has been made more effective throuRh greater
emphasis on auicklv gestating proiects, concentrating resources in
the irrigation sector on a smaller number of Droiects to accelerate
their completion, and delaving the start of new, large Proiects.
Organizational reforms have been imDlemented -to create the Ministrv
of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs (MAFRA) bv merging the
previous MAF and the rural services directorates of various ministries.
These reforms aim to hasten the comDletion of on-farm irrieation works
and the Government's basic rural infrastructure DackaRe. An attendant
decentralization of MAFRA's main service agencies will accelerate
the transfer of improved technologv to farmers. To this end, a general
reoreanization, DroRram reformulation, redeDlovment of staff and a
devolution of exDenditure authoritv is beine carried out t introduce
more flexible and responsive farmer technical suDport while consolidating
MAFRA's diverse field services for aericultural research, extension, crop
Drotection and animal disease control.
2.05   To finance future aericultural.develooment, the Government's
volicv is to augment the recovery of oublic investment expenditures
from identifiable beneficiaries, reduce the erowth of recurrent costs,
and eraduallv shift responsibilitv for the financine of primarv Dro-
duction and agricultural marketine from eeneral revenues to the
banking svstem. Thus, irrigation water charges have been increased
to have the beneficiaries of government investment bear a lareer share
of the costs. while agricultural interest rates have aeain.been increased
to close the gap between these and current inflation. In narallel
oreanization reforms are being imDlemented for the Agricultural Bank
of Turkev, to imDrove both its financial planning and management caDa-
bilities and the effectiveness of its agricultural credit service to
farmers.
III.   Directions for Agricultural Sector Reform
3.01 As outlined below, the reforms to be carried out in 1985 and
1986 will aim. to revitalize primary production, and to render more
effective te public investment program for agriculture and sectoral
economic and financing policies. The Government intends to extend
and deepen the reforms in the agricultural sector with emphasis on;
(i)   reducing producer subsidization while maintaining adequate
incentives;
(ii)   further improvement in the input distribution, marketing,



- 31 -
and credit channels (concentrating on fertilizer, but also including
improved seeds) ;
(iii)   improved allocation of public investment in agriculture,
particularly in irrigation (66 Z of government agricultural investment);
(iv)   strengthening MAFRA's research, extension, protection
and disease control services;
(v)   increased infrastructure investment, with a higher
priority in the 28 less developed provinces; and
(vi)   strengthening management, planning, policy analysis
and public expenditure Programming in the sector.
3.02   In parallel, the 1985-1986 program will include the development
within MAFRA of a capability to carry out sector policy analysis.
During 1985 and 1986, reviews will be carried out to improve the overall
flow of resources for agriculture. MAFRA, through its Planning, Research
and Coordination Bureau (APK) will undertake systematic post-evaluation
of completed sectoral projects. Reforms will be identified to improve
overall planning and monitoring for the agricultural credit system, in
order to augment direct farmer lending. Actions will also be identified
to reform the agricultural state enterprises and the Sales and Credit
Cooperatives, to enable them to operate more efficiently within the new
commercial environment, and to augment the flow of indirect financial
resources through these entities to farmers.
IV.   Sector Economic Policies
4.01   Planning and Analysis.   The Government's ability to provide
appropriate policies to guide the agricultural sector in accordance
with the above objectives was strengthened in June 1984 with the es-
tablishment of a Poliev Analvsis Unit within MAFRA's APK with respon-
sibilitv to
(i) review the performance of Government's entities which
intervene in Turkev's aaricultural operations;
(ii) advise on agricultural trade Policies;
(iii) advise on Droducer floor price and inDuts policies; and
(iv) review performance under five-year plans and annual investment
Programs. The Government also recently established a fertilizer monitoring
unit within APK to assist in programming and monitoring of the fertilizer
distribution system.



- 32 -
4.02   Public Expenditure Policies .  We intend to give top priority
in resource allocation to the completion of essential irrigation works
and to meet the increased need for effective agricultural research and
extension. To increase their effectiveness, we intend to Prioritize
projects and concentrate investment on those having high economic and social
benefits, and quick gestation.
4.03   The Government also intends to imorove the overall vlannine
and Droerammine of Dublic exDenditure for aericulture, and to strenethen
the Droiect selection. monitorine and evaluation caDabilities of MAFRA's
APK. In this connection. APK has alreadv been eiven eeneral authoritv
to review aericultural Droerams and Dlans.
4.04   Trade Regime.   The agricultural trade regime has been progressively
liberalized since 1980. Reforms which were introduced in January 1984
effectively freed grain exports and liberalized agricultural commodity
and factor;imports, particularly improved seed varieties. The Government
has also further liberalized seed imports.
V.   Inputs Pricing and Distribution Systems
A.   Seeds Pricing and Distribution
5.01   The Government has given high priority to reforms in the Turkish
seeds industry, to stimulate the importation and diffusion of superior
varieties. and therebv rapidlv raise croD vields. The Government's
medium-term obiectives in the area of seeds are to imDrove the seeds
multiplication and distribution svstem and encourage competition by
strenetheninR the caDabilities of the private sector. Major Dolicy
reformswere incorporated in a series of decrees issued in 1983 and 1984
to encourage the develoDment of a Drivate sector seeds industrv through
foreian seed comDanies' particiDation in joint ventures; relaxed
imDortation, testing and certification nrocedures; and bv deregulating
seed pricine. These measures have alreadv Droduced significant results
in attracting the establishment of Drivate sector seed companies.
Production of wheat and barley seed will remain, however, primarilv
within the public sector since their hiRh retention rate bv farmers
vrevents profitable private marketinR of these seeds.
5.02   Durine 1985, the Government intends to submit a revised seeds
law for legislature aDproval, consolidating and incorporating the
reforms of the existing law contained in the subsequent decrees and
reaulations. Concurrently, Government intends to devise a national
seed industry development plan to provide detailed policies for
promoting a national seeds industry under the new law, and intends
to help establish a Turkish Seed Industrv Association as a recognized
coordinating entity for private seed producers. The previous system of
contract seed growers will be improved, and multiplication of self-
wollinated varieties will be turned over to fully commercialized
certified seed growers.



- 33 -
B.   Fertilizers Pricing and Distribution
5.03   Much progress has already been made in improving the fertilizer
distribution system. The production of Turkey's fertilizer industry
has reached about 60-70 2 of capacity, due to improved availnhility
of imported raw materials and more favorable ex-factory prices. A
fertilizer factory rehabilitation program has been undertaken which
when completed and fully operational in 1988 should enable most factories
to sell fertilizer at prices competitive with world market prices.
5.04   Pricing.   The heavy burden of the current subsidies on the
budget and the financial system (with fertilizer subsidies amounting
to more than 1.% of GDP) preempts resources which could be more
effectively employed in increasing agricultural production through
other means. Nevertheless, the Government has recognized that too
abrupt changes in fertilizer pricing policies could disrupt agricultural
production in the short run. Therefore, we have followed a policy since
1983 of gradually reducing the retail fertilizer subsidy. In line with
these policies, the Government increased fertilizer retail prices by
60 % i'n o6inal terms'in-Januafg 1984 and again by 40 Z in August 1984
and by 20 % in February 1985. We intend to continue to phase out the
remaining subsidy by the end of 1988 except that needed for
(i)   transportation to remote, low income areas;
(ii)   the higher cost of domestic fertilizer manufacturing
over CIF trend prices, until the factory rehabilitation program is
fully effective; and
(iii)   the higher than normal costs of fertilizer distribution
until the improvements in the distribution system are fully operational.
5.05   Our goal is to  provide the domestic manufacturers with clear
signals on policy reference prices by bringing ex-factory prices to
levels of import prices of-comparable products. At the same time,
we intend to provide manufacturers with the opportunity and incentives
to improve their product to meet the demand of farmers. As part of-
this process, in Aueust 1984 we announced a substantial improvement
in the basic ex-factorv pricing formula. Ex-factory prices are now
linked to a dollar price adjusted semiannually for each product, with
monthly adjustments for exchange rate fluctuations.
5.06   Distribution System.   Our goals are to reastablish a competitive
distribution system to promote efficiency and improve services to farmers.
This will be done through ;
(i)   encouraeine participation in fertilizer distribution bv
fertilizer manufacturers and private traders at the wholesale level and
exDansion of the retail network to areas not currentlv well served throuRh



- 34 -
the introduction of private sector retailers. To this end, we will
progressivelv remove the obstacles to such participation, starting
with the January 1986 fertilizer Pricing decree;
(ii)   improving DONATIM's management structure and financial
and operating capabilities in order to reduce the burden of its
current stocking and distribution manaRement oractices on the Government
budget and extra-budgetarv resources;
(iii)   liberalizine imports and bringina domestic fertilizer
availabilitv in line with cost-savine opportunities offered bv use of
higher analvsis fertilizers; and
(iv)   nrovidine adequate access to fertilizer Purchase credit to
farmers under revised pricing and liberalized distribution arrangements.
These reforms will be introduced in two phases. The first will last until
December 31, 1988, while the retail subsidy is being phased out. During
the second Phase, a further withdrawal of Government reitulation is
intended, manaeed carefullv to Drevent inadvertent disruption of fertilizer
sunplies.
5.07   To suDvort imDlementation of this Dolicv framework. the Government
has established a fertilizer monitorine unit within its MAFRA which will
coordinate the introduction of manufacturers and private traders into
fertilizer distribution, and the delineation of the marketine areas to be
taken uD bv each distributor to ensure adeauate availabilitv of all tvpes
of fertilizer throuehout the countrv. To liberalize Droeressivelv ferti-
lizer imDortation, Government intends to establish Drocedures to allow
direct fertilizer imDorts bv Drivate traders and fertilizer manufacturers
followine the Dhase-out of the retail subsidv.  It is expected that this
system will begin to operate in 1989. To improve DONATIM's capabilities, and
enable it to effecitvely adjust to the new system, Government intends to.
carry out a comprehensive Management Improvement Study for TZDK during 1985 and
1986.
5.08    Financing/Credit Arraneements.   Measures will be taken to make
adequate amounts of credit available through TCZB/Credit Coops to meet
farmers' increasing credit requirements as the fertilizer subsidy is
nhased out. and to orovide farmers.with access to such credit under uniform
terms and conditions whether thev nurchase throueh TZDK. the Credit Coo
oeratives or alternative (new) channels. The fertilizer manufacturers,
private distributors and at some later date TZDK and cooDeratives will
be exDected to finance distribution throueh commercial channels.
VI.   Irrigation and Drainaee Investment Proeram
6.01   The Government continues to assign the highest priority to
public irrigation investment. As part of an effort to accelerate completion



- 35 -
of on-farm development works, we have begun to use private contractors
for such works which had previously been carried out almost entirely
by force account. The Agrarian Reform Law was revised in December 1984
so as to require land consolidation only in such large, contigulous
irrigation service areas where the benefits of extinsive use of agri-
cultural machinery can be realized. We have also made progress in
increasing the share of the operation and maintenance costs financed'
throuR.h irrigation water charaes, increased the penalties for delicuent
payment of such charges, and recovering the capital costs for on-farm
works.
6.02   Tne Government recognizes, however, that the current backloe
between areas with comDleted maior irrigation works and the comDletion
of on-farm develooment is large (exceeding 300.000 ha) and is increasing
with the progress achieved in acceleratinR completion of major works.
To help alleviate this problem we will, beginning with the 1986 Public
Investment ProRram. increase the share of resources being Provided for
on-farm work on Nbout-65 &ompletedtand-'bngoing projects of the State
Hydraulic Works Agency (DSI), with particular concentration on drainage
and soil conservation having high incremental benefits. To these ends,
an Investment program for the lirigation and drainage subsector would be
carried out between 1986-1989 to
(i)   overcome the backlog of on-farm works on ongoing or
completed DSt Projects,
(ii)   provide equipment and other assistance to rehabilitate and
improve the level of maintenance on all completed surface drainage
networks,
(iii)   provide assistance for the reclamation of saline lands
within irrigated areas, and
(iv)   provide access roads along irrigation and drainage channels
to permit regular maintenance and repairs. It is intended that such
work will be our Core Investment Program for the irrigation subsector,
and it will be assigned the highest investment priority until the on-
farm irrigation development backlog has been overcome. During the
past three years we have been assigning top priority for new DSI
Projects to those having high economic returns and we propose to continue
this policy. Beginning in 1986, we intend also to make our decisions
for the continued funding of ongoing projects on the basis of the same
criteria,.to be screened conjointly with DSI's new proposals. To effec-
tively implement these policies, steps will be taken to strengthen the
planning , coordination and implementation capabilities of the respon-
gible agencies.



- 36 -
VII. MAFRA's Agricultural Technology
and Information Services
7.01   A major initiative was announced by Government on June 8, 1984,
to reoreanize and consolidate the main service deDartments of MAFRA,
broaden the Ministrv's resoonsibilities for the Dlannine and mana-
eement of aericultural sector Dolicies. and decentralize oroeram for-
mulation and execution. including Dooline of facilities, staff, eauioment
and budeetine for MAFRA's diverse field services. The imDlementation.
of this reform. Darticularlv as it affects the field oDerations of
MAFRA's extension. research. croo Drotection and veterinarv services,
thus constitutes a third orimarv technical recuisite- alone with the
seeds and irrieation develoDment Droerams -- for stimulatine imDroved
nroduction technoloeies at the farm level. Under the new MAFRA orea-
nization. Government fullv intends to imolement the reforms to Research and
extension agreed under the Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Proiect.
7.02   Our immediate objectives are to complete the consolidation of
extension and research at regional and Provincial levels and to firm
up arrangements for affective technical leadership of the field services,
and, to this end, Government intends to appoint durine 1985 a National
Agricultural Research and a National Agricultural Extension Coordinator.
The oneoine consolidation of.MAFRA's diverse extension activities at the
Drovincial level will be.comnleted in 1985 while conioint Droerammine,
budeetine and orogram imDlementation will be instituted beginnine 1986.
7.03   An imDortant area needine review is the Drioritization and
imolementation of croD and animal husbandrv research. Our medium term
obiective is to strenathen the process of identifving and prioritizinR
national and local research projects, then to strenethen the caDabilitv
of the research network to satisfv these Priorities. As a first steD,
the Government established a ministerial research workine grouD in
March 1984 to guide a mid-term review which Government intends to carrv
out in connection with the Bank-assisted Aericultural Extension and
Aunlied Research Proiect. On the research side, MAFRA intends to
enlaree this review to encomuass the totalitv of its aericultural
research oroerams and research station functions, then revise its
oriorities, Droerams, Drocedures, staffine and trainine Droerams, and
construction and nrocurement Dlans as necessarv to imDrove the aualitv
and usefulness of research. At the same time, an oneoine evaluation
svstem.will be developed and established to monitor the efficiencv of
the avoroved research oroiects and proerams.
7.04   In the areas of extension, we will carefullv review the Derformance
of the new svstem being intr,oduced in the 16 provinces covered bv the
Agricultural Extension and ApplieAesearch Proiect bv end 1986, make
modifications as necessarv, then formulate additional investment and
staffing programs to phase-in application of the project's extension
principles nationwide.



- 37 -
VIII.   Aericultural Financine Policies
8.01   The Government intends to prepare financial reforms affecting
the agricultural sector, augment the resources available for agricultural
credit and channel the-e in an efficient manner by strengthening the
institutions in this field, and improve the financial management of the
agricultural SEEs. These measures will complement actions being addressed
in the context the SALs and the Second Agricultural Credit Project.
8.02   Agricultural Credit.  In the area of agricultural credit, the
Government's objectives are to strengthen its capability to carry out
prospective credit planning, initiate continuous monitoring of credit
utilization, augment the volume of resources available for agricultural
credit (consistent with overall financial stabilization objectives), and
strengthen the capabilities of the principal intermediaries involved.
The Government's principal actions to date have been the introduction
of annual credit plans and the progressive raising of interest rates with
the objective of eliminating their subsidization and thereby improving
resource allocation, increasing the availability of credit resources
for the sector, and maintaining the financial viability of sector finan-
cial institutions. The Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) has initiated
the implementation of its action plan for institutional development, which
is being supported under the Second Agricultural Credit Project. These
reforms, though still in the initial stages of implementation, are expected
to result in major improvements in TCZB's efficiency.
8.03   The need for more systematic and comprehensive credit planning,
both annually and for the medium-term, will be addressed by Government
during the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan period. In view of the
priority given to the agricultural sector, the Government intends to
augment the availability of resources for agricultural lending over the
medium-term.
8.04   In addition to the ongoing work under the TCZB action program, the
Government will cause TCZB to review4 the adequacy of TCZB's branch network
and staffing in those regions where agricultural development is likely to
be focused during the Fifth Five-Year Plan period.



MAP SECTION



IBRD 16766R1
:'0              ''t ma 0j)K0jg LAIAO 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sO
-ir5- e   ts,  .                                                                          iNlzr4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MM        TAGRCLTRL  EIOSr
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7.ua                                                         rwho                                                                tA
T6, Wr . ld {iL' {s Shil oslus wb    tHTjAR, 
I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZI
rod3>llQ>@lrttortrds ;6                                                                    =1  MLREGION                     t=| soUrtHEAsliEGloN        i\  NATONALt'AEl'A00 EG OS  OG  C SOLOOm OWO tNOAu~flE
U.                          "isYtewrTldEtn0    0000 r
SEPTEBE- 1'191



