ocxument of
The World Bank.
FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
> 2X-Fa-- TV
Repowt No. P-4097-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TEE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt300 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
May 24, 1985
Th*s docment s a nsokddd didibIdon and my be usd by rdpionts only B te perforute  of
thi o0icialdW ] csht& myS not ohenwise be disdosed QntboWt Wod Bk autizaono



TUR1iEY
CURREUCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency
Unit      Jan. 198011 Jan. 1981  Jan. 1982  Jan. 1983  Jan. 1984 May  1985
US Dollar   TL  70.00     TL  91.00 TL 139.60 TL 191.15 TL 309.20  TL 520.00
TL I        US$ 0.014      US$ 0.011  Us$ 0.007  us$ 0.005  Us$ 0.003  US$ 0.002
1/     Since January 1980, the rate is being adjusted for the differential
inflation between Turkey and its major trading partners. ln this
report it is assumed that this policy will continue.
FISCAL YEAR
Republic of Turkey                      January 1 to December 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
APK     -  MAFRA'S Planning, Research and Coordination Bureau
ASAL    -  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan
CAYIUR  -  Tea Organization, an SEE
DONATIM - Alternate name for TZDK (see below)
DSI     -  State Hydraulic Works, Ministry of Energy & Natural Resources
EBK     -  Meat and Fish Organization, an SEE
GDRS    -  General Directorate of Rural Services, within MAFRA
MAFRA   - Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
0 & M   -  Operation and Maintenance
SEE     -  State Economic Enterprise
SEKER   -  Turkish Sugar Factories, an SEE
SPO     -  State Planning Organization, under the Prime Ministry
TCZB    -  Argicultural Bank of Turkey
TIGEM   - Turkish Agricultural Enterprise, an SEE
TL      -  Turkish Lira
TMO     -  Soil Products Office, an SEE
TSEK    -  Turkish Milk Industry, an SEE
TZDK    - Agricultural Supply Organization, an SEE
YEMSAN  - Turkish Feed Industry, an SEE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURXEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan Summary
Borrower:           Republic of Turkey.
Beneficiaries;      The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Affairs
CMAFRA), the State Planning Organization (SPO), the State
Hydraulic Works (DSI), the Turkish Agricultural
Enterprise (TIGEN), the Agricultural Supply
Organization (TZDK), and the Soil Products Office (TMO).
Anount;             US$300 million.
Terms:              Seventeen years including four years of grace, with
standard variable interest rate.
Description;        The proposed loan would support the Government's
agricultural sector adjustment program during the
three-year period 1985-87. The principal objective of the
program is the transition to a self-reliant, financially
independent and responsive production and marketing system
in o-der to stimulate exports and reattain historical
growth. The main instruments would be reforms to (i)
reduce producer subsidization while maintaining adequate
incentives; (ii) improve the input distribution, marketing
and credit systems; (iii) improve the public investment
allocation system in the sector, particularly for the Core
Irrigation and Drainage Investment Program; (iv) enhance
the research, extension, protection and disease control
services; and (v) strengthen management, planning, policy
analysis and public expenditure programming for the sector.
The loan would finance a portion of the imported inputs,
capital goods, training and consulting services needed for
the adjustment program.
Benefits and Risks; The reforms agreed under the loan would foster a more
efficient allocation of investment resources, a gradual
withdrawal of Gov^rnment from direct intervention in input
distribution, production and marketing activities, and
more effective agricultural supporting services. The
program is designed to revitalize agricultural production
without reliance upon subsidies, stimulate agricultural
exports and improve the pattern of public expenditures.
The main risk arises from possible short-term disruptive
effects on agriculture following the increases in retail
Thbi document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only ia the performance of
tei offil duties Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authonzation.



-ii-
fertilizer prices to border price levels. This risk is,
however, considered slight, since the phase-out of the
fertilizer subsidy would proceed at a slower pace than
that which occurred in 1980-81 and again in 1984, when
retail price increases had only minimal negative impact on
fertilizer consumption and crop production. Maintenance
of the fertilizer subsidy at current levels would, on the
other hand, impose an unsustainable burden on Government's
resources and jeopardize the stabilization program, thus
representing a greater risk to the economy.
Estimated Cost:     The indicative cost of the agricultural program for
1985-87 is as follows:
Allocation
Categories Covered                                           of Loan   Z to be
by  loan                 Local  Foreign        Total   Proceeds   financed
- - - - - - - US$ million /1 
Seeds Importation              5.4      54.0        59.4      20.0        34
Fertilizers Importation       45.0     450.0       495.0     152.4        31
Irrigation                   621.0     893.7    1,514.7      111.0         7
Supporting Services          184.7      90.9       275.6       8.1         3
Technical Assistance
and Training               -        8.5         8.5       8.5       100
Total                   856.1   1,497.1    2,353.2      300.0        13
/1  At January 1, 1985 constant prices.
Estimated Disbursements:                     US$ Million
Bank FY                              1986        1987
Annual                                200.0      100.0
Cumulative                           200.0       300.0
Economic Rate of Return:                   Not Applicable
Appraisal Report:                5576-TU dated May 22, 1985



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan to the Republic of Turkey for the
equivalent of US$300.0 million to support the Government's program of reforms
in the agricultural sector designed to make the sector more efficient and
better able to compete on the world market, while concentrating scarce
Government resources on those expenditures best able to support sustainable
growth at the sectoral level. The loan would have a term of 17 years
including 4 years of grace, with interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       An economic mission visited Turkey in June 1982, and its report
entitled "Turkey: Country Economic Memorandum, Recent Economic Developments
and Medium-Term Prospects" (No. 4287-TU) was distributed to the Executive
Directors in June 1983. The report of a mission to review the financial
sector, entitled: "Turkey: Special Economic Report - Policies for the
Financial Sector" (No. 4459-TU), was distributed in September 1983. A Bank
mission reviewed the Government's Fifth Five-Year Plan (1985-89) in
August/September 1984 and its findings are reflected in this section.
3.       Turkey is about as large as France and Germany combined, with a
population of around 48 million and an estimated GNP per capita of $1230 in
1983. The density of population is low (78 per square kilometer of
agricultural land), and about 47 percent live in urban centers. Population
growth (2.2 percent per annum) is below the median for middle-income
countries. Despite rapid economic growth in the mid-1970s as well as
substantial emigration of workers (to Western Europe and more recently, to the
Middle East), the employment situation has deteriorated steadily with an
unemployment rate currently estimated at about 19 percent. There is, however,
little or no absolute poverty, although income distribution is skewed. There
are considerable regional differences in income and large rural-urban
disparities. Recent data indicate a probable worsening in income
distribution, especially of wage and salary earners, and a sharp real decline
in average earnings. Educational enrollments have expanded greatly, but the
level of adult literacy remains relatively low.
Background
4.       During the 1970s Turkey did not make the necessary adjustments to the
shocks caused by the steep rise in oil prices, stagflation in the OECD
economies, and the consequent deterioration of its terms of external trade.
1/       Parts I and V are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report on the Industrial Schools Project (P-3956-TU),
dated April 18, 1985.



Until 1977 Turkey maintained high rates of economic growth by raising the
share of public investment in GDP. This was financed initially by workers'
remittances and, following the quadrupling of oil prices, increasingly by
short-ternm borrowings. The rapid GNP growth came to an abrupt halt in 1977 as
the massive external debt burden led to a sharp deterioration in
creditworthiness, severe shortages of imports, and disruptions in industrial
production with a rise in unemployment. By the end of 1979, doiwstic
inflation had also become an issue of critical importance.
5.       The Turkish authorities' response to the crisis of the late 1970s was
a major shift in development strategy in 1980, moving towards outward
orientation and giving an increased role to market forces. Policies were
adopted to expand exports and increase workers' remittances which, together
with liberalization of imports, encouragement of foreign investment and
prudent external debt management, were aimed at alleviating the balance of
payments constraint and import shortages.  On the domestic front, the
objectives were a reduction in the inflation rate, reform of the State
Economic Enterprises (SEEs), a more efficient financial sector, improved
resource mobilization and better selection of investments, especially in the
public sector.
6.       The adjustment program, which has been supported by the Bank through
five structural adjustment loans, involves far-reaching changes in attitudes,
institutions, and the legal and policy framework, all of which require time to
put in place. Major structural changes have been made in the exchange rate
system, the export and import regimes, the tax system, interest rate and
selective credit policies and the public investment program. Implementation
of the adjustment program was carried out under a military regime during
*September 1980 - November 1983 and since then by an elected government.
The Structural Adjustment Program - 1980-84
The Turkish economy has shown an impressive response to the
structural adjustment program and actual performance met or exceeded the
Government's own targets through 1982. By contrast, results in 1983 and 1984
proved to be mixed, due in part to adverse economic developments on the
external front, slippages in the monetary program, a persistent shortfall in
Government revenues and the renewal of inflationary pressures.
8.       Real GNP expanded by 4.1 percent in 1981 and 4.6 percent in 1982.  In
1983, GNP growth slowed down to 3.2 percent, due in large part to the effects
of a bad harvest and a decline in the contribution of the foreign balance.
The growth rate rebounded in 1984 to an estimated 5.7 percent, supported by
favorable performance in the productive sectors with agricultural value added
growing at 3.6 percent and industrial value added at 9.6 percent. Capacity
utilization rates in private industry in 1984 are estimated to have risen by
about 5 percent to an average rate of 72 percent. On the expenditure side,
the average annual real rate of growth of public fixed investment has been
contained to 3.1 percent over the 1980-84 period while the growth rate of
private investment has improved systematically from -17.3 percent in 1980 to
4.8 percent in 1983 and an estimated 5.4 percent in 1984. Private
consumption, which had actually fallen by 5 percent in 1980, grew at
4.9 percent in 1983 and an estimated 5.0 percent in 1984. On the other hand,
helped by strict budgetary discipline, the rate of growth of public
consumption declined from 8.4 percent in 1980 to 1.8 percent in 1983.
Estimates for 1984 suggest a modest growth of 2.4 percent.



- 3 -
9.       Through 1982, the Government met with considerable success in
reducing the rate of inflation through a combination of fiscal, monetary and
incomes policies. After peaking at 107 percent in 1980, the annual average
rate of increase in the wholesale price index declined to 37 percent in 1981
and 27 percent in 1982. In 1983 the downward trend was reversed and the
inflation rate rose to 30 percent. This rise was fueled by an expansion of
Central Bank credits to firms and commercial banks in difficulty during the
second half of 1983 as well as an unexpected increase in the budget deficit.
The resulting liquidity expansion, in conjunction with a lowering of nominal
deposit interest rates, encouraged consumption at the expense of savings.
10.      Inflation accelerated further in the first half of 1984, although it
moderated in the second half. The average inflation for 1984 is estimated at
a little over 50 percent. The major factors that contributed to the worsening
of the inflationary situation were the lagged impact of the expansionary
monetary policy pursued during the second half of 1983, and a significant
increase in agriculture product prices, especially of fresh fruits and
vegetables, as a consequence of export liberalization and higher export market
prices. Other important inflationary factors included substantial "catch up"
increases of SEE prices and higher import prices resulting from the nominal
depreciation of the Turkish lira. In addition, inflationary pressures stemmed
from a larger than anticipated budget deficit in 1984 as a result of a
slowdown in the growth of revenues.
11.      Commercial bank interest rates, which were deregulated in July 1980,
have increased substantially and are now positive in real terms. As a result,
total bank deposits increased by 72 percent in 1980 over 1979, and in 1981
this trend accelerated, with total deposits growing by 103 percent and time
deposits by 274 percent. Growth in total deposits slowed after 1982, and in
1983 and 1984 they grew at 53 percent and 42 percent respectively. The
bankruptcy in late June 1982 of a major non-bank financial institution shook
depositor confidence and was followed by a shift of funds into the larger
banks. The Government averted an immediate crisis in the banking sector and
undertook actions to reform and strengthen the financial sector as a whole. A
new banking law was enacted in June 1983 which covered many of the
recommendations made in the Bank's report on the Financial Sector
(No. 4459-TU). These included measures to reduce the undercapitalization of
banks, place limits on the real assets and investments of banks, link the
establisnment of branches to the level or a bank's equity, reduce the
interlocking between banks and corporations, introduce a deposit insurance
scheme, and increase the role of the Central Bank in the supervision of the
banking sector. A new law is currently before Parliament which will further
the banking reform process by introducing standardized accounting for banks
and improved procedures for handling non-performing loans. The Government
also took a major step towards reducing the cost of intermediation by reducing
the financial transactions tax from 15 percent to 3 percent. Separately, the
Government has reduced the level of withholding tax applicable to interest
payments on deposits and bonds from 20 percent to 10 percent. Other important
developments in the financial sector include measures undertaken to revitalize
the capital markets, for which IFC has provided technical assistance, and the
sale of revenue-sharing certificates linked to the income from selected public
facilities (e.g. the Bosphorus bridge).



12.      The Government is committed to maintaining an interest rate structure
for deposits which is positive in real terms. Time deposits have been
yielding more or less positive real returns since end-l983, with interest
rates ranging from 45 to 53 percent depending upon the term of the deposit.
While positive real interest rates have provided an incentive to save, they
have also meant high borrowing costs. Nominal interest rates range from 60 to
80 percent on non-preferential credits, in part because of the high
intermediation costs of the comercial banks and their widely prevalent
practice of requiring compensating balances. The interest rate differentials
between preferential and non-preferential credits and among preferential
credits are large and need to be reduced. The Government has reaffirmed its
determination to achieve positive real rates on all lending by a combination
N       of bringing down inflation and phasing out interest rate subsidies on
preferential credits. In January 1985, it eliminated preferential interest
rates on short-term export credits. High market interest rates, together with
the limited availability of credit, have led to considerable liquidity
problems for the private business sector, particularly for businesses
supplying the domestic market. Measures are also needed to lower the
operating costs of banks, which are well above prevailing levels in comparable
countries.
13.      In the fiscal area, progress was evident from 1980 to 1982 but there
have been slippages in 1983 and 1984. The budget deficit to GNP ratio was
reduced from 5.3 percent in 1980 to 2.1 percent in 1982, and the Public Sector
Borrowing Requirement (PSBR) dropped sharply from 12.6 percent of GNP to
6.9 percent over the same period. However, the revenue to GNP ratio has been
declining over the past three years. From a high of 20.3 percent in 1981, it
has fallen sharply to an estimated 15.6 percent in 1984. Largely because of
this significant shortfall in revenues, overall fiscal performance has
worsened since 1983 even though government expenditures have been considerably
curtailed (from 24.2 percent of GNP in 1980 to an estimated 20.8 percent in
1984) and budgetary transfers to SEEs as a percentage of GNP have fallen
steadily (from 4.8 percent in 1980 to an estimated 1.6 percent in 1984). The
budget deficit is estimated at 5.2 percent of GNP in 1984 and the PSBR at
8.8 percent. The downward trend in the Government revenue to GNP ratio
highlights the urgency of mobilizing additional public resources. As a step
in this direction, the Government introduced a Value Added Tax (VAT) in
January 1985.
14.      Improvements in the balance of payments were systematic through 1982
with the current account deficit decreasing from $3.3 billion (5.7 percent of
GNP) in 1980 to $1.2 billion (2.2 percent of GNP) in 1982. However, in 1983
the current account deficit widened to about $2.1 billion (4.2 percent of GNP)
as merchandise exports and workers' remittances fell short of targets.
Exports rebounded strongly in 1984, growing by 25 percent in dollar terms to
$7.1 billion.  Remittances, too, registered a higher than expected increase,
reaching $1.9 billion (up by 24 percent).  Concurrently, there was a continued
large inflow of deposits through the Dresdner scheme ($550 million in 1984).
Under this scheme the Dresdner Bank collects deposits from Turkish workers in
Germany and automatically places these funds at the disposition of the Central
Bank of Turkey, which guarantees the deposits and pays an interest rate
commeasurate with the Euro-market rate.  However, these increases were offset
by a sharp rise in merchandise imports to $10.8 billion (up by 16 percent in
dollar terms). As a result, the current account deficit in 1984 was
considerably higher than projected, reaching $2.1 billion (4.3 percent of
GNP), or about the same level as in 1983.



15.      On balance, merchandise export performance has been impressive over
the 1980-84 period, growing at an average annual rate of about 26 percent in
dollar terms. This growth has been led by the manufacturing sector and has
involved a rise in the share of exports to the Middle Eastern countries.
Industrial exports, comprised primarily of processed foods and textiles, have
risen from 36 percent of total exports in 1980 to 72 percent in 1984. These
results were achieved by a combination of indirect (flexible exchange rate
policy and import liberalization) and direct (tax rebates, preferential
credits) measures to enhance the relative profitability of exports and offset
the traditional bias towards producing for the domestic market. The flexible
exchange rate policy was one of the most important factors contributing to the
growth of exports, together with the penetration of Turkish products in Middle
East markets.
16.      On the import side, the 1982-83 period was marked by a relative
stability in the growth of merchandise imports, mostly due to exogenous
factors. Imports fell by 1.0 percent in dollar terms in 1982 and rose by only
4.4 percent in 1983.  This reflected price decreases in both oil and non-oil
imports. Merchandise imports, however, increased substantially in value in
1984. The increase has been most significant in some of the groups (e.g. raw
materials and consumer goods) that have been subjected to major liberalization
in terms of both a lowering of tariff rates and a significant removal of
quantitative restrictions.
Medium-Term Prospects
17.      The Government's Fifth Five Year Plan (1985-89) was approved by the
Grand National Assembly in July 1984. The Plan reaffirms the Government's
determination to pursue an outward-oriented development strategy and to
liberalize the economy by relying increasingly on market forces for allocation
decisions. The public sector is targeted to play a supportive role by
concentrating its investments in infrastructure rather than manufacturing,
while the private sector is to be encouraged to play a leading role in the
growth of manufacturing and exports. Some of the key targets are:
Si)   an average annual GNP growth rate of 6.3 percent;
(ii)   an average annual real rate of growth of merchandise exports of
10.6 percent;
(iii)   an average annual real rate of growth of merchandise imports of
8.2 percent;
(iv)   an average annual real rate of growth of 10.9 percent in private
investment and 6.8 percent in public investment; and
(v)   a declining external debt service ratio, from 26 percent in 1984
to around 18 percent in 1989.



6-
18.         While  the overall thrust of the Plan  is in accord with  the goals  of
the structural adjustment program, certain targets seem optimistic in view of
both past performance and the immdiate prospects for the economy. The Bank's
projections indicate the need for a continuation of the stabilization program
well into 1987, implying a lower growth rate in GDP for the early years of the
Plan and a return to a higher growth path only in 1988. Key economic
variables in the Bank's latest projections for the period 1985-89 are
presented in Table 1:
Table 1: TURKEY - SELECTED ECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1983-89
1983    198E      1985   1S89        Reel Crowth Rate    RI GCr_th Rate
Wit.           Actual    Eat.       Projected        l198     1958           t985-S
(:)                  Cl)
0mP                    TI. Be at 1913 Prices 11646   12122  27W   15855       3.7       5.7             5.6
Agriclture                             2058   2132       2202   2481       -0.3       3.6             3.0
tad try                                3096   3393       358    4732        7.6      9.6              7.0
Services                               5631   5929       6175   77n         X.0      5.3              5.7
Co_eai                    -              9586  1006        1539  12500        4.5       4.1             3.1
riced ie_eeue                            2l81   2220       2400   3180        3.0       1.8             7.5
xports ,of good        Curret S u         5728   7100      8541  17574        13.9     23.1             9.4
Imports of _d                            9235  10756      12500  21307        12.0     15.8             7.2
Trade bemac                           -3507  -3656      -299  -3733
Curant account baln    tur.r S *        -2122  -2135       -1750  -2003
Ratios
laVeafletltflP        ;               V.@  1.3         18.9   20.0
SainsPGetl            2               16.5   17.1       17.    19.5
gxport, of Soo"/GOP   2               11.3   14.6       13.9   15.9
Curreet accost deficit/      -:4.2    4.3               -.81  -1.8
Debt e'rvice ratio /c  ;              2M.0  25.0        23.7   19.8
Public fixd ivet/   :                 60.3   58.9       57.6   52.6
total fied inoeeinnt
KAm itc.
CGros capital required /d  Currnt -   3687   4290       3864   5905
/a At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add
up due to exclusion of indirect taxes and subsidies.
/b Based on constant TL.
Ic Total Debt Service (excluding short-ternm) /Exports of Goods and NFS plus
Workers' Remittances.
/d Includes net IMF.
Source; State Planning Organization for actuals and IBRD projections.



- 7 -
19.      Bank projections indicate a GDP growth of 5.6 percent per annum on
average for the Plan period, with a low of 4.9 percent in the initial year of
the Plan (stabilization period) and a high of 6.3 percent for the final year
(growth per od). Achievement of these growth rates will depend on the
performance of the productive sectors, namely agriculture and manufacturing.
This in turn will depend to a large extent on the Government's determination
to constrain the growth ot the public sector in line with public resources and
to create a more favorable investment climate for the private sector. This
translates itself into a projected real growth per annum in public fixed
investment of about 5.0 percent on average for the Plan period, starting with
a modest increase in the early years. The comparable figure for private fixed
investment is 10.6 percent or a little more than twice the growth rate: for
public fixed investment. These figures are consistent with the need to meet
the infrastructure requirements of the economy through the public investment
program, while providing for the capacity expansion of the private sector
necessary LC --t the export and growth targets.
20.      Merchandise exports are projected to grow at an average 9.4 percent
per annum in real terms. Merchandise imports, on the other hand, are
projected to grow more slowly in real terms through 1986 and then pick up to
an average 7.5 percent per annum in the terminal years of the Plan. On these
assumptions, the current account deEicit is projected to decrease through 1986
as stabilization policies act to contain import growth while encouraging
exports.  As higher growth rates set in during Lne middle of the Plan period,
the trend would reverse and the current account deficit would rise moderately
through the end of the Plan. The terminal year 1989 would show a deficit of
approximately $2.0 billion as compared to a 1985 figure of $1.7 billion. The
projected capital account is seen to remain manageable throughout the period
even in the face of some sharp increases in the amortization payments in
1985-87 arising from the debts rescheduled during the 1978-8'3 period and an
imposed constraint on foreign exchange reserves equivalent to at least two
months' imports. Consistent with the above is an average debt service ratio
for medium and long-term credits for the Plan period of 21.7 percent.
Tncluding short-term debt the average debt service ratio for the Plan period
is 23.7 percent. Gross capital inflows required in 1989, on these
assumptions, would be about $5.9 billion, or about 38 percent higher than the
amount in 1984. Such an inflow is consistent with a decreasing debt service
ratio from 1986 onwards.
21.      The medium-term scenario presented above is, of ccurse, only one of
many possibilities and is used specifically to illustrate Turkey's potential
in the light of the Government's own development strategy. Given Turkey's
progress in the structural adjustment program, the favorable response which
this has evoked from the international financial community and the present
view of future resources and export market possibilities, the Government's
somewhat more ambitious Plan targets would be feasible provided they are
supported by slightly higher export growth rates and greater success in the
mobilization of public resources. This may be more difficult to achieve in
the early (stabilization) phase of the Plan.
22.      In view of the sensitivity of the projections to the assumptions of
export and import growth rates, a downside risk case has also been developed.
With Turkey's export performance heavily dependent on exogenous factors such



as the world economic outlook and movements in international prices, a slower
growth of merchandise export. (an average of 6.9 percent over the Plan period)
would lead to a more difficult but still manageable balance of payment.
situation, more external borrowing, a lower GDP growth (averaging about
4.8 percent per annum) and a higher debt service ratio (22-24 percer.t per
annum). In such a situation the Government would have little chance of
absorbing the unemployed and improving tangibly the average standard oi
living. However, given the Government's emphasis on export promotion and the
determined efforts to counter the bias towards producing for the domestic
market, there is good reason to support the perspective set out in the
medium-term scenario presented in paragraphs 18 to 21.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
23.      At the end of 1978, Turkey had $7.2 billion in short-term debt and
$7.C billion in medium and long-term debt. Between 1978 and 1980, Turkey
rescheduled some $9.2 billion of outstanding obligations through a series of
rescheduling arrangements concluded with official and commercial creditors.
Approximately $6.0 billion of short-term debt, including $2.6 billion in
convertible Turkish lira deposits and bankers' credits and $1.2 billion of
non-guaranteed suppliers' credits, were consolidated into medium-term loans or
partially converted into Turkish lira obligations. Following the resolution
of the debt crisis, inflows were mostly from official sources - major
creditors being the OECD countries, the World Bank and the IMF. Of the
estimated total debt outstanding of $22.7 billion at end-1984, 81 percent
constituted medium and long-term debt (including DMF). Short-term debt as a
percentage of total debt outstanding fell from 51 percent in 1978 to about
11 percent in 1982, then increased to 14 percent in 1983 and to an estimated
18 percent in 1984. Much of this growth in the stock of short-term debt is
due to the inflows associated with the Dresdner Bank scheme (para. 14). At
end-1984 the outstanding liabilities associated with the Dresdner scheme are
estimated to amount to $1.8 billion, which would represent about 45 percent of
Turkey's short-term external obligations and 8 percent of its total
outstanding debt. Based on the growth scenario outlined earlier, debt
outstanding and disbursed as a percentage of CDP is projected to fall from an
estimated 41 percent in 1984 to 32 percent in 1989. This translates into a
total debt outstanding forecast for 1989 of $30.6 billion, with short-term
debt constituting about 23 percent of that total. Dresdner scheme inflows are
projected to be around $600 million per annum throughout this period and to
account for a large part of the rise in the ratio of short-term debt to total
debt outstanding.
24.      The debt service ratio for medium and long-term credits (in relation
to exports of goods and non-factor services and workers' remittances)
increased from about 14.6 percent in 1981 to a peak of 28 percent in 1983 as a
result of a large repayment of previously rescheduled debt under the earlier
OECD agreements. Debt service obligations are likely to be high over the
coming years and would average about $3.8 billion per year in 1985-89.
However, the debt service ratio is seen to decrease from an estimated
25 percent in 1984 to 19.8 percent in 1989. The debt burden should remain
manageable provided current policies are successfully implemented, the export
drive is sustained, and Turkey continues to receive further support from
international commercial and official sources. There have been encouraging



-9-
signs of Turkey's ability to enter the market for commercial borrowings. From
December 1983 to November 1984, Turkey had secured a little over $500 million
from commercial credits, constituting about 23 percent of the total external
credits received during this period. The Central Bank of Turkey recently
completed the syndication of a $500 million multi-component medium-term (seven
years) facility involving a large number of U.S., European, Japanese and
Middle Eastern commercial banks as lead managers.
25.      Turkey's economic program has been supported by the IMF through a
series of standby arrangements. A three-year standby arrangement in an amount
equivalent to SDR 1250 million was approved by the IMP's Board and became
effective on June 18, 1980. The Government purchased the full amount
authorized under the arrangement. The Government also purchased
three-quarters of a SDR 225 million one-year standby arrangement which was
approved by the IMP in April 1984 and replaced an earlier one-year arrangement
terminated at the request of the Government.
PART II - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
26.      While the relative importance of the acricultural sector in the
economy is declining, it still represents about 18 percent of GDP, about a
third of export earnings and about half of civilian employment. The growth
rates of agricultural GDP and exports are projected to remain below those for
the rest of the economy. Nevertheless, the agricultural sector will continue
to play a significant role in meeting domestic food needs, sr,>plying
industrial raw materials, and providing foreign exchange earnings and
employment.
27.      Turkish agriculture is diverse.  Intensive crop cultivation is
prevalent in the coastal regions which receive plentiful rainfall or are
equipped with irrigation facilities. Mixed (crop and livestock) farming
predominates in the eastern and central parts of the country where pastures
and meadows form more than half of the agricultural land and crop production
is dependent upon rainfall. In these areas much of the land is kept fallow in
alternating years. While the livestock production system is largely
traditional, dependent on grazing lands and low productivity systems of animal
husbandry, it produces about one-third of agricultural CDP. Cereal crops
cccupy about sixty-six percent of the cultivated area, fruits and vegetables
about twenty percent, industrial crops about six percent, and oil seeds,
pulses, and tubers the remaining seven percent.
28.      Through the 1970s, Turkey's agricultural policies were
inward-looking, stressing food self-sufficiency through subsidized inputs and
producer prices. This led to relatively rapid growth of production through
the first half of the 1970s, averaging 4.7 percent from 1972-75. However,
with a deteriorating overall macroeconomic situation, these growth rates could
not be maintained due in part to the strain placed upon the budget by the
level of subsidization, and the competing demand for resources from the
manufacturing sector. As a result of the overall economic crisis, growth in
the sector slowed to'less than 1.5 percent per annum during the late 1970's.
Ineffective public investment policies, weaknesses in technical services, and



- 10 -
problems in marketing and credit also contributed to sluggish growth. During
this period, sectoral exports remained a small fraction of total production
(less than 1 percent of agricultural GDP in 1979) due to the overvalued
exchange rate and other disincentives to export.
29.      New Policies;  As part of the structural adjustment program adopted
by the Government in 1980, many of the incentives were abruptly dismantled,
and more market-oriented policies were introduced. Input subsidies and
production price supports were reduced and the overall restraint on monetary
policy forced a curtailment of agricultural credit. Exports were encouraged
through the introduction of a competitive exchange rate policy and other
incentives. This shift in strategy initially resulted in considerable
disarray in the sector: the growth of agricultural GDP in real terms fell to
an average of only 0.9 percent in 1980 and 1981.11 In 1982 and 1983,11
however, real growth in agricultural GDP recovered to an average annual rate
of 3.1 percent.  During 1984 it reached 3.7 percent.  Due to the adoption of a
realistic exchange rate and relaxation of export licensing restrictions,
agricultural exports increased by an annual average rate of 17.7 percent
during 1980 and 1981. If agroindustries exports are included, the average
annual rate of growth increases to 18.9 percent. In 1982 and 1983, while
agricultural exports continued to grow in volume, the average annual rate of
growth of the value of agricultural exports dropped sharply to only
1.2 percent, due to the decline in the prices of the main commodities.
However, for agriculture and agroindustries combined, the average annual rate
of export growth remained at a healthy 9.5 percent, indicating a significant
switch from unprocessed to processed exports.
30.      Prospects: The potential for Turkey's agricultural sector, over the
-medium term, was examined in the recent agricultural sector study by the
Bank_/ and updated with more recent data. The report stated that the
possibilities for growth through expansion of the cropped area or of livestock
numbers under a system of extensive grazing, were largely exhausted by the
mid-1970s. Growth must now come primarily from increased productivity and
changing the crop mixture to reflect better Turkey's comparative advantage.
Increased productivity would require expansion in the irrigated area through
improved efficiency of the implementing agencies (better planning, increased
use of contractors), better extension and research programs, expanded imports
of improved seeds and appropriate equipment, and increased availability of
institutional credit (particularly for small and mediumr-scale farmers).
1/ In each case we are averaging one year each of above average and below
average weather to produce an approximation of normal performance. Thus
the difference between 80/81 and 82/83 is real, and not weather related.
21 Turkey - Report No.4204-TU, June 30, 1983, Agricultural Development
Alternatives for Growth with Exports.



- 11 -
31.      The demands of an export-oriented approach have led to a change of
emphasis from food self-sufficiency to increased net agricultural contribution
to the balance of trade. Thus imports of certain foods in which Turkey does
not have a comparative advantage have been allowed. Increasing agricultural
exports has involved appropriate pricing signals, maintenance of a competitive
exchange rate, reduction of export regulations, and improved marketing. Other
important issues in the sector include improved sectoral planning, continued
progress in the reduction of subsidies, and reform of agricultural SEEs and
marketing agencies. In parallel, general economic stabilization must continue
to provide a foundation for uninterrupted sectoral growth. With continued
progress on these issues and adherence to policies designed to encourage
exports, agricultural GDP is expected to achieve a growth rate of about
3.0 percent annually during the remainder of the 1980s, and a growth of
agricultural exports (excluding agroindustries) from 5-8 percent annually.
32.      Recent Reforms: Under the structural adjustment program significant
reforms have taken place affecting the agriculture sector. The share of
agriculture in the public investment program has increased from 7 percent in
1980 to 10 percent in 1985, with greater emphasis on quickly gestating
projects. Project completion rates have increased significantly. In the
irrigation subsector, for example, as against only 18,000 ha of new irrigation
put into operation by DSI in 1981, 86,000 ha were put into operation in 1984.
Moreoever, several large projects, the economic viability of which had not
been established, have been dropped, deferred, or substantially reduced in
scope. The system of commodity support prices has been replaced by one of
protective floor prices, and the number of affected commodities reduced from
25 to 13. These floor prices have been brought broadly in line with
international prices. Livestock and grain exports have been liberalized.
Plant protection subsidies have been eliminated and fertilizer subsidies
reduced. The prices of seeds and agricultural machinery have been
decontrolled, the restrictions on seed imports have been removed, and the time
required for testing and registration of new seeds has been reduced.
Irrigation water charges and agricultural interest rates have been increased.
The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Rural Development (MAFRA) has been
reorganized in order to substantially decentralize decision making, while
merging the staff and facilities of overlapping field services. In addition,
MAFRA's policy advisory and analysis unit (APK) has been given broader
analysis and planning responsibilities, and serves as the "nerve center" for
MAFRA. The proposed Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL) is designed to
build on the progress already achieved and to assist in fostering continued
progress in the structural reform of the agricultural sector.
33.      Bank Experience with the Agricultural Sector:  Bank group lending for
the agricultural sector has totaled $1,034 million for 21 projects, of which
10 projects for about $727 million are still under implementation. About
25 percent of this lending has been for irrigation and drainage, 20 percent
for agricultural credit, 10 percent for livestock and dairy projects and
10 percent for rural development, with the remainder going for grain storage,
forestry, extension and research, and fruit and vegetable production.
Completed projects have generally achieved their major objectives but have



- 12 -
faced delays in implementation due in part to weaknesses in project nanagement
and shortages of local funds. Recent PPAR's have focused on the problems of
cost recovery under irrigation projects, inadequate extension and research
support, periodic delays in the provision of local cost financing, and
inadequate marketing arrangements. These issues are being addressed under
projects currently under implementation.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
34.      Background. The recently completed series of Structural Adjustment
Loans from the Bank has helped to support a major economic restructuring
program in Turkey. The principal aim of the program was to redirect the
economy towards a development path placing greater reliance on market forces
and outward orientation. Some impressive gains have been recorded in the last
five years - export growth has been placed on a firmer basis, and a
substantial measure of liberalization has been introduced in the management of
the economy. But the.task of restructuring is by no means over, since the
fundamental changes that are being attempted will take several years to
complete. The objective of the Government in the next phase is to broaden and
deepen the structural adjustment process, building on the progress already
achieved, and carrying through to the sectoral and subsectoral level the
approach that has been adopted in the area of macroeconomic policy.
35.      The agricultural sector in Turkey has significant potential to
contribute to the ongoing adjustment program. However, the sector is marked
by structural and instituLional constraints and it requires greater priority
and selectivity in resource allocation. The Government has recognized this
and a program of reforms was launched in 1980 to reattain historical growth
rates in the agricultural sector, under conditions of markedly reduced
subsidization and greater exposure to market forces. The objectives of these
reforms are to alter the commodity composition of output in favor of increased
value-added (e.g. by allowing market forces to stimulate production of
coummDdities for which Turkey has comparative advantage), intensify crop and
animal production, expand exports, and induce efficient patterns of import
substitution. Many reforms have already been introduced (para 32). The
immediate priorities are to strengthen the input distribution systems
(particularly for fertilizers) while reducing subsidization, improve the
priority and selectivity of the investment program (particularly for
irrigation which represents about two-thirds of agricultural public
investment), increase the effectiveness of the technical services
(agricultural extension and research), and improve sectoral planning. The
Government's intentions in this regard are set forth in a Statement of
Agricultural Sector Policies (Annex IV) embodied in the request for this
loan. The Government's program, being supported under the proposed loan, is
expected to result in a return to historical agricultural growth levels, but
without the burden of subsidies previously required, combined with an
incL..,ased contribution by the sector to exports in line with Turkey's
comparative advantage.



- 13 -
36.      The Government's ability to carry out the sectoral adjustment program
has been strengthened substantially by the June 1984 decision to create the
policy advisory and analysis unit (APK) within NAFRA with formal authority to
(i) review the performance of government policies affecting agriculture;
(ii) advise the core agencies (e.g. SPO) on agricultural price, subsidy and
trade policies; and (iii) evaluate sector performance under Five-Year Plans
and annual programs. APK's staff has been increased from about 5U technical
and sectoral specialists to nearly 200. A program of technical assistance and
material support bas been organized by FA0 to improve part of the agricultural
data base and train APK's staff to use microcomputers for their analytical
work. The proposed loan includes financing for further technical assistance
and training to help APK install and use a computer model of Turkey's
agricultural sector in its analytical work.
A. Agricultural Inputs Distribution and Pricing
(i) Fertilizer
37.      Since the 1960's, the Government's policy has been to set uniform
retail prices throughout the country in order to encourage the use of
fertilizer. Since the early 1970's all fertilizer imports and wholesale
distribution have been monopolized by two SEE's, with the Agricultural Supply
Organization (TZDK) handling about 93 percent of distribution and with Turkish
Sugar Factories (SEKER) supplying the remaining 7 percent (to meet the needs
of sugar beet farmers). These two SEE's also handle 43 percent of retail
distribution, with agricultural credit cooperatives (38 percent) and
agricultural sales cooperatives (12 percent) handling most of the remainder.
The domestic fertilizer industry has been protected through a system of
administered ex-factory prices set above border equivalents to encourage
production. With the support of two Bank-assisted Fertilizer Industry
Rationalization and Energy Saving Projects, and improved availability of
imported raw materials, domestic fertilizer production has increased to
60-70 percent of plant capacity. By the time of the completion of the
Bank-financed rehabilitation program, capacity utilization and production will
increase further.
38.      These arrangements have been fairly effective to the extent that
inorganic nutrients are nov widely used by Turkish farmers and are generally
available throughout the country. However there is a need to improve the
quality of the service provided to the farmers with regard to the range of
products available and the provision of advisory services on fertilizer use.
TZDK sees its role as being essentially logistical and tends therefore to
limit distribution activities to a relatively small number of basic
fertilizers already well known to farmers. It has no incentive to improve
customers' satisfaction through the provision of a wider range of products or
appropriate advice on soil or crop specific requirements for particular
fertilizers. TZDK also lacks incentive to expand the number of retail
outlets. Similarly, domestic manufacturers have up to the present been
shielded from market forces since TZDK is their sole customer, automatically
guaranteeing to purchase all production. Therefore, the farming community
does not benefit fully from technological and scientific developments, nor



- 14 -
from the kinds of soil/crop/nutrient advisory services which would be
available under a more competitive distribution system. Finally, these
arrangements have been expensive both in terms of the burden of subsidies on
the budget and the inefficiency in the distribution system.
39.      Fertilizer Pricing: Both the ex-factory prices of fertilizers and
the retail prices paid by the farmers are determined by Government through
semi-annual decrees. Until 1979, er-factory prices were determined by a
negotiated cost-plus method for each fertilizer type. Beginning in 1980, and
in line with the outward oriented policies of the Government, ex-factory
pricing formulae were adopted which link domestic prices with reference c.i.f.
import prices. Under these formulae, the gap between domestic prices and
their border price equivalents has been effectively narrowed, and is targeted
to close by 1988 when the factory rehabilitation program will be fully
effective. Important refinements to the ex-factory pricing system were
adopted in August 1984 when the ex-factory formula was expressed in US dollar
terms for each fertilizer type, and the TL price received by manufacturers
began to be adjusted monthly based on the prevailing exchange rate. Domestic
manufacturers now operate with more certainty and are assured of adequate
compensation for increases in costs of imported materials resulting from
exchange rate fluctuations. The result is that today ex-factory prices are at
about par with their border equivalents, with ratios ranging from 1.15 to
0.96. The industry has become reasonably competitive and moderate amounts of
exports have recently been made.
40.      Subsidies: The subsidization of fertilizer retail prices is the
largest remaining source of subsidies to the agricultural sector. Retail
prices are set by the Government on an ad hoc basis without any fixed
formula. In 1980, and again in 1981, retail prices were dramatically
increased (by a cumulative 500 percent in nominal terms), which abruptly
reversed the previous pattern of growing subsidization. Further real
increases in retail prices have taken place since 1981, and during 1984 retail
prices were increased by 50 percent in real terms. After a further 20 percent
increase (in TL terms) was made in February 1985, the current average retail
subsidy was reduced to 45 percent of the c.i.f. spot price of the comparable
product,11 compared with about 60 percent in 1983. An additional price
increase, reducing the subsidy further, is expected in mid 1985.
41.      Reforms Under the ASAL;  To rationalize the fertilizer pricing and
distribution system further, an action program is being initiated aimed at:
(i) reestablishing competitive wholesale distribution networks (through the
introduction of wholesaling by public and private sector fertilizer
manufacturers and private traders) and expanding the retail distribution
system through the introduction of private retailers; (ii) allowing private
sector fertilizer imports; (iii) carrying out a comprehensive management
improvement study for TZDK and an action plan to strengthen its capabilities;
(iv) adjusting regulations governing credit eligibility to improve credit
availability and avoid discrimination against private sector distributors; and
(v) phasing out retail subsidies.
I/    If comparisons were made against trend c.i.f. prices, the subsidy
level would be somewhat lower, as c.i.f. prices are currently in a
cyclical upswing. The above subsidy levels do not take account of
the 10 percent value-added tax introduced in January 1985, which has
further increased the prices paid by farmers for fertilizer.



- 15 -
42.      The Government has indicated its intention to phase out the subsidy
at the retail level by end-1988, in pursuance of the policy of reducing
subsidies in a phased manner to avoid disruptions in agricultural production.
Some elements of subsidy may be maintained, however, to cover: ti) transport
to remote and sensitive low income ares, such as eastern Turkey; (ii) slightly
higher ex-factoiry prices as compared to c.i.f. trend prices until the factory
rehabilitation program is fully effective; and (iii) higher than normal
distribution costs by TZDK until its operations are rationalized.
43.      The Government intends to re-establish a competitive distribution
system to promote efficiency and improve the service to farmers. This will be
done through (i) encouraging participation in fertilizer distribution by
fertilizer manufacturers and private traders at the wholesale level and
improving the coverage of the retail network through the introduction of
private sector retailers; (ii) improving TZDK's management structure and
financial and operating capabilities in order to reduce the financial burden
of its current stocking and distribution practices; (iii) further liberalizing
imports to bring domestic fertilizer availability in line with cost-saving
opportunities offered by the use of higher analysis fertilizers; and
(iv) ensuring farmers have adequate access to credit for fertilizer under
revised pricing and liberalized distribution arrangements. These reforms will
be introduced in two phases. The first will last until December 31, 1988,
while the retail subsidy is being phased out. The Government has indicated
its intention to take action, beginning with the January 1986 semi-annual
fertilizer pricing decree, to remove progressively the obstacles to fertilizer
manufacturers and private sector companies engaging in fertilizer wholesaling
and to private sector retailing. The Government also intends to adjust
distribution financing arrangements to avoid discrimination against private
sector retailers. During the second phase, following the phase out of the
retail subsidy, imports by private traders and fertilizer manufacturers will
be permitted, and a further reduction of Government regulation is intended,
managed carefully to prevent inadvertent disruption of fertilizer supplies.
44.      To support the implementation of this policy framework, a Fertilizer
Monitoring Unit has been installed in APK. The unit will coordinate the
introduction of fertilizer manufacturers and private traders into fertilizer
distribution and the delineation of the marketing areas to be taken up by each
distributor during the transition to competitive marketing.
45.      Because TZDK will continue to have a role in the fertilizer subsector
as a direct distributor to many remote areas, holder of buffer stocks, and
distributor through agricultural cooperatives, action is needed to piimote
cost-efficiency in its operations and to reduce the burden on the Government's
budget. During 1985 and 1986, TZDK, assisted by internationally recruited
consultants, would carry out a comprehensive management improvement study to
redefine its role and prepare an action plan to improve efficiency on whatever
tasks it will retain (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06 and Schedule 3,
Section II). The proposed loan would include financing for these consultants
and for overseas training of TZDK staff.



- 16 -
46.      Financing/Credit Arrangements:  The Government intends to take
measures to make adequate amounts of credit available through the Agricultural
Bank (TCZB) and the Credit Cooperatives to meet farmers' increasing credit
requirements as the fertilizer subsidy is phased out, and to avoid
discrimination in access to such credit or in credit terms between farmers
purchasing fertilizer through TZDK and the Credit Cooperatives and those using
alternative (new) channels. The fertilizer manufacturers, private
distributors and, ultimately, TZDK and the cooperatives will be expected to
fitiance distribution at commercial interest rates.
(ii) Seeds
47.      Current Status:  The limited availability of high quality seeds has
been a major constraint to increasing yields. Until last year the production,
distribution and pricing of seeds were strictly regulated by Government. The
private sector was confined to producing and marketing vegetable and alfalfa
seeds at set government prices. Furthermore, seed imports were entirely at
the discretion of the Minister of Agriculture_ The rationale for this public
sector domination of the seed system was based on a perceived need to protect
farmers. However the system failed to provide seeds in adequate quantity and
quality, inhibited private sector involvement in seed production and
distribution, and denied Turkish farmers access to the broad range of seed
varieties available from international seed companies.
48.      This situation changed dramatically in 1984, following a series of
Government decrees which deregulated seed pricing, liberalized seed imports,
and provided credit and other incentives for seed industry investments.
Within a relatively short time new joint ventures with major international
seed companies increased the number of private seed companies from only
3 to 12, and other firms are actively considering establishing operations in
Turkey. However, the production of seeds for self-pollinated cereals, such as
wheat and barley, is expected to remain largely within the public sector,
since the private sector is expected to concentrate on the more profitable
seed types (vegetables, hybrids, etc.).II To improve efficiency in the
production of wheat and barley seeds, the Government in 1984 formed a new SEE,
the Turkish Agricultural Enterprise (TIGEM), from budgeted line departments
(including the former General Directorate of State Farms) which had cereal
seed production responsibilities. This new SEE will be expected to operate on
commercial principles and quickly become a self-sustaining entity.
49.      The Government has indicated that its policy for the seed industry is
that private seed companies should be preeminent in all seed multiplication,
production and distribution, as well as for the research and breeding of
cross-pollinated varieties. Government's role, through its parastatals and
control directorates, would be limited to: (i) research and breeding of
self-pollinated varieties; (ii) protecting quality control through
1/   Since farmers can easily reproduce self-pollinated seeds themselves,
production of such seeds is unlikely to be of interest to the private
sector firms.



- 17 -
phytosanitary and certification regulation; (iii) protection of breeders'
rights; and (iv) promoting coordination and cooperation between the private
and public sector segments of the seeds industry. To complete the
restructuring of the industry, the Government intends duriig 1985 to:
(i) submit a revised seeds law for legislative approval, consolidating the
reforms of the existing law contained in subsequent decrees and regulations
and embracing the revised policy and regulatory framework; (ii) develop a
National Seed Industry Development Plan; and (iii) encourage formation of an
industry level seed industry association to advise on seed policy and
coordinate development of t.ie industry. Since TIGEM will remain an important
seed producer and distributor within the new system, consultants would be
employed to assist the Government in establishing an appropriate management
improvement action program for it (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06 and
Schedule 3, Section II). The consultants would also assist in clarifying the
roles of TIGEM and TZDK in seed distribution. In parallel, the Government
intends during 1985 for TIGEM to improve the existing system of contract seed
growers, and to turn over multiplication of self-pollinated varieties to fully
commercialized certified seed growers.
0. The Agricultural Sector Investment Program
50.      The Government has increased the share of agriculture in its public
investment program to 10 percent, and intends to maintain it at a minimum of
about 10 percent over the next 5 years, with the concentration on completing
essential irrigation works, improving technical services (extension and
research) and providing rural infrastructure for the least developed
provinces. The government also intends to improve the overall planning and
programming of agricultural public expenditure and to strengthen the project
selection, monitoring and evaluation capacity of MAFRA's APK. For this
purpose APK has been given general authority to review agricultural programs
and plans. This is expected to involve the establishment of systematic
criteria for determining program and regional priorities, detailed screening
of all large on-going projects as well as new projects, and the monitoring of
performance in program implementation in order to provide recommendations to
Government concerning the programming of agricultural sector investment.
(i) Irrigation
51.      Irrigation investment represents about 65 percent of the public
sector agricultural investment program and has been a major factor in
increasing and stabilizing agricultural production. While less than
15 percent of arable land is irrigated, roughly 40 percent of all plant output
and about 25 percent of agricultural exports are grown under irrigation. In
many respects, however, irrigated agriculture has performed considerably below
its capacity. Newly developed irrigation projects have often failed to meet
expected yield increases, double cropping and the adoption of higher-valued
crops due to the (i) lack of adequate drainage works leading to water logging
and salinity; (ii) reluctance of farmers to take the risk of more costly
inputs associated with changing cropping patterns under irrigation; (iii) lack
of adequate extension and cropping systems research; (iv) lag in on-farm
development works; and (v) inadequate maintenance of some completed works.



- 18 -
The increase in irrigated crop areas has, therefore, lagged significantly
behind the expansion of irrigation infrastructure. The underutilization of
this infrastructure, built at comparatively high costs results in a large lose
to the economy.
52.      The irrigated area varies considerably from year to year, since wheat
is not usually irrigated in years of adequate rainfall. The maxinm= area
under irrigation in recent years is estimated at about 4.3 million hectares
(out of 28 million ha of arable land) and much of this ares is inadequately
operated with low water efficiency and less than optimal yields. The
Government has estimated, based on technical criteria only, that an additional
4.4 million ha could be irrigated. However, this estimate Was not based on
economic criteria, and it is likely that only a smaller area could be
developed economically. The highest potential for increasing irrigated
production in the near future lies in (i) concentrating resources o0
completing projects near to completion; (ii) providing drainage and on-farm
works in areas where major irrigation facilities have been completed;
(iii) improving the maintenance of completed works; and (iv) developing
effective extension services able to introduce appropriate irrigation
techniques to first time users (and to farmers currently using inappropriate
methods and cropping patterns).
53.      Two public agencies are responsible for the construction of
irrigation facilities. The General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works (DSI)
of the Ministry of Power and Natural Resources is responsible for the
construction of the basic irrigation infrastructure for large-scale projects.
The General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS) of MAFRA is responsible for
the construction of on-farm development works on large-scale irrigation
projects and the development of small-scale projects. These agencies have not
been able to contribute fully to agricultural productivity increases because
of budget constraints, attempts to work on too mmy projects, excessive
reliance upon force account work, inadequate coordination between the two
agencies in project design and implementation, and poor supporting services,
resulting in slow project completion and limited agricultural benefits.
54.      Irrigation investment levels have remained about constant in real
terms, except for 1985 for which progranmed investment was increased
significantly. The DSI investment program has averaged about twice that of
GDRS. Since 1980, when DSI resources were spread thinly over 142 projects,
considerable progress has been made in concentrating resources on a smaller
number of projects. As a result, the new irrigation area put-into operation
each year by DSI has increased from 18,000 ha in 1981 to 86,000 ha in 1984.
However, GDRS has recently been able to complete only 10-12,000 ha per year of
on-farm development, bringing the backlog of work for on-farm development on
completed DSI schemes to over 300,000 ha. This ever-increasing backlog
between irrigation infrastructure development by DSI and GDRS' on-farm
development works represents a major misallocation of public resources for
irrigation investment.
55.      The problems referred to in paras 51 - 54 above are recognized by the
Goverunent, which has agreed to carry out an Irrigation Development Study and
formulate a 10-year Irrigation Development Master Plan (1986-1995) using funds



- 19 -
made available under the IAEE Irrigation Project (Loan 2433-TU). The Master
Plan would be based on a detailed project-by-project inventory and an
assessment of existing and projected irrigation and on-farm development
investments and financial and implementation constraints. It would detail the
issues and targets to be reached including additional works required, cost and
timing, arrangements for sustainability of irrigation works and cost recovery
improvement. In parallel, and with financing from the Bank-assisted
Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project (Loan 2405-TU), the
Government is also implementing a program to improve agricultural extension,
with priority for irrigated areas.
56.      During the next few years when Turkey will continue to face severe
limitations on domestic and foreign financial resources, it is essential to
concentrate available resources on projects which can be brought into
production most quickly and for which the incremental investment in completion
would result in high economic returns. Therefore, the Government intends to
reorient its irrigation investment program to concentrate resources on
expenditures aiming to achieve further utilization of completed or ongoing
major projects. With the exception of a few new project starts having quick
gestation and high ERRs (say 15% or higher), only essential headworks on
ongoing schemes will be financed, while the bulk of annual expenditures will
be reoriented towards (i) overcoming the backlog of drainage and on-farm works
on 63 ongoing or coi.pleted DSI projects; and (ii) improving the level of
maintenance on all completed projects; and (iii) providing reclamation of
saline land.
57.      While irrigation cost recovery has been a problem, significant
progress is being made on this issue. Under the TAEE Irrigation Project
(Loan 2433-TU), the Government agreed to (i) adjust DSI capital recovery
charges under existing legislation to include interest, (ii) progressively
increase DSI O&M charges to achieve 100 percent recovery of the preceeding
year's costs by 1986, and (iii) increase penalties for delinquent payment. It
was further agreed that action would be taken to permit GDRS to recover its
capital costs for on-farm works. Considerable progress has been made to
implement these agreements. DSI's O&M assessments were increased by
275 percent in real terms in 1984 over 1978 levels. As a result the
percentage of O&H costs recovered was 54.4 percent, compared with a mere
14.7 percent in 1980. Beginning in 1983, the Government also adopted a much
stiffer schedule of penalties for late payment. Under the new rules, if
payment is late by one year, a total penalty is levied equal to 46 percent of
the initial assessment. Before 1983. the penalty was a flat 10 percent. The
Government has also recently enacted legislation in accordance with the IAEE
agreement permitting QbRS for the first time to collect water charges to
recover costs on its irrigation investments.
58.      A Core Program for Irrigation and Drainage Investments would be
carried out (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01) to bring about adequate drainage in
the command area of DSI's ongoing and completed projects, the completion of
highest priority on-farm works, and the provision of adequate O&M to insure
the optimum utilization of the command area. Allocations for Core Program
investments will average about 35 percent of the irrigation/drainage
investment program, as compared to less than 10 percent at present. Specific



- 20 -
works to be completed under this program would be selected in accordance with
criteria agreed with the Bank. The estimated cost of the program (in 1985
prices) is about $932 million. Sufficient funds are available in the 1985
investment program to increase GDRS' program to cover 50,000 ha/year of
on-farm development works. The Government intends to increase funding levels
beginning in 1986 to permit GDRS to complete 100,000 ha/year of such works.
This would also be facilitated by increased reliance on contract construction
work. For this purpose arrangements would be made to permit DSI and GDRS to
provide equipment to contractors on a reimbursable basis. In order to
supplement current staff capacity for implementing this program, the proposed
loan would finance internationally recruited engineering consultants to assist
in operational programming, scheduling and design of approved works in the
Core Program, and in monitoring their implementation. In view of the
complexity of the task, the proposed loan would also finance consultants to
review the economic, agricultural, and engineering work of the consulting
engineering firms. To assist DSI in implementing its portion of the Core
Program (excavation of surface drains over an area of about 125,000 ha,
rehabilitation of surface drains over an area of about 250,000 ha, and
subsequent maintenance through improved OW), the proposed loan would also
finance a portion of the machinery and equipment imports needed for the
rehabilitation and maintenance of surface drains.
59.      DSI Funding Priorities: Although increased emphasis should be placed
upon completing on-farm works, the construction of headworks for selected
priority investments should continue. Under the indicative investment program
reviewed by the Bank, it is expected that DSI would be able to complete
irrigation infrastructure for about 475,000 ha of new lands during the next
five to six years. The Government intends, during 1986, to review all ongoing
DSI projects in accordance with the current criteria for screening new
projects, based upon economic and technical viability. The engineering and
reviewing consultants (para 58) would also assist DSI in this task. The
findings of this review would be furnished to the Bank by June 1986, to be
followed by an exchange of views on the proposed 1987 irrigation investment
and recurrent expenditure program (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).
60.      The proposed loan would also finance the services of consultants to
prepare and assist in the implementation of in-service and formal training
progrsms for DSI/GDRS engineering, design and evaluation staff, including an
overseas training program.
C - Technical Support Services (Extension and Research)
61.     A major share of Turkey's future agricultural growth potential can
only be achieved through improvements in the generation of technological
packages adapted to meet the specific needs of the various regions of Turkey
and in the flow of information on improved technology to Turkey's farmers.
The results of Bank-supported projects, particularly dhe Corum-Cankiri Rural
Development Project (Loan 1130-TU) have demonstrated the potential of improved
extension methods to bring about increased yields through intensified
cultivation practices and improved crop rotation patterns. Based upon these
successes, the Government has decided to adopt in a phased manner the Training
and Visit (T & V) extension system as its nationwide extension system.



- 21 -
62.      Agricultural research in Turkey is fragmented among some 90 research
institutes and stations in various departments and agencies. Professional
staff are inadequately trained in research methodology with some 85 percent of
those in the crops research institutes having only the equivalent of a
Bachelors degree. The difficulties in research planning and coordination
which arise from this fragmentation are compounded by a lack of clearly
formulated priorities at the national level and limited capacity in the State
Planning Office or MAFRA for sectoral planning. This has led to duplication
of the research effort and dilution of scarce research manpower and financial
resources. The Government has attempted to correct this situation through the
creation of multi-agency research teams focussed on specific research
projects. This approach has been successful in some cases and represents a
clear step forward, but problems of coordination and duplication still
persist. In order to address these problems HAFRA, in March 1984, established
a ministerial working group to develop medium-term plans for reorganizing and
consolidating agricultural research activities and for setting research
priorities. Consultants assistance for this review, under agreed terms of
reference, would be financed under the proposed loan. The Government would
review with the Bank by May 31, 1986 these plans together with an action plan
for adopting reforms in research programming and organization (Loan Agreement,
Section 3.09).
63.      The effectiveness of the extension services has been constrained by a
number of ractors.  Weaknesses in the general extension service have led to
the proliferation of services covering irrigation, plant protection,
livestock, and various crop specific programs. The centralized control of
budgets and work programming has discouraged inter-agency coordination in the
field, and has resulted in excessive bureaucracy. Administrative matters
occupy a disproportionately large share of the time of the extension agents,
while work programs for actual extension work have not been sufficiently
specific.  Their activities have concentrated on a few commodity-specific
actions while the more general aspects of extension, including advice on farm
management and answers to particular problems faced by farmers outside these
commodity-specific projects, have not benefited from an organized structure of
technical support. The links between extension and research services have
been weak. Finally, the location of most technicians in county offices and
the limited availability of transportation has resulted in an
over-concentration of activities in the more accessible villages and the
neglect of the remainder.
64.      The Government has become increasingly aware of the present
shortcomings in the provision of agricultural extension and research
services. The Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project
(Loan 2405-TU) supports the first phase of the Government's efforts to reform
these systems in sixteen provin=es through the introduction of the T & V
extension system and improved links between extension and research. The
Government intends to review the performance of these systems by the end of
1986, make modifications as necessary, and then formulate programs for phasing
them in ou a nation-wide basis.



- 22 -
65.      MAKRA Reorganization.  A major initiative was announced by Government
on June 8, 1984, to reorganize and consolidate the main service departments of
MAFRA, broade. the Ministry's responsibilities for the planning and management
of agricultural sector policies, and to decentralize and regionalize program
formulation and execution, including the pooling of facilities, staff,
equipment and budgeting for MAFRA's diverse field services. MAFRA was given a
year to implement the reorganization, and issue the related by-laws and
ministerial instructions. Staff reassignments are underway and the new
operational and budgeting procedures are being put into effect. The
Government intends to complete its consolidation of MAFRA's research and
extension activities at the provincial level during 1985 and to begin joint
programming and budgeting in 1986. MAFRA also intends during 1985 to issue
directives clarifying arrangements for the provision of central technical
leadership and coordination for extension and research activities under the
new decentralized management arrangements, and to appoint national level
coordinators for its research and extension programs.
66.      In the context of this program, MAFRA would establish on a pilot
basis, in the 16 provinces covered under the Agricultural Extension and
Applied Research Project (Loan 2405-TU), improved communications and
management information systems required to manage decentralized technical
services and to monitor program performance (Loan Agreement, Section 3.05).
The proposed loan would finance consultants' services and software
requirements for the creation of the automated management information system,
accounting and record keeping, and the establishment of computerized data
banks at regional and central levels, and for the training of staff to operate
the new systems (Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, Section II}.
D - Other Agricultural Policies
(i) Pricing and Trade
67.      A near total liberalization of agricultural commodity exports and
commodity and input imports has occurred since 1980. For a few specialized
export commodities (tobacco, tea, hazelnuts) which are Turkey's traditional
export crops, the supply response to price incentives has been inelastic due
to agroclimatic and technical constraints preventing further expansion. For
these crops price supports are established only to provide remunerative
incomes so that production targets are fulfilled. The resulting difference
between export receipts and farm-gate prices is captured through export
levies, earmarked for agricultural development expenditure. The Government
intends to continue to review the efficacy of this levy system. The
Government has also eliminated quantitative restrictions and reduced tariffs
on imports of agricultural machinery. Prices of agricultural machinery were
decontrolled in 1984 and are currently below European prices for equivalent
models of tractors and equipment. Measures to be undertaken for removing the
main remaining import restrictions, affecting fertilizer and seeds, were
described in paras 43, 44, 48 and 49 above.
68.      Since 1980, the number of agricultural commodities for which the
Government establishes purchase pricea for its agencies has been reduced from
25 products to 13. In 1984 the Government formally shiftetd from support



- 23 -
prices to floor prices (although substantial progress in this direction had
already been made in the previous three years). Prices for almost all of
Turkey's crops are now roughly in line with international price parities.
What remains to be done is to develop a methodology for continuous analysis of
domestic pricing policy in the context of domestic and international prices.
APK is expecting to complete the preparation of such a methodology and to
begin implementation by early 1986. An exception is sugar which continues to
be supported at prices above international levels in view of the supplemental
cash income sugar beets provide to a wide range of producers and in view of
the concerns of policy makers regarding excessive dependence on the volatile
world sugar market. The Government intends to continue to review the efficacy
of current floor pricing policies and import restrictions for sugar.
(ii) Agricultural Credit
69.      The agricultural credit system in Turkey is divided between an
organized sector, which provides both production and term credit on
concessional terms, and an unorganized sector, the activities of which largely
consist of short-term liquidity advances at high rates of interest. The
latter take the form of loans from money lenders al'  merchants and advances
for the purchase of farm products. Little is known about the informal sector
except that it is pervasive and diverse, funds are disbursed quickly, interest
rates are high, and arrears are few.
70.      Over 95 percent of institutioaal agricultural credit is provided by
or through the Government-owned Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB). TCZB
(which dates from Ottoman times) has the largest volume of deposits of any
Bank in Turkey. It provides credit for farm production and investment, farm
input distribution, the export of agricultural commodities and for
agro-industries. It also provides a full range of banking services to various
commercial and manufacturing entities both in Turkey and abroad, and handles
all governmental transactions in nearly half of the country's administrative
districts. TCZB's recovery rates on loans to farmers varied from
64-83 percent over the years 1981-83.
71.      The agricultural credit cooperatives receive about 10 percent of
TCZB's agricultural loans. The system currently includes close to
2,500 cooperatives with 1.5 million members and serves about 40 percent of the
farm households in Turkey. The cooperative system is one of the few financial
insticutions operating at the grass roots level and taking an active role in
small farmer financing. The credit cooperatives finance their lending
operacions almost entirely from funds borrowed from TCZB while using their
membership dues to cover operating expenses. The cooperatives' rate of
repayment on their loans from TCZB has been 100 percent. The credit
cooperatives need strengthening through the training of staff, augnentation of
their financial resources, deployment of professional managers, and
installation of sound financial management practices. The Gover,ment has
agreed under Loan 2318-TU (Second Agricultural Credit) to commission a study
to develop measures to increase the effectiveness of the credit cooperative



- 24 -
system, including in particular an examination of the feasibility of deposit
collection by the credit cooperatives in rural areas. Consultants have been
invited to submit proposals for this study.
72.      Turkey has followed a policy of providing agricultural credit at
preferential rates, which until recently have been significantly below the
rate of inflation. This policy has led to a drain on Government resources and
may have contributed to unduly high interest rates for non-preferential
lending. Under the system of credit rationing necessitated by subsidized
interest rates, larger farmers have obtained most of the available credit,
while smaller farmers have had to make do with the remainder, plus informal
credit at much higher interest rates. While about 3/4 of Turkey's farmers
participate in the formal credit system, average production credit averages
only about 14 percent of the material costs of production. Additional credit
is provided indirectly through the financing of inventory costs and other
services of sales cooperatives and agriculural SEE's. The system has also
caused financial problems for TCZB which has had to balance a negative spread
between its time deposit rates and its agricultural interest rates, with its
earnings on commercial lending and the funds deposited by Government. The
Government stated its intention under the Fourth Structural Adjustment Loan
(Loan 2321-TU) to raise all preferential interest rates to positive real
levels by the end of 1984. While significant progress has been made toward
this goal, the difficulties in reducing inflation have turned out to be
greater than anticipated. The basic agricultural interest rate, wbich was
20 percent in December 1983, has been increased progressively to reach
30 percent in early 1984 (34 percent for fertilizer loans). Taxes and fees
add an additional amount of about 4 percent to the effective cost of credit.
During the discussions with Government on the release of the second tranche of
SAL V (Loan 2441-TU), a revised target has been agreed for reaching positive
real interest rates, namely by the end of 1986. Satisfactory progress in
achieving this goal would be one of the conditions of the release of the
second tranche of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5).
73.      Progress is underway under an Action Plan agreed under Loan 2318-TU
to institute reforms in TCZB's organization and operations. These reforms
include increased delegation of decision-making authority from Ankara to the
regions and branches, improved supervision of the branches, reduction in
paper-work and streamlining of procedures, improvements in accounting,
auditing and management information systems, and development of a staff
training program. While TCZB's agricultural credit guidelines are generally
satisfactory in theory, the Action Plan includes training in their
implementation so that branch managers may apply improved eligibility criteria
designed to improve access to credit by small and medium scale farmers. While
some aspects of the Action Plan have fallen somewhat behind schedule, overall
progress is generally satisfactory.
74.      The most important remaining issue in the agricultural credit field
is the need to increase resources available for lending from the formal credit
system. The credit funds currently available cover only a small portion of
the costs of material production inputs and this would be further decreased
with the expected reduction in the subsidization of fertilizer retail prices.
Increased credit is also desirable to support the planned increase in



- 25 -
agricultural production and to increase the share of institutional credit to
total credit requirements. As noted in para 46, the Government has indicated
its intention, as the burden of the fertilizer subsidy on the budget is
reduced, to increase resources available for agricultural credit to compensate
for the increase in fertilizer prices.
(iii) Reforms of State Economic Enterprises and Sales Cooperatives
75.      There are currently eight agricultural SEEs formed to promote the
production and internal marketing of agricultural inputs and products as well
as to provide essential commodities (e.g. wheat) to urban consumers. The
agricultural SEEs cover a wide range of commodities and enjoy varying degrees
of market power. SEKER operates all Turkey's sugar factories-], distributes
fertilizer and seeds to sugar farmers, and purchases beet sugar from farmers
on a contractual basis. CAYKUR had until 1984 a virtual monopoly in tea
processing for the domestic and export markets, but this field has now been
opened up to private sector competition. EBK slaughters cattle and sheep,
supplying about 25 percent of domestic meat demand (mostly for Government
agencies) and some exports. TSEK purchases milk from farmers and sells it,
mainly in the form of cheese and yoghurt, mostly to Government agencies. It
handles less than 20 percent of the market. YEMSAN produces about 40 percent
of Turkey's commercial livestock feed. TMO purchases and provides storage for
10 - 15 percent of Turkey's marketed grain. TIGEM provides certified seeds
and breeding animals (see paras 48 and 49) while TZDK distributes 90 percent
of Turkey's fertilizer and considerably smaller proportions of machinery and
other agricultural inputs.
76.      Taken as a group, the eight agricultural SEEs control about
25 percent of agricultural value-added. While the situation varies from
enterprise to enterprise, the SEEs have been operating at less than optimal
efficiency. Most are not in sound financial condition. Reforms to
agricultural SEE organization, pricing and financing are being implemented in
the context of Government's overall SEE reform policies, based on a June 1984
decree. Half of the Boards of Directors now consist of officers of the
enterprises rather than ministerial appointees. Furthermore, SEEs have (with
certain limitations) been allowed to set prices (which previously had been set
by Government decree). Finally, SEEs are now free to pay employee bonuses in
order to encourage greater efficiency. Laws of January 1984 (2974) and
April 1984 (2983) provided for the consolidation of inter-SEE debt and
established a legal framework permitting the privatization of SEEs without
parliamentary action. A new basic statute for each SEE was issued in the fall
of 1984, incorporating the provisions of the new legislation.
77.      The Government has indicated its intention, in public policy
statements, to privatize state-owned enterprises wherever appropriate.
Privatization embraces different forms of private sector participation,
including joint ventures, mergers, leasing, and management contracts, as well
as the outright sale of assets to the private sector. The High Level Council
of Restructuring and Development is coordinating this effort, under the aegis
1/   Including operating a few factories which are privately owned.



- 26 -
of the Office of the Public Participation Fund (OPPF) with technical support
from the Bank. The Government also intends to take measures to strengthen and
improve the efficiency of those SEE's which remain in the public sector. To
this end, under the proposed loan, management improvement action plans for
TZDK and TIGE would be developed with the assistance of internationally
recruited consultants (paras 45 and 49). Technical assistance is also being
provided to SEKER and THO under ongoing Bank loans_/ to strengthen their
planning and management, and engineering capabilities.
78.     The sales cooperatives, while ostensibly independent, have acted in
effect as SEE's. These cooperatives were intended to act as intermediaries
for the price stabilization program, using funds borrowed from Government
sources to purchase crops from farmers at the floor price and then selling the
crops domestically and abroad. The sales cooperatives also provide credit to
farmers as an inducement to sell their crops to the cooperatives. These
cooperatives have operated in an inefficient fashion and have frequently
diverted funds from the profits on sales and the non-payment of loans to
support the investment and operating costs of diverse manufacturing
activities. As a result, the Central Bank has regularly had to write off
substantial amounts for arrears of the sales cooperatives. The Government has
already taken some actions to reform the sales cooperatives, including
increasing the cost of their borrowing to an interest rate of about
50 percent. The proposed loan includes financing for a study by
internationally recruited consultants to prepare a program for improving the
efficiency of the sales cooperatives and enabling them to operate in a
financially autonomous manner (Loan Agreement, Schedule 3, Section II).
PART IV - THE PROPOSED LOAN
79.     The proposed loan is intended to be the first of several of sectoral
adjustment loans designed to support the Government's efforts to broaden and
Ceepen the structural adjustment process through reform programs in key
sectors. The main elements of Turkey's agricultural sector reform program
have been described in Part III of this report. A letter from the Deputy
Prime Minister dated May 21, 1985 attaching a Statement of Agricultural Sector
Policies sets out the main elements in the program. (See Annex IV).
Preliminary discussions on the possible content of the agricultural reform
program were held with the Government in April 1984 and the proposed loan was
appraised in December 1984 and February 1985. Negotiations were held in
Ankara in May 1985. The Government delegation was headed by
Mr. Yener Dincmen, Deputy Undersecretary ef the Undersecretariat for Treasury
and Foreign trade.
80.     The proposed US$300 million loan would be disbursed over a two-year
period (mid-1985 to mid-1987) in two tranches to finance part of a three-year
slice (1985-1987) of the Government's imported inputs and public investment
and technical assistance programs for the agricultural sector. After
completion of disbursements of the first tranche amounting to US$200 million,
1/  Loan 1998-TU (State Industrial Enterprises) and Loan 1742-TU (Grain
Storage.



- 27 -
further withdrawals (other than for ongoing technical assistance and training
programs) would be subject to a progress review (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
pcra 4 and Schedule 5) expected about May 1986. The agricultural inputs,
equipment, technical assistance and training programs to be financed under the
proposed loan have been selected because of their relevance to the
Government's sectoral production and reform objectives.
81.      The components of the proposed loan would be as follows:
Agricultural Inputs Pricing and Distribution
(a) Fertilizer. Implementation of an action program to phase out the
remaining retail subsidy, establish a competitive wholesale
distribution network, expand the retail distribution system
through increased use of private retailers, and revise
distribution credit regulations (paras 41-46);
(b) Seeds. Implementation of actions to revise and implement the
relevant seed laws and decrees with a view to improving seed
selection, handling and pricing, and to encourage commercial seeds
production (paras 48 and 49);
Irrigation/Drainage Investment Program
Application of agreed investment criteria to all new and ongoing
irrigation subsector projects, improved programming and coordination,
and implementation of an agreed Core Program to focus irrigation
subsector investment on the completion of drainage works, on-farm
development and improved O&M for completed schemes (paras 56-60);
Technical Support Services
Implementation of arrangements to decentralize and consolidate the
budgeting and operation of research and extension, and appointment
of national level research and extension coordinators (paras
61-66); and
Sector Planning and Monitoring
Strengthening APK to improve sectoral policy formation,
performance monitoring, and planning and monitoring of
agricultural recurrent and investment expenditure (paras 36
and 50).
82.      The proposed loan would finance a portion of the imported inputs,
capital goods, training and consulting services needed to support the above
comwonents of the sectoral adjustment program. Financing would be provided
for:
(i) Fertilizer: $152.4 million of fertilizer imports during 1985-1987,
and overseas training and technical assistance for YAFRA's
Fertilizer Distribution Monitoring Unit (FMU) and TZIK;



- 28 -
(ii) Seeds: $20.0 million of imported seeds (to be distributed by
TIGEM, TZDK, and TMO), $5.4 million of seed production equipment,
and technical assistance and training for TIGEM;
(iii) Irrigation/Drainage: $111.0 million of O&M equipment, and training
and consultants services;l/
(iv)  Technical Support Services: Technical assistance to improve the              _
identification and prioritization of agricultural resear-h
programs, and $2.7 million of equipment for an automated
management information system for MAFRA, plus technical assistance
and staff training for setting up the system; and
(v) Sector Planning and Monitoring: Overseas training and technical
assistance for APK.
In total the proposed loan would include $6.2 million to finance the technical
assistance services listed above and $2.3 million for the training programs.
Procurement, Disbursement and Administration
83.      Except for about $2.7 million of computer hardware and software and
peripheral equipment (to be procured through limited international tendering
on the basis of quotations from at least three eligible suppliers), all goods
and equipment would be procured through international competitive bidding
(ICB) (about $289 million equivalent). All bidding packages exceeding
$5 million equivalent would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
Consultants would be selected in accordance with the Bank's guidelines, and
training programs would require the Bank's prior approval.
84.      Disbursements would be made on the basis of 100 percent of the CIF
cost of imported goods or, in the case of locally-manufactured equipment
procured through ICB, 100 percent of the ex-factory cost; 100 percent of
expenditures f or overseas training; and 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for foreign consultants and 90 percent of total expenditures for local
consultants. In order to avoid discrimination with respect to consultants
contracts awarded through international selection procedures, the disbursement
percentage for local consultants has been calculated to be approximately
equivalent to the percentage resulting from covering the foreign exchange
costs of foreign consultancy contracts. Disbvrrsements would normally be made
1/    The irrigation/drainage equipment financed under this loan would be
for OEM. The consultants services would assist with programs for
drainage, improved maintenance of existing works, and land
reclamation (increasing water use efficiency and reducing soil
erosion) in areas where major works have already been completed or
are close to completion, and overall irrigation sector planning and
programing. These activities would not have appreciable adverse
effects on the quantity or quality of water received by dowwstream
riparians.



- 29 -
against full documentation. In order to ensure that Turkey would have ready
access to foreign exchange, a Special Account would be estaL'lished in the
Central Bank of Turkey to which the IBRD would make an initial deposit of
$50 million. The Special Account would be replenished against withdrawals at
monthly intervals or as appropriate when the undisbursed balance of the
account falls below $25 million. Imports would be made directly by the
beneficiary agencies. The loan is expected to be fully disbursed by
June 30, 1987, and the Closing Date has been set at December 31, 1987.
Monitoring and Reporting
85.      The Government has agreed to assign qualified staff to be responsible
for programming, coordination, monitoring, and evaluation of activities under
the sectoral adjustment program, in accordance with work programs acceptable
to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.08). APK is expected to be responsible
for monitoring and progress reporting under the proposed loan, including in
particular preparation of a report prior to the tranche review and preparation
of the completion report. It would be assisted inter alia by the Fertilizer
Monitoring Unit with regard to the fertilizer aspects.
86.      Aside from ongoing contracts for technical assistance and training,
disbursements beyond US$200 mil'ion equivalent (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
para 4 and Schedule 5) would be based upon satisfactory progress in
implementation of the sectoral adjustment program, with special emphasis on
progress on the following issues:
(a) phasing out the retail fertilizer subsidy;
(b) opening up fertilizer distribution to fertilizer manufacturers and
private sector wholesalers and retailers;
(c) formulation of an action program for TZDK management improvement;
(d) implementation of the Core Program for irrigation/drainage
investment; and
(e) achieving positive real interest rates in the agricultural sector.
The tranche review is expected to take place about June 1986. Prior to the
tranche review, the Government is expected to have procured about half of the
provision under the loan for fertilizer and seeds, plus the full allocation
for irrigation O&M equipment needed for the 1986 construction season for
urgent work in unclogging drainage canals.
87.      The Treasury would supervise the maintenance of separate accounts for
the loan and would prepare detailed statements of expenditures during each
half-year period. In addition, an annual audit would be carried out and
submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of each fiscal year (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.10).
Benefits and Risks
88.      The appropriateness of agricultural sector adjustment lending for
Turkey at this juncture is grounded in the combination of (i) the excellent
performance potential for Turkish agriculture; (ii) Government's resolve to
strengthen at the sectoral level the policy and institutional reforms needed



- 30 -
for the export led growth strategy and economic stabilization and
liberalization policies; (iii) Government's past actions and current
initiatives to revise agricultural policies at the macro and sectoral levels
to conform with the requisites of the structural adjustment program; (iv) the
package of ASAL reforms, which would enhance current efforts to revitalize
public institutions serving agriculture; (v) the gradual withdrawal of direct
intervention in production, marketing and input supply activities which could
be more effectively carried out by private initiative; and (vi) the continued
need for supplemental foreign exchange resources in 1985-87 to finance imports
critical for sustaining primary production and sectoral investment. The
reforms agreed under the proposed loan would also foster a more efficient
allocation of scarce public investment resources and improvements in sectoral
economic and financing policies. These measures are expected to lead to more
rapid agricultural sector growth and an increased contribution of the sector
to exports in line with Turkey's comparative advantage, while reducing the
burden of subsidies on the Government budget.
89.      The performance prospects for Turkish agriculture are excellent.
Through growth and increased specialization. agriculture can contribute
substantially both to the export drive and to a more productive absorption of
Turkey's rural labor force. These possibilities were examined in the recent
agricultural sector study.11 A quantitative model was constructed to assess
the impact of public investment, technology, price and trade policies under
the sectoral reform program. The results suggest medium term value-added
growth prospects for Turkish agriculture of about 3 percent per annum. This
would be accompanied by an increase in net farm income of 2.8 percent per
annum and a 1.5 percent increase in agricultural employment. Total fertilizer
demand over the period would increase by about 40 percent (N and P nutrient
equivalents) assuming no consumer subsidy. However, these prospects are
sensitive to the pace of three major variables: (i) trade policy - needed to
keep agricultural exports profitable; (ii) irrigation development - to expand
the scope for agricultural intensification, especially in areas where
infrastructure has been completed but where on-farm development lags; and
Ciii) applied agricultural research and extension - to augment the
availability of improved technical packages and to accellerate the
introduction of export crops and adoption of intensive cropping patterns.
90.      The model confirms the minimal effect on value added growth from
phasing out the fertilizer subsidy. While the economically optimum level of
fertilizer application on a given crop will decrease, the value-cost ratios
would still provide sufficient incentives to sustain high levels of fertilizer
consumption. While the fertilizer subsidy is currently equivalent in value to
7 percent of gross crop production, the elimination of the subsidy would
reduce production by less than 2 percent, since the overall levels of
fertilizer application are already high and in many cases excessive. In
addition, charging economic prices for fertilizer is expected to shift
1/  Turkey - Agricultural Development Alternatives for Growth with
Exports (Report No. 4204-TU, June 30, 1983), updated by the Appraisal
Mission.



- 31 -
cropping patterns, yielding increased intensification, somewhat higher export
growth, and a significant increase in the growth of agricultural employment
(1.5 percent per year compared with 0.7 percent with current pri:es).
Futhermore, if even a portion of the savings from reduced subsidization can be
devoted to increased agricultural investment (particularly in irrigation and
technical services) the effects of the reduction in fertilizer use would be
more than overcome.
91.      The main risks in this reform program arise from possible disruptive
effects on agricultural production when these reforms are first introduced, in
particular the shock effect of reducing subsidization by increasing retail
fertilizer prices to border price levels. The possibility of a major shock
effect is, however, considered slight, since the phase-out of the fertilizer
subsidy would proceed at a slower pace than occurred in 1980-81 and again in
1984, when retail price increases had only minimal negative impact on
fertilizer consumption and crop production. Increasing financial requirements
to maintain the fertilizer subsidy at its current level would, on the other
hand, impose a growing and unsustainable burden on Government's resources and
jeopardize the entire stabilization and agricultural sector adjustment
program, thus representing a far greater risk than the possible shock effect
of raising fertilizer prices.
PART V - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
92.      Through Harch 31, 1985 the Bank and IDA have lent $5383.5 million2l
to Turkey, through 81 projects. Agriculture accounts for 19 percent of funds
lent, industry and DFCs for 24 percent, power for 13 percent, structural
adjustment and program loans for 32 percent, and urban development,
transportation, education, tourism and technical assistance for the remaining
12 percent. Disbursements for all sectors combined average 49 percent of
appraisal estimates (excluding structural adjustment loans) as compared to
50 percent for Tunisia and 49 percent for Morocco. As of March 31, 1985, IFC
commitments to Turkey totalled about $239 million, of which about $64 million
were still held by IFC. Annex II provides a summary statement of Bank loans,
IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31, 1985.
93.      Bank lending is aimed at supporting Turkey's medium-term objectives
of restructuring the Turkish economy by placing more reliance on market forces
and adopting a more outward-oriented strategy. The main vehicle for the
Bank's operational discussions with the Government has been the structural
adjustment lending (SAL) program. SAL V, which was approved in June 1984,
completed the series of five loans which the Bank had indicated would be the
maximum to a country. Significant progress has been achieved in the past five
years, but the task of restructuring is by no means over. The next phase
should involve the broadening and deepening of the adjustment process at the
sectoral level. Recent economic developments have underlined the need for a
continuation of the stabilization program without giving up the goals of
sectoral adjustment. Hence the emphasis of Bank lending in the post-SAL
1/       Net of cancellations.



- 32 -
period would be on striking an appropriate balance between sectoral adjustment
lending designed to be quick disbursing and supportive of policy reforms in
the major sectors, and carefully formulated project lending focussing on high
priority projects principally in the agriculture, energy and transport sectors.
94.      Efforts have already been initiated to develop a series of sectoral
adjustment loans for the major sectors over the next few years, of which this
would be the first. Sectoral adjustment lending would also support measures
to address the structural problems of the financial sector and enhance the
utilization of industrial capacity in the public and private sectors keeping
in view the scope for the "privatization" of publicly-held assests in the
manufacturin,' jubsectors. Other sectors where sectoral adjustment loans could
be develor   include energy and transport.
95.      Project lending, which would continue to make up the majority of the
lending operations, would be designed to support and strengthen the adjustment
process. A portion of project lending would be earmarked for the completion
or rehabilitation of key projects in the energy sector. Other projects would
be guided by the major policy objectives of the Government, which include the
generation of foreign exchange (including improving productivity in export
industries and providing essential infrastructure for exports), improvement of
institutional efficiency, non-inflationary output growth and amelioration of
the social costs of adjustment (including provision of social infrastructure
and employment generation, with some emphasis on the least developed provinces
in eastern Turkey).
96.      The close macroeconomic and sector dialogue established with the
Government in recent years is expected to be pursued. The economic and sector
work currently being undertaken includes a review of the five-year development
plan and studies of housing finance, telecommunications and electronics.
Topics to be covered in the future include a review of the public investment
program, a study focussing on the impact of structural adjustment, a review of
transport investments and studies of the engineering and agro-industries.
97.      This is the fifth loan to Turkey to be presented to the Executive
Directors in this fiscal year. In addition, a fourth power transmission
project is being processed for presentation in June 1985.
98.      Turkey's debt burden is projected to remain manageable throughout
1985-89 (paras. 23 and 24). The Bank Group's share of Turkey's total external
debt was 12.4 percent in 1983, is estimated at 13 percent in 1984, and is
expected to grow to about 17 percent by 1989. Official debt outstanding is
projecced to increase from $11.4 billion in 1984 to $14.4 billion in 1989 and
private medium and long-term debt outstanding is projected to increase from
$5.7 billion in 1984 to $8.8 billion in 1989. The Bank group's share of total
debt service payments is projected to increase from about 12 percent in 1983
to an estimated 13 percent in 1984, and to about 17 percent in 1989.
99.      IFC has invested in synthe:ic yarns, textiles, pulp and paper, glass,
aluminum, cement, iron and steel products, heavy diesel engines, motor bicycle
engines, piston rings, food processing and tourism. It has also invested in



- 33 -
the Industrial Development Bank of Turkey (TSKB) and provided guarantees for
overseas contracting firms. In addition, IFC is currently providing technical
assistance to the Government with respect to the development of the capital
market and a regulatory framework for leasing.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
100.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Features of special interest are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report.
101.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
102.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 24, 1985
Washington, D. C.



- 34 -
T A I    t  3ANEX 1
Y?                    - OCIAL INDICATfRSI ITA, ST                    Page  1 of 5
TUftER!                    REVE~RENZCE GROUP (UEZCHD AYZAUES) 
NM                  (HOST  Er KTINXATE) 1k
RECENT       *NZDULE ZNZ               IIs ID T UTRIAL
AuRA (iinm  ua. 31)
OT.AL                              780.6       780.6       780.6
AtERICLTJLRL                       3"6.7       381.8       380.9
er   CAITe  (m                       240.0      440.0       1370.0            k345.3                 11071.0
(KLOG         Of 07.OIL QUIVALENT)  170.0     362.0        569.0            1122.8                 4996.9
POUAZI  AM VITL sTATISTICS
POPUuImo.,UnAR (KHuSANs)   27509.0    35321.0            46459.0
URAN POPULTLON (Z or lorAL)         29.7       32.9         43.9              16.6                   78.3
FOPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION EN VWAR 2000 (HILL)                            65.4
SUTAIONAY POPLDIU  CKELL)                                110.8
POPULATION IEnU r                                          1.8
POPUlATO  DESETY
PFM Sq. M4.                       35.2        45.2        56.2              8Z.9                   139.3
KER SQ. KM. ACRI. LAND            7'.6        92.5       1IS.3             136.9                   519.2
POPUATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 SRS                         41.2        41.0        36.2              31.6                   22.1
15-64 YRS                         55.2        54.3        57.3              61.1                   66.1
65 ZaD ADrM                        3.5         4.7         4.4               7.1                   L1.7
POPULATION CRONEH RATE (I)
TOTAL                              2.8         2.5         2.3                1.6                    0.8
IULRN                              6.1         3.6         4.8               3.7                    1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)        43.1        37.9        30.9              23.4                   13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PR TROUS)         15.8        12.2         8.8               8.8                    9.2
GROSS RHPROWUCTIOo RATE              2.9        2.6          2.2               1.6                    0.9
FAMELY PLANNIIIG
ACC*ORS  ANAL (TROUS)               ..        65.6
USRS (CZ OF HAlE  vaN)             5.3 I.    32.0 /d,    38.0 I f,
FOOD A-  Vfma.K
INDEX 0r FROW NOD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-L10)                       96.0       100.0       1l5.0             114.5                  114.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES CE OF REquIzm4ENs)      115.0       111.0       122.0              128.6                  132.3
NOTEINS (eMS PFEIR DAT)           85.0       80.0         86.0              89.7                   98.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       25.0        23.0        25.0       .       34.5                   61.3
CUIL  (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE         47.0        23.0         9.0               5.2                    0.4
LXFE EXPECT. AT BIRT (TFARS)        50.5        55.9        62.7              67.4                   74.9
IWAST MDR1T. RATE (PtR TBO0S)      184.0      127.0         83.0              54.2                   10.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WA2ER (ZPOP)
TOTAL                               ..        52.0        75.0 hf
URAN                                ..        51.0        70.0 7
RURAL                               .         53.0        80.0                 ..
ACCESS TO ERETA DISPOSAL
(1 oF POPULrITON)
TOTAL                               ''
URBAN                               ..          ..        20.0 /h
XURAL                               ..          ..
POPULATION PER PRISICIAN          2800.0      2230.0      1630.0            1065.8                  553.7
POP. PER NURSING lESO            16300.0 IL  188D.0       1130.0             764.4                  166.9
POP. PER 6OSPITAL RED
TOTAL                            600.0       490.0       490.0 If          326.3                   120.8
UltAN                            340.0 IL   270.0 /k    270.0 T            201.5                  143.1
RQAL                            5100.0 7I   5060.0 Wr   5650.0 a
ARtlSSIONS PER HOSPITAL ED            ..        20.2        22.3 L&           20.0                   17.8
AVERAGE SIE OF BHOUSOLD
TOTAL                              5.7 /1      5.9
RURAL                               ..          ..          .                  ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PJSONSIOK
TOTAL                              2.4 /J      2.2
URIRA                              2.0 T       1.9
RDRAL                              2. 7i        ..
ACTESS tO ELECT. 1S or WELBlNCS)
TOTAL                             29.0        41.1        57.0 In
IRSAS                               .,        78.2
RURAL                              2.0        18.0



-35 -                                           ANNEX 1
TA*L* 38                                         Pa  Te2 of  5
TuIR                  -  SC INDICATORS DATA SZ
tUIUM                               SKElNC GROUPS (WEZGNTND AVERAGE) =-
mS                 (COST RECENT ESTDIATE) lb
us*ia&    maiL          xA!zuu.z Xs zNsusNIN
ADJUSBTD EIIOLEZUT RATIOS
PRIMARTs  TOTAL                  73.0       110.0       102.0             101.1                  LO1.3
HALZ                   90.0       124.0       110.0             105.5                  103.0
FZUSLE                 56.0       95.0         95.0              96.7                  102.7
SECONDARY: TOTAL                 14.0        27.0        42.0              59.L                   90.3
KALE                   zo.0       3s.0         57.0              68.9                   84.6
FEMALE                  8.0       15.0         28.0              50.6                   N7.1
VOCATIOIL tS or SECONART)          17.7        13.7        22.3              21.6                   17.9
PUPI.-Tacz RInO
PRtIM                            46.0        38.0        28.0              25.1                   20.2
SECONDART                        19.0        28.0        20.0              20.3                   13.0
AOULT LITERACT RATE CZ)            38.1        51.3        6.3. A            75.6                   99.1
CO-n
PASSENGE CARS/TOUSAND POP           1.7         3.9        11.5              54.7                  367.2
R3*3O RzcEIVzRS/THOSAND POP        49.1        07.7        96.4             164.9                 1090.7
TV RECEMZ ISHUoAND POP              0.0         1.8        75.3             123.6                  451.0
NEDSPAPER  DAILT GENERAL
INnnzSr) CnUnATt1
PER THOSND POPUATION             51.3        40.6        89.1|J            96.3                  331.2
Cum  ANNUAL ATTEUDANCECAIPIT        1.1         7.0         1.9               2.9                    3.6
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TOM)         13782.0    15629.0      20137.0
FEIALE (FEC!)                    40.2        37.0        36.4              34.5                   36.2
AGRXICULTURZ (PERCENT)           76.5        67.7        53.5              40.7                    6.2
lIDlltY (PISPERCEN)              10.5        12.1        12.6              23.3                   37.7
PARtICIPATXIO  RAIl (PERCENr)
TOTAL                             50.1       44.3        43.3              42.9                   45.7
MLE                               58.7       55.7        54.3              54.7                   59.3
FDEALE                            4L.2       33.6        32.0              31.0                   32.7
ECONOMC DEPENDENCY RIO              0.9         1.0         1.0               0.9                    0.7
-X-
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVEID BU
HcIH EST  Or 0   1_              33.0 Ic    32.6..
HIGCHST 20S OF HOUSESOLDS        61.0 7      60.6                                                 4 .'  43.1
LOWEST 2Ot OF HOUSEHLD            4.2 7       2.9 7.                         ..                    5.4
LOESr 402 o0 SOUSEHOLDS          10.6 7;      9.477        ..                ..                   16.4
sum    YC    -
CSTIlOD AISOLUTE POWERTS INCUS
LEVEL (USS PER CAPT)
BA N                                           ..       342.0 /.
RURAL                              ..          ..       270.0..
eSTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY IICOME
LEEL (U$ M  CAPITA)
mun                                ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..       220.0 /f
ESTIMATED POP. BlOW ABSOLDU
POVERTY INCOE LEEL (2)
U                                   ..         ..R
URAL                               ..          ..
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLCALE
NOTES
/s  The group mrra  for each ndicator are populatlo-waiat-d ardtetsic amenA. Coverage Of countrles among thc
indicatora dapends on avalLability of data ad Is not alfcm.
lb  Unlear otherwse noted. 'Data for 1960' refer to any yer betumn 1959 and 1961; 'Deta for 1970 bateau 1969 and
1971; and data for Htost Recent Zscist " betwasn 1980 and 2382.
/c  1963; /d 2968; Is 4Aus 23-4;' lt 1976; k 1977; /b 176; /1 1962; Li 1979; /k 1972; f  1965; La 1975; /D Aes 4 1
and over.
JUNE, 1934



-36 -                                                                            ANNME 1
asia avant.                                                ~~~Page 3 of 5
tIl-  itthneb the jts ev   rend Sm  ese -teeweip jeis  t.e -t ah%wersit.  ad st5ibk. is ebmid .1n he m.0   MRi twe  -#a -i he al.ndrss.e55y
t.naestis beat eli  wea  *rrdnid  tiflvt.I   adi weidde   ed,  hrb ifdi dstscvn aeetce     dei beimdIII ald                 IW.     lace set. ddieldldit. sfale  ee
denim,= edend .e   jt Ie ISles. tev deac daveIeedec evas. -Jet dailewe. hees.w  a.rt"..
sdlis --Irv I. ehe  P.e*rn gmlm eni it.   the mew,egm"  gegulse        "&e eesahe d  . mmssl  eam     m 1 dev eeeh  seese adiwhen air  W.  twitty e  the ge~linsr
jrnyd tee-s. I-v thee --isistee    used. th  eeee -   .  inn mq.Iv' atM    tettesa1 idepdel   - Sh endibtitti  eq iddes. i lens -lwtals   wettdm amd"   me
MPewee  a . vwtsslt   1.11Uje. .  -AWth l      .l.we .c seWbr.195 r sian. e  .flp  ..%t. ew-A weews NW      veI&ts . t  -NO  -0dl    -1 CNtin a.. -the ddt    a
SL~- YislwersteaPe  eirisi   ee  wt Ssie  nWIC es-~ lUs.                             eyeissr  gmetS -Ire.. at..i~  wehest      deeil,  tent.dy,
-testeieateersilwse       didarcs sea   teitsiteid yeet.essl       b5Iiz  j `        wew --. - ?nesle  dIteb  hr' f9 lyw C-
ii   -d                                eses  ry  I.Se1i ntt..                            ni.ists ..l" 413.*   eIa        alt"s.  slve.d rif  et.., Wees Idal    1
*i~ ted rtE ease.                     -t tdtjie.`fla1.J - te-jLstee. ev                                                                - eieeetvtl
-1%.  -d hgte%. dm-  - 2. 11L. URI."by                                          eewy.itvI  -   - a henivar  Pad
MPSit  ielstitrds  srw   nat. rimsd.                                   gcitstte 1e vebili. a4 prise  MeisII idm  eert.imid b-Fhat .
~tiXdtti~Wimi s      ftLSe    veted-  hfd See  Uis  S ltto.2 twe-tel                    -ehIttLaL"  W  eat.....  ftititi.taeeblw.    gi,ns-yI el1ted
5565. titi, a1 102 deta.                                                                   by etha  WNdid   sle,Seatibesegrddc  piitss5estr desteetti
ea    9 5  AietSd. b.c.  ls.ey5ae.. teea-c  jdaideS  beta6 se
CAilyt-_easi  -gieassi ANi .5 eniit                                            aea  aims eCRI vedaiddeitr eeROU" hr * tytteis (het hr e -Alit
se t                ecwit  m         pdi-. dents,eneen                          s   -Oesr.. dse.) "Rle  WiE- te-gedta              mie  m
aS w.chi.et iset vp  4e bstee.aed ei ewi sqtiasvdd did waclaplied,NG                     vielddtA  e tt.9ldd Cidit,   dteat iasLItlse.
1tie, a  11101 jesse                                                                                            Hutne~Ii.     - Twss   t~  a  dilitala  is - C s5.igee
set.  - U wr leer II lai, swig, a   wgsdi,  flee Wild
- arevee vgetate. v C.ecsn      'awId es, em.  yew... wo diam  it eli                                          daiddeeral.-.n sete
s  iR             amea    ire,t- te, di"          cittitty.                      -  tbat5. -inataidee  adtti    cveds,WJWe engea              eelnsa   M
cave.  'ejevi   arawl aa Cs.d .c44  tty cis ses..cc.b. engerd  vecte.                                       id.
-revL tenAdd tNt, "Medd Sscal tidi  cetesise  ttstLtttt'eg -.41t cP.waleeee.e.eete                                 -&eIt  lalre  -  Itias -   .5w  a vereete di
asaus1-  ni         . -4 tees.   tit  -W-a. -ta-eveseste nudit                          hr           4_fltibit7.s   a   .s  -a.   m.we,aPt
setsd. he-     tensdi sac e- CS9tsr vested. t.  a-avestit  ssewltesyWIL tr ItIewa wi al qs. e   Ilt. cayten-vr                                      1  wv
set we.ei s   ae desb pet., a         P n-mst tist,    awn, wedt the                     nei-ts.st   sre    tsew    ita                 yeei   0cv
sc..t tet   .e.   h   l.mc.geil   t     s.ed.ed- t.y                                      e       Ce mvyt  I  es      teeea.ies                     e
beds .5 he-ejtd - L,       rttitc  the  eyttetL (dlecepr                            w,ieedsi. estvi    ps,ct-,i e ts      ees-O -d       Ia ds  amdSet
'itd.  at  the vet .  deiatftI  a m iete aly i.5 Ic vvta.as  I.t db.                        -CC&t  ccses CI  dissetver faw adludt evcd  gemy -      tsa" ttsm
rt.ewts  catt -   TseeW     eba  Setveeta-s 4let-.- S nea                                 iS.tta    easert. cec..wss,t yr vshe  ten.ti   5att            set
tepee  thetI  thee. evsse.nt-ete   tsvltt pdpdltee. ,tte. da  htiv1   yttv   )c   tss..c   csrestcidoc                                            metes  a.dIif
teM. ed ite   a  at.    r d ed.sesW  re19vs te   cL.e yet.   It.   .                     dsaseettPscrast
e~Itttat   etesss  cateet . s fthe gel d..etlmIv  t  weet I,a~.                         l,ti0   tssmelt. lttve,att%.t  rl    elect sceret.d` 
thedw eseit. the  itelv-       r-aw r-tAtiemt R       eect iv, cs                                 - le,vedtt ' e at I tetlew   e    esdscc leevaseca.
t..  -  0,  1 s    --skJet..                                                         rerll-c-I&,hrres  -  c.w.ec te.'t-  ,itsesta5iet
Peaevis et ttsccs  Saes    ChilOttr.  ('I-a caer).  ~aiti-Me SiI-
vegedidtswidi  til-s,Leh-.        al-c.                                                  ..aae    aw-  . lc           pst ad iv pCer   S_ vettemtis  id. el iS
Cr5.tlev  Se. (sc eeevei -eac.t tve Inietsr  hemea . .4-          ea   -   e tiesc N deva S.       tpevem  en  he        -,.rbi    ee
04:   =qL::  190 - tas Imees .1                                                                                                       -Lsa.e ntse   .i   nc..ai  vt    .wgev   'c t..-i  S ciaS
hefia   e bttls- A-wiapd vS -he 1 seterftd.in   -eem    deiaatle Ididne    CtsaIC Idr l~     gAdRCa.s.iT d -                               S. a  te
retr  iss.wv -teseetye   ases itesee. -~ id-t   etPS-ttgl..                         ish    et-i   tnse   slm    vrtn    Ja..ii, 
ciS..                                                                                 tlats mad ldecan  a  =t.dIctR.sewn0.aes.sen'de deta-eccac
-   a oass-ve.etn  -  am  eve rvecti,ttte sr                                           mtIS.    C. mbete  -
grestiviet avy teea entrawevstm a. eli eectaidied maifcf, endd N .5Cl- 
.9 ... d-_4 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ sgtet-cret  a                        tiittma5.e    -swetns  -e
"N   lm   stS  tage)ed ,   t.a   ettimttn   c..,                                                     'f~ n  -OO   -at.  Sen IcSt.-       eetl.    assn
weiSs. a       tee se   saedt.,41, rsev- wt.ett  .5 eat W,tp                               I.avvtvt.      fnt-L. edid -'_eenv lc,-dedvet itddv i&vas  iC- w
-jetL-                                           iIee-v Tteiw  te-isd -etet L -di  vat. at. F-                                          sate    %- ictt id
t.p   -1tt  ar. -  55 id atVta, bte.vvv.5 eesed rnet -   "Wid,  Sea1                        aeic   P--.sce  samE  mdW as C. mc  meawmi ivt   a Isee a.
'tes  -tub.-  nti -      aim   matt  ~e.an-e  met  was                       a.vi                       ais .t.1   then  -           a tI.I. nie-ts rave.
biwattt  awe is Sa  e-eA-,  a  ama -Icu dt1-stehttt tll           es..-12                vs. mcawltfd.maPa        i.l       t,
i-Ca         int iEbdii's   tat -  tesais   meScmnW5 HcO                                           vS.l      ei  Etlei.eers                        ia   eri
atealaa..   enjitget            'tta. tMt5t C         et=   afbt.                                              L ea   s-tC
o  at         .1-esasst  ati stesis.   a  itie  t  en   e  at.                                        l&        ii  -l   WM-CL    --oild
-te Id=el   il-)   t     em Adida,sa.           2                                 IG vj          9     did         %--aidl-Mr     ituiiuddtd
'a ccv, C  le yr  ip.  St imyy    Nedis dateed  . eke. w-vtc S                             2    en   mct igP.     yams O1 geweec at
jecten 5ev etcmarts. seasta  by     esesta Se  act-  "gn                               --- a.k
gesvm.. ai   by t FAD     iheci  he mimil - ire,ssieH the.                          Wf1               W&. ..  ft.&.d PdL1 net-  13 dd              met, a
55sitgecsaa   asScalct  trLl byrw -6. thesic                                                         MPt tevsgewtdsiCi th envjetle mettas,
as Cscvs weecb nItS... "at a  cd   -. rec. ctpd at m-   Iste.geayeP  tat.   tat tn ddd atd heta chtO0
fle1S tam   -i bath  de ts   a staSiS            O - d et  fli -vC tideeit-             ses.w   etaPat.lvebtt                        .   ajs      n.S    .
tris.java  ada sa tar  tbt.;d ins  ail-   a  lies 'ss-,                        deeetia   ts    ae,te   ett                        ee Pe  t   e          de
VA"v  tiI,4Pd diptWntimtet.                                                              -. 10     ..-
ddi- .17t  qs ttftv mat.      atseta    ee
aidtariwgvyflesidei  vised  tnt.-- La.e INddIBid                   ...-atidtgeee.j be                                      te ntsI-I asti.   e,cwvte_   vets-I      .
viSa abet tie. itweected bwtctcL-tee, Fwytte1se,di'o'   tt"                                           li
,mtvy as.) a veveweece et ate rseewetisw  cieeta   isf 5Ait- -r1.I                                                                       dd
CePdta      my -e tdee  -- band) &9tti tentd &VIII            th
-. did'    Pp..i-   wea ltcmen-   fi eagfr sPat the eata1. ec
-"ty  13) d  __dMdC aRdfleet-d ddct                       -
gev  tn  .5d  at . tseveeet-  geit ifta,  taidit-.ag.! my! nt.
a itese LI Wddegew d did, I- a d  ies.pdp, wE m pdrtC
a  eanter- byC          ne.   ,vs       i  a  wE vie veins. -    atC.d
ettiet tacaitmta.fIda P-ta                                   -



- 37 -
ARM I
EuTof 5
TtMW - Cma DM
Populatim.     47.5 uillic (1983)
GNP For Capita: W=120 (1983)
AMmt                       hMu,u  uin^m CZ)                Su o Of 01  ui            Z a (
(uillim LE            (at nomt 16 Pdm)                             (at Cwrst PdM)
Im rCACW                           at tarat pnm)
19bZ           1965-70  1970-75  1975-0   W9083 I   1965    1970    1975   1960   19M cl d/
dum dtic  p duct .1                    52,928             6.6      7.5      2.8      4.2      1D.0   1M.0   l9.D   W.O  UD.0
A4Wi*tw                              10,332             3.1     4.4       2.7      1.9      3D.7   26.      26.2   21.    7D.0
In&Otty b2                          13.527             9.5      9.5      2.8      6.5       166    17.2   1LD   28.6   25.4
SerAc                               29,075             8.2      B.O      3.7      3.7       42.9   46.5    46.0   44.3  486
tMmin                                  43.879             5.8      7.O      2.7      4.9       U.6    82.8    85.2   N1.8   83.4
Gd  iw.n.t                             10.914            11.7    12.9       0.6    -4.8        16.7    20.1    23.3   26.4   10.1
Exp   of Wad.au 1dS                     5,746             7.9      7.3      4.4    33.2         6.1     5.8     6.1    7.1    15.5
L1ptt of psd.  W5S                      8,842            1l.2     13.8    -3.1      11.3        7.4     8.7    14.5   15.2   19.0
M  n_tiunl  i                           9.7bl            11.6    11.9       2b       0.3       15.8    18.8    18.1   18.3    -
h4uW, Amal lei E )                  Camitim of l        dime   de m (
(At  u.te 1960 priM.)                      (at awze    pn)
197              1972-75     1975-0D    19-w3             1972    1975    1960    19S3
lNebawfim e uot                        5,728               -6.1        2.8        37.0           100.0   1M.0  1DD.0   100.0
--i.r                               2C09                -6.3         4.U       18.7            72.6    64.1    6.0   36.1
Lnhatrial p=&ictl                    3.658              -5.8         0.9        6L0           27.4    35.9    36.0   63.9
: mdin  *na                            9.235               1.2          1.2       11.4          100.0   100.0   100.0   10.0
giolu m    limvestock                  138              27.9       -23.8        56.1           2.2     4.3      0.7   W5
irg  'd q1yi7 19                                          .4         6.8        21.9            L7      L6      L8      2.2
1'tto1aa                            3,665                5.4        11.0        4.3            9.9    17.1    48.8    39.7
::chimy  d eqAp-t                    2,445              14.0       -12.1        26.8          45.0    35.6    1S.2    26.4
('Jmr i;&,stria pm&lcta             2.788                9.9         4.5       10.6           41.7    414    31.5    30.2
1978    1979    19          _ 18   1a       1963 eI
(M  defaw<  (19SD - IC)                      29.0    49.4   100.0    142.1    181.7   237.8
--h~  are                                   2S.3      311    76.0    111.2    162.6    ZzS.5
pd 1  izk                                   63.0    78.2    100.0      95.8    87.6    aLO
I-Paxt Puc- i_c                             61.2    7L9    100.0       98.3    90.9    85.0
Tm  of r    inle                            11.9    10.8    10.0       97.5    96.3    96.5
An 2 of G13
(at current pria)
1965     19W      1915     196      1983e
krest  a                                                15.0     2Z.6    22.0    19.8    19.8
O=mt aquaitue                                           10.0      118      16       1lL5      9.5
S.plu  (')  or defici (-)                               -2.0      -2.3      A.4    -4.8    -0.5
Im uoot c.udizuze                                        4.7       5.7      4.2      3.9     4.7
Trunfr                                                   5.0       7.5      5.5      9.2      6.1
Forelhu finaizg                                          L8        L6       0.3      0.2    -0.9
1965-70  1970-75  1975-40  1960-3 pi
eai nmmum
GM giud rSt  (Z)                                              6.8       7.7      2.6     4.0
GW pt capia gmtot nace (1)                                    4.1      5.0      0.3    -0.7 fl
I=X                                                           2.9      2.9      5.7      4.8 f/
Hoodu     _  rwizg TaM C)                                    28.2      19.5     M.8    28.6
IMP-t elasticity                                              1.7      L8      -1.1      2.7
4f  At     b Prim;       et,  p m aucum es at fit  cout  d wi1 not add  -d eut           of act i;ict tx  ad suh.;Adiea
i  T_I- q,ini, aid dinyZ.  -curir& -d eletticity. gos, -md -wer.
I  At cmtmt 19 pBeD
diIn             wt h Tidi ab GAb Qomt', aspecLfictuaa ukurdm  not lco.tib1e wLth Sfs.
eJ  _r,zuL.
:-:,   .        196.82



- 25 -
bpdstim   674 vaiim CM) ~ ~ ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ am 
w~~~~~~~~ uumw  ,ian.                                                 09W        s mv
VW CON& umim (noia 37aLmm   m.
~~~~Wn     o7  g r 1 T 1
kplaet         61.5ieam  ofUi (1989)M                                         23        m       IM        25         M2       LP       im        23
tNPu  O            er           _ m  f       im   D      x      427n     2 am                 M     D   %S       UU l7    I=         R    23m
_tm  of  od & m                -                     sun       am       9m   7 R           mm 7   129          v    "      =      I 7    M
et pX~~~91                              1919      196)     151       198711 mefflYDD52 f  15       1 U        1 sU SI       J  ...
aI     I uimu.u70                                        im        2r         w        w        0                   i          m        w
1'           o                                  10       189      2271      1490     2257      US7        ID0      1630      23ll1    196       2117
IIt  _m                                         4.         -         -        -         -         _         _         _         _        _         _
OmU*  OAt b_lm                    .3                     169    -3272    -1            4 -     21 2     -2135    -1750    -166    -19          -2051
Wlzu  v1W16 t .           .                      Q       llt       12        1         90       14       210       216      i         372       418
46I6k   3                                       2 9w aa4L%        20        27       2         215        2m1      2171      3157     37.       389
=dn=6    . M7                                  417   k414         .436      -36      .5       -151      -113      -1773    -1n       -261      -25
abut NW kbmoo &                                 177      3922     19         67      1im         0        16       11        an7      1113      1O0
Cta~l                                          272    -2357      157        52        5D      136 9      156       405       MD       255       466
Q      B tin _     - -- ff6m.)                 -5%      -111      -M61     -270      .41 1      -5? -a US          -125      -1         5        15S
1a      1   z_                1U22S                      Xb       1229      16551    2 I       233       31U0      3275     397        367      3063
rm a .Mu OfU                                     9         1         2        2         2         3         3         3        3         2         2
1972  2925    197I9    323       3941      19        1953
_           -
ON   diiammu                                                        3t@       9D3    4'3 Id  2268        214       2261       1750
LWOId. ram                                                         -         -        -         -    21    2Sb
__lm1                                                            219       27       590D       12       GM       429        364
Si1__st                                                       me        39       4.        751      59        1.6       362
UK                                                              4        6         3        -         -         _         _
,inu1zi3M1                                                     17       2Z        95        29        23       :7         26
_xroxmomiomi                                                    i1         677     3     d, 14.5      1226      163        1U6
afida1 .yalt cudiza                                             I       IZ       759       m         275      252        155
237                                                            25       1bS      27        313      451       510      U5
.a11                                                           27        35       IS       25        167      247   liS
Srzivw                                                         47       3d7   3aD2/.   71            330      M.        467
Dd tA=i39     d   ibod                                            2D60     6467    11113  1522S 15S19    1592               I296
nffl~~~~~4.1                                    MY~~27    5351       = 7211095                 Wf         1022
I=9                                                                     4          651  S9  llS     156      1952      2326
-8                                                             99       is       190       up        1N      127         156
ocr                                                          201Z    'law       57        75        775      7873       7235
'                                                                :r.      85       311       5173     4921      4931    4676
146t     -       1uhn ugid                                         3510   21025    1YM5        WM4    1907    3i21          1304
eTm    -t awem  At                                                  2J       463       630      U019      L15      17D3      2544
rP                                                               H I1il   2e5       13        5b 52              S36       1175
'_~t                                                              63       167      227       613      792       91S       a69
Wom   l et  _     m 2, ego         f  xde  N IS
*      '  m .n                                                     6      105      12.5 2S.3           Y.6      17.7      24.7
_u               ur  an      lam  Co                               4.4       7.0      11.3      52        7.6      ILI        6.3
ffEeial                                                          4.5      6.3       5.0       5.9      6.7      1.         7.7
P____                                                            6.8      8.3      33.6      17.5     L5i       14.9       9.4
o o       f  mw      ( (oa)                                22.1      13.1      I.1      16.0      15.3     13.2       14.2
26.0     25.7      22.1     19.1      16.3      L5.6     18O
h                                                               11.0ILO    7.5      7.1       4.5      5.6       5.5       6.3
mm mir -fa  CO
mm   MDl1   10                                                      3.7      10.1   I .0         7.6     10.0      123       152
M  dimbumamMWbna St  dibinvaft                                      6.7      28.2      6.6      13S      2L0       24.9       -
73 dibc ouvirn/mA   d6b  Acice le                                   5.1      1L6      16.7       3.1     12.       U9        11.7
lh rnrl 21D                                                         3.9     2L9        L7        t.2       L.2      1.2        L2
16 dimwamItoA           waP   dibzam                               L         0.9      0.1      -         -         -         -
2ML dbt   wia1 dek mw! . /                                          0.       0.5       OA        0.2      0.2       0.2       0.2
am Z at llit Onto
atIhd of IM lM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   1_537)4
Ibmiz9' - of o.s.mizg 974)
Ibogit.dun6    idda 5 Y~37.6
2ud    de lwith  10 Yo                                                               66.3
_tm  sm            of  bc aCmiOi.  (1)
_mmce 6. ,-id  liu                                                                    6.1
AU 621          c  =      1 mrn1 d6c mm          _i m  donu      i the def *. _ t1r tquci.g Sum (mudy pd#ic _d pdvae  g_l  151 dd6t).
,hd  __ -  wmt.d ad   w                  I dbt id ga.
/bc  7_- ai mmcm. mi f po3oir yjam   ilm -t i. dabt -m.  wi,                                            cq.a1 jafim_
lm6. _6  IB            of anolidbW  .bo .n d b3.
s              of d*c mdiotf 6. to6d6k Cm    bAiae i_t mlaadueime  en  dw3                  = 8 pe d   Iite             btd  .



- 39 -
PaI- 1 of 2
9XATS OF BNtK  MP E)hI&T7O  IN EUY
A.  SDMM(  OF fL   ALOS AND IMA CRO     /a
C(s of Ibre 31, 1985)
Lai    Fiscal                                                         A,uit (t$ millions) /b
NAmbar   Yew  arEcmawrPrp                                         I.mc      1Dk  Uvdisiuraed
Fot-Iwee loam ad fourteen cxedit  illy diabursi                  2569.95  196.15
1Z.-fJ  1976  Agriculture Back of
lwkcey (7=)           ciltre Cedit               54.3              26.79
1310-1.  1977  Repblc of Tl;xy        Ibrim                        23.0               5.70
1585--L  1978  Republic of frey      N1ern Focestqy                86.0              4306
L5B6&-f   1978   ePbllic Of Turkey   Livestock IV                  24.0              15.27
1606rM   1978  Republic of TUdey    ERdaar Stee Ste II             95.0              25.2
1741-IU  I99  Republic of lUky          D Refbilitatin             75.0              17.29
1742-U   1979  Republic of Tlurky     amin storm                   79.0              74.68
1754-'   1980  Inustrial Der
et Biok of
Turkey (173)        Private Secor Teacile        65.0              15.15
1755'1   1980  7-ntrial Ii4wet
Credit B
(Sn!)               Erivae Sector Textiles       15.0               6.26
184*r    1980  Repbli- of Tukey      Karakaya 1ydrpm              120.0             38.33
1647-I11  198D  Republic of Trkey     Sntik, Cottmn Textile        83.0              30.49
1862-'J  1980   epbulic of Tude,     Livestock V                   51.0              37.26
19164W  1981  Republic of Tuekey     Penwim Eulcatim               25.0              11.95
1917-TU  L981  Rpublic of Tuqry      Oill kaezy                    62.0              1823
1952-1   1981  Republic of Trkey     Ldw In   ive  lndstry         40.0              17.54
1967-U   1981   epubli  of Tudky      Secon Puet md Vegetdbles    40.0               30.59
1Q95-W   1981  Republic of Turkey     iextiezor Ianastry
Rbiliati                   lD.O              64.61
1998t4  1981  Ste  LESUact           State ISntrial Eitrprie
1k (DY)               Finnce                     70.0              46.12
29D 1  1982  mSE                                    l  utrie      100.0              65.21
209-U   1981  Republic of Tuckey      Ezuc Iral D_velqput          4D.0              29.9D
2131-l   1981  Repblir of Tufty       Sec.u Fertilize
Mdubilittim                3S.0              34.(5
2137-U   1982  Repblic of Turey       Eiray                        71-1              40.07
21.59-111  1982  Lsb  d er 9&Wly
aid smerag Gaeral
D.zectorb (CESK)   Istanbul  Sovrae              88.1              83.50
2318-U  1983  TM                      Secad Agricultural Credit    150.4            121.01
Z3E21-    1983  Tudcih Elwiidty
Authrity (MO)       7bird D7C Trammissi          163.0            145.48
2327W   1983  Tudksh Patolean
Corpoati  (lMM)   Twace Gas Explormd3            55.2              51.24
2399-Ut  1984  Bepu;ic of Turkey      Inucial Training             36.8              36.66
2a-    1984  Republic of Tuley        Techical Asistanoe for 9Ns   7.6                7.51
2405-U   l94  Bep.blic of Thre       Agr4Frtim ax Reanwh           72.2              67A.4
2433-fU  19W*  Republic of Turley     7AE Irigatim                115.3             111.01
Yi39-IU  1984   euxblic of Tukey      Sec   HiMy                  186.4             175.78
1.41-l   1984  Bepublic of Turey      Fifth Strurtral AdM usj t   376.0             125.96
Toml                                              5187.35  196.15  1619.96
of %*ich hb  bem repaid                          651.37   15.59
Total -- aztadirg                                 4535.9B  18056
Aweat sold                   3.55
of  ichh bas        repaid  3.55                - 0 -   - 0 -
Total nm hed by Bmk and MA, c                    4535.98  180.56
Total udisburad                                   1619.96  -0 -
/a  Dbr xttam of the pojects listed in Part A is described in a separte repqr
ai a B*/IMA finaed pmjects in *mton. uduh is updae  tame yearly
ad ci     ulated to the EmAive Dictos on April 30 and Och  31.
lb Net of cancellations.
lra tE  >     _    adjusbats.



- 40 -
NRa  II
Page 2 of 2
SAT  OF BANK GIP UIERATW IN TM=
B. SEA7DNE  OF IFC IUUES1DflS
(As of March 31, 1985)
Fiscal                                                               Amounc $ Millions
Year    Ob               liar    Type of Buiss                  la        Equity    Total
1964/67/69/     TS:B                DFC                         6.00       4.77      64.77
72/73/75/76/
77/80/83
1966/69/        SIFAS I             Nylot Yarn                   3.15      1.42      4.57
71/72
1970/71/        Vikirg I            Pulp and Paper               2.50      0.82       3.32
82/83
1970            ACS                 Glass                       10.OD       1.58     11.58
1971/76/        NAS&S               Aluminm                      8.58       1.46     10.04
83/84
1973            Akderiz             Tourisa                      0.33      0.27      0.60
1974/77         Borusan             Steel Pipes                  3.60      0.49      4.09
1974            ASWA                Textiles                    10.OD       -        10.00
1975            Kartaltepe          Textles                      1.30       -         1.30
1975            Sasa                Nylo Yar                   15.00       -        15.00
1975            Aslan               caiet                       10.60       -        10.60
1975/78/83      DCIEAS               Steel                       7.50      1.53       9.03
1976/79         Asil Celik          Steel                       12.0D      4.00      16.00
1979            Ege Dsaa            Eugines for Mopeds           2.15       -        2.15
1979,/80/82/    ISAS                Mbtor Vebicles &   ss.       8.85      2.34      11.19
84/85
1979/81/        Trakya Cam          Glass                       33.15      3.23      36.38
83/84
1980           M1S                  Textiles and Fibers          4.00       -        4.00
1981            Kirklareli
Cam SaaylL
A.S.              Glass Tableware             12.95       -       12.95
1982            M.A.N.
motors            MDtor Vehicles &Access.      7.87       -        7.87
1984            Pinar               Food and Food Pnxcessing     3.90      _3.90
Total Gross C(mmitnets                         217.43     21.91    239.34
Less C e1atis, Ter; natjons,
&dcbaqge Adjustm , ets
and Sale                                     167.24      8.31    175.55
Total Ccnitmeits now held by IED                50.19     13.60     63.79
Total lisbursed                                  1.69       -        1.69



-41-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
TURKEY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT IOAN
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section 1:  Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Date of first presentation to Bank:         April 1984
(b)  Appraisal Missions:                          December 1984 and
February 1985
(c)   Completion of negotiations:                 Hay 1985
(d)   Planned date of effectiveness:              August 1985
Section II;  Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III; Special Conditions
(a) Goveroment to select priority works for the irrigation/drainage
Core Program in accordance with agreed criteria (para 58);
(b)   Government to review its portfolio of ongoing irrigation projects
and to exchange views with Bank on the findings (para 59);
(c)   Government to carry out studies to prepare action plans for
management improvement for TIGEM and TZDK (paras 45 and 49) and
improving the effectiveness of agricultural research (para 62);
and
(d)   Disbursement beyond g200 million (excluding consultants and
training) dependent upon progress in implementing the sectoral
adjustment program, with special emphasis on:
(i) phasing out the retail fertilizer subsidy;
(ii) opening up fertilizer distribution to fertilizer
manufacturers and private sector wholesalers and retailers;
(iii) formulation of an action program for TZDK management
improvement;
(iv) implementation of the Core Program for irrigation/drainage
investment; and
(v) achieving positive real interest rates in the agricultural
sector.



ANNEX IV
- 42 a-Page 1 of 10
Mr. A. W. Clausen
President
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Clausen:
The Turkish Govwrnment has now completed the fifth year of the
Government's progr3m for restructuring the economy. The adjustment program
has helped Turkey to expand exports and realize external balance. Under the
Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (1985-1989), the Government will continue to
encourage improved productivity in areas of comparative advantage and further
progress in increasing export earnings. We have also begun to broaden the
adjustment process by emphasizing policy and institutional reforms at the
sectoral level, which will be developed further over the next five years.
During this period, the Government has assigned highest priority to reforms in
the agricultural sector.
The annexed Statement of Agricultural Sector Policies sets forth the main
elements of the Government's medium-term program for adjustment in priuary
production policies and for further rationalization of public investment, and
our economic and financial policies for the agricultural sector. It
encompasses policy and institutional reforms underway or to be undertaken in
1985 and 1986. I am therefore writing you 4t this time to request an
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan in the amount of $300 million during 1985
to support the Government's program for structural change.
181 Danet Kaya Erdem
Deputy Prime Minister
and Minister of State



ANNEX IV
-43 _age Z of 10
STATEMENT OF AGRICULTURAL SECTOR POLICIES - 1985
1. Macroeconomic Perspective
1.01     The medium-term framework for economic restructuring has been set out
in the Fifth Five-Year Development Plan (1985-89) which was approved by the
Parliament in mid-1984. The basic theme is a continuation of outward oriented
development with increased reliance on market forces. The development
strategy will continue t' be based on sustained export growth.  Agricultural
exports will continue tc play a significant role with agricultural growth
increasingly coming from higher productivity and through a crop mix which
better reflects Turkey's comparative advantage. The Government's medium-term
policy is that import restrictiohs should not be used to protect domestic
producers. Bence the further liberalization of fertilizer feed stocks, seeds
and certain processed agricultural commodities have been included in the
import liberalization program during 1985. The strategy requires that the
private sector be allowed to play a leading role. since export growth is
critically dependent on private entrepreneurs developing their comparative
advantage. In this context, the direct activities of the state would be
confined mainly to the development of infrastructure (including irrigation)
geared to supporting the development of the private sector. In order to raise
output growth, public investment in agriculture will be maintained at least at
a level of about 10Z of total public investment, and we intend to allocate an
average of 35% per annum of the funding for irrigation and drainaze to the Core
Program for Irrigation and Drainage.
II. Agricultural Sector Perspective
2.01     In the agricultural sector, attainment of the Government's
macropolicy objectives has been and will continue to be facilitated by trade
liberalization, improved producer price policies. reduction of subsidizacion,
and redirection of government resources toward productive investment in areas
supporting private sector initiative and fostering technological change.
2.02     Under the Government"s outward oriented strategy, the agricultural
sector is expected to continue to play an important role in
the economy over the medium t..u.  The basic objective of the strategy is to
complete the transition of farming during the Fifth Plan period from the low
technology, low growth and highly subsidized system of the late 1970s to a
more cdnmdrcialized. export oriented and self-reliant system. The transition
would be realized mainly through the rceinforcement of programs vbich aim to
(i) enhance 'the valuie-added in production through crop intensification on
irrigated and rainfed lands; (ii) increase animal productivity; (iii) improve
export marketing. and (iLv stimulate raw material suppl3is to the
agroprocessing industries. The onlicy and institutional reforms needed to
achieve tbesc objectives have been identified and considerable progress has
been madf since 1980 to implement these. The adoption of an appropriate



AUNNEX I't
- 44 -                                   ?Ag9-3of 10
exchange rate and improved export incentives has helped agricultural exports
to increase by over SO between 1979 and 1984. while export values of
processed agricultural goods by 1984 had increased five-fold since 1979.
Although a period of adjustment was required to permit farmers to adapt to the
new policies, the average rate of growth of agricultural GDP (net of
inflation) in 1982 and 1983 reached 3.11 (as compared to an average annual
growth rate of 1.42 during 1976-79). Agricultural GDP growth in 1984 is
estimated at about 3.72.
2.03     Government's interventions in the sector have been significantly
redirected from subsidies and regulation to investments and technological
improvements. In addition to the general liberalization of agricultural
trade, livestock and wheat exports (and all grain imports) were liberalized in
1984. Opportunities to export since 1980 have resulted in a broad rise in
producer prices. This obviated the need for extensive state involvement to
provide attractive prices for farmers. The system of comxodity support prices
was therefore replaced by one of protective floor prices in 1984, and the
number of affected coumodLties was reduced from 25 to 13. In addition to the
general liberalization of agricultural trade, livestock and wheat exports (and
wheat imports) were further Liberalized in 1984. We shall continue to
review the efficiency of floor pricing policies and import restrictions
for sugar and of export duty levels for traditional export crops.
2.04     On the production inputs side, plant protection subsidies have been
eliminated and private sector distribution of chemicals has been introduced.
Regulations impeding the introduction of imported seeds and inhibiting private
investment in seed production have been substantially reformed. Fertilizer
shortages have been eliminated while the fertilizer retail price subsidies
have been sbarply reduced and the local fertilizer manufLcturing induscry made
more efficient. Farm machinery prices were set free in 1984, vhich both
resulted in a lowering of domestic farm machinery prices and facilitated farm
machinery exports. We have recently reduced tariffs for mac:-inery
imports and eliminated quantitative restrictions for equipment
imports. In the area of public investment, the share of agriculture in
Government investment has increased from 72 in 1980 to an average of
9.52 during 1982-1984. This investment has been made more effective througn
greater emphasis on quickly gestating projects, concentrating resources in the
irrigation sector on a smaller number of projects to accelerate their
eompletion, and delaying the start of new, large projects. Organizational
reforms have been implemented to create the Ministry of Agriculture. Forescry
and Rural Affairs (MAFRA) by merging the previous MAF and the rural services
directorates of Vkrious ministries. These reforms aim to hasten the
compLetion of-on-farm irrigation vorks and the Government's basic rural
lnfrastructure package. An attendant decentralization of MAFVA's main service
agencies will accelerate the transfer of improved technology.to rarmers.  To
this end, a general reorganization, program reformulation, retdeployment of
staff a4d a devolution of expenditure authority is being carried out to
introduce more flexible and responsive farmer technical support while
consoli4ating KAFRA's diverse field services for agricultural research,
extension, crop protection and animal disease control.



-45-                                   ANNEX IV
Pag. 4 of 10
2.05     To finance future agricultural development, the Government's policy
is to augment the recovery of public Lnvestment expenditures from identifiable
beneficiaries, reduce the growth of recurrent costs, and gradually shift
responaibil'ey for the financing of primary production and agricultural
marketing from general revenues to the banking system. Thus, irrigation water
charges have been increased to have the beneficiaries of government investment
bear a larger share of the costs, vhile agricultural interest rates have again
been increased to close the gap between these and current inflation. In
parallel, organization reforms are being implemented for the Agricultural lank
of Turkey, to improve both its financial planning and management caruabilities
and the effectiveness of its agricultural credit service to farmers.
III.  Directions for ARricultural Sector Reform
3.01     As outlined below, the reforms to be carried out in 1985 3nd 1986
will aim to revitalize primaryi production, and to render more effective the
public investment program for agriculture and sectoral economic and finncing
policies. The Covernment intends to extend and deepen the reforms in the
agricultural sector with esaphasis on (i) reducing producer subsidization while
maintaining adequate incentives; (ii) further improvement in the input
distribution, marketing, and credit channels (concentrating on fertilizer, but
also including improved seeds); (iii) improved allocation of public investment
in agriculture, particularly in irrigation (661 of government agriculttral
investment); (iv) strengthening HAFRA's research, extension, protection and
disease control services; (v) increased infrastructure investment, vith a
higher priority in the 28 less developed provinces; and (vi) strengthening
management, planning, policy analysis and public expenditure programing in
the sector.
3.02     In parallel, the 1985-1986 program will include the development
wichin MAFRA of a capability to carry out sector poiicy analysis. During 1985
and 1986, reviews will be carried out to improve the overalL flow of resources
for agriculture. MAPRA, through its Planning, Research and Coordination
Bureau (APK) will undertake systematic post-evaluation of completed sectoral
projects. Reforms will be identified to improve overall planning and monitoring
for the agricultural credit system, in order to augment direct farmer lending.
Actions will also be identified to reform the agricultural state enterprises
and the Sales and Credit Cooperatives, to enable them to operate more
efficiently within the new commercial environment, and to augment the flow
of indirect financial resources through these entities to farmers. -
IV. Sector Economic Policies
4.01    Planning and Analysis.  The Government's ability to provide
appropriate policies to guide the agricultural sector in %ccordance with the
above objectives was strengthened in June 1984 with the establishment of a
Policy Analysis Unit within MAFRA's APK with responsibility to (i) review
the performance of Government's entities which intervene in Turkey's



-46-                                    ANNEX IV
asge 5 Of 10
agricultural operations; (ii) advise on agricultural trade policies; (iii) advise on
producer floor price and inputs policies; and (iv) review performance under
five-year plans and annual investment programs. The Covern-ent also recently
established a fertilizer monitoring unit within AfK to assist in programming
and monitoring of the fertilizer distribution system.
4.02     Public Expenditure Policies.  We intend to give top priority in
resource allocation to the compLetion of essential irrigation works and to
meet the increased need for effective agricultural research and extension. To
increase their effectiveness, we intend to prioritize projects and concentrate
investment on those having high economic and social benefits, and quick'
gestation.
4.03     The Governmeut also intends to improve the overall planning and
programuing oE public expenditure for agriculture, and to strengthen the
project selection, monitoring and evaluatioa capabilities of MAFRA's APK. In
this connection, APK ha. already been given general authority to review
agricultural programs and plans,
4.04     Trade Regime.  The agricultural trade regime has been progressively
liberalized since 1980. Reforms which were introduced in January 1984
effectively freed grain exports and liberalized agricultural commodity and
factor imports, particularly improved seed varieties. The Government has
also further liberalized seed imports.
V. Inputs Pricing and Distribution Systems
A.  Seeds Pricir.. and Distribution
5.01     The Government has given high priority to reforms in the Turkish
seeds industry, to stimulate the importation and diffusion of superior
varieties, and thereby rapidly raise crop yields. The Government's
medium-term objectives in the area of seeds are to improve the seeds
multiplication and distribdtion system and encourage competition by
strengthening the capabilities of the private sector. Major policy reforms
were incorporated in a series of decrees issued in 1983 and 1984 to encourage
the development of a private sector seeds industry through Eqreign seed
companies' parricipation in joint ventures; relaxed importation. testing and
certification procedures; and by deregulating seed pricing. These measures
have already produced significant results in attractidg the eatablishment or
private sector seed companies. Production of wieat atd barlqy seed will
remain, however, primarily within the public sector since thqir high retention
rate-by farmers preveifts profitable privace marketuig of theae seeds.



-47                                 ANNEX IV
rage * Of 10
5.02     During 1985, the Government intends to submit a revised seeds law for
legislature approval, consolidating and incorpcrating the reforms of the
existing law contained in the subsequent decrees and regulations.
Concurrently, Government intends to devise a national seed industry
development plan to provide detailed policies for promoting a national seeds
industry under the new law, and intends to help establish a Turkish Seed Industry
Association as a recognized coordinating entity for private seed producers.
The previous system of contract seed growers will be improved, and
multiplication of self-pollinated varieties will be turned over to fully
cowmercialized certified seed growers.
B. Fertilizer Pricing and Distribution
5.03     Much progress has already been made in improving the fertilizer
distribution system. The production of Turkey's fertilizer industry has
reached about 60-70% of capacity, due to improved availability of imported raw
materials and more favorable enx-factory pLices. A fertilizer factory
rehabilitation program has been undertaken which when completed and fully
operational in 1988 should enable most factories to sell fertilizer at prices
competitive with world market prices.
5.04     Pricing.  The heavy burden of the current subsidies on the budget and
the financial system (with fertilizer subsidies amounting to more than 1% of
GDP) preempts resources which could be more effectively employed in increasing
agricultural production through other means. Nevertheless, the Government has
recognized that too abrupt changes in fertilizer pricing policies could
disrupt agricultural production in the short run.  therefore, we have followed
a policy since 1983 of gradually reducing the retail fefttlizer subsidy. In
line with these policies, the Government increased fertilizer retail prices by
60o in nominal terms in January 1984 and again by 402 in August 1984 and by
20S in February 1985. We intend to continue to phase out the
remaining subsidy by the end   of 1988 except that needed for (i) transportation
to remote, low income arear; (ii) the higher cost of domestic fertilizer
manufacturing over CIF trend prices, until the factory rehabilitation program
is fully effective; and (iii) tbe higher than normal costs of fertilizer
distribution until the improvements in the distribution system are fully
operacional.
5.05     Our goal is to provide the domestic manufacturers with clear signals
on policy reference prices by bringing ex-factory prices to levels of import
prices of comparable products. At the same time, we* intend to provide
manufactuTer: with the opportunity and incentives to improve their product to
meet the 4#emnd of farmers.  As part of this process, i_August 1984 we
announced'a j4bstantial improvement in the basic ex-factory pricing formula.
Ex-factory prices are now linked to a dollar price adjusted semiasuualiy for
each products with monthly adjustments for exchange rate fluctuations.



-48-                       ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 10
5.06     Distribution System.  Our goals are to reestablish a competitive
distribution system to promote efficiency and improve services to farmers.
This w.ll be done through (i) encouraging participation in fertilizer
distribution by fertilizer manufacturers and private traders at the wholesale
level and expansion of the retail network to areas not currently well served
through the introduction of private sector retailers. To this end, we will
progressively remove the obstacles to such participation, starting with the January
1986 fertilizer pricing decree         (ii) improving DONATIM's management
structure and financial and operating capabilities in order to reduce the
burden of its current stocking and distribution management practices on the
Gover.ment budget and extra-budgetary resources; (iii) liberalizing imports
and bringing domestic fertilizer availability in line with cost-saving opportunities
offered by use of higher analysis fertilizers; and (iv) providing adequate access
to fertilizer purchase credit to farmers under revised pricing and liberalized
distribution arrangements. These reforms will be introduced in two phases. The
first will last until December 31, 1988, while the retail subsidy is being phased
ou t.  During the second phase, a further withdrawal of Government regulation
is intended, managed .-arefully to prevent inadvertent disruption of fertilizer
supplies.
5.07      To support implementation of this policy framework, the Government has
established a fertilizer monitoring unit within its MAFRA which will coordinate
the introduction of manufacturers and private traders into fert;lizer distribution,
and the delineation of the marketing areas to be taken up by ea.:h distributor to
ensure adequate availability of all types of fertilizer throughcut the country.
ro liberalize progressively fertilizer importation, Government intends to
establish procedures to allow direct fertilizer imports by private traders and
fertilizer manufacturers following the phase-out of the retail subsidy. It is
expected that this system will begin to operate in 1989. To improve DONATIM's
capabilities, and enable it to effecitvely adjust to the new system, Government
intends to carry out a comprehensive Management Improvement Study for TZDK
during 1985 and 1986.
5.08      Financing/Credit Arrangements.  Measures will be taken to make
adequate amounts of credit ayailable through TCZB/Credit Coops to meet farmers'
increasing credit requirements as the fertilizer subsidy is phased out, and
to provide farmers with access to such credit under uniform terms and conditions
whether they purchase through TZDK, the Credit Cooperatives or alternative (new)
channels.  The fertilizer manufacturers, private distributors and at some later
date TZDK and cooperatives will be expected to finance distribution through
commercial channels.
VI.a Irrigation and Drainage Investment Program
6.01      The Government continues to assign the highest priority to public
irrigation investment, As part of an effort to accelerate completion of
on-farm development works, we have be,un to use private contractors for such
works which had previously been carried out almost entirely by force account.
The Agrarian Reform Law was revised in December 1984 so as to require land
consolidation only in such large, contiguous irrigation service areas where
the benefits of extensive use of agricultural machinery can be realized. We



ANNEX IV
a rO 8of 10
have also mde progress in incre"ing the share of the operation and
malitennce costs financed through irrigation water chrges lcrased the
penalties for delinquent payment of such charges, and recovering the capital
costs for on-far. works.
6.02     The Governmeat recognizes, bowever, that the current backlog between
areas with completed major irrigation. works and the completion of on-fars
development is large (exceeding 300,000 ha) and is increasing with the
progress achieved in accelerating completion of major works. To help
alleviate tbis problem wv will, beginning witb the 1986 Public Investment
Program, increase the share of resources being provided for on-farm work on
about 65 completed and ongoing projects of the Sate tycdraulic Works Agency
(DSI), witb particular concentration on drainage and soil conservation baving
high incroemntal benefits.J To these ends, an Investment program for the
irrigation and drainage subsector would be carried out between 1986-1989 to
(i) overcome the backlog of on-farm works on ongoing or completed DSI
projects, (LI) provide equipment and othor assistane to robabilitate and
improve the level of maintenance on all completed surface drainage networks,
(iii) provide assistance for the reclamation of saline lands within Irrigated
areas, and (iv) provide access roads along irrigation and drainage chabnels to
permit regular maintenance and repairs. It is intended that such work will be
our Core Investment Program for the irrigation subsector, and it will be
a"signed the bighest investment priority until the on-farn irrigatioa
development backlog has been overcome. During the past three years we have
been assigning top priority for now 06I projects to those having higb economic
returns and we propose to continue this policy. Beginning in 1986, we intend
also to make our decisions for the continued funding of ongoing projects on
the basis of the same criteria, to be screened conjointly with DSI's new
proposals. To effectively implement these policies, steps will be taken
to strengthen the planning, coordination and iaplemeatat on capabilities of che
responsible agencies.



ANNEX IV
50     o 9 Of 10
VII. KAFRAls Agricultural Technology
and Information Services
7.01     A *mjor initiative was announced by Governent on June 8, L984, to
teorganize and consolidate the main service departments of MAFiA, broaden the
ministry's reaponsibilities for the planning and management of agriculcural
sector policies, and decentralize program formulation and execution. including
pooling of facilitles, staff, equipuant and budgeting for HAFRA's diverse
fieLd serqices. The implementation of this reform, particularly as it aifects
the field operations of KAFR3As extension, research, crop protection and
veterinary services, thus constitutes a third pCimary cechnical requiLite
along with the seeds and irrigation development progrms -  (or atimulatlng
kjmproved productioa technologies at the farm level. Uader t:. new MAFRA
organization. Government fully. Lends to implement the reforms Co research
and extensioa agreed under the Agricultural Extension and Applied Research
Project.
7.02     Our immediate objectives are co complete the consolidation of
extension and research at regional and provincial Levels and to firm up
arrangements for artective technical Leadership of the field services, and, to
this end, Covernment intends to appoint during 1985 a National Agricultural Research
and a National Agricultural Extension Coordinator.  The ongoin  consolidation of
HAFRA's diverse extension activities at the provincial level will be compleced
in 1985 while conjoint programming, budgeting and program implementation will
be instituted beginning 1986.
7.03     An important area needing review is the prioritizacion and
implemenration of crop and animal husbandry research. Our medium term
objective is co strengthen the process of idencifyidg and prioritizing
national and local research projects, then to strengthen the capability of the
research network to satisfy these priorities. As a first scep, Cte Governmenc
established a ministerial research working group ia March 1984 to guide a
mid-term review vhich Government lntends to carry out in connection Qith the
Bank-assisted Agricultural Extension .nd Applled Researcb 2rojeci. On the
research side, MAFRA intends, to enlarge this review to encompass the totality
of its agricultural research programs and research station functions, chen
revise its griorLties, programs, procedures, starEing and trainang programs,
and construqtion and procurement plans as necessary to improva the qualiry and
usefulness q2 research. At the same time, an ongoing evaluation-system Vill
bz developeq aur established to monitor the efficiency of the approved
z sea&xh prqjects and programs.



ANNEX IV
-  . -                                ?age 10 of
7.04     In the area of extension. we will carefully review the performance Of
the uew system being introduced La the 16 provinces covered by the
Agricultural Extension end Applied Research Project by end 1986, make
modifications %s necessary. then formulate additional investment and staffing
programs to pbase-Li application of the project's extension principles
nationwide.
VIII. Agricultural Financins Policies
8.01     The Government intends to prepare financial reforms affecting the
agricultural sector, augment the resourcea available for agricultural credit
and channel these in an efficient manner by strengthening the institutions in
this fieli, and improve the financial management of the agricultural SEEs.
These measures will complement actions being addressed ia the context of tte
SALs and tne Second Agricultural Credit Project.
8.02     Agricultural Credit.  In the area of agricultural credit, the
Government's objectives are to strengthen its capability to carry out
proupective credit planning, Initiate continuous monitoring of credit
utilization, augment the volume of resources available for agricultural credit
(consistent with overall financial stabilizatioan objectives), and strengthen
the capabilities of the principal intbzuediaries involved. The Government's
principal actions to date have been the introduction of annual credit plans
and the progressive raising of interest rates with the objective of
eliminating thelr subsidization and thereby improving resource allocation,
increasing the availability of credit resources for the sector, and
main.tainz the financial viability of sector financial institutions.  The
Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) has initiated the implementation of its
actica plan for institutional development, which is being supported under the
Second hgrciultural Credit Project. These reforms, though still in the
initial stages of implementation, are expected to result in major improvements
in TCZB's efficiency.                               -
8.03      The need for more systematic and comprehensive credit planning, both
annually and for the medium-term, will be addressed by Gcvqrnment'during the
Fifth Five-Year Development Plan period.. In view of the priority given to
the agricultural sector, the Government intends to augma'nt ti)e availability
of resources for agricultutal lending over the medium-term.
8.04      In addition to the ongoing work under the TCZP action program, the
Government will cause TCZB to review the adequacy of TCZ8'j branch network and
staffing in those regions where agricultural development i4 likely to be
focused during tbe Fifth Five-Year Plan period.



c   _             _           *X      
c @   aV    sYu :P l                                                                  OgW~~~~~~~L
a en | c Z e t 2~~~~~~~D
0   X,  _U1: I                  I                 <             _                y  E   F~~~~~L
12    .                      .   '          i           i  , s f 4............
- ,r*...............  .  -      i ............... < 2 
Q                       ---------, -   -        * - -.':.                   
- ~~~~..... . ..         .     '  ........... 4.';-; * *  I -
',. ~ ~  ~    ~ ~       - '                                                  6     -a   X e0     .   
I>   1-,,-       .---...3. 'o       



