Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11837
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA
SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1286-IN)
APRIL 30, 1993
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalent
Name of Currency: Rupee (Rs.)
Rate of Exchange:   Appraisal Year (1982)           US$1.0 = Rs. 8.5
Intervening Years (83/84-89/90)    US$1.0 = Rs. 13.1
Completion Year (1990/91)       US$1.0 = Rs. 18.0
Fiscal Year of Borrower:    April I - March 31
Weights and Measures:     Metric System
Abbreviations
CSSRI        -     Central Soil Salinity Research Institute
ERR          -     Economic Rate of Return
FAO          -     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FRR          -     Financial Rate of Return
FWE          -     Fuelwood Equivalent
GOH          -     Government of Haryana
GOI          -     Government of India
PCU          -     Publicity and Communication Unit
SCF          -     Standard Conversion Factor
SFW          -     Social Forestry Wing
VFC          -     Village Forestry Committees
VFPC         -     Village Forest Protection Committees



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
April 30, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on INDIA
Jammu and Kashmir and Hanrana Social Forestry Project (Credit 1286-IN)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on India - Jammu
and Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project (Credit 1286-IN)" prepared by the South Asia
Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
ne project achieved tree planting targets and contributed to human resource
development and increased awareness of forest protection and environmental conservation. The
project outcome is rated as satisfactory. However, objectives in community participation were not
attained and the transfer to community management has barely begun. This may influence the extent
to which the project's benefits will reach the poorest segments of the population. Much more needs
to be done in terms of effective plantation management. Accordingly, sustainability is rated as
uncertain and institutional development as partial.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation. The
project may be audited along with other social forestry projects in India.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Cr. 1286-IN)
CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .......................  i
Evaluation Summary .......................  iii
P&tI Project Review from Bank's Perspective
Project Identity ........................1
Introduction ....................... 1
A. JAMMU AND KASHMIR STATE SUB-PROJECT
Background ....................... 2
Project Objectives and Description .......................  2
Project Design and Organization .......................  3
Project Implementation .......................                                           4
Project Results .......................                                                  9
Project Sustainability .......................                                          11
Bank Performance .......................                                                11
Borrower Performance .......................                                            13
Project Relationship  . ............................................ 13
Consultant Services .......................                                             13
Project Documentation and Data ....................... 14
B. HARYANA STATE SUB-PROJECT
Background .......................                                                      14
Project Objectives and Description ....................... 15
Project Design and Organization ....................... 15
Project Implementation .......................                                          17
Project Results .......................                                                 22
Project Sustainability ....................... 24
Bank Performance .......................                                                24
Borrower Performance .......................                                            25
Project Relationship .......................                                            25
Consultant Services .......................                                             25
Project Documentation and Data ....................... 26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Part IProject Review from Borrower's Perspective
A. JAMMU AND KASHMIR STATE SUB-PROJECT
Evaluation ot banK's kerformance .........................  2 7
Lessons Learned ....................................                                            .. 27
Evaluation of Borrower's Performance ...........                       ..............  27
Lessons Learned .............................................. 28
B. HARYANA STATE SUB-PROJECT
Comments on Part I ............                                                                      29
Evaluation of Bank's Performance .........................                                           34
Lessons Learned ......                                                                               34
Evaluation of Borrower's Performance ..........................  34
Lessons Learned .......................................... 35
PartII Statistical Tables
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA PROJECT
Table 1 - Related Bank Loans and/or Credits .............................. 36
Table 2 - Project Tinittable  ........................................ 37
JAMMU AND KASHMIR SUB-PROJECT
Table 3 - Credit Disbursements ...................................... 38
Table 4 - Project Implementation ...................................... 39
Table 5 - Project Cost and Financing  .................................. 42
Table 6 - Project Results .......................................... 43
Table 7 - Status of Covenants ....................................... 46
Table 8 - Mission Data and Staff Inputs (Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana) ....                   ...... 47
HARYANA SUB-PROJECT
Table 9  - Credit Disbursements .................................... 49
Table 10 - Project Implementation .................................... 50
Table 11 - Project Cost and Financing .................................. 53
Table 12 - Project Results ......................................... 54
Table 13 - Status of Covenants ...................................... 56
ATTACHMENT 1- JAMMU AND KASHMIR STATE SUB-PROJECT
Table 1 - Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of Village Woodlot ............... 57
Table 2 - Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of Strip  .....................   58
Table 3- Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of Wetlands .................... 59
Table 4 - Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of Farm Forestry ................. 60
Table 5 - Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of Rehabilitation of Degrded Forest .. . 61
Table 6 - Wholesale Price Index and Exchange Rates (Janmu and Kashmir and Haryana). 62
Table 7 - Economic Analysis - Jammu and Kashmir Sub-Project ................. 63



ATrACHMENT 2 - HARYANA STATE SUB-PROJECT
Table I - Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of Strip Plantation ............... 64
Table 2 - Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of Farini .orestry ................ c
Table 3 - Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of Village Woodlots .............. 66
Table 4 - Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of Saline/Alkaline Plantation ......... 67
Table 5 - Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of Sand Dune Stabilisation .......... 68
Table 6 - Per Ha - Financial Costs and Benefits of RDF Plantation ............... 69
Table 7 - Economic Analysis - Haryana Sub-Project ......................... 70
ATTACHMENT 3 - ECONOMIC ANALYSIS - JAMMU AND KASHMIR,
HARYANA, AND OVERALL PROJECT .................. 71






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT (Credit 1286-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana
Social Forestry Project (Cr. No. 1286-IN) for which Credit 1286-IN in the amount of SDR 29.4
million (US$33 million) was approved on August 3, 1982. SDR 12.5 million (US$14 million) of
the credit was allocated to Jammu and Kashmir and SDR 16.9 million (US$19 million) to
Haryana. The Credit was closed on March 31, 1991, three years behind schedule. The credit was
fully disbursed on January 31, 1991 and the final allocation was SDR 12.3 for Jammu and
Kashmir and SDR 17.1 for Haryana.
Parts I and III of this report were prepared by an FAO/CP project completion mission which
visited India in June/July 1991 (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). Part II was
prepared by the States of Jammu and Kashmir, and Haryana. Due to travel restrictions at the time
no visits were undertaken to the State of Jammu and Kashmir.
The preparation of this PCR was based inter alia on the draft PCRs prepared by the states;
the Staff Appraisal Report; the legal documents; supervision reports; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda, and discussions with Bank project staff in the
New Delhi Office and Forestry Department staff of the State of Jammu and Kashmir.






iit
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT (Cr. 1286-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.  The project's primary objectives were to increase the supplies of fuelwood to rural areas
through the establishment of tree plantations in private and public wastelands and degraded forest
areas. Secondary objectives were to generate employment, to provide poles, small timber, fodder
grass, fruits, oilseeds, and other minor products, and to strengthen the social forestry organization
within the State Forestry Department to carry out the plantation activities. The project was to
establish, over a six-year period, plantation development in 111,000 ha in the two States: 44,000
ha in the State of Jammu and Kashmir and 67,000 ha in the State of Haryana. The planting target
in Jammu and Kashmir included 5,000 ha of village woodlots, 1,000 ha of strip plantations, 2,000
ha of plantations on wetlands, 17,000 ha of rehabilitation of degraded forests, and 19,000 ha of
farn forestry. The planting target in the State of Haryana included 12,000 ha of village woodlots,
500 ha of plantations on saline/alkali affected lands, 9,500 ha of strip plantations, 30,000 ha of
farm forestry, and 15,000 ha plantations on sand dune areas. The project also provided funds for
the expansion of the existing forest guard schools and forestry staff at the operational and
extension levels, and strengthening research activities.
Implementation Experience
2.   Plantations. Despite budget constraints, shortage of staff, and problems of mobility, the
project started promptly and exceeded the overall planting targets set at appraisal. The technical
performance was not always satisfactory in Jammu and Kashmir but good in Haryana. Due to
delays in the recruitment of staff, the plantations established during the initial periods of project
implementation were carried out by the territorial forestry divisions. Moreover, except in later
stages of the project, little attention was given to the community's participation aside from
employing people as laborers. The implementation of the plantations has remained essentially a
Government-executed program. The implementation of the strip plantations component overlapped
with the territorial forestry division. It was terminated in Jammu and Kashmir and reduced in
Haryana in 1988 because of the high cost involved. Implementation of soil and water conservation
techniques, improvement of pasture, plantations on sand dunes and saline/alkali-affected areas and
wetlands in Jammu and Kashmir, and rehabilitation of degraded forests in Haryana have been
beneficial not only in providing immediate benefits in terms of fuelwood and grass to the
economically-disadvantaged sections of the populations but also in minimizing soil erosion and
water run-off resulting in the improvement of land productivity. The farmn forestry component in
terms of area planted proved to be the most successful and had exceeded expectations.
3.   Supportive Services. Because of the concentration of attention to achieving targets under the
plantation program, inadequate attention was given to the development of the support components
and community participation in both sub-projects. The Social Forestry Wing (SFW) of the
Forestry Department was handicapped with inadequate research, training and extension support.
Similarly, monitoring and evaluation had not been provided with the required support and



iv
attention for efficient information generation and feedback to management. Major problems
encountered were budget restrictions, delays in approval and recruitment of staff, inadequate staff
training, and lack of operational guidelines particularly on research, nursery and plantation,
communication and extension, and project monitoring. From the beginning the supportive role of
research in nursery and plantation operations was inadequate. In addition there was no prepared
plan for follow-up training of field staff who were given only initial reorientation sessions. Little
attention was given to aspects related to communication, extension techniques and a better
understanding of the needs of intended target groups. The effectiveness of the Publicity and
Extension Unit, and the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, have not been optimal.
4.   Community Participation. Community participation throughout the project implementation
period was limited. Little attention was given to involve the intended participants and beneficiaries
in the planning process. Major problems encountered were: (a) lack of leadership and interest in
the village panchayats due to inadequate publicity and motivation; (b) lack of a defined role for,
and responsibilities of, the participating villagers and village panchayats and a policy on benefit-
sharing which were not adequately defined at project design; and (c) non-availability of accessible
community wastelands. To some extent, these have been corrected through the village micro-
planning which started recently in 1989-1990, involving discussions with representatives of
different socio-economic classes. The State Governments also recently issued Orders to transfer
the responsibilities for forest protection, management and utilization and specify usufruct to village
panchayats and the newly-constituted Village Forest Protection Committees (VFPC) in Haryana.
The Village Forest Committees (VFC) continued to remain informal entities in Jammu and
Kashmir, although the State government supported devolution of authority in principle. SFWs
have also begun to hand over the established plantations to village panchayats, VFPCs (in
Haryana) and VFCs (in Jammu and Kashmir). However, the forest management plans have not
been prepared nor members of village panchayats, the VFPCs, and VFCs, been trained to carry
out the given responsibilities.
Results
5.  In spite of the foregoing shortcomings, the project achieved its main objectives. In addition
to accomplishments in the large-scale social forestry program, the project contributed to increasing
skilled manpower for forestry development, and created and served the varied purposes of
evolving interest and awareness of the rural population in tree planting and environmental
conservation. The plantations established under the project have considerably increased the forest
coverage in both States. A total of 45 million mandays of employment were generated by the
project during the implementation period compared with 29 million estimated at appraisal. In
addition, about 700,000 farmers benefitted from the farm forestry component, of which more than
two-thirds were marginal and small farmers. The expected forest production over a period of 30
years is estimated to reach about 34 million tons. The economic re-evaluation analyses show the re-
estimated economic rates of return (ERRs) of 19 percent for the total project, 14 percent for the
Jammu and Kashmir sub-project, and 23 percent for the Haryana sub-project, as compared to
estimated ERRs at appraisal of 27 percent for the total project, 34 percent for Jammu and Kashmir,
and 19.5 percent for Haryana. In the case of Jammu and Kashmir, the lower ERR is due mainly to
the significantly lower survival rates, growth and yields, delayed benefits and cost overrun.
Project Sustainability
6.   Despite the fact that most of the established plantations were mature for harvesting fuelwood,
minimal harvests have been carried out. Forestry management plans are required for different
plantations in each agro-climatic zone, and are important for scheduling silvicultural treatments
(thinning, coppicing, etc.) for regeneration, and for harvesting. In addition they facilitate in



v
establishing benefit-sharing arrangements with the communities, which is crucial to the
sustainability of the project. However, the forest management plans have not yet been prepared
and the benefit-sharing agreement between the committees and its villages have not yet been
signed. The concept of handing over the plantations to village panchayats, VFPCs and VFCs for
protection, management and utilization was implemented only in 1989/90. But in order to ensure
the capability of members of these entities to properly sustain plantations, intensive training should
be provided.
Findings and Lessons Learned
7.  The project suffered from  a number of shortcomings, from design stage through
implementation. The most important constraints were organizational and institutional. The
organizational weaknesses in research and publicity, and training and extension, have resulted in
poor services to farmers and limited involvement of people in planning and management of
plantation activities. Problems encountered were budget constraints, shortage of staff, inadequate
training, lack of operational directions and guidelines and coordination at field level. The
institutional constraints encountered were lack of leadership in the village panchayats, lack of
defined roles and responsibilities of the participating villagers and village panchayats, and a policy
on benefit-sharing, and non-availability of accessible community wastelands. The implementation
experience suggests a number of lessons. The most important are the following:
(a) While emphasizing that the attainment of physical targets was important, the supportive
components were neglected which had affected the quality of project implementation.
Although the quantitative aspect was desirable in the short run, as degradation and social
amelioration require fast and immediate reaction, focusing on quality aspects of the
program would have resulted in a much higher pay-off in the long run;
(b) Hiring of qualified consultants in designing/developing the programs of research,
publicity, and extension. SFWs in both States economized on this aspect, and, to a
greater extent, sacrificed efficiency and quality of the project implementation. The
organization of research and publicity, and extension, remained weak due to lack of
operational direction and shortage of trained staff. For monitoring and evaluation, the
FAO/Bank operational guidelines were made available in 1986, though inadequately
applied in Haryana for want of operational direction and trained staff.
(c) The sustained management of plantations in government/public lands is only possible if
the communities are involved in the project planning and selection of species and if their
participating role and responsibilities are defined and harvest rights known at the outset;
experience in both States indicated that community participation was limited due to lack
of involvement in project activities, a lack understanding of the objectives of the project
and the absence of assurance on the share of the expected benefits;
(d) Project design should consider not only the plantation establishment but also plantation
management through village protection committees for its sustainability. A sound forest
management plan is a major tool in the stumpage valuation of the plantations, in
scheduling the much required silvicultuiral treatments, and in programming optimal
harvests;
(e) Project design should consider the availability of private and public wastelands and the
problem areas (saline/alkali and sand dune affected areas, degraded forest areas), so that
adjustments in the plantation components and innovations could be correspondingly
made.



vi
(f) To minimize confusion and ensure successful project implementation, project preparation
and appraisal should ascertain the State's budget constraints, staff availability, existing
capability of the Forestry Department, availability of lands, capability of the village
panchayats, and socio-economic inequalities of the participating beneficiaries, and avoid
complex objectives and plantation components. This project had too many plantation
schemes with very little variation in terms of plantation establishment, financing and
community participation.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT (Credit 1286-lN)
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identitv
Project Name             Jammu & Kashmir and Haryana Social Forestry Project
Credit No.               1286-IN
RVP Unit                 South Asia Region
Country       :          India
Sector                   Forestry
Sub-Sector               Social Forestry
Introductifl
1.  Forestr in India. The pressure on the India's forest resources has been critical, and the
concept of social forestry was instrumental in changing past trends. Population growth and the
corresponding demand for fuelwood and food, the increasingly excessive numbers of cattle in non-
agricultural lands, and the continuous conflicts over property rights were identified as the most
significant factors leading to the rapid depletion of forest resources. As in neighboring countries,
India has been facing an environmental crisis where the rates of soil erosion and sedimentation
were increasing, and the risks from floods and other climatic changes were clearly visible. The
environmental crisis was compounded by a high demand for fuelwood by rural and urban
households, and encroachment of the landless into the forest for subsistence needs. In areas
where forest resources were already depleted, the environmental and fuelwood crisis was directly
linked to farmers' use of cow dung, agricultural residues and waste, which were all being used as
fuel rather than as organic fertilizer, causing significant changes in land productivity and food
supplies.
2.  Forest Policv.  The National Forest Policy of 1952 envisaged that balance and
complementarity in land use were important, and claims of communities living in and around
forests should avoid conflict with these objectives. The policy also recognized the need for
establishing tree planting programs that involved local people's participation, not only to sustain
the supply of timber, but also to promote the required supplies of fuelwood and fodder. Trees
were raised in farm lands, village and community wastelands, and natural forest areas. In
accordance with the national forest policy, the management and utilization of village forests or fuel
forests was to be entrusted to village panchayats.
3.  The 1988 National Forest Policy became an extension of the previous policy and aims to
ensure environmental stability, ecological balance, efficient utilization of forest produce, and to
meet the fuelwood, fodder, forest produce and small timber needs of the rural and tribal
populations. The stated national goal is to have a minimum of one-third of the total land area of the
country under forest cover. The policy also envisages that all village and community lands not
required for other productive purposes should be brought under tree crops and fodder cultivation.
The policy outlines ownership rights over trees for individuals, particularly the weaker sections of
the community.



2
4.   The Bank's Role in Social Forestry. The Bank's first intervention in the forestry sector, the
Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 609-IN, December 1975), was
directed primarily towards the development of plantations for the pulp and paper industry. Since
then, the main thrust of the Bank's operations in this sector has been on social forestry
development, with five projects covering nine states. Each of these projects had the objectives of
increasing the supply of fuelwood and providing poles, small timber, fodder and other minor
forest products to those living in rural areas, with special focus on increasing employment and
fuelwood supplies for landless farm laborers, and marginal and small farmers, production of
wood products from government and village wastelands and strengthening the social forestry
organization within the State Forestry Departments to carry out the plantation activities. The first
two social forestry projects were in Uttar Pradesh (Cr. 925-IN) and Gujarat (Cr. 961-IN) which
started in 1979 and 1980, respectively, and were closed five years later. The West Bengal (Cr.
1178-IN) and Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana (Cr. 1286-IN) Social Forestry Projects were the
third and fourth projects in the sector which started in March and December 1982, respectively.
After a three-year delay in execution, both Credits were closed in March 1991. On-going social
forestry projects are the following: Karnataka (Cr. 1432-IN), Kerala (Cr. 1514-IN) and the
National Social Forestry Project (Cr. 1611-IN) covering the states of Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan
and follow-up activities in Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat.
A. JAMMU AND KASHMIR STATE SUB-PROJECT
Background
5.  The State of Jammu and Kashmir, with an area of 138,214 km2, has a population of about 6
million in 1981 (7.7 million in 1991), of which 80 percent reside in the rural areas spread over
nearly 6,000 villages. Agriculture plays a predominant role in the State's economy, accounting for
about 50 percent of State income and providing 70 percent of its employment. Livestock forms
an integral part of village life. There is also sizeable migratory goats and sheep grazing in the high
Alpine pastures in the north and the Shiwalik hills in the south. Per capita income was low at
US$116 (1977), compared with the all-India average of US$160. Population pressure and
increasing numbers of livestock (estimated at 6 million) involve a continued and rising demand for
fuel, fodder and essential building materials. This has resulted in indiscriminate tree-cutting,
increasing erosion, creating large tracts of barren waste lands in the southern and western parts of
the State and increasing degradation of forests in the north. To address the problem of shortages,
the State has planned investments for large-scale afforestation and improved management of
existing forests. About 35 percent of the State forests is practically devoid of tree cover and
needs reforestation. Within the State, there are some 341,000 ha of waste and marginal lands
including areas along roads, irrigation canals and railways which are suitable for afforestation.
6.    In 1979 total energy consumption in the State was estimated at 6.2 million tons of fuelwood
equivalent (FWE), of which 4.2 million tons FWE was met from fuelwood, 1.8 million tons from
dung cake and 0.2 million tons from commercial sources. Considering the low purchasing power
of the rural population, a significant increase in the use of commercial energy would be unrealistic
in the future. The use of fuelwood and cow dung is expected to continue to predominate.
Project Objectives and Description
7.   Prject Objectves. The project's primary objective was to increase supplies of fuelwood to
rural areas through the establishment of 44,000 ha of plantations located in 12 districts of the State.
Secondary objectives were to provide poles, small timber, fodder grass, fruits, oilseeds and other



3
minor products. To carry out this program the project was to provide training facilities, vehicles,
housing, equipment and additional staff for research and extension activities.
8.   Project Description. During a five year period the project was to:
(a) establish 5,000 ha of village woodlots;
(b) rehabilitate and reforest 17,000 ha of degraded forests;
(c) establish 1,000 ha of strip plantings along roads, canals and railroads;
(d) establish 19,000 ha of farm forestry on private lands;
(e) establish 2,000 ha of plantings on wetlands;
(f) establish additional nurseries to provide planting stock;
(g) expand the existing Forester/Forest Guard schools;
(h) provide forestry staff at the operational and extension levels, including staff to support
publicity, research, training, and monitoring activities;
(i) strengthen research activities, and construct tree seed storage godowns;
(j) develop training of project staff including provision of fellowships; and
(k) carry out a wood balance study.
Prime responsibility for implementation would be with the Social Forestry Wing (SFW) in the
Forestry Department. Total project cost was estimated at US$27.9 million (Rs. 237.4 million), of
which US$0.7 million would be in foreign exchange. The SDR12.5 million credit (US$14 million
equivalent) was to finance 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and 48 percent of the local
costs or 49 percent of the total project costs. The remaining 51 percent was to be financed by the
Government of India (GOI) and the State Government of Jammu and Kashmir.
Project Design and Organization
9.  Project Design. In view of environmental degradation and scarce natural forest resources,
the project concept was well founded and was consistent with the national forest policy,
promoting tree plantings through private and community participation. The project also aimed at
handing over the established plantation to local communities through the panchayat system for
protection, management and utilization.
10. The project was formulated by the Jammu and Kashmir State Forestry Department in 1980
and appraised by the Bank in late 1981. Project preparation was based on methodologies
developed in carrying out the various plantation components with peoples' participation in the
States of Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and West Bengal. Project preparation and appraisal were timely
since postponement would have resulted in greater difficulties and costs, as forest degradation and
social amelioration require fast and immediate reaction. These were adequately considered in the
project design. One distinguishing feature of the project design was its flexibility -- the capability
for making on-site amendment.
11. Main adjustments during project appraisal were: a reduction of the planting targets in the
village woodlots component; strengthening of research, the Publicity and Extension Unit and
training; establishment of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit; hiring consultants to assist SFW in
establishing the Publicity and Extension, and Monitoring and Evaluation Units; and to carry out a
wood balance study. Problems and risks foreseen at appraisal were: (a) the distribution of free
seedlings to farmers might lead to waste; (b) the village panchayats may not be sufficiently
motivated or organized to manage the village woodlot and rehabilitation of degraded forest through
plantations; (c) remote locations and limited availability of accessible community wastelands would



4
delay implementation; and (d) limited experience of the Forestry Department in the area of farm
forestry, and the self-help village woodlot and rehabilitation of degraded forestry components
would hamper implementation of these components.
12. At the design stage, however, prescription for research was highlighted without thoroughly
assessing the capability of the Forestry Research Division. Research could have been improved
and strengthened by engaging local consultants to help the research division in drawing up the
required program and undertake the experiments. The quality standards for nursery and plantation
establishment operations were also not clearly prescribed. Although the need for fodder was
considered in the overall project design for plantings, the improvement of pasture component was
not identified.
13. While plantation establishment was exhaustively considered, subsequent arrangements for
distribution and sharing of forest produce was not adequately prescribed. The extreme need for
management plans was and is now more than ever seriously felt in the context of large growing
stocks. It is a major tool in the stumpage valuation of the plantations, in scheduling the much
required silvicultural treatments and in programming optimal harvest. The forest management plan
is a valuable guide leading to project sustainability.
14. Organization. The organization structure for the SFW, although still having some minor
imperfections, was indeed well thought out. The Chief Conservator of Forests had encompassing
authority, and was entrusted the responsibilities of Project Director. He was assisted by two
distinct groups of line and staff personnel including the field operation unit with a Conservator of
Forest in each circle for Jammu and Kashmir. These field units were complemented by support
staff from headquarters.
15. One of the important and necessary functions of SFW was to win the goodwill and
cooperation of the villagers and the effective conduit was through the panchayats. The structure
and functions of the panchayats seem to have been tailor-fitted to the requirements of the SFW.
Firstly, in the Block Panchayat Board, there is provision for the representation of women.
Secondly, panchayats have two functions, one compulsory, which requires a panchayat to get
involved in the protection of all agricultural lands from floods and erosion, and the other,
discretionary, which is the right to plant trees, including fruit-bearing trees, on wastelands.
SFW's Publicity and Extension Unit, in collaboration with hired motivators, established good
working relationships in demarcating wastelands for social forestry programs. This provided the
complete organizational structure, functional enough for effective implementation of the social
forestry program. The organization, however, was weak in three areas; (a) research; (b)
publicity, extension and training; and (c) monitoring and evaluation which received low priority in
terms of logistics and staffing. These weaknesses were reflected in the prevailing low survival
rates and the considerable number of villagers with little knowledge about project objectives, and
techniques and benefits of the social forestry program. The plan to engage experienced local
consultants to help the SFW in developing operational guidelines for the implementation of
research was never implemented.
Project Implementation
16. Changes to Design. Due to the significant unutilized credit balance at the end of the original
Credit closing date in December 1988, several adjustments were made during the extensions of
closing date between 1988/89 and 1990/91. Durinig these extensions the project was restructured
to strengthen research activities and to increase planting targets, especially for village lands and



5
degraded forest areas, using cheaper and replicable technologies, including resuscitation from
viable rootstocks. The participation of the Village Forest Protection Committees (VFPC) and the
Village Forestry Committees (VFC) in forestry planning, implementation, protection and
operation, were also introduced during these extensions. Planting targets were increased from
44,000 ha to 86,000 ha as follows: village woodlots, from 5,000 ha to 5,800 ha; rehabilitation of
degraded forests, from 17,000 ha to 20,200 ha; strip plantings, from 1,000 ha to 2,300 ha;
wetlands, from 2,000 to 4,100 ha; and farm forestry, 19,000 to 53,600 ha. The improvement of
pasture, designed to alleviate the shortage of fodder for nomads and landless cattle herders, was
introduced in 1988 where stylo and napier grass for fodder production were planted on overgrazed
lands, and institutional plantings were started in 1989 on unproductive and idle lands within the
compounds of government and private institutions. The village panchayats were dissolved in
1984, and, since 1988, forestry protection and management functions became the responsibilities
of village committees. That same year, the guidelines on village micro-planning, and the plantation
technical and management manuals, were introduced.
17. General. The project started promptly in 1981 and the physical achievements exceeded the
targets set at appraisal, but the technical performance of the plantations was below expectations as
indicated by the low survival rates. Poor quality of seedlings, drought, short planting season,
poor maintenance and inadequate protection in early years were major reasons. In subsequent
years the overall performance improved. Poor technology and inadequate extension, however,
persisted. Moreover, due to delay in the approval and recruitment of field staff positions, most of
the plantations were carried out by the Forestry Department's territorial division as a government-
run program with little people's participation. Achievements in farm forestry have far exceeded
expectations but the rate of survival is low due to a lack of follow-up extension services after
distribution of seedlings and planting. Because of the concentration of attention to achieving
targets under the plantation program, the important supportive components were only partially
implemented. SFW was handicapped with inadequate research, training and publicity, and
extension support. Similarly, monitoring and evaluation was not provided with the required
support and inadequate attention was paid to efficient information generation and feedback to
management. Major problems encountered were budget restrictions, delays in approval and
recruitment of the required staff, inadequate staff training, shortages of housing, and problems of
mobility. Shortage of staff housing, though a persistent problem was mitigated by the provision of
rent and travel allowances.
18. There was no doubt about the capability of the SFW to implement a social forestry program
of this magnitude. The deficiency lay in the seemingly low overall response of the villagers,
especially the landless and marginal farmers to the social forestry project. As mentioned earlier,
because the physical target was over-emphasized, the support staff who were supposed to do
extension were mobilized for the operational aspect of the project. Up to this time, the social
forestry project has remained a government-managed program overshadowing the intended wide
scale participation of the villagers.
19. Nurseries. SFW had established and managed a total of 310 nurseries covering an effective
area of about 423 ha and producing a total of 213 million seedlings. There were 196 nurseries in
Jammu and 114 nurseries in Kashmir. By contrast, there were only 27 kissan (private) nurseries
which produced a total of 3 million seedlings. Since there were difficulties in disposing seedlings
especially because accessible areas for tree plantings in farm forestry have become scarce, closure
of some 15 departmental nurseries (8 in Jamimu and 7 in Kashmir) covering 9 ha was necessary.
Most of the species raised (Poplar and Robinia) were limited to fuelwood, pole and timber and the



6
quality was rather low due to poor seedling quality and nursery techniques. This reflected on the
technical capability of the SFW since Poplar technology is reasonably well-developed in India.
20. Plantations. Five plantation components had different conceptual bases for establishment,
management, harvesting, marketing, legal and funding. A total 44,000 ha of plantations were to
be established in 12 districts in the State. All were aimed primarily to increase supplies of
fuelwood to rural areas.
21. Village Woodlots. A total of 5,000 ha of plantations were to be established with emphasis
on fuelwood and fodder species. SFW was to establish plantations for each village panchayat,
maintain the plantations for about five years with the cost to be borne by SFW but local
populations would participate in protecting the plantations and thereafter the village panchayat
would take over management, protection and utilization.
22. A total of 5,934 ha plantations, or 118 percent of the appraisal target, were established by
SFW and maintained for three years with little villagers' and panchayats' participation in
protection. Moreover, SFW began handing over the plantations to VFCs only in 1988-89 (para.
16) rather than to panchayats as envisioned at appraisal (which by 1984 had become a moot issue
after the panchayats had been dissolved for political reasons). The survival rates ranged from 20
percent to 40 percent, the lowest among the components. Problems in dealing with the
panchayats especially in demarcating lands for plantations were partly minimized through the
involvement of VFC. Poor quality seedlings, inadequate maintenance and protection due to lack of
SFW's supervision during outplanting activities were major factors. It was only in 1987 when
fencing and more intensified protection were carried out and plantations attained slightly higher
survival. Close spacing of Im by Im resulted in overcrowding and slow growth.
23. Strip plantatons. SFW  would establish 1,000 ha of plantations along roads, canals and
railways. Villagers nearby would be allowed to collect free of charge grass, fodder, fallen wood
and tree loppings from the plantations in return for helping in the protection of plantations.
Fuelwood would be the dominant species (Poplar, Robinia, Ailanthus) with fruit trees in the
Kashmiri plantations.
24. A total of 2,381 ha was established, or 238 percent of the appraisal target. As in the case
of village woodlots, close spacing of Im by Im and some Im by 1.5m without subsequent
thinning resulted in overcrowding and poor growth. Survival rates were 65 percent in 1982-83
plantations, 78 percent in 1983-84 plantations and 70 percent in 1984-85 plantations. The overall
survival rate was reasonably good at 73 percent.
25. Wetland plantations. About 2,000 ha of plantations was to be established on state-owned
permanently inundated wetlands. Village panchayats which are adjacent to the plantations would
collect fallen wood and tree loppings under the supervision of forestry staff. SFW would recover
its costs from the sale of fuelwood.
26. It was only in this component where 2m by 2m spacing was observed in the 3,431 ha of
established plantations. The survival rate ranged from 60 percent to 70 percent. Anticipated
production of fuelwood would start at Year II and once every 5 years thereafter for two
consecutive productions; small timber at Year 11 and Year 21.



7
27. Farm forestry. A total of 19,000 ha plantations was to be planted on privately-owned
wastelands and field boundaries requiring about 47.5 million seedlings which would be distributed
to farmers free of charge. Replantation density was 2,500 stem per ha on spacing of 2m by 2m.
28. A total of 126 million seedlings were distributed to about 530,000 farmers and 62 institutions
and a total of 49,600 ha were established, or 261 percent of the appraisal target. Approximately
80 percent of beneficiaries who received free seedlings were marginal and small farmers and
have less than 2 ha of land. Most of the participants planted trees primarily for commercial
purpose, and it was in this component that active farmer participation has gone beyond expectation.
However, due to lack of adequate publicity and extension after distribution of seedlings (para. 18),
the spacing was too close and seedlings used were of poor quality resulting in a low survival rate
of about 50 percent. The over-supply of free seedlings to farmers by SFW, in order to achieve
more physical target, likewise led to significant waste and high density of trees per ha.
29. During 1989 and 1990, SFW introduced the distribution of free seedlings with the maximum
limit of 1,000 seedlings per family and a price of Rs.0.37 per bare-root seedling and Rs.0.70 per
seedling in polyethylene bag beyond the limit. However, the distribution of free seedlings was
discontinued and a nominal price of Rs.0.10 per seedling is now in effect. The State government
had recently simplified the procedure for felling of trees on private lands, but restrictions on
transportation act as disincentive to private planting.
30. Rehabilitation of Degraded Forest. A total of 17,000 ha plantations was to be established to
rehabilitate and reforest degraded State-owned forest reserves through replanting with fuelwood,
fodder, grass and bamboo. Labor was to be recruited from nearby panchayats for establishment
and maintenance. Villagers would be free to collect fallen wood, fodder and tree loppings under
the supervision of forestry staff and at first harvest, 25 percent of yield would be given to the
adjacent village panchayats to be distributed to the villagers. In return villagers would refrain from
illegal activities in state owned forests.
31. Achievement was 20,100 ha which exceeded the appraisal target by 18 percent. Close
spacing of Im by Im resulted in overcrowding and poor growth. The survival rate was between
13 percent and 60 percent especially for those plantations established during initial years of the
project.
32. Forestr Education. Various training and educational programmes were implemented. SFW
utilized the facilities of the Soil Conservation Training School in Jammu and Kashmir for
orientation seminars and staff training. A total of 72 Social Forestry Workers and 990 motivators
received training and orientation seminars. Forty foresters received special training which lasted
about 37 weeks and all other staff underwent brief orientation sessions. However, training in
skills related to non-technical aspects of social forestry did not receive adequate attention. In
particular, local participation in planning and execution, communication and participation
techniques should have been focused upon. Advantage was not taken of the potential for
developing a well-trained and motivated cadre of junior staff since Social Forestry Workers will
remain posted in SFW.
33. Local/Overseas Fellowships. SFW was to send senior staff for local and overseas
fellowships in social forestry management and extension. Because training came only in the later
years of project implementation, its impact was limited. Starting in 1988, a total of 38 senior staff
had been sent to mostly ten-day or less workshop/refresher courses on social forestry extension
within India. Only one officer attended an overseas workshop on monitoring and evaluation.



8
34. Research. The research support for SFW remained weak dLue to budget and staff limitations.
The non-hiring of an experienced local consultan1t to guide the Forestry Research Division was
another contributory factor to the ineffective support from research. It was only in 1990 that a
research laboratory was constructed in JammLu and several works have been in progress including
the following: (a) standardization of nursery techniqiues; (b) comparison of the germination of pre-
treated and non-treated Eucalyptus seeds; (c) study of the performance of Eucalyptus hybrid; (d)
germination studies on Dalbergia sisso. Emblica officinalis and fruit trees; (e) sowing studies on
Leucaena leucocephala; and (f) vegetative propagation of 11 forest tree species. The program
included: species selection and provenance trials; growth and yields modelling; and silviculture
management; but no socio-economic studies were undertaken.
35. Extension. Communication and Publicity. Support was provided for the creation of a
Publicity and Communication Unit (PCU) to develop materials and carry out public relations
activities. PCU launched special campaigns, whic'h it developed, during the planting season
through mass media and distributed handouts and pamphlets. PCU and forestry field staff
undertook various types of activities related to motivation and demonstration with farmers, villager
leaders, schools, other government institutions and the public at large. During 1983-90,
community participation programmes were condtucted for 1,347 farmers camps, 178 orientation
sessions, 259 school seminars, 139 field excursions, 330 motivation camps for 1,020 motivators
involved in social forestry activities and 15 drawings sponsored.
36. Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. This unit was created in late 1982 and its performance was
generally satisfactory. It prepared a number of quarterly progress reports and undertook a series of
useful studies related to extension contact, community participation, distribution of benefits, socio-
economic characteristics of the participant beneficialries, and feedback from farmers and community
leaders on SFW's activities. Its work in later years was carried out with the use of the
"Operational Guide to Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Forestry in India" prepared jointly by
the Bank, the Food and Agriculture Organization, and the Central Inspector General of Forest.
However, M&E reports were generally not made available annually due to time taken to collect data
and delays in processing them. Moreover, it appears that the former project management did not
give adequate attention to make use of the findings and recommendations but the situation
improved during the latter part of project implementation. Due to shortage of staff and funds and a
lack of management's attention, the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit has not carried out growth and
yield assessments.
37. Studies. Because of a lack of accurate information on consumption and availability of
fuelwood and forest-based products in the State, a wood balance study was undertaken and
completed in 1987 by the Jammu and Kashmir Directorate of Economics and Statistics. Five
additional studies, including the Nomadic Cattle Grazers, VFC, Eucalyptus marketing, and
Fuelwood Consumption in Srinagar City and Management of Social forestry Plantations, were
undertaken as recommended by the Bank during the implementation period. The wood balance
studies lacked a clear statement on methodology used and merely presented information on the
pros and cons of various methods of determining household energy consumption and future
demand, and the estimated availability of wood products from the natural forests and private
plantations. Information provided in the study on VFC was useful for planning of social forestry
program with people and community participation. Initially there was difficulty in getting long-
term local consultants for the development of the faculty in communication and extension; then
there was reluctance (in both Jammu and Kashmir and in Haryana) to engage them even for short



9
periods, and the reason given was that State officials were receiving training, within and outside
the State, in the same discipline.
38. Participation of Villagers and CommLunity. A model contract between communities and SFW
was developed at appraisal which specified the nature of the participation expected from each party
and the arrangement for cost-benefit sharing. The employment of labor under the project was to
benefit mainly the landless and the disadvantaged sections of the rural population. Regarding
people's participation (paras. 21-25), SFW would encourage villagers' participation and assist
village participants in demarcating wastelands for village woodlots and rehabilitation of degraded
forest plantations, as the panchayats had been dissolved in 1984.
39. The model contract provided a good conceptuall framework for people's participation in the
protection and management, and distribution of benefits but did not specify who the project was
expected to benefit and how the benefits were to be shared, resulting in insufficient attention to
documentation of the beneficiaries, and different views on the distribution of benefits. Generally,
there was little participation of the villagers in the planning and execution of SFWs plantations. At
best, village leaders have been consulted about the site and the responsibilities including selection
of farmers who need seedlings and kissan nurseries and villagers for employment in SFW  's
planting activities. The Monitoring and Evaluation  report indicated that majority of landless,
marginal and small farmers benefited from employmlenit generation and the distribution of seedlings
(para. 28).
40.  Initially, the SFW, with assistance of the Social Forestry Workers, carried out village
woodlot and rehabilitation of degraded forest activities through village panchayats. However, due
to political reasons the village panchayat system was dissolved in 1984, so SFW tended to work
informally with villager leaders. When village woodlots and degraded forest rehabilitation were
established in earlier years, an agreement was nomially, but not always, signed between SFW and
the respective village panchayats. Since 1988 the State issued an order to institutionalize VFCs
and entrust them with the responsibilities of plantation protection and management. To date 145
village forest committees have been formed. Village forest committees formed around village
woodlots have signed agreements with SFW but none of the committees formed around
rehabilitated degraded forests had signed any agreemenits due to lack of clear policy on the rights
of the communities. Moreover, although agreements have been signed with VFCs, in some cases,
the VFC's members do not know about the provisions since these were neither read nor discussed
with them, which indicate a lack of attention given to participation by SFW. The micro-planning
which was supposed to involve people's participation in the development of social forestry
activities has so far not yet started.
41. Though village forest committees have been formed, little effort has been put into the
arrangements for the distribution of benefits between these committees and villagers. Since most
of plantations were mature for harvesting, and more woUld become so, there is an urgent need to
develop such arrangements.
Project Results
42. Overall, the project achieved its main objectives. In addition to implementing a large-scale
social forestry program in 12 districts, the project also contributed to increasing skilled manpower
for forestry development and awareness of the rur1al population in forest protection and
environmental conservation. By 1990, the project had generated a total of about 15 million man-
days of employment compared to 12 million mandays estimated at appraisal. However, though a



10
majority of the poorer segments of the population benefited from employment, women accounted
for only 3 percent. About 530,000 farmers benefited from the distribution of seedlings, of
which 80 percent have less than 2 ha of land. Despite the low survival rates, growth and yields
of all the plantations, the expected increase of wood production is estimated to be about 8.6 million
tons compared with the appraisal estimate of about 10.6 million tons. There would be about 3.8
million tons of fuelwood, 4.6 million tons of small timber, 0.2 million ton of fodder and grass,
and 44,000 tons of leaves. At appraisal, these were estimated to be 4.2 million tons of fuelwood,
5.0 million tons of small timber, 414,000 tons of fodder, 836,000 tons of fruits, 105,000 tons of
leaf charcoal and 64 million pieces of bamboo/poles. The significantly lower production, despite
86 percent increase in the planting areas, is due mainly to the extremely low plantation survival
rates, growth and yields brought about by a combination of low site quality, poor silvicultural
treatment and poor seedling quality. The reported raltes of survival were 40 percent for village
woodlots and rehabilitated degraded forests, 50 percent for farm forestry, 65 percent for
wetlands and 70 percent for strip plantations. The aInnIal yields at harvest are estimated to be 2.2
t/ha for fuelwood, 2 t/ha for small timber, 0.3 t/hal for fodder and grass compared with the
appraisal estimates of 2.2-7.5 t/ha for fuelwood, 5-15 t/ha for small timber, 0.1- 4.0 t/ha for
fodder and grass. There is no production of bamboo due to non-availability of bamboo seedlings,
while production of fruits would be insignificant. To date, the most common benefit received from
village woodlots and rehabilitated degraded forests are fodder and grass, and in almost all cases
local villagers can cut and carry without charge.
43. The financial and economic analysis was undertaken in 1990 constant prices. The financial
cost and benefit streams of the five plantation mocdels are presented in Attachment 1, Tables 1-5.
Survival rates, growth and yields of plantations were based on sample surveys conducted by the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. The establishment and maintenance costs were based on SFW's
actual costs incurred in 1990. The financial value of forest produce was calculated using the
average financial stumpage prices prevailing in the project areas. The results of financial analyses
calculated over a period of 21 years, show the estimated financial rates of return (FRR) at 32
percent for the farm forestry, 23 percent for village woodlots, 17 percent for the wetlands
plantation, 16.5 percent for the strip plantation and 1 2 percent for rehabilitated degraded forest
plantation. The economic re-evaluation was carried out over a period of 30 years. All project costs
incurred during the implementation period were included in the analysis and adjusted to 1990
constant prices by using the wholesale price index as shown in Attachment 1, Table 6. Local costs
and unskilled labor were further adjusted into border price by applying the Standard Conversion
Factor (SCF) of 0.80 and Specific Conversion Factor of 0.60 respectively. Recurrent costs after
project completion, excluding fellowships, Monitoring and Evaluation, and studies, have been
assumed at 25 percent of its 1990 actual costs. The economic benefits of forest produce were
valued at the financial prices adjusted by SCF of 0.80. The economic cost and benefit streams of
the Jammu and Kashmir sub-project are presented in Attachment 1, Table 7. The result of the
analysis show a re-estimated economic rate of retUrn (ERR) of 14 percent, which is 20 percent
lower than the appraisal estimate of 34 percent. The lower ERR is due mainly to the
substantially low survival rates, growth and yields, delayed benefits and cost overrun.
44. Impact. The impact of the project is examined against the following background: (a) the
topography of Jammu and Kashmir is rugged and the State experiences extremes of climatic
changes; (b) the highly diverse socio-economic and cultural backgrounds of the population resulted
in varying perceptions, needs and attitudes towards environnmental rehabilitation and management;
(c) the organizational and institutional aspects for implementation was satisfactorily defined; and
(d) the project components were implemented in different agro-climatic zones -- flat lands, sloping
to mountainous areas. Viewed in this light, the project, despite its setbacks, managed to proceed in



11
accordance with the schedules and targets. It also served the varied purposes of evolving interest
among the rural population in community forestry development. The establishment of about
49,000 ha of farm forestry and 27 kissan nurseries increased people's participation in planting
trees and establishing private nurseries by landless and marginal farmers. The establishment of
plantations in rehabilitated degraded forests and the improvement of pasture areas created forestry
awareness among nomads.
45. The increased production of wood products from the lowland plantations and the
employment generated by the project helped reduce exploitative human activities on the already
degraded environment. Correspondingly, the nutrient cycling by the community plantations will
progressively improve soil build-up most especially in the higher slopes. Rainfall interception by
the forest canopy and litter will likewise cushion the impact of throughfalls protecting the ground
surface from the scouring effects of rain, at the same time increasing percolation, retarding
downslope movement of water which otherwise would result in sheet and gully erosion. The
increased percolation recharges aquifers which gradually release water in the form of springs that
feed waterways and irrigation systems. The increase in supply of water in the lowlands helps the
agricultural system and improve land productivity. SFW's plantations, if allowed to develop
progressively, would result in the stability and productivity of the agricultural system which
stabilizes the human settlements. The magnitude of the social forestry program definitely has a
corresponding broader impact on the social as well as economic well-being of the local people.
Project Sustainability
46. SFW has successfully implemented the first large-scale social forestry program through
various schemes with the Bank's assistance. During the implementation period, the public
demands for this program and community awareness of the environmental conservation have
grown beyond expectations although active community participation had not proceeded to the
anticipated levels. SFW has demonstrated its capability to implement its present program and even
an expanded social forestry programme in the future. However, qualitative aspects of program
implementation remain weak. The organizational weaknesses in research, training and extension,
and monitoring and evaluation, have resulted in poor service to farmers. Despite the fact that most
of the established plantations were and more would become mature for harvesting, little effort has
been put into the distribution of benefits and marketing of produce. These are critical to the
sustainability of the established plantations. The concept of handing over the plantations on
community and forest lands to the community for protection and management had not been
effectively implemented until 1988-89 when these responsibilities were entrusted to village forest
committees in place of the panchayats. To date 145 of these committees have been formed and
informal agreements on benefit sharing between them and the SFW  were arranged for committees
formed around rehabilitated degraded forest areas. But forest management plans and the formal
agreement for distribution and sharing of benefits between the committees and its villagers have yet
to be signed and intensive training are required for both SFW and committee staff in order to
ensure their capability to properly sustain the plantations.
Bank Performance
47. A total of ten missions were fielded with appropriate staff specialists. However, lack of staff
continuity and coordination resulted in differing views, and disjointed recommendations had made
it difficult for the Borrower to fully benefit from such missions' suggestions. Generally, the
intervals between missions were appropriate. Recognizing the urgency and importance of the
project, the Bank remained flexible and when the Government needed more time for project



12
completion, it granted the requests for extension. This allowed the Government to plan its
activities and achieve the physical targets. Overall, Bank's assistance to the Government from
project appraisal to its completion had been beneficial.
48. The following Bank's recommendations to the Government of Jammu and Kashmir were
helpful and useful:
(a) setting a limit on number of seedlings distributed to marginal farmers and pricing of
seedlings to minimize waste and to ensure proper maintenance and protection of
plantings;
(b) involvement of rural people in the planning and execution of the social forestry program,
and the introduction of the village micro-planning;
(c) preparation of forestry management plans for different agro-climatic zones and
plantations, and arrangements for distribution and sharing of benefits between VFC and
villagers;
(d) to carry out plantation growth and yields assessments;
(e) to carry out social, economic and technical studies to monitor farmer beneficiaries,
people's participation, plantation performance, as well as a wood balance study, in the
State and;
(f) to undertake research on nursery techniques, species, plantation/ silvicultural studies.
49. There were, however, some areas where the Bank should have given closer attention even
before the start of the project and during implementation:
(g) hiring of consultants to provide technical guidance in planning and execution of technical
operations in project implementation;
(h) specification of quality standards for nursery operation and plantation establishment;
(i) providing a methodology to arrive at a common approach in estimating the area of the
established plantations which remained a nagging problem. This was compounded by
the absence of an operational map even in the district level so that targets and boundaries
could have been delineated along natural features making ground verification more
convenient and reliable. The role of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit in this regard
was very important in enforcing adherence to quantity standards and specification;
(j) supportive components should have been given equal priority with plantation operations.
Experience in Jammu and Kashmir showed that implementation of research, extension
and peoples' participation lagged far behind and remained weak and;
(k) preparation of plantation management plans for different plantations in each agro-
climatic zone and the arrangements for distribution and sharing of benefits should have
been a condition for Credit extension.



13
Borrower Performance
50. The Borrower performed satisfactorily during project preparation and implementation. SFW
has shown its capability to implement a large-scale social forestry project. It introduced important
innovations in the improvement of pasture and institutional planting schemes compatible with the
primary objective. In spite of the constraints in counterpart financing and staffing, and the
comparatively difficult topography, SFW was able to achieve its physical targets. It had to deal
with national, State, district and local Government institutions, which at times had conflicting
views on land use for village woodlots, restrictions on extraction of forest products from the
natural forests and private plantations resulting in some degree of delays and inconvenience. The
overall project coordination through the State and District Policy Review Committees was adequate
and beneficial for annual program planning. However, implementation of the supportive
components were not given adequate priority and remained weak throughout the implementation
period. Financial and staff resources and training and extension were deployed below the required
level. Consultant services were never provided to the extent required for the development of
programs for research, communication and extension, monitoring and evaluation. Little attention
has been given to involve villagers in planning and execution of plantations and the distribution of
benefits.
51. The Borrower substantially complied with the Credit covenants and the Bank's
recommendations during supervision missions (para. 48). However, late submission of the
certificate of audit reports delayed approval of Credit extension and disbursements. Delays in
issuing an order for the formation of VFC and policy on the distribution of benefits between VFC
and villagers had greatly affected the community participation. The Borrower has so far failed to
prepare plantation management plan and growth and yield assessments, but partially complied with
the provision of staff housing. The latter had minimal effect on implementation.
Project Relationship
52. The Bank, through its Resident Mission, maintained good relationships with the Central
Government and the Government of Jammu and Kashmir. This relationship was particularly
useful and significant when the Borrower was unable to utilize 50 percent of the Credit by the
end of the original Credit closing date in December 1988. The Bank responded quickly to
Government's request to extend the project implementation period by three years and to increase
the disbursement rates. The Bank initiated low-cost technology for soil and water conservation
and its assistance in the preparation of the plantation technical manual, and the guidelines on the
village micro-planning and monitoring and evaluation (para. 48) were useful and appreciated by the
Borrower.
Consultant Services
53. Funds for 120 man-months of local consultancy time were provided to cover monitoring and
evaluation, communication and extension. Due to budget constraints and lack of attention in SFW,
only a few local consultants were utilized for studies (para. 37). The data and findings proved
useful for the planning of social forestry activities. Under Central and State governments'
procedure of local competitive bidding, no difficulty was encountered for the construction of
buildings and procurement of vehicle and equipment.



14
Project Documentation and Data
54. The main documents governing project implementation were the Staff Appraisal Report and
its project files and the legal documents. These documents were generally well prepared and
provided useful conceptual frameworks for the Bank and the Borrower to implement the project
and monitor its progress. However, the Staff Appraisal Report did not provide sufficient
operational guidelines on the implementation of the research program, the identification of
beneficiaries, the role of community, the mechanism for distribution of benefits, monitoring and
evaluation of the project, including growth and yields.
B. HARYANA STATE SUB-PROJECT
Background
55. The State of Haryana, with an area of 44,212 kM2, has a population of 16.3 million, of
which 80 percent live in rural areas spread over nearly 7,000 villages. About 20 percent of the
population is scheduled castes. Since its formation in 1966, the State has made excellent progress
in increasing agricultural production, which in 1988/89 accounted for 45 percent of its total State
income and 65 percent of its employment. With an annual per capita income of US$300 (1988),
Haryana is ranked second among the Indian States.
56. The total forest area in Haryana increased from 1,600 km2 in 1981 (3.7 percent of the total
geographical area) to about 3,400 km2 in 1988 (7.7 percent). About 50 percent of the present
forest area is plantation and about 35 percent in narrow strips along roads, canals, railways and
embankments. Most forests are of the northern tropical deciduous type. In 1986/87, forestry's
contribution to State income was estimated at 1 percent. These figures, however, took no
account of the considerable quantities of fuelwood, small timber, thatching grass and medicinal
herbs taken by villagers as well as illicit felling. Total wood production from the State forests was
46,000 m3 of timber and 187,000 m3 of fuelwood. In addition, minor forest products were
extracted, including bamboo, gum/resin and fruits. So far, nearly two-thirds of the land available
along roads, rails and canals have been planted to trees. Most wastelands belonging to panchayats
have also been planted to trees, but a substantial amount of village common lands and wastelands
is still available in the southern part of the State. These areas have been affected by alkali/saline
(600,000 ha), mobile sand dunes (620,000 ha), and forest degradation (200,000 ha) in the
Shiwalik and its foothills and the Aravalli hills, which need to be improved and protected from
further environmental degradation.
57. Haryana's domestic energy requirement is met primarily by fuelwood and cow dung.
Although all villages are electrified, commercial sources of energy are too costly for widespread
use as domestic fuel, and these sources supply only about 5 percent of the total needs. In 1979
total annual energy consumption in Haryana was estimated at 12 million tons of fuelwood
equivalent (FWE), of which only 0.5 million tons FWE was met from commercial energy and the
balance from fuelwood (8 million tons FWE) and cow dung (3.5 million tons FWE). Due to low
per capita income of the rural populations a significant increase in the household use of commercial
energy cannot be expected in the near future. The use of fuelwood and cow dung is expected to
continue to predominate.



15
Project Objectives and Description
58. Project Objecties. The project's primary objective was to increase the supplies of fuelwood
to rural areas through the establishment of 67,000 ha of plantations located in all 12 districts (now
16) of the State. Secondary objectives were to provide poles, small timber, fodder grass, fruits,
oilseeds and other minor products. In order to carry out this program, the project provided for
training facilities, vehicles, housing, equipment and additional staff for research and extension
activities.
59. Project Description. During a six-year period the project was to:
(a) establish 12,000 ha of village woodlots;
(b) establish 500 ha of plantations on alkali lands;
(c) establish 9,500 ha of strip plantings along roads, canals and railroads.
(d) establish 30,000 ha of farm forestry on private land;
(e) establish 15,000 ha of plantations on sand dunes;
(f) establish additional nurseries to provide planting stock;
(g) expand the existing Forester/Forest Guard Schools;
(h) provide forestry staff at the operational and extension levels, including staff to support
publicity, research, training and monitoring activities;
(i) strengthen research activities, and construct seed godowns;
(j) develop training of project staff including provision of fellowships; and
(k) carry out a wood balance study.
60. Prime responsibility for implementation would be with the Social Forestry Wing (SFW) of
the Forestry Department. Total project cost was estimated at US$39.2 million (Rs. 333.1 million),
of which US$0.7 million would be in foreign exchange costs. The Credit of US$19 million
(SDR15.2 million) was to finance 100 percent of foreign exchange costs and 48 percent of the
local costs making up in all 49 percent of the total project cost. The remaining 51 percent was to
be financed by GOI and the State Government of Haryana (GOH).
Project Design and Organization
61. Project Design. In view of the environmental degradation and scarce natural forest
resources, the underlying assumptions and concept of the project were to increase supplies of
fuelwood, small timber and fodder for rural populations. The project concept was well-founded
and consistent with the national forest policy which promoted tree plantings through private and
community participation. Rehabilitation of degraded forests was introduced in 1988 and
afforestation of saline and alkaline lands augmented. The project also aimed at handing over the
established plantations to local communities through the village panchayat system for protection
and management.
62. The project was formulated by the Haryana Forestry Department in 1980 and appraised by
the Bank in late 1981. The design of the project was based on earlier methodologies developed and
experiences gained in carrying out various plantations with various levels of people's participation
in other States. The design had also drawn lessons from earlier experiences of the Forestry
Department in implementing social forestry programs since 1960. The substantial area of
wastelands in the southern portion of Haryana available for tree plantations was considered in the
project design. These areas included the vast sand dunes and saline/alkali lands needing
stabilization and rehabilitation. Besides tree plantations, there was little or no appropriate



16
technological package suitable for the environmental development and conservation of the degraded
forest area.
63. Main adjustments during project appraisal were: reduction of planting targets in the
saline/alkali lands; strengthening of research, communication/extension and training; establishment
of the Publicity and Extension, and the Monitoring and Evaluation Units, hiring of local
consultants to assist SFW in establishing such units; and to carry out a wood balance study.
Problems and risks foreseen at appraisal were that: (a) village panchayats may not be sufficiently
motivated or organized to protect and manage the self-help village woodlots and strip plantations;
(b) limited experience in the Forestry Department to implement the saline/alkali plantations; and
(c) potential difficulties in obtaining State's approval for adequate fund and staff for a larger scale
program. These necessitated establishment of both the Monitoring and Evaluation, and Publicity
and Extension Units to monitor performance of the project's various plantations, and people's
participation, and strengthen various forestry programs of education, training, publicity and
extension, as well as revitalization of SFW staffing.
64. The strip plantation component was terminated in 1988 because its activities overlapped with
the regular operations of the territorial forestry divisions in Forestry Department. Rehabilitation of
degraded forests was included during the project extension period in order to address the
environmental problems in the foothills of the Shiwalik. Implementation of this new component led
to innovations in social forestry which resulted in increased supplies of fuelwood, fodder and
grass to the poorer sections of the population and in reducing soil erosion and water run-off
resulting in improvement of land productivity (para. 80). The group farm forestry was another new
approach in the social forestry program. SFW organized villagers in saline/alkali- and sand dune-
affected lands into contiguous blocks for tree plantations to take turns in maintaining and protecting
the plantations. This approach is similar to the group farm forestry initiated by SFW in West
Bengal.
65. At the design stage, however, prescriptions for research was highlighted without thoroughly
assessing the capability of the Forestry Research Division. The required research programs to
support nursery and plantation operations were also not adequately identified. Similarly, the
arrangements for distribution and sharing of forest produce and the forest management plans,
which valuable elements of project sustainability, were not prescribed. Later however the State
Agricultural University at Hissar was involved in various related contract research and
consultations between the SFW and the Central Saline Soil Research Institute in Karnal concerning
saline and alkaline soils were held.
66. Organization. The organizational structure of SFW was reasonably sound. The successful
implementation of the social forestry program depended very much on the effectiveness of social
forestry staff whose main responsibility was to work with rural people and motivate them towards
greater participation in community forestry. The Publicity and Extension Unit, in collaboration
with Village Forestry Workers, established a good working relationship with village panchayats
and farmers in demarcating marginal and wastelands for the self-help village woodlots and the
saline/alkali and sand dune plantations. SFW's Staffing details are provided in Part III, Table 10.
This provided the complete organizational structure, functional enough for effective implementation
of social forestry programs. However, the recommended staffing and training were not fully
provided for research, publicity and extension, and monitoring and evaluation, which resulted in
poor generation of technical information to guide operational staff in carrying out project activities,
inadequate motivation and extension to foster peoples' participation in forest protection and
management, and inadequate assessment of the project performance. Due to budget constraints,



17
the staffing position of SFW at project completion was only 71 percent of the requirement
envisaged at appraisal.
Project Implementation
67. Changes to Design.. Due to a significant unutilized credit balance at the end of the original
credit closing date in December 1988, several physical, organizational and institutional
adjustments to the project were made during the extension period between 1988/89 and 1990/91.
Main purpose of such adjustments were to enlarge the planting program, to address the
environmental problems, to strengthen forestry support activities, and to encourage community
participation in project planning and plantation establishment, protection and management. The
planting targets were increased from 67,000 ha to 98,400 ha as follows: village woodlots, from
17,000 ha to 23,700 ha; sand dune stabilization, from 15,000 ha to 19,000 ha; saline/alkali, from
500 ha to 4,700 ha; and farm forestry, from 30,000 ha to 38,500 ha. The strip plantation
component under the project was terminated in 1988 and transferred to the territorial forestry
divisions in the Forestry Department and the rehabilitation of degraded forests was initiated
through the in-situ soil and water conservation activities in the Shiwalik foot hills on sloping areas.
This was done by digging staggered trenches and planting forest trees with 2m x 4m spacing and
grasses at Im x lm.
68. General. The project started promptly in 1981 and the physical achievements exceeded
appraisal targets. The plantations had a relatively high survival rate of about 80 percent. SFW
succeeded in establishing a total plantation of 104,000 ha, including 38,000 ha of farm forestry, or
155 percent of the appraisal target of 67,000 ha. Similar to social forestry projects in other states,
the plantations on government and community wasteland remained essentially a government-
executed program with limited community participation. Due to lack of attention, budget
restrictions, delay in the approval and recruitment of staff, and inadequate training, several support
activities were only partially implemented. From the beginning, the support role of nursery
research and plantation operations was inadequate. There was no training plan for field staff in
communication, extension techniques and a better understanding of the needs of intended target
groups. The Publicity and Extension had not been effective due to weak coordination with staff at
field levels. Community participation had been mainly in terms of panchayat members being
consulted by SFW about site selection and employment.
69. Nursery. The nursery requirements were based on the area coverage of the plantation
components by district as follows: village woodlots in seven districts; sand dune stabilization in
six districts; saline/alkali plantations in four districts; farm forestry in seven districts and
rehabilitation of degraded forests in three districts. In each district at least one department's central
nursery was established with many subsidiary nurseries. Many kissan nurseries were also
established with SFW 's assistance. A total of 1,784 nurseries were established which produced a
total of about 180 million seedlings. SFW had established 163 nurseries producing about 120
million seedlings, while 1,523 nurseries were established by farmers (kissan) and 98 nurseries
established by schools, together producing a total of 40 million seedlings (para. 74). Most of
seedlings raised (Eucalyptus. Poplar. Dalbergia. Acacia tortiles and Prosopis juliflora. Acacia
nilotica. etc.) were species for fuelwood, poles and small timber. Fruit trees of seed origin were
also supplied. The nursery operations remained poor due to low quality seedlings and nursery
techniques.
70. Plantations. 67,000 ha was to be established in 12 districts (now 16 districts). All
components were aimed primarily to increase the supplies of fuelwood, poles and small timber to



18
rural areas. About 104,000 ha of plantations were established and its technical performance was
good as indicated by the high survival rates ranging from 80 percent to 90 percent.
71. Vil age Woodlio. 12,000 ha of plantations was to be established. SFW was to establish a
plantation in each village panchayat, maintain the plantation for 5 years with local people's
participation in protection. Starting in the fifth year, protection and maintenance would be the
responsibility of the village Panchayat (para. 89).
72. A total of 25,293 ha of plantations were established, or 210 percent of the appraisal target.
Main species planted were Acacias on public lands and Eucalyptus on private lands. The average
survival rate was good at 80 percent. Conflicting views of village panchayats over the use of
village or community lands resulted in delay in the plantation establishment in some areas which,
however, was minimized through more consultations between SFW and the village panchayats.
73. Strip plantations. A total of 9,500 ha of plantations were to be established along roads,
canals and railways. The plantations would be owned by the Forestry Department but villages
adjacent to the strip plantations were allowed to collect grass, fodder, fallen wood and tree
loppings free of charge while helping SFW in protecting the plantations (para. 89). By 1987, a
total of 9,500 ha of plantations were established, slightly exceeding the appraisal target. Most
species planted were Eucalyptus and the spacing was at 2m x 3m. Cattle intrusion and browsing
were the main problems during implementation but these were minimized by leaving open spaces
for cattle passage ways.
74. Farm Forestry. At appraisal it was estimated that about 75 million seedlings (2,500 per ha)
would be distributed to owners of private wasteland for plantings on about 30,000 ha. SFW was
to provide seedlings free of charge and to transport them to distribution points in village
panchayats. Priority would be small farmers with less than 2 ha of land holdings. A total of
about 87 million seedlings were distributed to about 171,000 farmers for the planting areas of
40,200 ha. Of the total seedlings distributed, about 40 percent and 50 percent reached marginal
and small farmers, respectively. Main species were Eucalyptus and Poplar. The planting spacing
was 2m by 3m for both species. The average survival was good at 90 percent. The problem lay
not only in how to motivate people towards farm forestry but also to regulate the conversion of
good agricultural lands into pure tree plantations which was, and is, contrary to the State's aim of
increasing food production. Initially, the farm forestry appealed more to large farmers, especially
the absentee landowners, who used their lands for tree plantings to prevent encroachment by
landless and marginal farmers. Small and marginal farmers joined later. The study conducted by
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit indicated that about 80 percent of the total seedlings distributed
by SFW were planted on lands which were previously cropped, and 25 percent of farmers who
had taken seedlings diverted agricultural lands to tree plantings. Initially, SFW started distributing
free seedlings to all recipients. In 1984 SFW distributed seedlings with an upper limit of 400 per
family to marginal and small farmers and charged a nominal price of Rs.0. 15 per seedling to large
farmers and institutions. However, since 1985, due to administrative difficulties in managing the
system, SFW stopped the distribution of free seedlings and introduced a uniform seedling price of
Rs.0.25 per seedling to all recipients. However, seedlings continue to be subsidized so that the
activity is not self-sustaining.
75. Sand dune stabilization. SFW was to establish 15,000 ha of plantations on sandy individual
or panchayat-owned lands. SFW would establish at least 15 ha of plantations for each sand dune
woodlot and provide for water transport since water was scarce on the site. The establishment and
maintenance costs over a period of three years would be borne by SFW which would expect to



19
recover these costs from the first major harvest. However, afforestation of private sand dunes
with project funds continued which should have been borne by the owner.
76. SFW established a total 20,270 ha of sand dune plantations, or 135 percent of the appraisal
target. Most of the areas were planted to Acacia tortilis with 2m x 4m spacing. Trees attained an
average survival rate of 80 percent. Castor seeds were interplanted as nurse crop during the first
2-3 years to minimize the adverse effects of frost on the trees. It was in the sand dune plantations
where SFW has shown its capability to grow trees even in very hot, dry and drought conditions.
77. Due to difficulties in motivating village panchayats, most of the plantations were established
on private lands where a group of farmers, mostly large farmers, with contiguous stretch
wastelands, organized themselves for tree plantations. Therefore, there were no socially related
problems encountered during project implementation. The stabilization effects of tree planted in the
sand dune areas showed desirable impact in holding the soil-sand mixture. However, the size of
each plantation in many areas appeared to be too small to have adequate impact on stabilizing sand
dune in adjacent agricultural lands.
78. Saline/Alkali Lands. A pilot scheme of 500 ha of plantations was to be established on
saline/alkali affected private or panchayat lands. SFW was to establish, maintain and protect the
pilot plantations and all costs were to be borne by SFW. The performance of the plantations would
be carefully monitored by the Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSRI) at Karnal. SFW was
also to provide funds to meet the costs of materials and equipment for establishing trials and
monitoring of results (para. 83).
79. Physical achievements of 5,142 ha of plantations has far exceeded the appraisal target. The
implementation has also gone beyond the pilot scheme. SFW has adopted the farmer group
approach which was workable under the sand dune stabilization component and would recover the
establishment and maintenance costs, excluding the cost of seedlings, free of interest from
participants. The plantations were established using saline resistant species such as Prosopis
juliflora. Terminalia arjuna and Acacia nilotica as the main species for fuelwood. The problem
with juliflora was its long spines, although it was found to thrive well on the site. Another
species, Tamarix articulata was planted in 1988-89 and was found adaptable to saline/alkali lands.
Spacing of 4m x 2m was observed in saline/alkali land plantings and a survival rate of about 90
percent was obtained. Pit preparation was necessary to assure survival but besides being
cumbersome and tedious, it was also costly. A pit is normally 120 cm deep and 20 cm wide,
requiring an exacting soil mixture of 3 kg gypsum, 8 kg manure, 10 kg silt and the rest to fill the
pit consisting of local soils. To overcome the tedious pit preparation, a mechanical auger with a
diameter of 20 cm attached to a farm tractor was tried and found to be more efficient and effective.
80. Rehabilitation of Degraded Forests. This was an innovation introduced by the Bank in 1988
with the primary objective of controlling erosion and enhancing water conservation. A total of
about 3,510 ha were established using various species mostly Acacia spp. Cedrela, and Dalbergia
spp. with spacing of 3m x 4 m. No serious problems were encountered during implementation.
Staggered trenches with grass plantings were the main features of this component which is the
mainstay of the in-situ water and soil conservation techniques. The plantations attained an average
survival rate of about 80 percent. The work carried out was impressive and proved to generate
immediate benefits in terms of fuelwood and grass.
81. Forestry Education. The training program did not proceed as anticipated at appraisal nor did
the GOH sanction the required posts in the forestry schools. Moreover, no consultant was hired to



20
assist in developing the training course for the Village Forestry Workers. 580 new recruits were
trained at Pinjore using the syllabus for forest guards. In addition, 35 Deputy Rangers and 98
Foresters were trained at the Forestry Training School at Pinjore. Twenty women were recruited
during the first half of the project but none of them attended training at Pinjore. The women's
dormitory constructed under the project was, therefore, never used by women but by men trainees.
82. LocaVOverseas Fellowships and Training. During project implementation, five SFW staff
were sent for overseas courses of more than 8 weeks in the UK where three attended a course on
social forestry and two attended a course on land survey and planning. In addition, six other staff
were also sent overseas for about two weeks of study tours and seminars on social forestry. Two
fellowships were given for a diploma course in social forestry at the India Forest Research Institute
in Dehradun. This appeared to be a particularly good course and appropriate people were selected
to attend. In addition, a wide range of staff from SFW attended local workshops on social forestry
from 2 to 17 days duration. In a few instances the same persons were sent to more than one
course or workshop. A total of 55 staff benefitted from attending various courses and workshops.
However, teaching staff at Pinjore, with a few exceptions, have benefited neither from overseas
nor local fellowships and training.
83. Research. Throughout the implementation period, research remained weak. Although SFW
felt the need for research support, budget, staff and logistics were not sufficient for a functional
and effective research unit. There was also a lack of a clear direction on research methodology
although a framework was prepared by the Bank at appraisal. It was only during the project
extension period that the cooperative efforts between SFW and the Department of Agro-forestry in
the Haryana Agricultural University have been formalized and some meaningful research work was
undertaken. The success of SFW in its saline/alkali lands rehabilitation activities was among the
few impressive results of forceful research undertaking. A number of research programs had also
been drawn up including the silvicultural studies (nursery and plantations), management (rotation,
growth and yield studies), agro-forestry (cropping intensity in combination with forest species),
biomass utilization (alternative uses of other products aside from wood), protection, wildlife
management, and socio-economic studies.
84. Extension. Communication and Publicity. Support was provided for the creation of two
Publicity and Communications Units to develop materials and carry out public relations activities.
Eight Publicity Officers were to be employed in each of the eight divisions to coordinate all the
publicity activities. The staff complementarity was to be reinforced by field staff from other
divisions so that PCU was able to reach farmers with motivational messages through mass media.
Funds were also provided for a local consultant to help in developing publicity and extension
programmes.
85. Only one unit was established at Ambala District in the northern forestry circle. Two Chief
Publicity Officers and two Publicity Officers were recruited but the local consultant was never
hired. Nevertheless, the Unit carried out a commendable program. It trained 27,362 farmers (11
percent women) at one-day farmer camps, provided motivational and instructional training to 2,738
school teachers (27 percent women), and 3,845 village volunteers workers in the Ministry of
Human Resources. Through mass media and public relations activities, it had created an awareness
among policymakers and village leaders.
86. To expand extension coverage at the village level, the Unit was drawn into working with the
extension network where the Greening of Haryana Program was launched in 1990. The Unit had
developed monthly extension messages to be communicated to farmers through the network.



21
However, the extent to which the messages were passed through the network had not yet been
studied. With the emphasis given to tree plantings under the Greening of Haryana Program, it is
likely that some extension agents have used these messages.
87. Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. This Unit was established in 1982 but its efforts were
hampered by serious shortages of staff and a lack of guidelines on monitoring and evaluation. The
reports produced were not made available on time due to delays in data analyses and report
finalization. Moreover, inadequate attention was given by management in utilizing the findings of
the analyses in project planning and implementation. Nevertheless, the Unit's work in the latter
part of project period was carried out with the use of the "Operations Guideline to the Monitoring
and Evaluation of Social Forestry in India" prepared jointly by the Bank, FAO and the Office of the
Inspector General of Forests of India. The Monitoring and Evaluation Unit produced one
comprehensive report in 1990. The surveys included plantation survival rates in one district,
people's participation and selected growth and yield assessments. The Unit could have preformed
better had the services of an experienced consultant been availed of in developing a Monitoring and
Evaluation Guideline in the earlier years of the project.
88. Studies. At appraisal funds were provided a socio-economic study and a wood balance
study to provide a data base for planning of social forestry development activities in the State. A
wood balance study was carried out by the National Council of Applied Economic Research in
1986-87 and published in 1988. The study, however, did not define the methodology used and
merely presented information on the pros and cons of various methods of determining household
energy consumption, future demand, and the estimated availability of forest products from the
State forests and private plantations. Due to SFW's lack of attention, the socio-economic study
was not undertaken.
89. Participation of Villagers and Community. The Model Contract between communities and
SFW was developed at appraisal which specified the nature of the participation expected from each
party and the arrangement for cost-benefit sharing. It pointed out that the distribution of seedlings
for private plantings and the right to gather minor produce from plantations on government and
community lands would particularly benefit the poor. The employment of labor under the project
was to benefit mainly the landless and the disadvantaged sections of the rural population.
Regarding community's participation, SFW would encourage villagers' participation and assist
village panchayat in demarcating wastelands for village woodlots and plantations for rehabilitation
of degraded forests. SFW was to establish the plantations and maintain them for five years but
local people would participate in protection and thereafter the villagers and village panchayats
would take over the full responsibilities and rights over the management, protection and
utilization. After SFW's recovery of the direct cost of a plantation, excluding the cost of
seedlings, from the first major harvest, the remaining sale revenues would be given to the village
panchayat for use in either financing public works or establishing additional village woodlots.
Villagers would be allowed to collect fallen wood and tree loppings from plantations and share a
minimum of 25 percent of the harvestable yields. Regarding the strip plantation, in exchange for
protection, villagers would be permitted to collect minor forest produce, fallen twigs and leaves,
and to cut and carry grass free of charge. At every thinning/harvesting, the net proceeds from
sales, after deducting the plantation and maintenance costs, would be given to village panchayats
and villagers adjacent to the plantations.
90. The Contract Model provided a good conceptual framework for people's participation in the
protection, management and distribution of benefits but did not specify the beneficiaries and how
the benefits would be distributed, resulting in insufficient attention being given to documentation



22
of the beneficiaries and different views on the distribution of benefits. Throughout the
implementation period, with the exception of village leaders, there has been generally very little
participation of the villagers in the planning and execution of SFW's plantation. At best, village
leaders have been consulted about the site and the responsibilities including selection of farmers
who needed seedlings and kissan nurseries and villagers for employment in SFW's planting
activities. The Monitoring and Evaluation report indicated that the landless and majority of
marginal and small farmers benefitted from employment generation and the distribution of
seedlings.
91. Initially, people's participation has mainly been through consultations between SFW and
village panchayats. In some cases the agreements were signed, otherwise there was only a general
discussion. With the introduction of the village micro-planning in the last three years of project
implementation, more attention had been given to involve villagers in the selection of species
desired.
92. Since village panchayats have numerous functions, greater attention to forest protection was
shifted to the VFPCs, a sub-committee of the village panchayat, which were institutionalized
under the State's Order in 1990. Although there were about 3,700 villages involved in 63,500 ha
of SFW's plantations on government/community lands, to date only 160 VFPCs have been formed
and some 7,300 ha of three year old plantations were handed over to them. However, because the
plantations which were handed over were not adequately protected and maintained, SFW had
decided to hand over the plantations after five years when trees are fully established. The need for
the SFW to continue to protect the plantations also suggests the insufficient involvement of the
local people in planning and managing the plantation. Furthermore, members of VFPCs have not
yet received training on forest management to make them feel confident about taking over the given
responsibilities. Since most of the plantations were, and more would become, mature for
harvesting, there is an urgent need to accelerate the involvement of more VFPCs for better
participation.
93. GOH in 1990 issued a State's Order on cost recovery of SFW's plantations and the benefit-
sharing between VFPC and villagers. Regarding the cost recovery, there is only one uniform
system for all SFW's plantations. The Order stipulated that SFW will recover the direct plantation
establishment and three-year maintenance costs, excluding the cost of seedlings, free of interest,
from proceeds of sales from the first and/or second major harvests, the balance would be
distributed between VFPCs and their members. Under village woodlots and the rehabilitated
degraded forest plantations, 75 percent of the benefits are retained by VFPCs for community
development and the remaining 25 percent are distributed equally among members in addition to
free collection of minor forest products. However, the guideline given to VFPCs by SFW stated
that the forest produce would be sold to village members of VFPCs at the average auction prices of
the last three years. This would not permit the economically disadvantaged sections of the
community to benefit from the benefit-sharing system but would give unfair advantage to those
wealthy villagers who could pay for the forest produce. In regard to strip plantations, in many
cases the village panchayats still have not designated people to protect the plantations.
Project Results
94. Overall, the project achieved its main objectives. In addition to implementing a large-scale
social forestry program in the 16 districts, the project also contributed to increasing skilled
manpower for forestry development and awareness among the rural population in forest protection
and environmental conservation. Up to 1990, the project generated a total of about 30 million man-



23
days of employment and created 1,050 permanent jobs as compared to 17 million man-days and
1,420 permanent jobs estimated at appraisal. Employment of women accounted for about 20
percent. In terms of the increased wood production, it is estimated to be about 25.1 million tons, or
nearly double the appraisal estimate of about 13 million tons of wood products and grass. There
would be about 15 million tons of fuelwood, 3.9 million tons of small timber, 88,300 tons of
castor seeds, 3.4 million tons of grass and fodder, 1.7 million tons of Bhaber grass and 1 million
tons of dry fallen wood. At appraisal, these were estimated to be 9.7 million tons of fuelwood, 1.2
million tons of small timber and 1.6 million tons of fodder, 0.4 million tons of fruits, 120,000 tons
of grass and 18,000 tons of castor seeds. The significant higher production is due mainly to the
substantial increases in the planting areas by 55 percent rather than in growth and yields. Based
on the sample surveys conducted by the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit, the reported annual
yields at harvest range from 4.2 t/ha for fuelwood, 1.9 m3/ha for small timber, 2.8 t/ha for grass
and fodder and 0.2 t/ha for castor seeds compared with the appraisal figures of 1.9-8.7 t/ha for
fuelwood, 0.3-1.4 m3/ha for small timber, 2 t/ha for fodder and 0.4 t/ha for castor seed.
95. The financial and economic analysis was undertaken in 1990 constant prices. The financial
cost and benefit streams of the six plantation models are presented in Attachment 1, Tables 1-6.
Survival rates, growth and yields of plantations are based on sample surveys conducted by the
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit. The establishment and maintenance costs are based on SFW's
actual costs incurred in 1990. The financial value of forest produce was calculated using the
average financial stumpage prices prevailing in the project areas. The results of financial analyses
calculated over a period of 21 years, showed the estimated financial rates of return (FRR) of 24
percent for the farm forestry, 11 percent for village woodlots, 34 percent for sand dune
stabilization, 13 percent for the strip plantation, 7 percent for rehabilitated degraded forest
plantation and 2 percent for saline/alkaline plantation. The low financial rates of return for the
saline/alkali and rehabilitated degraded forest plantation components is due mainly to the relatively
high plantation costs including soil treatment and soil and water conservation. The economic re-
evaluation was carried out over a period of 30 years. All project costs incurred during the
implementation period were included in the analysis and adjusted to 1990 constant prices by using
the wholesale price index as shown in Attachment 1, Table 6. Local costs and unskilled labor were
further adjusted into border price by applying the Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.80 and
Specific Conversion Factor of 0.60 respectively. Recurrent costs after project completion,
excluding fellowships, Monitoring and Evaluation, and studies, have been assumed at 25
percent of its 1990 actual costs. The economic benefits of forest produce were valued at the
financial prices adjusted by SCF of 0.80. The economic cost and benefit streams of the Haryana
Sub-project are presented in Attachment 2, Table 7. The result of the analysis show a re-estimated
economic rate of return (ERR) of 23 percent, compared with the appraisal estimate of 19.5
percent.
96. Impact. The impact of the project can be assessed in terms of achievement of the project
objectives of the generation of employment, increases in the supplies of wood production and
number of beneficiaries, and environmental impact. Despite several drawbacks in the supportive
components and people's participation, SFW successfully accomplished all the planting program
and even far exceeded expectations especially in the saline/alkali, sand dune and farm forestry
plantations. The accomplishment in the plantations since 1976 significantly increased the forest
coverage in the State from about 4 percent to about 8 percent. SFW also successfully created
public demands for tree plantings and awareness among rural people and policymakers on
environmental conservation. About 171,000 farmers benefitted from farm forestry, of which 90
percent of total farmers were marginal and small farmers. Total employment generated during the
project implementation period was about 30 million man-days, of which women accounted for



24
20 percent. The increased forest produce and employment generation benefitted the majority of
the poor sections of the populations and helped in reducing further damage to the already degraded
environment.
97. The project has significantly positive environmental impact. The rehabilitated degraded
forests, sand dune and saline/alkali plantations helped to improve soil and water conservation, sand
dune stabilization, micro-climatic conditions and soil fertility restoration. Protection of plantations
from grazing and browsing, and the cut-and-carry method of fodder and grass harvest also helped
improve the soil and increase water infiltration.
Project Sustainability
98. SFW successfully implemented the first large-scale social forestry program through various
schemes with IDA's assistance. It had demonstrated its capability to implement its own program
and has the capacity to implement expanded social forestry activities in the future. However, the
qualitative aspects of program implementation remained weak. The organizational weaknesses in
research, training and extension resulted in poor services to farmers and insufficient involvement
of local people in planning and managing the plantations, as evidenced by the need for SFW to
continue to protect and manage the three year old plantations. Although 6,350 ha of plantations
were already handed over to 160 VFPCs, none of VFPCs' members have received training on
forest management, and common property joint management and protection, which are critical to
the sustainability of the plantations which were handed over. Since most of the plantations were,
and more would become, mature for harvesting, there is urgent need to accelerate the handing over
of the established plantations and the involvement of more VFPCs for management, protection and
utilization.
Bank Performance
99. During the eight-year project period there were ten missions in Jammu and Kashmir and
eleven in Haryana. Six out of seven missions between June 1984 and April 1988 was staffed,
among others, by a forester, and all the five missions thereafter, allowing for continuity in project
supervision which benefitted project implementation. Overall, the Bank's assistance to the State,
from project appraisal to its completion, had been generally beneficial. Recognizing the urgency
and importance of the project, the Bank remained flexible and when the Borrower needed time for
project completion, it granted the requests for extension. The following Bank's recommendations
to the State and SFW were useful and helpful to project implementation: (a) to involve rural
population in project planning and execution, and the introduction of the village micro-planning;
(b) setting a limit on number of seedlings distributed to marginal and small farmers and pricing of
seedlings to large farmers and institutions; (c) to prepare forestry technical management plans for
different plantations in each agro-climatic zone; (d) to carry out plantation growth and yield
assessments; and (e) to involve the Department of Agro-Forestry in the Haryana Agricultural
University and the Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSRI) in carrying out experiments on
agro-forestry and in saline/alkali lands on species adaptability, planting technique, and monitoring
the performance of plantations.
100. There were, however, some areas where the Bank should have given closer attention and
required some conditionalities for Credit extension: (a) development of supportive components
should have been given equal priority with plantation operation. Experience showed that the
implementation of research, publicity and extension, and people's participation lagged far behind
and have remained weak; (b) hiring of qualified consultants to provide guidance in planning and



25
execution of technical operations in project implementation; and (c) providing recommendation to
SFW to revise the method of the distribution of benefits using the average auction price of the last
three years which prohibited the participation of the disadvantaged sections of the population
within VFPCs (para. 84).
Borrower Performance
101. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory. SFW proved its capability to
accomplish a much larger planting program. Public demands for, and awareness of, tree plantings
and environmental conservation have grown beyond expectations and were recognized by rural
people as well as by policy makers. The implementation of the saline/alkali component went
beyond the pilot scale and was well accepted by farmers. SFW followed the Bank's
recommendations and implemented the rehabilitation of degraded forests component in order to
address the environmental problem and to provide fuelwood and grass to the disadvantaged
sections of the population. However, the much-needed plantation management plans, which was a
requirement in scheduling silvicultural treatments, harvesting regime and regeneration for
succeeding cycles, was not given priority and adequate preparation. Moreover, the stand-and-stock
information on SFW's plantations had not yet become available which is important for the
estimation of future wood supply and stumpage valuation. The overall project coordination through
the State and District Policy Review Comrnmittees was beneficial for annual program planning.
102. The Borrower substantially complied with the legal covenants and most of the Bank's
recommendations (para. 99). However, many of the required staff positions remained unfilled
resulting in ineffective operations, weak supervision and insufficient support services to farmers.
SFW failed to employ consultants to help in designing/developing program of research, publicity
and extension, and Monitoring and Evaluation. GOH was slow in giving policy directives on the
transfer of the responsibilities of plantation protection, management and utilization to village
panchayats and VFPCs. This had seriously affected the community's participation in the project
due to lack of assurance on the expected share of benefits. Although GOH partially complied with
the provision of staff housing, housing rental was only provided in the latter periods of project
implementation.
Project Relationship
103. The Bank maintained a good relationship with GOI and GOH through its resident mission.
This relationship was particularly useful and significant when the Borrower was unable to utilize
50 percent of the Credit by the end of the original Credit closing date in December 1988. The
Bank responded quickly to Government's request to extend the project implementation period by
three years and to increase the disbursement rates. The Bank's recommendation on rehabilitation
of degraded forests with soil and water conservation techniques was beneficial. Its efforts in
helping to integrate the SFW's extension with the extension network and assistance in the
preparation of the plantation technical manual and the guidelines on the village micro-planning and
monitoring and evaluation were useful and appreciated by the Borrower.
Consultant Services
104. Funds for 96 man-months of local consultancy were provided to cover monitoring and
evaluation, publicity and extension, and a wood balance study. Due to budget constraints and lack
of attention in SFW, only one local consultant was utilized for the wood balance study. Under



26
GOI/GOH procedure of local competitive bidding, no difficulty was encountered in the
construction of buildings and procurement of vehicles and equipment.
Project Documentation and Data
105. The main documents governing project implementation were the Staff Appraisal Report and
its project files and the legal documents. The documents were generally well prepared and provided
a useful framework for the Bank and the Borrower to implement the project and monitor its
progress. However, the Staff Appraisal Report did not provide sufficient operational guidelines
on: (a) the implementation of the research program; (b) the identification of beneficiaries,
specification of the role of community, and the mode of benefit distribution; (c) the nursery and
plantation management; and (d) project monitoring and evaluation.



27
PART II.  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
------------------------------------------
(Jammu and Kashmir)
A. Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
1.  The   Bank  personnel  were  professional  in   all
respects and contributed to the development of
Project. They encouraged the shiFt irn the Project
design  from  uni-tier  to  multi-tier  system   of
plantation. The review missions stressed on the
result    orientation    of   the    Project    and
responsibility of the Project in sharing benefits
with   the  people.   They   also  assisted          in
identification of bottlenecks and suggested ways to
remove themn.
LESSONS LEARNED.
2.  Overall   commun.ications  between  the   Bank   and
B4orrower should be improved and well documented.
B.  EVALUATION OF BORROWER'S OWN PERFORMAtNCE AND LESSONS
LEARNED.
3.  The  overall  performance of the project  has  been
satisfactory. The project has evolved significantly
at the planning and implementation level. The void
created by the dissolLution of Panchayats in 1984
was filled by forming Village Forest Committes
since  1988  which thad the   bene-ficial  effect  of
bringing  user community in closer touch  with  the
Project.  The  intr-oduction  of " cut  and  carry "
system o-f produce assured better understanding of
the objectives of the Project by the People.
4.  Micro-planning was introduced in the last few years
and  a  need based  site  specitic  technology  was
developed . The user communities were involved
largely  to  the extent sharing of  benefits  which
resulted in better protection o-f Project areas.
5.  A  significiant achievement was the introduction  of
fodder  grasses  and legumes  in  plantation   areas
under   silvipasture.  The  plantation  design   was
changed  to multi-tier system from  uni-tier  system
and by tending r-,atural regeneration  which  ensured
better  productivity.  Stress  was  laid  on  total
biomass  rather  than  nlumber  of  plants  planted.
Besides   there   was  shift   from   predominantly
monoculture to mixed plantatiorns.



28
6.   The sUipport: activitiesf  in  the fields of training   &
fellswship,Research  evaluation, extension were   not
uptC.    the    Je>is. r eci    l evel    D Due    to   i nadeqLuate
LItiIli  at:itDn   of trair,ing and fellowship   facilities
the   projec:t   management was not abreast   wi th   the
Latest    techi ques    in    mi cropI arini rig,    plantiang
techFni. qteS   wthi Ch e rC?sul teCl  in    slower   pace    of
dCvel cpmEn-it of the PrOject.. The absence of adequate
ref scsearrh   s.i> pport   advErsely  a+iected  wider   choicr-
of   spe  ieis  inattent:ion towards shrubs,neglect   of
natural    .rop.   *The  rnai r,  re>ason  -fcor   tht-i.s    wa-s
:i na deq at:e    i r-fr a-t:ru   ur-. a lI    s u pp or-t    to    these
Ac t: i vi t i es.
7    Thr*e  Prc.   . j inc t ' si CUorcii nati tDn w:i i h pro rgrarms   of   other
a gen-, i es    Ii ke    fiyri (itl tLr- ,    An i mal     Husbandry,
?e r i CtLtl tLire,   Horti cul turfE   was'  weca k-   Thi s    al sC
a f ef;: t e fd   ex tens: i .n   actl i vi ty    and    consequent 1 y
Fr o-{j ci: t per.l f orz mace- :f 
LESSONS LEARNED:
B.  Pc t.i ve  piAr ti ci p.o1ti on   ocf   t hr:E   u rser    omMLuni ty   i n
pli.tnning  and management needs to be given  prior-ity.
Only then it will ne poss:i ble i:o hand over   vi I 1. age
woodI ot s   tro the user cfimmlii t.i es after- 5 years   as
.en vi sag ed  in the Project.
9.   TThe   'i 1 l age   For-est Committees have   to   be   br-oad
b.Yased   to ensure parti cipAt:i on ot ai.L  sections   of
Society   ton avoid conf .ic:ts. These-! committees  hla ve
t    t.r be   I eq aal 1 y   backed an-rd  s.;h ari r)   ot  usuIf ru.cts
wi th  them   rccoqn i AsreJ
I i. TiH-e     F)nfr.c-k str .uct.t ur e   to- thf?- support.  ac ti vi t.i es   of
iR-*f;(_,Eirch   P ub li city,        Evcai 'at i on     Tr a,i ri ni1 ,
:- ntr-2r7.' ic- .nl d   b. ..t r eriqthothened:i -   mprovce   tIhre
.--, f '.I :i ency )!. the;  FSrjctjC?:f
:i:!    Nf_:ed :i   Y .iL t. tr:, ntrnti-duce. princ.iapfs orO irntegrated
I, (J *t --t'S;       f::-a I.L i or-i.9 .   f orestrv,  and   Wi 1 dJ  Li fe
i~ ri ons i-j- f{z t.   )Fre pl anrl i ng.



29
3JBJWECT    JAMMJ & KASHMIR A14D HARYANA SOCIAL FCRCSrRY PROJt=.
(Cr. 1286-IN)
PROJEC OOMPLtTION REFOx
Broadly speaking, the Forest Department,Heryana Social
Forestry Wing agrees with Project Completion Report prepared by
the Wbrld Bank Resident Mission in India, New Delhi. There are
some points of dis-agreement we are offering our parawise comments:-
COMMENrS PERTAINING TO PART-I
4. PROJ=CT CMSIGN AND ORGANISArION
4.1         It is submitted that the major concept of the project
was fully achieved. The changes were made in the components after
approval in 1988 during the extended period. Component viz
Rehabilitation of Degraded Forests was introduced in view of
environment degradation and the component of saline alkali
plantations was augmerted.
4.s 5It is true that research activities were not adecfately
identified at the time of formulation of the Project. It is also
true that the capability of the Forest Research Division was mot
taken into account while highlighting the prescriptions for .research
but some of the research activities were handed over the Haryana
Agriculture University, Hisar who have the necessary infrastructure
and capability to carry out research programme. The C.S.S.R.I.,
Karnal was also associated in the research programme concerning saline
alkali soils. Thus, inadequacies of the Research Division hawi mot
in any way affected the research programme.
Sharing of user/ructs has been described in the constitu-
tion of village Forest Protection and Management Committees. However,
Management plans will be prepared in due course of time.
4.6         It is true that staff as provided in the project was mot
sanctiored by the Covernment but there has been excellant adhievement.
by the existing staff in carrying out plantations and spreading the
message of social forestry to the rural masses Publicity,Monitoring
and Lvaluation units were not fully equipped as envisaged in the
project.  Poor generation of technical information is, however, denied.
4.7        It is not possible in any such project to obtain full
involvement and participation of the beneficiaries at the  initial
stage. However, its participation increases with the passage of
time and change of attitude of the target groups. This/poasible
Contd.p. 2 -



30
s2
due to training of farmers, teachers, students and other
concerred persons. Bit nmw with the introduction of village
Forest Protection and Management Committee, the beneficiaries
are taking keen interest in the managament of plantations on
community lands.
In the beginning the project aimed at creating village
wood lots under the control and management of Village Penchayats.
Accordingly the beneficiary was the village Panchayat. However,
with the passage of time It was realised that unless the individual
are involved and their participation ensured the project would not
make much headway. So far the achievement of the new object of
Management village Forest Protection and Management Committees have
been constituted. These have become functional only recently.
ILI       Regarding nursery, it is pointed out  that  the quality
of nursery stock raised by the forest department in general and
the social forestry in particular has been excellent. The target
under Farm Forestry were exceeded during every year when the nursery
stock was liked by the farmers.  Fruit trees of seed   origan
were raised and supplied to the farmers in penalty. Fodder trees
like prosopis cineraria, Albizia, Subabul were supplied to the
farmers. It is wrong to suggest that the nursery operation were
poor.
5-111     Main  species planted was nmt Eacalyptus but Kikar.However,
in suitable areas where adequate moisture was available, people
preferred planting of eucalyptus. Other species included Jand, Rohera,
A.tortilis, Beri and Sirns. In Haryana State performance in Village
wood lots has been 43xcellent.  It is worth mentioning that Busthala
Panchayat plantation raised under Social Forestry Programme was
adjudged the best plantation in the country during 1988 and Indira
Priya Darshni Veriksh Mitra Award granted to the village Panchayat.
s.tO      It is not denied thot some marginal farm lands have been
diverted to farm Forestry but fmost of t}e farm forestry work was
carried out in the form of lenear strips along the field boundaries
and water channels. This did not affect crop production in any way.
Moreover, total food grain in the State is increasing year after year
It can be safely said that plantation of trees has not been against
the envisaged State policy of higher food grain production. Tee
cultivation is actually beneficial to agriculture.
In Haryana availability of wastelands is limited, to the
trees have to be raised on the farm lands to achieve the national
Jpal of 33% area under tree cover.
Contd.p.3/-



31
13:
Farm Forestry as the very name suggests is the planting
of ttees   on farm lands in conjunction with agricultural crops.
No doubt, farm forestry appealed more to large farmers but, in the
initial stage it is only the progr ssive farmers wtn come forward
to adopt such programmes. Haryana was no exception. Block planta-
tions were done uostly on marginal lands constituting about 5%
only whereas 95% plantations were carried out in the form of
linear strips along field boundaries. This does not amount
to diversion of coopped lands to forestry.
2;A      Though plantation under sand dure programme have been
carried out in small groups at some of the places. Yet their
productive impact for water chennels, Communication lines and
agriculture fields has been significant. It is appreciated that
expending desertification is controlled by trees, shrubs and
grasses.
Small size of the plantations may not have adequate
impact on stabilizing sand dunes in adjacent agricultural field
but they do help in controlling the winds velocity and by their
impact they serve as agents of change in attitude by including
other farmers to give more areas for plantations under this
component.
It  is true  that afforestation of salire alkali land was
envisaged over 500 ha. only but keeping in view the environmental
concept, the appraisal World Bank Mission suggested that more areas
n
may be taken up under this component irrespective of owership.
Prosopis cineraria is not a suitable species for planting on alkali
'saline lands and so it was not planted. It appears that this species
has inadvertantly been included in the report. Which in fact is not
suitable species for salt affected lands. The following are actually
the suitable species for such areas prosopis juliflora, Tammaris,
A.nilotica, Terminalia Arjuna Cassuarine,Pongemea pinnate,Beutia
nDmspherma and Azadirachta Ficus infactoria.
S. 18    Forest Education:  No doubt the training programme did not
proceed as envisaged in the Fbrest Training School, Pinjore. However,
extension training was not neglected all together. Yiddle for
Extension Workers at Nilokheri. These officers further treined
the junior level staff working under them. Need for hiring the
service of consultants was therefore, obviated.
:X21     Research: The programme undertaken by. the  CSSRI, HAU,
CAZRI Jodhpur and FRI,Dehradun have come in good stead for
implementation of Social Forestry Programme in the State. The
State Research DLvision tiough mt fully equipped with desired
infrastructure, yet it is taking up the research activities
Contd.p. h/-



32
:4s
in the right Brnest. The Social Forestry Wing has been utilising
their results according to the problem faced and the situation.
5A22    For this programme full advantage of T&V system of
Agriculture Department was taken by the Social Forestry Wing.
However, sincers efforts were made by the DFO Publicity and
Extension to carry out message of tree planting from All India
Rtadio, Television and by showing films in the villages. Suitable
officials from Public Relations Department were not deputed.
Some good literature have been produced in the form of a pamphlet.
A 'Harivali' patrika is being published bio-monthly by Publicity
and E;xtension Unit accordingly.
Services of Government of India and Public Relations Deptt.
were utilised for this purpose which have a more professional
out look.
=5      The M&U Unit is functioning smoothly at present.  Operation
Guide Lines to the Monitoring and Evaluation of Social Forestry
in India were prepared jointly by the Bank, FAO and the office of
the Inspector Cernral of Forests of India after good deal of delibeer-
ations so there was no point in engaging an other consultant for the
purpose. The staff put on Monitoring and Evaluation needed some
training and experience.  With the passage of time they gained
requisite experience and accordingly M&E reports were prepared.
5;2Z   The wood balance study gives the methodology adopted
for estimation and projection of demand/supply in chapter II of
the report at pages 6-21.
SU      Villagers freely participated in Farm Forestry Programme.
Necessary training was given to the individual farmers by CF0
Publicity and Extension. Villa ge leaders also participated in the
training. T&V system of the Agriculture Department was utilised
for dissemination of information.
94,1    W;lRROW4I PSIFORKANCE:
Plantation Management Plans   are being prepared as suggested
by the World Bank.  There has been shortage of staff so the %ork
oould not be taken up earlier. The training of VFPMCs workers will
also be jIven due consideration.  However, most of the worker being
employed for execution of Social Fbrestry 'Wing are from the rural
areas of Haryana. They are well corversant with the Forestry
operatiorn and so they do mt need any formal training in Msnagement
of Panchayat Land Plantations. The Forest Department on its part



33
:5:
provides technical know hoiv as and Zen required.  It has
been the prectice in the departmrent to assess the prices of
plantations whenever these are planned to be sold.
Financing pattern of the W,]rd Bank has been not very
encouraging. As a consequence, the State Covernrient oould
sanction many key posts meant for supporting activities.  It
should oonsider enhancing the aid componrint so that there are
no financial constraints in timely implementation of the
aniticipated programme.
0 ....



34
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE (continued)
(Haryana)
A. Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned
We are extremely grateful to the World Bank and Danida authorities and its officers for
providing financial assistance and technical guidance in preparation and implementation of the
Social Forestry Project in Haryana. Bank personnel and supervision mission members were very
experienced and highly qualified in their respective fields. They followed a regular schedule and
appropriate time for the supervision missions. On their guidance, wood balance study, alternate
uses of eucalyptus wood, status of social forestry in Haryana, and the preparation of technology
manual, was done, which are very important documents for future planning. We did not feel any
difficulty in implementation of the project and all reimbursements were made in time.
Government of India decided vide their letter No. F-13/32/87-FB- dated 29-5-1989 that
subsidy on schemes, including World Bank-aided schemes, implemented in the rural sector may
be raised to 100%. But the World Bank did not approve the increased contribution percentage of
the expenditure to be financed in the rural sector.
Lessons Leamed
In a developing country like India where the pressure of rising population, both of human
and livestock, on the land, is so enormous, we could not have achieved tangible results in any
field without World Bank/Foreign Aid.
The constraints in the project could have been avoided had the Bank's monitoring begun
immediately after negotiations. When a supervision mission found significant delays in
implementation, it should have informed the authorities in the Government and requested them to
remove the constraints without delay. Problems and their effects could have been avoided if the
Bank took note of them at the initial stage.
B. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lessons Learned
Haryana State has successfully implemented the socially forestry program by achieving
155% physical and 180% financial targets. And against the provision of 17 million mandays in the
appraisal report, 30 million mandays jobs were created up to 31/3/1991. We have got appreciation
from all the concerned authorities including World Bank and members of the SAARC countries in
fulfilling the objectives as provided in the appraisal report. But we could not utilize the whole
amount within the stipulated period of five years due to less budgetary provision by State
Government, owing to its resource crunch and meager financial resources, shortage of staff
especially village level workers, and enhancement in the value of SDR. These were the major
constraints in the program.
We did not utilize even the 50% of the external fellowship. People's participation in the
program was not significant in the village woodlot component as envisaged in the appraisal report.
Now we have formed village forest protection and management committees to involve more people
in the program. We do admit these lapses. On the whole, however, social forestry in Haryana has
been implemented with great success and has worked very well. It has now entered a phase of
consolidation, diversification and further expansion and it is fast emerging as a new institution for
rural development in the State. The program needs continuous help if it is to avail of the full
benefits of trained manpower, infrastructure and enthusiasm of the people.



35
Lessons Learned
(i)    The needs and aspirations of the local people must be recognized before taking up
the project. Unless a project is aimed at meeting their distresses, solving their problems and
appeasing their hardship, it will not succeed.
(ii)   People's participation must be ensured if social forestry programs are to succeed.
But people's participation is difficult to achieve unless they are first persuaded that they can deduce
tangible benefits from the program.
(iii)   People, especially the farmers, are very versatile and they can adopt any forestry
species under farm forestry component if they are provided remunerative prices at the time of
harvest.
(iv)   Social Forestry Programs can be very successful if infrastructure for marketing and
distribution of its production is also created in anticipation.
(v)    Social Forestry Program can be made more successful if it is made an integrated
and multisectoral rural development program. Livestock management and energy conservation
should also form part of the social forestry program as straying cattle are a hazard for man and
nature.
(vi)   Extension activities like formation of village forest protection and management
committees, household survey for the choice of species, micro-planning, raising of nursery stock
and advance earth work may be made in the year preceding the implementation program.
(vii) All the natural resources must be equally distributed among all the families of the
village.
(viii) Decentralized nurseries should be allotted to those persons who raise saplings and
take responsibility for further distribution at his own level. There should be an agreement on this.
Problems
The implementation of every big project envisages within it certain inherent problems and
likewise the Haryana Social Forestry Project is no exception. Securing of land for plantations,
paucity of field staff, decline of interest in farm forestry due to fall in eucalyptus prices, and
protection due to excessive grazing by domestic cattle, are the main problems that we faced during
implementation of the program.
Future Analxsis
(i)    To introduce new agro-forestry species especially exotics like paulownia elongata
P.fortunei and Moso bamboo (phyllostachs pubescens) from China should be tried. Very little
work has been done on research in this field. Special efforts are needed in this direction.
(ii)    Very little attention has hitherto been paid to the aspect of evaluation. Primary aims
of conducting evaluation of any program is to improve it. There is also a great scope to study the
impact on beneficiaries of village woodlots, farm forestry, sand dune stabilization and reclamation
of alkali lands.
(hi)   More fellowships and short duration study tours may be provided in the project for
staff.



36
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286-IN)
Part IIL STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and Credits
(Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana)
Credit No./                                         Year of
Project Name                 Purpose                 Approval       Status
Cr. 925-IN     To increase supply of fuelwood in rural  1978   Completed
Uttar Pradesh   areas, provide poles, bamboo, small tim-
Social Forestry  ber, fodder grass and minor forestry pro-
ducts and strengthen the social forestry
organization to carry out project works.
Cr. 961-IN                        "                     1979   Completed
Gujarat Social
Forestry
Cr. 1178-IN                       "                     1982   Completed
West Bengal
Social Forestry
Cr. 1286-IN                       "                     1982   Completed
Jammu and
Kashmir and
Haryana
Social Forestry
Cr. 1514-IN                       "                     1984   Ongoing
Kerala Social
Forestry
Cr. 1432-IN                       "                     1984   Ongoing
Karnataka Social
Forestry
Cr. 161 1-IN   To assist the States of Gujarat, Uttar   1985   Ongoing
National Social  Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, and Rajasthan
Forestry       to expand and improve their social forestry
activities.



37
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 2. Project Timetable
(Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana)
Item         Date Planned          Revised Date            Actual Date
Preparation                                                       1980
Appraisal                                                         Oct./Nov. 1981
Negotiations                                                      June 1982
Board Approval                                                    August 1982
Credit Signing                                                    Sept. 1982
Credit Effectiveness                                              Dec. 1982
Completion            March 1987            Dec. 1988
Dec. 1989
Dec. 1990             Dec. 1990
Closing               March 1988            March 1989
March 1990
March 1991            March 1991



38
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 3. Credit Disbursements
(Cumulative in SDR millions)
(Jammu and Kashmir)
Actuals as %
IDA Fiscal             Appraisal                                   of Appraisal
Years                  Estimate           Actuals                  Estimate
83                      1.1               0.5                       4
84                     2.7                1.2                      10
85                      5                 3.1                      25
86                      8                 5.5                      44
87                     11.8               6.6                      53
88                     12.5               6.6                      53
89                                       10.1      a/              81
90                                       11.3                      90
91                                       12.3      b/ c/           98
a/ Disbursement resumed after submission of audit report.
b/ Final Disbursement was in January 1991.
c/ Actual disbursement of SDR 12.3 million (US$15.2 million equivalent).



39
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 4. Project Implementation
Key Indicators
(Jammu and Kashmir)
Actual as %
Appraisal    Revised          Actuals       of Appraisal
A. Plantations            Estimate     Estimate        Achieved        Estimate
(in ha)
Strip Plantation            1000        2300             2400            238%
Wetland Plantation         2000         4100             3400            171%
Rehabilitation of Degraded
Forests                    17000        20200           20000            117%
Village Woodlot
Plantation                 5000         5800             5800            116%
Pasture Improvement           -           -              600
Institutional Plantation      -           -              200
Farm Forestry              19000        53600           49600            261%
Total                      44000        86000           82000            186%
No. of Villages Involved    6000          -              2400            40%



40
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit IN-1286)
Table 4. Project Implementation (continued)
Key Indicators
(Jammu and Kashmir)
Actuals
Appraisal             Revised               Procured
B. Vehicle Procurement        Estimate              Estimate             (thru 3/91)
(Nos.)
Jeeps/Wagonettes                 17                                          22
Vans/Matadors                    10                                           10
Trucks                            2                                           2
Buses                             2                                           2
Motorcycles                      25                                          25
Bicycles                         250                  400                    400
Car                                                                           2
Pick-up                                                                       1
Tractor                                                                       1
Trolley                                                                       1
C. Civil Works
(Nos.)
DCFs Residence Quarters           2                                           2
Staff Quarters                   16                                           10       l/
Teaching Staff Quarters           4                                           4
Mali Quarters                    20                                           4
Rural Training Centers           10                                           5       1/
Store Godown                     10                                           6
Extension of Forestry Schools     2                                           2
Dormitories                       4                                           4
1/ Under Construction.



41
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 4. Project Implementation (continued)
Key Indicators
(Jammu and Kashmir)
Appraisal                 Total                   Actuals as of
D. Staffing                  Estimate                Sanctioned                    3/3/91
(Nos.)
Forestry Staff:
CCF/P.D.                         1                        1                           1
CF/R.D.                          2                        2                          2
DCFs                             12                       12                         5
ACFs                             10                       12                         18
Deputy Directors                                          2                          2
Assistant Directors                                       2
Publicity officers               2                        2
Divisional Publicity Officers    10                       10                          1
Rangers                         34                       33                          40      1/
Foresters                       150                      122                        126
Forest Guards/SFW               245                      203                        203
Other Categories:               48
Sr. Mali                                                 25                          25
Jr. Mali                                                 50                          50
Cameraman                                                 2                           1
Draftsman                                                 3                          0
Projector Operator                                        2                           2
Support Staff:                  240
Statistical Officers                                      7                          5
Asst. Accts. Officer                                      1                           1
Accountants                                              11                          11
Accounts Assistants                                       2                          2
Statistical Assistants                                    3                          3
Superintendent to P.D.                                    I                           I
Head Assistants                                           I                           I
Senior Assistants                                         15                         14
Personal Assistant to P.D.                                1                           1
Superintendent to R.D.                                    2                          2
Drivers                                                  35                          30
Junior Assistant                                         63                          60
Steno Typist                                              4                          4
Jarnadar                                                  3                          3
Orderlies                                                62                          62
Motivators                      1400                     1120                       1120
Consultants (120 manmonths)      6                        4
1/ One Range Officer working as Publicity Officer.



42
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit IN-1286)
Table 5. Project Cost and Financing
(Jammu and Kashmir)
I. Project Cost
Appraisal Estimate           Actuals
Project Components                    Rs. million   US$ million  Rs. million   US$ million
Project Organization                         74.20         8.79       124.10        9.19
Training and Fellowships                     10.30         1.21        0.80         0.06
Research                                      2.00         0.24        1.60         0.12
Plantation                                  144.40        16.99      329.30        24.39
Communication and Extension                   3.90         0.46        5.70         0.42
Monitoring and Evaluation                     0.80         0.09        0.70         0.05
Wood Balance Study                            1.30         0.15        1.80         0.13
Total                                       236.90       27.93       464.00        34.36
1/ Including physical and price contingencies.
II. Project Financing
Planned                   Final
US$ million   % of Total  US$ million   % of Total
IDA                                          13.80        49%         15.20         44%
GOI/GOJAK                                    14.80         51%        19.20         56%
Total                                        27.90         1.00       34.40        100%



43
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 6. Project Results
(Jammu and Kashmir)
Appraisal                  Actual/PCR
Estimate                  1990 Estimate
(June 1982)
Production                  Production
A. Direct Benefits               (000 tons)                   (000 tons)
Fuelwood             mt                4215                         3800
Poles/bamboo         pieces           64000
Small timber        m3                 7219                         6571 a/
Fodder               mt                 414                          200 b/
Fruit                mt                  836
Leaf charcoal        mt                  105                          44 c/
No. of Beneficiaries                  160000                      530000
Employment generated mandays       12 million                   15 million
no. of perm-       754                          676
anent jobs
SAR Estimate                 PCR Estimate
B. Price of Outputs            Financial    Economic   d/ Financial         Economic   d/
(Stumpage Value)   Unit           Rupees per unit              Rupees per unit
Fuelwood             mt           200-239      248-533   e/      270             215
Poles                piece         5.4-6.6      4.3-5.3           -               -
Bamboo              piece          3.6-4.4      2.9-3.5           -               -
Timber               mt            2000         1600            1200    g/       960     g/
Fodder               mt             30           24              30      h/      24      h/
Fruit                mt             300          240              -               -
Castor               mt          1500-2327      1200              -               -
Leaf f/              mt            2000         1600             55      i/      44      i/
Grass                mt             60           48               -               -
Footnotes:
a/ Small timber/poles
b/ Fodder/grass
c/ Fresh leaf
d/ Financial prices adjusted by SCF of .80.
e/ Represents 30% and 70% weighted average of pine and fir prices expressed in border prices
and reduced by 20% to reflect 20% less Kcal content for project-produced fuelwood.
f/ Expressed on charcoal basis.
g/ Small timber.
h/ Fodder and grass.
i/ Fresh leaf.



44
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 6. Project Results (continued)
(Jammu and Kashmir)
C. Economic Impact                             Appraisal                Actual (PCR)
Estimate                  Estimate
Economic Rate of Return (%)                       34                         14
Assumptions:
Project Life (Years)                              25                         30
Full Development (Years)                          15                         20
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)                  0.8                       0.8
Conversion factor for unskilled labor             0.8                       0.6
D. Financial Impact
Financial Rate of Return (%): a/
Strip Plantation                                  NA                         17
Wetland Plantation                                NA                         17
Rehabilitation of Degraded Forest                 10                         12
Village Woodlots                                 > 100                       23
Farm Forestry                                    34-50                       32
Social                    Village
Forestry                 Protection
E. Proposed Benefit Sharing                      Wing                   Committees
Strip Plantation                                  50                         50
Wetland Plantation                                 -                        l00
Rehabilitated Degraded Forests                    75                         25
Village Woodlots                                  25                         75
Pasture Development                                -                        100
a/ See Attachment I Tables 1-5 for cash flow of individual plantation models.



45
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 6. Project Results (continued)
(Jammu and Kashmir)
F. Studies        Proposed as Appraisal               Status                   Impact
Wood Balance           Data on demand and supply    Done in 1987            Consulted
of wood for planning forest
development
Nomadic Grazers        Study grazing patterns and   Incomplete
identify feasible interven-
tions.                  a/
Village Forest Committees Assess functioning and    Done 1991               Used for PCR and social
recommend future arrange-                           forestry planning.
ments.                  a/
Eucalyptus Marketing   Data on status of supply     Preliminary report      Planning future program.
to assess if interventions  submitted.
required.               a/
Fuelwood Consumption   Assess demand among          Completed               Consulted in program
in Srinagar City       different sectors.       a/                          planning.
Management of Social
Forestry Plantation    a/
a/ These studies were identified during implementation and not during appraisal.



46
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECr
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 7. Status of Covenants
(Jammu and Kashmir)
Project (PA)                                               Original
Agreement                                                Compliance   Level of a/
Section        Summary DescripUon            Type          Date     Compliance   Remarks
PA 202       Employment of Consultants       Management
for development of faculty in
communications and extension                   6/30/83         S         Dropped
PA 2.05e     Preparation and submission       Reporting     3/31/83         1
of mid-term evaluation
report on project progress.
PA 207       Preparation of Wood Balance       Studies          -           I
Study under IDA Terms
of Reference.
PA 2.08(i)   Establishment of State Policy   Organization    12/31/82       2
Committee to ensure inter-
departmental coordination on
implementation and social
forestry policy.
PA 2.08(ii)   Establshment of district       Organization    12/31/82       2
committee in each district
to ensure inter-departmental
coordination.
PA 108(iii)  Establishment of Monitoring     Organization    12/31/82       I
and Evaluation Unit with
Deputy Conservator of
Forest in charge of adequate
staff.
PA 3.01      Submission of annual accounts     Financial                    2        for 1988-89
and financial statement within                                          submitted in
nine months after end of                                                   9/90.
each year.
PA 3.02      Establishment of one            Organization                   I
additional forestry circle
PA 3.03      Ensure that staff live in or    Organization                   2
near areas of their operations
with housing, rent or other
allowances as necessary.
a/ Level of Compliance
I - Fully complied
2 - Partially complied-not affecting implementation
3- Non-compliance
4 - Not yet due
5 - Covenant no longer applicable-should be deletedVmodified
6 - Compliance date requires revision
Al- Audit 1 year overdue
A2 - Audit 2 or more years overdue



INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 8. Mission Data and Staff Inputs
(Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana)
Type of of      Date                No. of   Mandays   Special- Perrormance Rating b/       Trend c/       Type or Problems d/
Mission      (MoJYr.)    BY       Persons   in Fidd  Izatlion a/   GOJAK      GOII    GOJAK    COH    GOJAK    GOH
Preation            0/0/80  GOJAKJH
Appraisal          10-11/81    IDA
Supervisions:
1                  12/0/82    IDA         2         4        D. E         I          I        na         na        na        na
2                  04JI/83                1         3          A          -          I        na         na        na        na
3                  09/0/83                2         15        A, I        I          -         2          -        M          -
4                 06/0/84 el              1         12         F          I          I         I          I       M. T      M, T
5                  4-5/85                 2         25        F. S        I                    I.         I        M         M
6                 10/0/85 e/              1         11         A          I          I         I          IM                M, T
7                  07/0/86                2         10        F, P        -          I         na        na         -       F, T
8                  11/0/86                1         8          F          I          -         na        na       F. T
9                  10/1/87                1         5          F          -          I         na        na         -       F, T
10                 4/0/88                 2         14       F. F         I          -        na         na       F. T
11                10/0/88 el              2         17       A, F         2          1        na         na      F,M,T      F. T
12                 1,6/89 e/              1         13         F          2          2        na         na       F, M     F. M, T
13                1210/89 e/              1         9          F          -          2        na         na                F, M, T
14                 12/0/90                2         10        F. F        2          2        na         na       F, T      F, T
Completion         6-7191   FAO/CP        3         33       E, F. S      2          2         2         2       F,M.T      F. T
a/ A=Agriculture; D=Rural Development; E-Econornist; F=ForesLry I=institution; P--Project Advisor. S=Sociology
b/ Performance Rating: I=problem free or minor problems; 2=moderate problerns; 3=major problems.
c/Trend: I=improving; 2&stationy, 3=deteriorating.
d/ Type of problems: P=Fnanciai; M=Magement; T=TechiWcai.
e/Two separate trip to the individual states.
NA=not availabic



INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 8. Mission Data and Staff Inputs (continued)
(Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana)
Staff Inputs (sws)
Stage of Project      FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   Total
Cycle
Identification pation   16.00                                                                               16.00
Appraisal              84.20    3.60                                                                        87.80
Negotiations            1.40    0.50                                                                         1.90
Lending Operations      6.00    2.20                                                                         8.20
Supervision                    7.30   13.70   15.60   16.90    9.30    8.00    4.20    2.90    2.40         80.30
Project Completion                                                                          10.40   15.60   26.00
Project Administration         2.70    0.30                                                                  3.00
Totals                107.60   16.30   14.00   15.60   16.90    9.30    8.00    4.20    2.90   12.80   15.60  223.20



49
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 9. Credit Disbursements
(Cumulative in SDR millions)
(Haryana)
Actuals as %
IDA Fiscal             Appraisal                                  of Appraisal
Years                  Estimate          Actuals                  Estimate
83                      1                1.2                       7
84                     3.4               2.5                       15
85                     6.7               4.8                       28
86                     10.9              6.5                       38
87                     15.3              8.4                       50
88                     16.9              10.3                     61
89                                       12.2                      72
90                                       14.2                      84
91                                       17.1     a/ b/           101
a/ Final Disbursement was in January 1991.
b/ Actual disbursement of SDR 17.1 million (US$21.4 million equivalent).



50
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 10. Project Implementation
Key Indicators
(Haryana)
Actual as %
Appraisal     Revised          Actuals        of Appraisal
A. Plantations             Estimate     Estimate         Achieved          Estimate
(in ha)
Village Woodlots            12000         23700            25243            210%
Saline/Alkaline              500          4700             5142             1028%
Strip                        9500           -              9320              98%
Sand Dunes                  15000         19000            20276            135%
Farm Forestry               30000         38500            40201            134%
Rehabilition of Degraded
Forests                       -          3000             3509
Total                       67000         88900           103691            155%
No. of Villages Involved     6731           -              3692              55%
No. of VFPCs formed                                         160



51
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit IN-1286)
Table 10. Project Implementation (continued)
Key Indicators
(Haryana)
Actual as %
Appraisal                                 of Appraisal
B. Vehicle Procurement        Estimate               Actual               Estimate
(Nos.)
Staff Car (& replacement)         3                    6                    200%
Jeep                             10                    10                   100%
Van                               3                     1                    33%
Pickup Van                        8                    4                     50%
Bus                               1                    0                     0%
Truck                             1                    0                     0%
Tractor                          24                    36                   150%
Total                           50                    57                   114%
C. Civil Works
(Nos.)
Residential:
DCFs Residence                    8                     8                   100%
Forest Rangers' quarters         32                    33                   103%
Teaching Staff Quarters           6                     1                    17%
Non-Residential:
Chief Conservator's Office        0                     1                    0%
Research Station                  2                     1                    50%
Women's Dormitory                 2                     1                    50%
Rural Training Center             8                     1                    13%
Garage                           15                    10                    67%
Seed Store                       10                    10                   100%



52
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 10. Project Implementation (continued)
Key Indicators
(Haryana)
Actual as %
Appraisal                                          of Appraisal
D. StaMng                     Estimate 1/                 Actual                     Estimate
(Nos.)
Add. Chief Cons. of Forests        I                         1                         100%
Conservator of Forests             2                        2                          100%
Deputy Cons. of Forests            12                       2                          17%
Asst. Cons. of Forests             11                       6                          55%
Establishment Officer              1                        0                          0%
Chief Publicity Officer            2                         1                         50%
Div. Publicity Officers            8                        2                          25%
Asst. Publicity Officers           2                        0                          0%
Forest Economist                   1                        0                          0%
Statistical Officer                2                        0                          0%
Research Investigator              2                        0                          0%
Statistical Assistant              2                        0                          0%
Forest Rangers                     38                       36                         95%
Deputy Rangers                     32                       36                        113%
Foresters                         154                       135                        88%
Village Forestry Workers          766                      510                         67%
Total                             1036                     731                         71%
1/ Excludes Appraisal provision for ministerial and other staff
of 395, of which 309 are in position.



53
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit IN-1286)
Table 11. Project Cost and Financing
(Haryana)
I. Project Cost
Appraisal Estimate             Actuals
Project Components                    Rs. million   US$ million  Rs. million   US$ million
Project Organization                         112.10       13.20       160.09        11.56
Training, Fellowships, Research               6.70         0.80         6.18         0.45
Plantation                                  208.70        24.55       429.47        31.01
Communication, Extension and
Monitoring and Evaluation                    4.30         0.50         3.18         0.23
Wood Balance Study                             1.30        0.15         0.60         0.04
Total                                       333.10        39.20       599.52        43.29
1/ Including physical and price contingencies.
II. Project Financing
Planned                    Final
US$ million   % of Total  US$ million   % of Total
IDA                                           19.00        48%         21.40         49%
GOI/GOJAK                                    20.20         52%         21.89         51%
Total                                        39.20        100%         43.29        100%



54
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 12. Project Results
(Haryana)
Appraisal                  Actua[UPCR
Estimate                  1990 Estimate
(June 1982)
Production                  Production
A. Direct Benefits               (000 tons)                   (000 tons)
Fuelwood             mt                9680                        15000
Poles/bamboo        pieces
Small timber        m3                 1720                         5571
Fodder              mt                 1570                         3400
Fruits              mt                  445                          980
Fallen Wood
Castor              mt                    18                          88
Kana grass          mt                  120                         1730
Total                                 13553                        25099
No. of Beneficiaries                 290000                       171000
Employment generated mandays       17 million                   30 million
no. of pern-      1420                         1050
anent jobs
SAR Estimate                 PCR Estimate
B. Price of Outputs            Financial    Economic   al Financial         Economic   a/
(Stumpage Value)   Unit           Rupees per unit              Rupees per unit
Fuelwood            mt            200-239      160-191   b/     250             200
Poles               piece          5.4-6.6      4.3-5.3
Timber              mt             2000         1600            1070    c/      860     C/
Fodder              mt              30           24              50      e/      40      e/
Fruit               mt              300          240
Castor              mt           1500-2327    1200-1862
Leaf d/             mt             2000         1600
Grass               mt              60           48              25              20
Dry Fallen Wood     mt               -            -             200             160
Footnotes:
a/ Financial prices adjusted by SCF of .80.
b/ Based on financial stumpage price on border price.
cl Small timber including poles.
d/ Leaf charcoal.
el Fresh fodder.



55
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 12. Project Results (continued)
(Haryana)
C. Economic Impact                           Appraisal                Actual (PCR)
Estimate                 Estimate
Economic Rate of Return (%)                     19.5                       23
Assumptions:
Project Life (Years)                             29                        30
Full Development (Years)                         21                        21
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)                 0.8                      0.8
Conversion factor for unskilled labor           0.8                       0.8
D. Financial Impact
Financial Rate of Return (m):
Village Woodlot                                 >100                       11
Rehabilitation of Degraded Forest                                          7
Strip                                                                      13
Farm Forestry                                                              24
Saline/Alkaline                                                            2
Sand Dunes                                      >100                       34
E. Study                                    Purpose                   Status
Wood Balance Study             To provide a data base for social forestry    Completed in
development planning.                  1988



56
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286-IN)
Table 13. Status of Covenants
(Haryana)
Project (PA)                                                Original
Agreement                                                Compliance   Level of a/
Section        Summary Description           Type          Date      Compliance   Remarks
PA 2.02      Employment of Consultants       Management    6/30/83           5         Dropped
for development of faculty in
communications and extension
PA 2.05e     Preparation and submission        Reporting     3/31/85         1
of mid-term evaluation
report on project progress.
PA 2.07      Preparation of Wood Balance        Studies         -            I
Study under IDA Terms
of Reference.
PA 2.08(i)   Establishment of State Policy   Organization    12/31/82       2
Committee to ensure inter-
departmental coordination on
implementation and social
forestry policy.
PA 2.08(ii)   Establishment of district      Organization    12/31/82       1
committee in each district
to ensure inter-departmental
coordination.
PA 2.08(iii)  Establishment of Monitoring    Organization    12/31/82       1
and Evaluation Unit with
Deputy Conservator of
Forest in charge of adequate
staff.
PA 3.01      Submission of annual accounts     Financial                     I
and financial statement within
nine months after end of
each year.
PA 3.02      Establishment of one            Organization                   I
additional forestry circle
PA 3.03      Ensure that staff live in or    Organization                   2
near areas of their operations
with housing, rent or other
allowances as necessary.
a/ Level of Compliance
I - Fully complied
2 - Partially complied-not affecting implementation
3 - Non-compliance
4 - Not yet due
5 - Covenant no longer applicable-should be deleted/modified
6 - Compliance date requires revision
Al-Audit I yearoverdue
A2 - Audit 2 or more years overdue



IND IA
Jan  9 KaSiner a..d laryana Social Forestry Project
Project loaiIetlon Report((r.0o.1276-.1)
J_u I Kashmir Sub project
Atlschetmi 1:1ble I-Per Ha Flbsnclal tosts &no Sr..eotts of Village Woodlot
Tear l  Y.ar.?  Teau-l  Tar-4  lear-S  leae-6  ie^r- le-S            V Tear-9 Year-10 Year-il Vear.1? Year-13 Tear-I4 Year-IS Year-16 Tear-11 Vear-IS Year-19 Ytear-20  ear-Tl
COsIS IN,.):
- Istallsbent                    12S0
-al..tenaoce                    -        1200      100     3o0    3S0        3SP     IS0      350      lSo     350      350      350      350      lS0     )S0      350      lS0     3S0      lS0      3S0      3S0
lGtol Colts 1(s./ha)             1250    1200       P00      so0    3s0       3s5     S50      350      350      3       J0 3s0     0      350      350     350      350      350     350      350      350      iS0
WLIPUIS:
lueluod     1                        f    -                                           .       -        -                   .5    -        -        - Z. S                             -        -       -        1 5.0
Saa1l llaber ()                           -        -       -        -        -            -       - -           -        11.5             -        -        -       11.5    -         -        -       -        26.0
foder S "at. 9'ass (iN)           *       0.02    0.07    0.02    0.03    a.0!    0.06    0.0I    0.09    0.12            0.2    0.0    0. 5so    0.5so    o.so      o.s    0.so    o.so    0.0    o.so          o.s
Leaces  nIn)                          -            -        .       -        -        - -  -  -                          0.1    0.10    0.20    0.0    0.20          a.2   .0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20         0.2    >
UMIIIS (i.) I
loeluied  IRs.2101.I-                                                                                                 2295.0                                      2025.0                                      4050.0
Small lIlmber (ps.940/a)         .                                                                                    9660.0                                      9660.0                                     21840.0
fodder & mat.grassifts)0/s)   -            0.6      O.t     0.6      0.9      2.4      2.4     2.4      2.1      3.6      6.0      IS       IS       IS      IS    15.0        Is       IS       Is       15    I5.0
lemes (*s.5mt)                   -                                                                                       5.5      5.5      5.5      55       5 5.S   5.5       It       II       it      tt    11.0
lolal te let    1 (It.)                  o0.60    0.60    0.60    0.90    2.40    7.40    2.40    2.10    3.60 1196.5   20.50   20.50   20.50   20.50 1110S.S   26.00   26.00   26.00   26.00  S.916.0
lotal pet b-el Ihi (Ps.)            0 -1199.4  -6s94   31494  -3491  .141.e  -311.6  -10.6  -341.3  -346.4 11616.S  -329.5  -3m.5  -329.S  -3m9.5 Il3SS.S    -324    -324    -124    -324 ZSS66.0
GUI 23231



Jam. I. tishmir and Itaryana Social forestry Project
P-Ject (ooplelon Report(Cr.lo l?B1M-l1t)
Jamu It  ashol, Sub-projeci
Attaclment 1lIable 2-Per Ha.-flnancial (stS  and 1-nellts of SIRIP
Year-I  Year-2  Year-3  Year-4  Ye,a  Y-T ari6  \ear-Y  Year-B  Year-9 Yev-10 Year-il Year-12 Year-1l Year-14 Year-IS Year-16 Year-1l Year-16 Year-19 Yef-?O YHr-21
COStS fps./ha)
- Istabtlit   ent                   18000
- Itulngenance                       -         2700      1000      SO        SDO       S0O      SO        SOO       SOO       StlO     SO        SO        SOO      SOO       SO        SO        SOO      SOO       SDO       SO        SOO
. .. . . . .. . . -- --- -- --- -- -- -- - -- -- - - . . -  - -  -- ---  --  -- ---  --  ---  -- - - ---  - - -     - --  - - --- - - - -- - - - - . - - -- --- - - - - --- -- -- - - - --  -- - - - --
feal (osts                          180K0     2fOG      lOoo      SOO       SOO       sn        soo      So0       SOO5           500o  S0o     SOO       S0        SOO      SOO       SDO       SOO       SOO       SD       500       SO0
OUtl'UIS:
fvei..ood Emil                       -         -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -       10.00      -         -         -        -         6.00      -         -        -         -        10.50
Sall  Iber  E1m)                     -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -       19.00      -         -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -        213.00
tea,gs lIt. )                        '         -         -        '         -         -         -         '        '         -        0.10      0.10      0.10      0.10   0eto        0.30      0.10     0.10      0.10      0.10      0.10
KlUtf IIS ERs.)
fuuIood   EPsa?lO/t   )                                                                                                              ?100                                             1620                                             2815
Small  tliber EPS6JO/-1i     I                                                                                                       16960                                                                                             193120
legoes fmsE 552/)                                                                                                                       5.5       6.       S.S        . S      6S SS. 5.S         S.        S.S       S.S       S.S      S.S       n
lotal bentItts (Rs.)                           000       0.00     0 00      0.00      0.00 000          0.00      0 00      0.00    10666      6.60      S.50      5.50 S.50 1O626.5            5.50      5.50     SSO       5.50 22160.S
lotal Net benefits (PRs)                 0    -ZO00    -1000       -SO(     -500      -SOt'   -SOO -60    -0        6-SOO    -SOO 16165.5  -494.5  -494.5  -494.S  -494.5  1125 5  -494.S5  -494.5  -494.5  -494.5 21660.5
IRlt                    16 631



I Ile: (IIIIIAIIIV.Wr I I                                                                               IttOIA
Ja-, I I ashbi  and Ilartana  Social foresiry Project
ihnject lo.plet.on Rcport((r.No I?b6 IN)
J..-u L atsh ir Sub project
Allath.ant I:lable l-II nb.f  I P*( Ila. (GSl t nd  .rnei IIs of WIt AiIOS
Yea.FVear-7  Year-i  Yer  T  Y..;S  Year 6.i7J  Year-6  Year-9 Year-10 Year-11 Year-12 Year-1l Year-1l Year-IS Year-16 Year-1l Year-lS Year-19 Vear-?O Year-fl
(OSIS:
lsaltitsh--l                      (O_     
Hainltne  e                                 25      *    50           ISO      Y10      3S0  3O      )lS Oo                 350       350 335           35O      350      350 3lS           350      350      31so      350
Ictal Cosls  PI /hal              4S00    1125    4*50         lSO      35O      lSO      3SO      lSO      3SO      350      350       3SO      350      3SO      350      350       5O     3lSO      350      350       350
UIlPUIS:
or.l od l-l.                       -        - -                                                                              20.00                       -        -       10.00              0-        -        -       2.00 o
S-all Ilaber I-3l                           -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -         -      25.00                        -        -        -        -        -         -        -       25.00
fodder t(m.) A
tllural Urast                -        -                           -                 -        -        -        -        0 50              -        -                 0.30    0.IS    0.15    0.15    0.S    0.15
teates (s.D                        -                                                                                                                                       00-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  . SO  -  -  -  -  0.3  O.IS    0.15    0.1  0.IS  0.15
BNIFIIS (Rs.)
Juel.ood  (P%.2?0/mt)                                                                                                      5400.0                                        7100.0                                        5400.0
ISall Il.ber (Ps.840/-l)                                                                                                  21000.0                                                                                    71000.0
fodder ,
Natural grass (RS.30/-t)                                                                                                     15.0                                          9.0      4.5       4.5      4.5      4.5      4.5
Leaves (RsSS/al)                                                                                                              21.5                                         16.5      5.3       1.3      5.3      0.3      0.3
lolal bmnent i   (Ps.)              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0 26442.5        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0  2125.5    12.5    12.0    12.8    12.8 26412.8
letal MIet benelIts (Ps.)    -4500.0 -1125.0  -450.0  -350.0  -350.0  -350 0  -l50.0  -350.0  -350.0  -350.0 26092.5  -350.0  -350.0  -3SO.0  -3SO.0  2315.5  -331.3  -311.3  -117.3  -311.3 26062.5
FIR                   16.SIY



IMPIA
Pvogecit oepietlo. Repo.t((r. Ito 16-
Jaoeu I Kashmir- Sub-project
Allach.eat I:lable 4.-Per ii.. financIal (tsts a.-d 11-nellis of FAR" !ORISIRT
- - ______ -      ear-I a.'-T  -Yea-iT  Ye&--I  -ita,    iVF rTTiC                      ear-9 Year-10 Year-Il V*Ar-I? Year-I) Yta,-14 Year-Il Year-16 Vear-1l Year-18 Vear-Il Vesr-?0 year-U1
(DSIS (Ri./ha)
*  stabltish.rrt                hO                         .       -        -- 00                                                        -        .        -       -                            
-Italotenance         -         350      310s  3s  I      350      3o       310      )1o     31o      310      310      31o     310      3so      310     310      310      310      310     310      310
bloat Costs                      2100      310      3s0      3so     350      310      )1o      310     310      310      310      310     310      3s0      310     310      310      310     31o      310      310
lueI.pcod (at.)                       -        -            .        -       .   -                 -                    23.00     -        .       -        -      12.00              .        -        -      23.00
~-all limber (.31                 -                         -        -       -                          -       -       100       -        -                         -                -                         0.00
ladder (at.I                                                                                                             0.10    0 10    .30  010 0.10    0.10 a.t           0 .to    0.30    0.10    0.10    0.10 
iMF III fits.)
tuaI.mod  (Ps./27)                                                                                                     1210.0                                      3240.0                                     1210.0
$&aII limber 411s.110/s.3)                                                                                            4200.0                                                                                 42000.0
fodder (Iks./Jo)                                                                                                          3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0
total benefhis (Ps.)               0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0 45211.0       3:0      3.0     3.0    '3.0  3?43.0       3.0      3.0      3.0      3.0 461213.0
loal Ret btnefits IRS.)    -2100.0  -350.0  -310.0  -310.0   310.0   310 0  -J5-.0.  -350.0  -310.0  -310.0 41663.0  -341.0  -341.0  -410.0  -341.0  24013.0  -341.0  .341.0  -341.0  -347.0 41663.0
IU             ~~~32.275



9jnm A  asimir and iHaryani Social forestry Project
project Completion. Reporl(Cr. No 1286-IN)
Jammu  aishair Sub-project
Attach.ent Liable 5-Pei Hai. financial Costs and Benefits of AIdIKiAOLAIION of 0(GAAO(O FORMS
Year-I  Year-?  Yea,-3  Vear-4  Year-S  lear-6   ya- Year-)       l  Tear- 9 Y ear- IC Year-10   Year-II   Year-1 J Year- Id Tear-IS Year-1 S Tear- Il   ear-1SVarI  Year-?0 Year-?I
C0sts (Ri.):
-   tfilblisheent            620  0                                                           -        -                 -       --                                 -        -                   
-  aintenjance                   -    12OO00 000100 0     S.0 ?50 00  750 00   250 0    5)00  250 00  250.00  250 00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.001 250.00
lolal Costs (Ps./ha)          6250.00 1200.00  100.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00  250.00
(AJIPUI 5:
1oeI-vced (*.)I I/                -        .        -       --       -            -            -        -        0.00    P. (0    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   13.50
Small limber (mi                  -            -        -       -        -            -        -        -        -       10.50    -        -        -        -       10.50     .                - -              34.50
FodderM'assfai)                   -        0.02    0.02    0.02    0.0?    0.80    0.80    0.90    0.1?    0.20    0.50    0.50    0.50    0.50    0.50    0.50    0.so    0.50    0.50    0.50    0.50o
leaves Imi                        -                -   -         -                -        -            -        0.10    0.10    010D    0.10    0.10    0.10    0.20    0.20    0. 20    0.70    0.20    0.?0
WIMeS.o   IRS.)7/t
luel ~~~~~Od   (AS.21010t) ~~~~~~~~~0.0  2160.0                                                        0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0  1890.0       0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0  3645.0           a
Sma11ll  ater (Rt-810/aiJ)                                                                                                                                         8802 1110.0                                28980.0
fodde,6q,asi (As.]O/mI)                     0.6     0.6      0.6      0 6    24.0    ?4o    21.0         3.6      6.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0
teaves (P!.S5/at)                  0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Inlal benef itt (Rs.)             0.0      0.6      0.6      0.6     0.6    24.0   2M.         MO.       3.6      6.0 10995.0    15.0    15.0    IS.0    15.0 10125.0    15.0    15.0    15.0    15.0 32640.0 
lotal Met benelits (Rsi.)    -6250.0 -1199.4  -699.4  -2-19.4  -249.4   226.0  -276.0  -223.0  -246.4  -244.0 10145.0  -235.0  -23S.0  -235.0  -23S.0 10115.0  -235.0  -23S.0  -PIS.0  -235.0 32390.0
FAR                   11.61,1



62
Attachment 1: Table 6. Wholesale Price Index and Exchange Rates
Exchange Rate J/
GOI - FY    Wholesale Price      Deflator     Rs to USS    US$ to SDRS/
Index /
81/82               102.2            177            8.9            1.22
82/83               104.9            172            9.6            1.13
83/84               112.9            160           10.3            1.08
84/85               120.1            151           11.9            1.02
85/86               125.4            144           12.2            1.04
86/87               132.7    ,       136           12.8           *1.16
87/88               143.6            126           13.0            1.32
88/89               154.3            117           14.5            1.39
89/90               166.3            109           16.7            1.33
90/91               180.8            100           18.0            1.37
?/ International Financial Statistics, IMF, June 1991.
h/ Ministry of Industries, Office of Economic Advisers (Base 1981/82 = 100).
sl IDA's financial years.



43     -00, '-e-    GoOp-  -P.%&
a,el   1 to,   Ie a4      .      Iii  a01.9t    wt "S to SC,    f So       'e               al i  .    IS IS.   K fi   Isi        iii11        I- i t oe .4   st    I.      as     is.0       as     Its    ao        iias             asof w  of       a.espelp
, ... .       . . .   . . . . . . ........... .  * . ..   . . . .   . ....  ....i . ... .       ........ci .....                 Se      L...5 ..                          ... ....  a ... a..   .. . .. . .  as..   .... . .  a.. . . . ..  a... .. .. ... a.. . .. . . . . .. . . .
,,.  as     ,ss      Ots      as     tti              545      Zt*                   55      C        8      1'       t        5      f"        t       4               as      is       a.      as      a.       as      as       a.      as      asa"IP
45  ~~~  *j5  155     itt     as~~~~~~~   Pt   510    iLt      iii.         at S     .       a,       a .     ite     a.0       S      It.0.    SOS     too    asI    all        as       a.      a       i.      as       a.      a        a
eS     ti S     a       n         S     Seai its  it      Sc      it       i# ts   to.         cc       a.      'I s     no      le      a        ll*t..  S",:     fl       o       5        S        i     ,i      a.       a         s      a  
a.     as.     ast      C as     as0     a.       a.      a.      i as    I                    c as   a.  a   a.  a      aSt     a.      asZ      a.0     a.       as      o.      aS       as*    IS.      lot      as.     as      as                                      ',
to.I      . 1.     .     *s9     "0       I  1    at       ,I      Uk 8  ,              E St* to.        "S'    logoi.  los  5I*Ia.  aC                    C, it iS. iI     K Is s.  a   a.   s55     a.0     a.      a.~    a.         .      a.      as"ase
Si.  as  ai     a,       s~~~~~~~-t.  a-:    W.l  atO:                         "":              .        " a.  at  a  at  Si  no  to  its  a  a  as       5.      a.:    a.        as      a. :    a.      as       a.      a        asPs-Om
is.  is.  cc.  as  a.    ,ee     5..      as      at~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ no a      ot      a  S.C S                         ti i,S. 'a        O                                 et 55 ei  1  Ce  ii    ti       se        5     ai      a
as  a.   , "I atl      sins    as0   s,u.   nOe    elOcsisSiS is.           ..Kia                  l   toIni    e"Si-    K as    C &   el        ft It.  Sit W      t       s      as      a         s        .     a"Ci             5         s     a
a.,    as  as.    see,    aS,    an  isa  Sito  a..    an   as,    it,    a,      as       n.e    n.e    tin        at,     til      as      as      555      ifs     ifs a~~9.  .    1". KasSas aaskas                 asPm
an  sia.    an    ~~~~~Is.  sin9 I's   K C"  tt,       aet   so.     s[e       ton     sits to           ni       an      si t.    a       isat     a. I     s        n      a         s      a        .      55        5      a         s     a
K So    S .      it io,  S.       a 1 . K            K      *5     is       Sit         Iso   itO      ft I     K     ael ", us            s 0    as      eef a    nKi      a.     ist      55....ai                as.s a....as...
Kas     a.s       as     It .4    at      se P     It     Kiseee    ise     as ft      ia      St o    Itas     all .   t        t is.e   ale        ,    I. as   tee      as      as        s      a.      as      a as.             ' as   a.       5 as
ass    g.4go    anK    s.t        a,. Mt sl O        ft,     Zvi   ate1.    iao        as1   sil       sn .     Isole   0fl nt    nos    Ca5  Ito,       W el    "ts      as      as       as      wi      as       a       Nos     ai       a      as.ot"ol
99 0               St    co :'    n S               t              as So~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0ss   ass
IC  911, :1   I., 9. ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~      ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     s        i      it      t        a        s.     04        i      a.      .                    A.
t    a Is    n a    0.  a K    It It   le, as    ct S,    a ISt                                                    at      tiain            in       a. tSts   ast
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  o
isa   an   an   an   isa   an   sea   an   an   son  an   ma   isis  an   an   sea   an   an   an   sea   an   uii  isa   an   an   tin   eta  isa   use  05.0                                                           0  e at~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.0  N: 
a.   as   ai   as   a.   as   as   as   a.   as  as   as   as   a.   as   as   as   as   as   ai   as   its  0*5   a.   no   tis  no  .5.  a.   at~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l I"    mlfelt  alo      e
as  as  as  as  as  as  a.  a.  as  as      as      as       ai      ai      as       is.     a.       as      as       as      as      as       is.     as       ets     to.     a.      t5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mo  ::  'm  I's SasI"as.  5
a.   as   ai   as   as   a.   a.   as   a.   ai  as   as    as   a.   as   as   as   as   as   as   me   its   to.   us   its   vs   as   us   its   as                                                                   ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ta  LCI   el   m It      'W
a.....   s      as...s...s..                                         s       s        a         i      15       to       ie      a . .. ....a.                     gi       s       s      is        ii     5e5     as tKefill    W                  a5,           a`C     Pll
eltos    4go    a a,    ols  es a,    ile         0. S    f is     f sso :,           .6      So S. us   en      so el   s.    el0 ft      s..     i6so    s        s      oi      o-i     a         .               l       is5     as a.1.          a. SPt&
at  as  a,  as  as  a,  a,  a.  at  a,  a,  a,  a,     at      as      is.      at      as       at      at       ate    lest    use       sea,    is      its      ott     a,      as       a.              Woe....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K.  S  It............. ......
a.e   fts        as      as       as      ase    a-sI      asa      as      K as       as      asK      as      e a.     a.O     as      at       as      a.aWn                    55        s       o       le     sa       tt        t       i       o           -
K  S.                                                                                                                       a 0    cc.       of~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(at  iol
K     n.                     Snm   a.i0            5      i5     n



IN DIA
JIM S KASl & P a.nd IIAR1AJA Social forestry Project
PRO,IICI COlWtI10   RiPORI(Er.Mo1286.111)
KARYAdA SUAI.PROICI
Alttlh_.. 7:t.ble I Per la. Ilna .al Coiost nd 8Se-fits of Strip PI*ntOltoo
P I P I 0 I'
~~~~~_ ; __ __ __ _ ____   ____ _    Mt  ~c
lie                                thIt        Ps.                       I         7         3          4         5          6         1          8         9        10         it        12         13        14         IS        16      I1          Is        19
Istab I I                          61. 11..                          6600       1370       6PO
aIlten,.Ke                         Pt/lb                                 0         0          0       350       3SO 350              3lS 350              35O        350       350        3]0 3so             350        350        350     350        3S0       350
iOIAt                      s.lIa.       -                    600       9370        660       350        350       350       350        350       350        350 3lS  3l0                   3s0 3l0              350        350     0SO        350        350
GRlOSS elRKs
ivclonod                              t.                                                                                               3                                        1 4                                     _            14
S.a9 Il9 ber             i      l     3         -                                                                                                                                6                                                   24       _
leaf foder                           Nt.        -                    -          -         -          -         -             2         2          2                    2         4          4         4          4         4          4       4          4          4
Uetwea grasses                       mIt.        -                   -             3          3         3          3         1          11                                        1         1          1         1          1         1        1         1          1
Dry- follenonod                      mt.                                                                                                                                         0          0         0          0         0          0       0          0         0
t;ROSS tHlofltllS
I nlInod                             at.          250                                                                     -          600       -         -          -         3500                 -                    -         350O    -           -         -
Soel 1 1.6r                          as.          I50                _          -              -          -               -                    -         -         -          4200            -         -               -         17820    -          -         -
laf fodder                           Pi.           SO                           -         -               -                100       I00        900       900        o00       ?00       200        200       200        zoo       200      200       200        200
hIIo.r1 grasses                      Pt.           25                                       6 63  61   63        63         25        25         25        25         25        25         25        25         ?5        25         25      2S         25        25
Dry- tolle.  Vod                     pi.          200                -          -                    -         -          -                                                     ? -  2     20        20         20        20         20      20         20        20
0lOAt                                                           0         63        63         63        63        125       925        125      195        125       Y945       245        245       249        245     21565      245       745        245
alltl KF1115                         p.                             -6600       92So      -596       -27C      -231       -225       SyS       -225        75 5.    -275      7595       -10S      -10S       -105      -IOS     21215    -105        -I0      -90S
FR                         139304
I/ Total .-peoses per Ha. Inclding  mrsery, earth -ort.
pl.tlg. |"Iten*n# *nd protctiln.



A,,4MJ i   M AIAIA SAAW      l  eA.I   .    ,lc
AIIeh.cm   aIc&. 1P.Isa. I j.&".ag     Costs Md k.-i1Is .8 1 #AMfjWS6f
{"lt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        I
iU1iT p.lcc
am..i^        5;1M1                                as ae a4 al&t.  (a,   ts  a.01    .1  aS                                                                            ,          .          I          Il         II         *m                     m         u          e                      .a
IsB*mIaMc.I                e~~~~~.4      Al.                      ea.4a9e                                                                                               Is 
tlIAa                       Ost-All                 .                        Ilmm        I's        )so        al          le        Ae  ise                           ale         aa@ isol  ISO                    Ile ]Sp )soiie                  li         isle        3101                  Ale
emil~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~r pinI as
f.cI..-cd                              IN.                                                                                                                                        ca                             -.Is                      e                  I  i                                          is
a.alm Ia.",                            mg.                                                                                                                                         0      -                                                                 ---i
lz.ai d.                                Ha.          -.                                                         a                                a          a          a           a          a          a           a          a          I          a         a          a          a           a n
Mac.lg.ecs.c                           Na.                               -                                                                                                                  - a   s a   .                                                                        
k,l- 16mIca ..d                         mi.         .                                                                                                                                        .1        *.I        e.a        e.m        e.a         e.         .I       g.m         o I         ..
LMAS     l M-lili
1.-                                      s.                                                                                                  Joi.  -                -            lelso -                                               a          *         -      '                
ia   Miss.                             as.           li                   -           .          .          .          .          . .                    .          .                                             .  .  .   .           .                               .                                  IS
I,.ac .1                              ea.           .                                                                  .           m          a           l          m Joe      I am       wS          ml.          10       ale         Il         a                   m ase                  al        - 
C.-A' ri l.cscs                         As..          a11.s                                                            aa           as          is         a      s              is          is         H          *1         is                     a        is          Is         as        Ia I
Os-  $IaIa...cad                                                                                                                                                    - am  -  -       -                                      .0 is                  - to  M                Is.        .e *0
1,&2  l                                                                  6, SX- .U .U .1 I     Its                                        It1        1s         Its      jolt          15          M 5       19          19S       NO          ItS      IY          Its        Its     S        1   1$@
aemam1@                           a.....          us-                            *.s        *zs        *eas   -.  ca a           s       mu,         mai        as       Jama          as          n          ass        ns         ne          mn      mas         mat        ins        ms        ae
eo ealaSm                                                                -size   -4U.S    -9U   S    -53  s          lo  s        -IIs       Isis        ns         -its      J61n          ISS       -ass       -aSS       -ISS       l141        -ISS    -IS         -aS         -ISS       -ISS      11s
pleas I.. calas....,,  c   p. 1 lUI In.-
a%



0   _t- .>,-          .-A-,-S.  *!i,-  ' 
t~        . F   ,                                |
LI   -                                
t ~    ~     W! IE                   -              _
.-3
.                         '   .f        _     -
.. ....     . .   .. . a- ..   
_        -           -                  -     b_^
_a       -           a                               I ; a_
--~~~ ~ -..-- 
a- '~     -8|-                 55 _              
-  a      -8 f' 
a-       ae          -- i      55 
a _      .          -.W __-  
C  :   t_Ii         '~  -_       S      - 
-  a-   s-     
t  - '' * S S                    _
o -                            Iz -,'__      
99~~~~                                   ~~     -e S.     - ' - 



tilllNo. 
W14A10  11I SlOJECI
AlII.lb.. .I  53.5. 4. P., Im. I I s..4I.  C., 6  ..4 f-#8 II$ .1 $A 13141 /LAI1 I  IAJIIA IION
II..   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~          a.. ~~~~~a                           a         a                     s                     5          a                   m          a           l     ii54                      SII                 D          S         s 
3u.a10IAasu.                                                      Is          a15        all         Ill        iii        us        zIM        I5         s          us      s   M          M3                   pis5)     531        *35      511       535        53$        535        53
*  I  as       -           01        .           a.                     *3                  6.3 a.J                                         5.             0.3                   0.J         06
^ll6*..eFl  5:l&ble  5. 6ef  5$&   l*^elul t.ls   ^  t.ellls .t sAl&^oi                                       Is                                                               isa                                      Is                    Is     -6w
11,,1-,  ,^,,  4,. Rs.                                                               s ,           ,                 so ,5                 as         I         is         is 5Is 0Is                      Is          Is 1  5               Is i-s             Is         s15
5..13 33..                              .         .5                    -                    -           *         -             I.  .1                                     *1 -                          -           *.        -         -        -                    *.  .aaa s
10OAt                                                      a ~5.. 5550         so        500         10        too         is       l1           1        Its         is        IN          Is        Jim         is      Isi        Is       no           2s        550     al
Id,I ,l.i,,. .Ill00                                                              -1500      .           .05  .5      a M      -11       .jg0       .5)5       -530       -0         -M         -I]        - -ia     -U         -530        -1      .s3e      -ill       -isa        33.      55540
IRA 1,1, *                                                                          sc         s         100 s1                100 sl               oo                    *1
ilaiog   *4I4ic.11           4soo p.11.5  1614                                                       --s.3-l                           Z@        -ts       -1                      t          Is       -a         -I           l                 ta        .1          R           x  



So-  T11-  St,  ege          $91        "St       *001       Ono~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~It,itpu
SltE~~~                                         ~          ~ -ts  t4  *Nt  Ul                                                      itt t1 tl   "l' tt SO S- SO or S-  ss-  -e  -ls       Oc         J-                 sitlwr 'p
mit    sit           st         s          it    up          USi        itn         n        sit       sitn       "i                              SM         e -  o  O  Us                  t         a c  tW  030t  *i.i
sit       15         1          Ut    sn          un          u 15     IS                    sn I        I        t               t                SI                      -                                   - sit  egg  "I. IIrO
-@                            -         -                  -            -          -         -          -      S*t           -         -          -          -         -                   -            OSC                               .    1 ,.l
lii~~                                   ~         ~     ~     ~      ~  -               - -  -  -              II                                      -               -                                        *n -Xt iiiw
I'             I'         I' %@ s                                            V               @    t         *          t          f         t--                                           -         --'11 I'sP c                    IN
slWaUJ ISM~
Ula       sit        St        Us                  ml        Ut                    Ul tti  I   I       Ste        Sll sl               Stl       S            t slt              Ult        trn       WI5       3mt                      -         lV iS                     1v101
Ut        sta        Sa        sit        Sts    Sn          OCt      tUt         Irt Ut   Sri           a        srI  Wtt            iSt?       sitt       51        ste        i         *          ,                                  - sIi t                              iw.iIgt
510       W$        009                      -     'll-i nVi- 1-ogg
It    tS             SI        SI         as      CI         II        01         II        ii         II        55         4         5,         a          *         s          i         I          t   I                              4en   ..  1i-     I
_    _                                                                                         _  _  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*I~   I1   I          _______________
III WtI N  'li-)I lwn     olIIiqJ  l)lO
I olldltsi Not I    twIo )Ovs iutS tw  5tuisv  I rftwr
t1"t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
01165~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|  ntt



Oll~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ lAPLIA to I"    Z@sl
SOW I               "VA"I S*loN((
SMA(I (claliol XK*1It.k.IAhb1tla)
Alis.k..9     I 1. lal                         ON   AgiAs.
Its..                           a1.6      a..                                                                            .                                    I        I.t sa    aa       to        s        a1        to        to       a9       Is
t  11 a|  }. fi|I|j116"        at                                                          IN     me                   in        1     1                                        me       me                                     )5         B       1
GAsAu                                                 an a..maa            ss      as us              ass      ass       as       asA nos            a        u         al        mes     am        ass        ass      Is$      as        nla       1
lu1l p         11gas
Mt.                                                      aaI                s.a                s.a                s.a        a        .a                5.1     -                              .a                  a        a
l.ast ltom,                      s.                                                                                   .                                       a               -                               a                         -                    II
&&l..*.#,   . ps.#                                             a.a      5.5      5.1       I's      5.1        I       5.1      1.1       5.1      8A.      j.         .s                 .s      a..       a.s       5.         .i      .5.       a.5      5.5
01.#..-                          5,.         1 .                                                                                                    i  ss   no         I i    s                             me                   is       Iss    ai lS
1.411 11.,4,                     a.        .1 ..1.                                                                                                                   . .                                    w o as. .                             .          ISass
1 e1 ,d.r                        a..         5                                            .                                                 o . .  I    I    It       la l      to       in       ae                  a         a"      ai            
8     ........                    ..         Is                         Rs      U  5      U        "A        ".        5.      u.s       "A       sa..     45.       " .5        .S     a.       55.5      5.1       5.1       65.5       .S      41.A     45.1
W* "0IM                                                      us   *as .1        45.5   -pat 1    M.5   I    asa.51   *s1As.   as1 s   -sI).$   -sss.1   aSimi   All.$1  .1m61.    -555.1  -551.    asa.$    *aaa.s    aas.s1  -aa. S    u.911.   IaS.6
,u   .,                 a..,..                                                                                                    s                  s      0s          s,
,.,, . .1 i.. .. . . ,. 35. . a.4. , ..i. . .  . .. ...
p.,i,  *.I.t....O   .4  .Ii
t,   *.*  ...  ,.^   .  ".  .  b". -  ,*,   _  ................... ,, -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'.



u..  non   m  -  -   .4 C.,    Ulu                                                                                                                                                                                                .... ......... .... ..~~~~~~~-      -   --  II--
..... .   ....                                                                                                                                                                1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.S   I    ii   flefe1* It       
W  MI         Ul         mI el                UIt       UI.I                 I          i         i          e         e        Sl        tl           i       11       fi         ti          I        t,         II      Mt          ee      Wt        tl          ti      WI        Il        W                                   tt
f-.#  no,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~        ~        ~        ~       ~        ~        ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~           WtM      -
nIo I                  I       Slt      tti       l  i         W       tM         il       tit         I  S it               Wt       Ili        cn       Sre        ll         si        i 5        ei       ttt       *111                 el          tief               ie      M           I                         l      A
W  t      Is.        WI       II         te       It         WIt       MI        Me         it          M          tI       ll         lt       tM        lt          It       il          t          it      tl        ls       tM        Sl           i        ii       Ml        M           tllel
WI  W  Ml MI  I  W  MI WI       l       M         Mi           WI        ll          t       il         M         Mt        WI          I       M          U.        Mt        ..        Mt        Ut        ..        U.        .t        MtUt.
Ml  Ml       Ml        Ml~S       Wi. I      l       Ui          6iil               W           t          M         l          tt       lt         W          l         I       Il         M         II         M         t           t       M           t       MI        M          *        W                           td  lW
Ml  Mt WI  MI WI      Mt       Ill        M         itt       ite       il           itt tt              it        iii         ii       u         iii        it       it        ill         he       Sie MSti t'tle                          Sll        Ml       ill        M                                 *11
MIK       lot       Ml1.       Ml4       MI        W                     t         t        W Mt                  WIOf  .   .  l  Mt,  Mi       il:MnM    Mi'                             Mt        M           t       M          ll       ft        M            t       Mt        M           t       M
no Wit         Wt        "I         MW        MM        Wt       st            ti      Wl          M           Ie      MI         eelt    i             II      li           e      ii          i         ii       MM        MI        M          l           i       M           t      MI         M                          ilI
Mn   .98  1.  1".~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 1-
C" il        11.11      u          Ml        MM       flt       tl           t        i           i         M           t       WI         M           i       M           t       M           I       il         M         M         i           t       W           I       M           I       M                                W
Mt ,WI    MI         Ml        MI       "n MM     Iti       1111    fil           i      I             tu        tll        M         tlt       si         , 11        tii                i         l           I       M          t          t       M           I       W           t       M                                     l
Mt Mt        Wte         M         M          M          tt     WIt       in         M        MI..II                    I         t      llt        Mil       liaII."te                    tW           l         I         tat                  t       Mt        Mt        Mt        MI        Mtittm ~
Ml  fee     Ia       MMUM                M           M      tiI        Il          e       tl            I        I         MM         M'MC               fie        tt          t         WI        UlM.i                        M           I       WI        M           I       M            i1
nu  110,  It                                           1-1 ~ ~ ~ li ~ i 
no, ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     MIiu
WI  It Iii    tIlt  111W  halt  ailfi    talit  silt  Mile  Will    till  nfl  Mtt  MW  lit.  Mill    tIMe  W 11111 it  titl  tiM        eli      1111       III       III       tel       Ill        Mt        Ml        MI~~~~~~~~~~~~....... .....
Ml isil  Iil  11W fitt Wih  il   Mli  111  llt tIts Mi.  te   etl  Mii      Mit       tet       llt       il.       ee        iit       fne       ile        Il       ll           I        Il       Mt        Mt        WII
Mi  Mi tIt   tMI       MW        Iti          ill     MW        Mll       115        M           W        It           t        W         M        Il         tI         tI       Ml         WI        Mi        ai       it         M         MI       il I                 M         M
-a-
n:                                                                                                                                              11:~~~~~~~~~~~~ll    tt Il        I  I I'll
not.,    In'.                                                          I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IM                                                     II        tI         ii        I           It     it        MC        tl



71
INDIA                                        Attachment 3
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1286&IN)
Economic Analysis
(Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, and Overall Project)
OVERALL
JAMMU AND KASHMIR                             HARYANA                      PROJECT
NET                                     NET             NET
FY     COSTS   BENEFITS BENEFITS                COST    BENEFITS BENEFITS            BENEFITS
81        2.31          0        -2.31               0          0           0              -2.31
82       12.58          0       -12.58           34.47          0       -34.47           -47.05
83       32.18          0       -32.18           33.03         2.7      -30.33           -62.51
84       43.36          0       -43.36           53.96        5.57      -48.39           -91.75
85       57.59          0       -57.59           58.08       24.34      -33.74           -91.33
86       60.11          0       -60.11            60.3       37.29      -23.01            -83.12
87       51.27       0.01       -51.26           47.82       40.07       -7.75           -59.01
88       46.05        0.01      -46.04           59.12       39.21      -19.91            -65.95
89       44.24       0.02       -44.22           63.75       41.19      -22.56           -66.78
90       46.65        0.04      -46.61           91.24       51.68      -39.56           -86.17
91       19.19        3.17      -16.02           24.69       65.28       40.59            24.57
92       19.19       26.82       7.63            24.69       161.7      137.01           144.64
93       19.19      95.85       76.66            24.69      176.09       151.4           228.06
94       19.19      127.76     108.57            24.69      252.01      227.32           335.89
95       19.19      174.66      155.47           24.69       305.8      281.11           436.58
96       19.19     207.51       188.32           24.69      216.92      192.23           380.55
97       19.19      176.96     157.77            24.69      160.24      135.55           293.32
98       19.19      181.91      162.72           24.69      190.57      165.88            328.6
99       19.19      133.95      114.76           24.69       158.6      133.91           248.67
2000       19.19      129.75      110.56           24.69      281.42      256.73           367.29
1       19.19      46.88       27.69            24.69      130.52      105.83           133.52
2       19.19       70.64      51.45            24.69      403.59       378.9           430.35
3       19.19      125.93     106.74            24.69      398.85      374.16            480.9
4       19.19     246.76      227.57            24.69      543.04      518.35           745.92
5       19.19     337.14      317.95            24.69     1417.34     1392.65           1710.6
6       19.19        396      376.81            24.69      452.25      427.56           804.37
7       19.19     232.16      212.97            24.69      233.23      208.54           421.51
8       19.19     221.41      202.22            24.69      284.95      260.26           462.48
9       19.19      193.16     173.97            24.69      256.17      231.48           405.45
10       19.19     110.97       91.78            24.69      379.92      355.23           447.01
11          0           0           0             0.84       19.18       18.34            18.34
IRR                                   14%                                     23%              19%



