Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                           -
Report No. P-3365-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 29.4 MILLION (US$33 MILLION EQUIVAL]
TO INDIA
FOR THE
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
July 15, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 12, 1982)
V
US$1.00         =        Rs 9.530116
Rs 1.00         =        US$ 0.10493
Rs 1 million   =          US$ 104,930
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.  Conversions in
the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to Rs 8.5, which
represents the projected average exchange rate over the disbursement
period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CCF            Chief Conservator of Forests
CF             Conservator of Forests
DCF            Deputy Conservator of Forests
FWE            Fuel Wood Equivalent
GOH            Government of Haryana
GOI            Government of India
GOJ&K          Government of Jammu and Kashmir
ICB            International Competitive Bidding
J&K            Jammu and Kashmir
LCB            Local Competitive Bidding
SFW            Social Forestry Wing
ton           metric ton



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              India, acting by its President
Beneficiary:           The States of Haryana (GOH) and Jammu and Kashmir (GOJ&K)
Amount:                SDR 29.4 million (US$33 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:       From the Government of India (GOI) to the States
as part of Central assistance for State development
projects on terms and conditions applicable at the
time.
Project Description:  The project would increase supplies of fuelwood for
domestic use in rural areas through the establishment
of 44,000 ha of plantations in Jammu and Kashmir and
67,000 ha in Haryana on private and public
wastelands throughout the States. It would also
provide poles, bamboo, small timber, fodder, fruit,
oilseeds and other forest products from the same
plantations, generate paid employment for the rural
poor, improve environmental conditions, and
establish and strengthen the Social Forestry Wings
of the Forest Departments of both States. The main
project risk is that the free distribution of
seedlings might lead to some waste. Experience in
other projects indicates strong demand for seedlings
but statistics of their survival rate are
inadequate. Another risk is that village panchayats
might lack sufficient leadership and incentive to
assume responsibility for village woodlots. These
risks would be minimized by the careful monitoring
and supervision of planting programs, and public
information and education efforts.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Project
Cost: a/                                             (US$ Million)
Local         Foreign         Total
Plantations                        31.9                          31.9
Project Organization               16.3           1.1            17.4
Research and Training               1.4           0.4             1.8
Communication & Extension          0.7                            0.7
Monitoring and Evaluation           0.3                           0.3
Sub-total                    50.6           1.5            52.1
Physical Contingency                1.8                           1.8
Price Contingency                  13.1           0.1            13.2
Total                        65.5           1.6             67.1
a/  Including an estimated US$1.1 million in taxes and duties.
Financing Plan:                                  (US$ Million)
Local      Foreign    Total
GOI/GOH/GOJ&K                     34.1         -         34.1
IDA                               31.4         1.6       33.0
Total                        65.5        1.6        67.1
Estimated Disbursements:                          (US$ Million)
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88
Annual          3.2    4.8    6.5    8.5    8.0    2.0
Cumulative      3.2    8.0   14.5   23.0   31.0   33.0
Rate of Return: About 27%.
Appraisal Report: No. 3840-IN, dated July 15, 1982.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 29.4 MILLION (US$33 MILLION EQUIVALENT) TO INDIA
FOR THE JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to India for SDR 29.4 million (US$33 million equivalent) on standard IDA
terms, to help finance a social forestry project in the States of Jammu and
Kashmir and Haryana. The project would increase supplies of fuelwood and
other forest produce in rural areas, offer paid employment to the poorest
segment of the population and help to improve environmental conditions. The
Government of India (GOI) would channel the proceeds of the credit to the
Governments of Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana in accordance with GOI's stand-
ard terms and arrangements for financing development projects in the States.
The exchange risk would be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3872-IN, dated April 7, 1982), was distributed to the Executive Directors on
April 19, 1982. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about
701 million (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$240.
Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.6% per annum
over the past 30 years. The economy is dominated by agriculture which
employs more than two-thirds of the labor force. However, the land base is
not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to everyone engaged in
agricultural activities, especially those with little or no land. Conse-
quently the latter have only an insecure grasp on the means of existence.
Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.3% per annum over the past
30 years -- has been slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per
annum). As a result, there has been a gradual decline in the share of
agriculture in GDP (at factor cost measured in 1970/71 prices) from 60% to
about 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to around 24%.  But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with significantly
higher productivity and income levels.
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Kallada Irrigation and Treecrop
Development Project (No. P-3347-IN), dated June 7, 1982.



-2-
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress on several fronts.  In
the face of a large and rapidly growing population, India has been able to
increase agricultural output faster than total population while eliminating
persistent dependence on foodgrain imports. Savings and investment have
increased markedly since 1950/51: gross domestic savings more than doubled
from 10.8% of GDP (at factor cost) to 24.8%, while gross domestic investment
rose from 12.5% of GDP to 26.2%. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s; for a
few years in the late 1970s, surpluses arose, and at the present time, for-
eign savings are about 10% of investment. External assistance has been low
both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance
has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1% at the end of the
1970s.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only 3.5% per annum, only marginally
higher than the volume growth of imports over the same period. In the early
to mid-1970s, however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly
constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government
introduced various policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a
result, the volume of India's exports grew on average about 7.6% per annum
for the 1970s as a whole, a performance which demonstrates that sustained
rapid growth is possible. While expanding world markets, particularly in the
nearby Middle East, contributed to this growth, liberalized access to
imported inputs and more effective export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was
buoyed by relatively rapid export growth and an expanding level of foodgrain
output, which culminated in a record 132 million tons of foodgrain production
in 1978/79. As a result, growth in real GDP, agricultural and industrial
value-added, substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph
3). In 1979/80, however, this momentum was broken when the worst drought in
recent years, combined with a doubling of international oil prices and domes-
tic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in foodgrain production, a decline
in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade deficit. Severe inflationary
pressures also emerged after several years of virtual price stability. The
impact of these setbacks is still being felt in the Indian economy, par-
ticularly in the balance of payments, and adjustments will be needed for some
years to come. However, the short-term recovery process is almost completed
and the economy has regained its growth momentum.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81, the economy substantially recovered with real GDP growing
by 7.5%. While industrial output expanded by 4%, recovery was particularly
robust in agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than
15%. Increased foodgrain production, along with judicious use of Government
buffer stocks built up in earlier years, also helped moderate price rises.
Inflation remained a serious problem with the annual average wholesale price
index rising 18%, although the second half of the year provided clear
evidence of a deceleration in inflation.



-3-
8.      1981/82 was a year of solid growth after the rebound in 1980/81 and
GDP grew by 5.5%. While foodgrain production rose only modestly over its
1980/81 level, other crops including oilseeds and sugarcane performed well
and total agricultural output grew by 4%. The availability of power, coal
and rail transport, already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82,
recording growth rates of about 10%, 9.4% and 15% respectively. As con-
straints on the supply of infrastructure and basic commodities continued to
ease, industrial output responded with an 8% increase. The downward trend in
inflation continued. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on an average annual
basis, while the increase on a March 1981 to March 1982 basis was less than
2%, showing a continued deceleration. Easier supply conditions, combined
with a more restrictive monetary policy, contributed to the sharp decline in
the rate of inflation.
9.      The performance of the agriculture sector in 1981/82 ensured that
supply conditions in the country remained quite favorable. It also provided
continuing evidence of the positive effects of large investments and
appropriate policies in past years. Foodgrain production reached between 132
and 134 million tons, thus matching or perhaps surpassing the previous
record. Irrigated area expanded by 2.5 million hectares, while fertilizer
consumption improved over its 1980/81 level by more than 7%, despite substan-
tial price increases. Recent performance and probable future trends suggest
that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed demand. However, the balance
remains delicate with some imports likely to be required from time to time.
Indeed, the effects of the severe 1979/80 drought were still being felt in
1981/82 when 2.25 million tons of wheat were imported to rebuild depleted
stocks. Nevertheless, the relatively low import requirement, the ability of
the Government to delay imports for as long as two years after the production
shortfall, and the decline in foodgrain prices in real terms demonstrate the
flexibility and resilience provided by the public foodgrain system.
10.     Shortages of basic commodities and infrastructural services were
major contributors to industrial stagnation and the onset of high inflation
in 1979/80. This was the culmination of several years of declining capacity
utilization in important, interrelated sectors such as power, coal, and rail
transport. A major cause of the improved economic climate over the last two
years has been a much improved level of output in these sectors, due mainly
to greater efficiency and utilization of installed capacity. Expansion of
coal output by about 10 million tons for the second successive year and of
rail freight traffic to a record level were particularly noteworthy features
of the 1981/82 economic performance. The shortfalls in domestic energy
production which contributed so heavily to the poor 1979/80 performance have
also been reduced. However, even though there remains large scope for
improving efficiency, further improvements in capacity utilization will
become increasingly difficult, and increases in capacity are needed to meet
increasing demand.
11.     Despite a brief phase in the late 1970s, when savings rates exceeded
investment rates and foreign exchange reserves actually increased, recent
experience shows that the needs of the Indian economy continue to outstrip
the availability of resources, both internal and external. Investment
exceeds domestic savings. The latter, at nearly 25% of GDP, are already high
and further increases, particularly from the household sector, will be
increasingly difficult to obtain. However, over the last two years, the



-4-
Government has taken a number of measures to generate higher savings in the
public sector. Principal among these were price and tax increases, and
subsidy reductions, on a range of commodities produced mainly in the public
sector.
12.     The shortage of resources is even more apparent in the foreign sec-
tor. Problems became serious after 1979/80 when the cost of India's POL
imports rose sharply and the terms of trade deteriorated.  Coupled with
domestic supply shortages and a slowing down in export growth, these factors
caused India's current account deficit to rise from only 0.6% of GDP in
1979/80 to 2% of GDP in 1980/81. In 1981/82, the current account deficit
rose to US$4.3 billion, representing 2.7% of GDP. Unfavorable movements in
export prices and the terms of trade threatened a worse outcome. However,
the much improved performance of basic import-substituting industries and a
resumption of healthy export volume growth (8.3%) prevented this. To finance
this gap in the face of inadequate concessional aid flows, the Government           -
drew down a record US$2.36 billion in foreign exchange reserves, withdrew
almost US$700 million under the recently negotiated IMF Extended Fund
Facility, and turned increasingly to other non-concessional sources of
finance. In 1980/81 and 1981/82 for example, new government guaranteed
commitments for commercial borrowing totalling over US$1.3 billion were
contracted for major projects.
13.     The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into reasonable balance at an acceptable level of growth.
In particular, there is a need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently, in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to further reduce the constraints in transportation
and other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide
range of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response
to the present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not
reacted by placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has main-
tained and extended the more liberal policies evolved in the past several
years. Recent improvements in the availability of power, a major constraint
facing exporters, and the adoption of several new export and industrial
policy measures have improved the prospects for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is exten-
sive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need for
additional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing
capacity. India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institu-
tional infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive
natural resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal
and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and



-5-
reasonable access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing
these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objec-
tives is the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now about
halfway completed. The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy develop-
ment, the growth of exports and domestic import substitutes where
appropriate, and the removal of infrastructural bottlenecks. Overall perfor-
mance has so far been encouraging, although the likelihood of continued
bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport is growing. Moreover,
fulfillment of the Plan targets will require an acceleration of domestic
savings rates. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resources have
so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient to meet the
financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan investment,
if inflation can be kept in check. However, a significant shortfall in
savings is likely to occur in some states unless further measures are intro-
duced. There will be a need also for continuous efforts to maintain and
raise further the already high level of private savings. Recent increases in
interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits should stimulate such
savings. The further dampening of inflationary expectations, the prospects
for which look bright, will be an important part of this effort.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. Thus far, however, output growth has not matched
the size of India's investment programs. Much of this phenomenon relates to
India's stage of development, in which a large and growing proportion of
investment has been needed to build up basic infrastructure. These services,
such as power, transport and irrigation, have inherently high capital output
ratios. However, at least some of the rise in the sectoral capital output
ratios has been due to a deterioration in efficiency and is avoidable through
better management. Bottlenecks in these basic sectors clearly can prejudice
growth in other sectors where large investments have been made. As demon-
strated in the last two years, performance in the basic service sectors can
be improved through better planning and management, thus leading to higher
productivity and capacity utilization, throughout the economy. At the same
time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case of trade-
able commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as power and transporta-
tion, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the requirements of
the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
prospects. At present rates of development, however, an adequate balance
between supply and demand in these sectors will be difficult to sustain.
Performance in the power sector to date suggests that India's power deficit
will continue into the early 1990s, although more rapid project implementa-
tion and efficiency could narrow the size of the gap. For railways, real
investment levels may be inadequate to meet demand projections and will need
to be monitored closely and adjusted upward as necessary if serious bot-
tlenecks are to be avoided in the next few years.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious energy production
program backed by substantial financial commitment. While the gap between
domestic consumption of petroleum and production remains large, the prospects
for progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite
bright. In 1981, resources for exploration were raised by successive price



-6-
i  r-fses for petroleum products.  On the production side, scheduled expan-
sion is expected to raise domestic production of crude from the current 46%
to about 64% of demand by 1984/85. The rapidly expanding level of
exploratory activity, combined with the possibilities for accelerated offtake
from known fields offer much encouragement for India's longer term energy
prospects.
18.     The continuation of India's balance of payments difficulties has been
marked by the progressive use of foreign exchange reserves and
non-concessional borrowing to finance the deficit. Use of reserves reached a
record level in 1981/82, leaving less than four months of import coverage by
the end of the year.  At the same time, India also made use of the IMF
Extended Fund Facility. Entering this period with a favorable debt service
profile, India has so far also been able to tap commercial capital markets at
favorable spreads (over, of course, relatively high underlying rates) and in
the last two years commercial borrowing has been stepped up. These sources
will be important in the future since India's current account deficits,
though not large relative to the size of the economy, will nevertheless be
large in absolute terms and will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels
expected to be available from normal concessional sources.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on
the extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and exter-
nal balance, while at the same time maintaining reasonably high growth. In
the longer term, income growth represents the best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and
import-substituting industry to realign the balanice of paymerts. In the
short-term, significant external borrowing, including an increased emphasis
on commercial borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of pay-
ments consequences of such a growth strategy.  However, an important element
in providing India with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate
flows of concessional assistance. Although India is currently in a position
to increase borrowing on commercial terms from the very low levels of the
past, there are limits to India's creditworthiness in world markets. Main-
taining an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment as intended by the
Government requires foreign resources in addition to the level of commercial
borrowing available to India. Indeed, along with increasing exports, higher
levels of investment to support an adequate rate of growth is a key element
in maintaining India's recently improved creditworthiness.  India is still a
very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous investment require-
ments for human development and basic infrastructure. The fact that India
has been able to maintain over the past seven years a rate of growth above
the long term trend, despite the severe setbacks of 1979/80, lends substance
to the hope that a more open trade policy and concerted efforts to remove
constraints on the growth of productive capacity, supported by adequate
mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can sustain a rate of
growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long run trend of 3.6% per annum.
Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase to below 2.0%
per annum, a 5.0% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend rate of
growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in these
efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.



-7-
200     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need
for India's development efforts to be protected and accelerated if possible.
The 1981 Census placed India's population at 683.4 million, or about 12 mil-
lion higher than official projections. The fact that there was no decline in
inter-census rates of population growth, equivalent to about 2.2% per annum,
is a cause for concern. While further analysis may suggest this rate of
growth to be slightly overestimated, the expectation of a measurable decline
in the population growth rate has not materialized. Until full details of
the Census are released, firm judgements about the reasons for this outcome
are not possible. However, the results re-emphasize the need for continuing
efforts to strengthen the family planning program in a broad range of
activities and services. These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth
Plan which aims at a rise in the proportion of protected couples in the
reproductive age group from its estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over
35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line. Improvements in the living stand-
ards of the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the
economy, particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment,
in non-farm rural employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban
areas. These developments will have to stem in large part from market forces
which, however, must be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate Government
policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure. The
declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981 resulting from
India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and
finally in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human
capital of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are
elements of the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of
Indian planning for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in
the expansion of primary education, the extension of rural health facilities
and the provision of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the
community health volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign
provide encouraging evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost
programs can lead to enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
22.      Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 65 loans and 148 development
credits to India totalling US$3,571 million and US$10,633 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,232 million has been
repaid, and US$5,254 million was still undisbursed as of March 31, 1982.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
March 31, 1982 totalled US$858 million, representing an increase of about
28 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary



-8-
statement of disbursements as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 25 commitments in India totalling US$176.5
million, of which US$24.5 million has been repaid, US$42.6 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$101.9 million,
US$94.0 million represents loans and US$7.9 million equity. A summary state-
ment of IFC operations as of March 31, 1982, is also included in Annex II
(page 5).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent
with the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture,
energy and infrastructure. Of particular importance have been investments in
irrigation, extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricul-
tural productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricul-
tural inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and
seed projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed
at helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth
of oil imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have
hampered economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group
has also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale
industrial enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support
of development finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving
the ability to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations,
the Bank Group has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural
roads project, as well as water supply and sewerage and other urban
infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastruc-
ture development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and
growth prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on
improved efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery
to farmers' fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large
Narmada River basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural
production. Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer
production and distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue
to receive support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly
increasing the domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India
is to curb the cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages
which constrain output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors.
Exploitation of oil and gas resources is a central element of this program,
which should be supplemented by investments in hydro and thermal power gener-
ation, and in the expansion of the transmission and distribution networks.
Industrial projects to increase the domestic production of basic commodities,
which have been in short supply and which India has a comparative advantage
in producing, should also receive high priority. Finally, raising the
efficiency and levels of transportation infrastructure would mitigate a key
constraint to achieving higher levels of economic growth so that further
support of the railways and for ports development will be particularly
appropriate.



-9-
26.        The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry.  Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sec-
tors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.        India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt serv-
ice to the level of exports was about 11% in 1981/82 and is projected to
remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of March 31, 1982, outstanding loans to
India held by the Bank totalled US$2,433 million, of which US$1,062 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$1,371 million.
28.        Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 54%, 42% and 52%, respectively, in
1981/82. On December 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17.4 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.6 billion or 38% (IDA's US$5.6 billion and IBRD's US$1.0 billion). In
1981/82, about 16.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - FORESTRY IN JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA
Sectoral Background
29.      India's forest lands are substantial but the demands placed on them
are enormous. About 23% of the country's total land area, about 75 million
hectares, is classified as forest. Annual domestic roundlood requirements
by the year 2900 are projected to be nearly 290 million m -- fuelwood
225 million m and industrial roundwood 65 million m . Continuation of
existing plantation programs, of about 100,000 ha annually, should ensure the
supply of industrial hardwood and about half of the coniferous roundwood
demand. But a wide gap is expected to continue between the demand for and
supply of fuelwood. To meet the demand for fuelwood, an annual planting of
some 650,000 ha is estimated to be required. An annual plantation target of
some 300,000 ha seems to be more realistic, however, considering the



-10-
financial constraints and the limited availability of land, continuing a wide
gap between the demand and possible supply.
30.     Non-commercial sources of energy account for nearly 85% of India's
household energy use for cooking and heating; fuelwood (including charcoal)
accounts for about 65% of total non-commercial energy and about 55% of total
energy consumed by households. Fuelwood meets nearly 70% of the energy needs
of the rural population, compared with about 45% for the urban population.
Because of the very fast depletion of India's forest resources over the last
few decades and because of increases in the prices of commercial energy
alternatives, greater attention is being given to expanding the production of
fuelwood. Therefore, India's strategy for forestry development reflects two
priorities: firstly, to develop social forestry programs to supply fuelwood,
fodder, small timber and minor forest produce to the rural population; and
secondly, to develop a production forestry program to supply the growing
demand of the domestic wood products industry. Encompassing both objectives
is a recognition of the vital role forestry plays in soil and water
conservation.
31.     To carry out the strategy, the National Commission on Agriculture
recommended in 1976 that each State reorganize its Forest Department into
two separate wings, one to remain in charge of traditional production
forestry and wildlife management, and a new wing to be established to develop
social forestry. Eight States 1/ have created social forestry wings and four
others are expected to follow shortly. Social forestry activities are
receiving high priority in most States. Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and West
Bengal are implementing such activities with World Bank Group assistance (see
paragraphs 42 and 43), and a number of other States have received assistance
from other external sources.
The State of Jammu & Kashmir
32.     The State of Jammu & Kashmir (J&K), with an area of 138,000 sq. km,
has a population of about 6 million (1981), of which 80% live in rural areas
spread over nearly 6,000 villages. Agriculture accounts for 51% of the State
income and provides over 70% of its employment. Tourism is significant and
provides for 6% of the State income. Per capita income is low at
US$116 (1977), compared with all-India average of US$160 (1977).
33.     The natural forests of Jammu and Kashmir fall into three broad
categories -- the dry temperate (mainly conifer) forests of Kashmir, the wet
temperate (conifer and broad-leaved) forests of Chenab and the subtropical
(deciduous) forests of Jammu. The total forest area is 21,000 sq. km (15.2%
of the total geographical area).  In 1979, the forestry sector's contribution
to State income was estimated at 7%, and it generated some 7.6 million
man-days of employment.
1/ Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa, Karnataka, Jammu and
Kashmir and Haryana.



-1 1-
34.      The forests are wholly owned by the State and are under the
management of the Jammu and Kashmir Forest Department which is headed by the
Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF). A Social Forestry section of the Forest
Department was established under a Conservator of Forests in 1971-72 with
four Divisions (now six), but its activities were largely been concerned with
planting of institutionally-owned land. Free seedlings have been available
from a number of nurseries, but they reach only a very small part of the
rural population. In addition, the Jammu and Kashmir State Forest
Corporation was established in 1979 to exploit and market forest resources.
Training for Indian Forest Service Officers, State Forest Officers and Range
Officers is provided by the Central Government at Dehra Dun and at other
locations, while Foresters and Forest Guards are trained in the State. In
the 6th Plan, Rs 125 million, representing 3% of total development
expenditure, have been allocated to forest development.
35.      Population pressures and increasing numbers of livestock (estimated
at 4.7 million) necessitate the continued search for fuel, fodder and
essential building materials. This has resulted in indiscrimate tree-cutting
and increasing erosion, creating large tracts of barren waste lands in the
southern and western parts of the State and increasing degradation of forests
in the north. To address the problem of shortages, the State Government has
recognized the need both for large-scale afforestation and improved
management of existing forests. About 35% of State forests is practically
devoid of tree cover and needs reforestation. Within the State, there are
some 341,000 ha of waste and marginal land and long strips of land along
roads, irrigation canals and railways which are suitable for afforestation.
36.      Commercial sources of energy (coal, electricity and oil) meet only a
very small portion of total demand. These sources probably meet at most 3%
of cooking and heating needs, while the remaining 97% is met by fuelwood and
dung cake. Total annual energy consumption in the State is estimated at
6.2 million tons of fuelwood equivalent (FWE) of which 4.2 million tons FWE
is met from fuelwood, 1.8 million tons FWE from dung-cake and 0.2 million
tons FWE from coramercial sources. Considering the low purchasing power of
the rural population, a significant increase in the use of commercial energy
would be unrealistic in the near future. Thus fuelwood and dung will
continue to be the dominant sources of energy.
The State of Haryana
37.      The State of Haryana, with an area of 44,000 sq. km, has a population
of about 13 million (1981), of which 82% lives in rural areas spread over
nearly 7,000 villages. Since its formation in 1966, the State has made
excellent progress in increasing agricultural production, which now accounts
for 54% of its income and 65% of its employment. With a per capita income of
US$173 (1976), Haryana ranks third among the Indian States.
38.      The total forest area in Haryana is 1,600 sq. km and covers about
3.7% of the total area. Over 50% of the forests is man-made plantation and
almost half of the forest area is narrow strips along roads, canals, railways
and embankments. Most forests are of the northern tropical deciduous type.
In 1979, forestry's contribution to State income was estimated at 1%. In
1980/81, primary forest production generated some 7.6 million man-days of
employment.



-12-
39.     The forests are owned by the State and managed by the Haryana Forest
Department which is headed by the Chief Conservator of Forests (CCF).  Indian
Forest Service Officers, State Forest Officers and Range Officers are trained
by the Central Government. Foresters and Forest Guards are trained locally
at the Forester Training School at Pinjore.
40.     The State primarily depends on man-made forests and the achievements
so far have been quite impressive. At the end of 1980, the total area of
forest plantations in the State was over 83,000 ha, representing over 50% of
the State's total forest area compared to the all India average of 4.8%.  In
the Sixth Plan, Rs 145 million, or 0.8% of the State's total budget, have
been allocated to forest development. Social forestry activities have been
undertaken in the State since the late 1960's.  So far, nearly two-thirds of
the land available along roads, rails and canals has been planted to trees.
Most wastelands belonging to panchayats (elected governing bodies) have also
been planted to trees, but a substantial amount of village common lands and
wastelands is still available in the southern part of the State.
41.     Haryana's domestic energy requirement is also met primarily by use
of fuelwood and dung. Although all villages are electrified, commercial
sources of energy are too costly for widespread use as domestic fuel, and
these sources supply only about 5% of the total needs. Total annual energy
consumption in Haryana is estimated at 12 million tons of fuelwood
equivalent (FWE), of which only 0.5 million tons FWE is met from
non-renewable sources, and the balance is met by fuelwood (8 million tons
FWE) and dung-cake (3.5 million tons FWE). A significant increase in the
household use of commercial energy cannot be expected in the near future.
Thus the use of fuelwood and dung-cake would continue to predominate.
Bank Group Role in the Sector
42.     In early 1978, in recognition of the need to expand social forestry
(also referred to as community forestry) activities, GOI and the Bank Group
agreed to examine the possibilities of developing projects in a number of
States. The main objectives were as follows:
(a) to increase the supply of fuelwood and of building
materials, fodder, fruit and other minor forest
products through the establishment of plantations
on suitable public, village and private lands;
(b) to secure the cooperation of the local population
by involving them in the planning, execution and
protection of plantations; and
(c) to establish an organization required to support
long-term social forestry programs.
So far, three social forestry projects have been approved. The Uttar Pradesh
Social Forestry Project (Cr. 925-IN) was approved in June 1979; the Gujarat
Community Forestry Project (Cr. 961-IN) was approved in December 1979; and
the West Bengal Social Forestry Project (Cr. 1178-IN) was approved in October
1981.



-13-
43.     The three projects are performing well and have significantly
exceeded all planting targets set at appraisal, except for establishment of
plantations through community self-help efforts. Strip plantations (along
roads, canals, railways), improvement of degraded forests and establishment
of village woodlots are being implemented by the States' Social Forestry
Wings with high survival rates and lower than estimated costs. Farm Forestry
undertaken through free distribution of seedlings, and with the advice from
the Forest Departments, is progressing significantly better than expected at
appraisal. However, progress in the implementation of community self-help
plantation has been very disappointing mainly because of very limited
capacity of the local panchayats to raise necessary funds for financing
plantation costs. The Uttar Pradesh project has also experienced
difficulties in obtaining State Government's sanctions for staff and funds to
establish its monitoring and evaluation unit. Efforts are being made to
resolve these problems.
44.     Other assistance to the forestry sector includes the Madhya Pradesh
Forestry Technical Assistance Project (Credit 609-IN, approved in December
1975) which financed a feasibility study of forest-based industries in Bastar
District. The study recommended the establishment of an integrated
industrial complex with one mill producing sawnwood and a pulp mill producing
kraft pulp to supply a printing and paper mill. The Kandi Watershed and Area
Development Project (Loan 1897-IN, approved in July 1980) involves
reforestation and pasture development over some 18,000 ha of Punjab's Siwalik
Hills.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.     The Project was prepared by the Governments of Jammu and Kashmir
(J&K) and Haryana. It was appraised in October/November 1981. Negotiations
were held in Washington D.C. in June 1982. The Indian delegation was
coordinated by Mr. Ranga Rao, of the Department of Economic Affairs, GOI.
The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3840-IN), dated July 15, 1982, is being
circulated to the Executive Directors separately. A Supplementary Project
Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
46.     The project's primary objective would be to increase supplies of
fuelwood in the rural areas in the States of Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) and
Haryana. It would also provide poles, small timber, fodder grass, fruit,
oilseeds and other minor forest products. The project would also generate
considerable rural employment opportunities and help improve environmental
conditions. To achieve these objectives, the project would include the
following activities:
(a) strengthening of social forestry wings of the Departments of
Forests by provision of incremental staff, operating costs,
vehicles, housing and equipment. In addition, facilities and
staff for extension, publicity, training and research would be
provided;



-14-
(b) establishment or rehabilitation of 44,000 ha of tree plantations
in 12 districts of J&K, and 67,000 ha in 12 districts of Haryana
during a five-year period;
(c) development of nurseries to provide planting stock;
(d) expansion of existing forestry training schools and training of
other project staff including provision of fellowships;
(e) strengthening of research activities and construction of seed
storage godowns; and
(f) provision of project monitoring and evaluation, including
carrying out of wood balance studies in each State to determine
availability and consumption of fuelwood and other forest
products.
47.     In J&K, the project would establish:  5,000 ha of village woodlots;
1,000 ha of strip plantings; 19,000 ha of farm forestry; and 2,000 ha of
plantings on wetlands. It would also rehabilitate and reforest 17,000 ha of
degraded forests. In Haryana, the project would establish: 12,000 ha of
village woodlots; 500 ha of plantations on alkali/saline lands; 9,500 ha of
strip plantings; 30,000 ha of farm forestry; and 15,000 ha of plantations on
sand dunes.
Implementation
48.     Plantations.  Under the village woodlot schemes, in each State, the
Social Forestry Wing (SFW) would, after discussions and agreement with the
villagers concerned, establish a minimum of 5 ha per village panchayat 1/ and
maintain it for the first 3 to 5 years, after which the responsibility for
management and protection would be transferred to the panchayats. SFW would
recover its costs from the sale of products at the first major harvest. In
J&K, the village woodlots would be established in the Kashmir and the Chenab
valleys where large tracts of village common lands are available. In
Haryana, village common lands and wastelands available in the southern
districts would be utilized for this purpose.
49.     Strip plantations would be established by SFW.  In many areas where
population density is high, the only wastelands available for tree planting
are along roads, canals and railways, which makes the strip plantations the
prime source of minor forest products for the local population. The
plantations would belong to the Forest Departments, but villagers living
adjacent to these strips would collect grass, fodder, fallen wood and tree
loppings free of cost and would help SFW staff in protecting these
plantations.
1/ A 'panchayat' is a locally elected body representing the villagers from a
number of villages.



-15-
50.     Under the farm forestry scheme, SFW would distribute seedlings free
of cost to farmers for planting on private lands and along field boundaries.
To cover some 19,000 ha in J&K and some 30,000 ha in Haryana, approximately
122.5 million seedlings would be required over the project period. SFW would
monitor the survival rate of the private plantings.
51.     In J&K, the project would also provide for establishment of
plantations on wetlands (2,000 ha) and rehabilitation of degraded forests
(17,000 ha). Wetland plantations would be established and maintained by the
SFW on permanently inundated State-owned areas located around the urban areas
of Srinagar. SFW would recover its costs through the sale of fuelwood to
urban dwellers. SFW would also rehabilitate and reforestate State-owned
degraded forest reserves by inter-planting fuelwood and other species.
Villagers would continue to collect fallen wood, fodder and tree loppings
under the supervision of forestry staff and, at felling, neighboring village
panchayats would receive 25% of the fuelwood yield for distribution to local
people. In return the villagers would be expected to help control
indiscrimate felling and destruction of the State-owned forests.
52.     In Haryana, SFW would establish and maintain plantations on 15,000 ha
of Panchayat-owned land under a program for sand dune stabilization and a
pilot operation on 500 ha of State-owned land which is either alkaline or
saline. There are approximately 600,000 ha of sand dunes in the State which
cause serious damage to arable land and canals as a result of wind erosion.
Thus the benefit of sand dune stabilization would go beyond the production
of fuelwood and small timber. Under this scheme, SFW would bear the costs
for the first five years and, thereafter, the management and protection of
the plantation would be the responsibility of Panchayats. SFW would,
however, recover its direct costs from the sale of harvestable products. SFW
would bear all establishment costs of woodlots on saline/alkaline lands given
the pilot nature of the operation, and progress would be closely monitored
by the Central Soil Salinity Research Institute located at Karnal.
53.     Nurseries.  At present, there are 15 permanent nurseries in J&K and
70 permanent and 349 temporary nurseries in Haryana, which are available for
social forestry activities. The project would provide at least one permanent
nursery in each of the 69 administrative Blocks of J&K and in the 92 Blocks
of Haryana. In addition, temporary nurseries would also be established as
and when required. Seed collection would be regularized and restricted to
seed production areas approved by the research staff.
54.     Research.  The project would provide for increased research and seed
testing designed to meet the needs of an expanded social forestry program.
The research program would include: nursery studies aimed at reducing costs
of seedling production through introduction of techniques to produce better
plants in a shorter time; silviculture studies on the effects of alternate
methods of pitting, fertilizing, planting time etc.; studies on collection,
handling, storage, pretreatment and germination of tree seed; growth
performance of trees; intercropping; and studies to determine opportunity
costs of farming and forestry basic wood and fodder needs, and development of
different species mixes.
55.     Training.  Project-related training would be provided to an
additional 150 Foresters, 245 Social Forestry Workers and 1,400 Motivators in



-16-
J&K, and 150 Foresters and 766 Village Forest Workers in Haryana. Training
would also be arranged for farmers and village leaders. All staff
transferred from the Forest Departments to SFW would also receive orientation
training in social forestry. These programs cannot be accommodated within
the existing facilities which would, therefore, be enlarged by providing
additional buildings, equipment and staff. In J&K, the Kashmir Forest
Training School, located in the Kashmir Valley, and the Soil Conservation
School, located near Jammu, would be expanded by constructing additional
classrooms and staff housing.  In Haryana, the Forester Training School at
Pinjore would be expanded by renovating existing buildings and by
constructing additional student dormitories and staff housing. In addition,
two locally engaged consultants in communication and extension would assist
staff at each of the three schools in carrying out extension training. J&K
would recruit four local consultants and Haryana would recruit two such
consultants by June 30, 1983 (Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement).
56.     Wood-Balance Study.  No reliable information exists on the present
and future consumption and availability of fuelwood and other forest-based
products in the rural and urban areas of India. This information is vital
for more efficient forest development planning. Wood-balance studies would,
therefore, be carried out in each of the two States by a University or other
appropriate institution, with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association (Section 2.07 of the Project Agreement).
57.     Consultants and Fellowships.  In J&K, the project provides for
120 man-months of local consultancy to strengthen project monitoring and
evaluation and for training at a total cost of about US$62,000. In Haryana,
96 man-months of consultancy would be provided for similar purposes at a
total cost of about US$56,000. The man-month cost of the consultants would
range between US$500 and US$600. The project would also provide for
14 8-week overseas fellowships for senior SFW staff of J&K and Haryana in
order to study management and forestry extension. In addition, ten local
fellowships for training and research are provided for Haryana forestry
staff.
58.     Housing.  Much of the success of social forestry activities would
depend on regular and frequent visits by field staff to plantations, village
panchayats and individual farmers, all of which would be scattered over wide
areas. It is, therefore, vital that field staff and their supervisors live
as near their work as possible, and that they are sufficiently mobile to
enable them to function effectively. At present, housing for rent in some
rural areas is limited and staff often live far from their work and rely on
public transport. To help overcome this, the project would provide funds for
construction of 42 units in J&K and 40 units in Haryana. For other field
staff the States would take suitable measures to ensure that they live near
the area of their work, and provide necessary housing, rental or other
allowances wherever necessary (Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement). The
project would also provide vehicles at Headquarters, Divisional- and
Circle-levels in both States.
Project Organization and Coordination
59.     A Social Forestry Wing (SFW) has been established in the Forest
Department of each State, each headed by an officer of the rank of Additional



-17-
Chief Conservator of Forests. The SFWs would be responsible for all social
forestry activities in both States. Each SFW would consist of two circles,
each headed by a Conservator of Forests. In J&K, the two social forestry
circles would supervise ten field Divisions, each Division headed by a Deputy
Conservator of Forests and assisted by an Assistant Conservator of Forests,
three Rangers, 15 Foresters and a number of Social Forestry Workers operating
at the village level. In Haryana, the two Circles would supervise eight
Divisions, each headed by a Deputy Conservator. Each Division would also be
staffed by an Assistant Conservator, four Rangers, four Deputy Rangers,
19 Forestors and a number of Village Forestry Workers. A Publicity Unit
would be established in each Circle for general publicity and dissemination
of social forestry information.  Both circles in J&K and one circle in
Haryana have been established. The second circle in Haryana would be
established when the workload warrants but not later than December 31, 1983.
60.     Coordination of project activities in each State would be achieved
through the establishment of a Policy Review Committee headed by a member of
the State cabinet and including heads of a number of departments as its
members. At the district level, a District Committee would be established
with representatives of major departments as its members. The State and
District Committees would be established not later than December 31, 1982
(Sections 2.08(i) and (ii) of the Project Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
61.     In each State, the Project would provide funds to establish a
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit headed by a Deputy Conservator of Forests
(DCF) and supported by statistical staff and field enumerators. The Units
would, in the light of experience and data collected, suggest improvements
for project implementation, assess villagers' acceptance of social forestry
activities, determine tree survival rates of the farm forestry component and
carry out a mid-term evaluation of the project. The Units would prepare
six-monthly progress reports, each June and December in a format agreed at
negotiations; the report would include a summary of activities undertaken
during the preceding six months; and targets achieved and problems
encountered during project implementation. Consultants would advise on the
design of survey studies and assist in setting up systems for project
monitoring. Each State would establish a monitoring and evaluation unit with
adequate staff, including a DCF to head the unit, not later than
December 31, 1982 (Section 2.08(iii) of the Project Agreement). Each State
would prepare and submit to the Association, not later than March 31, 1985, a
mid-term evaluation report on the progress of the project (Section 2.05(e) of
the Project Agreement).
Marketing of Forest Produce
62.     Project output would be consumed locally in both States, particularly
those from privately owned farm forestry and community-owned woodlots.
Marketable produce, primarily fuelwood, small timber, bamboo, and poles,
would come from strip plantations, wetlands, and degraded forests which would
all be owned by SFW. These would be sold on a stumpage basis at auction or
marketed from sales depots in accordance with standard Forest Department
procedures. In view of the acute shortage of forest products in both J&K
and Haryana, no marketing difficulties are foreseen for incremental project



-18-
output. Growing population and increasingly depleted forests have led to a
situation where observed market prices have displayed a long-term real growth
trend of 3% per annum for timber grade products and 2% per annum for
fuelwood, poles, and bamboo.
Cost Recovery
63.      The full nominal costs of village woodlots and sand dune plantings
established by SFWs would be recovered from beneficiaries at the first major
harvests. Costs of seedlings, however, would not be recovered from the
recipients. The sale of seedlings would require additional staff to be
posted at each of the several hundred nurseries to manage the sale, and this
may well favor the wealthy and influential farmers who would monopolize
supplies. Therefore, the additional costs and problems associated with sale
would far exceed the benefits to be derived from cost recovery. Under farm
forestry, free seedlings would represent 18-28% of plantation costs; the
remainder would be borne by the farmers through the provision of family labor
for planting, protection and maintenance.
Project Cost and Financing
64.     The total project cost is estimated at about US$67.1 million,
including taxes and duties of US$1.1 million and a foreign exchange cost of
US$1.6 million. The proposed credit of US$33 million equivalent would
finance 50% of the total cost excluding taxes and duties; the balance would
be borne by the Government of Jammu and Kashmir and the Government of
Haryana. The major cost components are: project organization
(US$17.4 million), plantations (US$31.9 million), research and training
(US$1.8 million), communication and extension (US$0.7 million), and
monitoring and evaluation (US$0.3 million). Physical contingencies
(US$1.8 million) have been added to meet unforeseen expenditures at rates of
10% for building and housing and 5% for nurseries, plantings etc. Price
contingencies (US$13.2 million) have been calculated based on inflation
forecast for India of 8.5% in 1982/83, 7.5% in 1983-86 and 6.0% in 1986/87.
Procurement and Disbursement
65.     Direct plantation works (US$31.9 million), including nursery
expenditures, and farm forestry would be scattered over a wide area and would
be carried out over different periods of time. Therefore, contracts
following competitive bidding would not be practical. Nursery works,
including the production of seedlings, would be carried out by force account
of the Social Forestry Wings of the two State Forest Departments. Land
preparation, planting and maintenance of village woodlots would be carried
out by SFWs with participation from village panchayats. Materials such as
cow manure and tools would be procured under local competitive bidding (LCB)
in accordance with established local procedures, which are satisfactory to
IDA. Contracts for civil works (costing US$2.0 million) would be small and
widely dispersed in time and place and, therefore, would not be suitable for
international bidding. These would be let following LCB, advertised locally,
or by force account and in accordance with established Government of Jammu &
Kashmir and Government of Haryana procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA.
Design and supervision of housing and building construction would be carried
out by the Forest Departments or the Public Works Departments of the two



-19-
States. Vehicles (US$1.0 million) would be purchased over three years and,
as adequate maintenance and availability of spare parts would be of paramount
importance, this would necessitate purchase of locally made vehicles of types
already used by government departments. Thus, procurement would be by LCB
under existing government procedures, which are acceptable to IDA. Seeds and
research equipment would be required in small lots and would not, therefore,
be suitable for procurement under ICB procedures. These items and other
miscellaneous equipment (US$0.9 million) would be bulked whenever possible
and procured through LCB except where valued at less than US$20,000 when they
would be purchased by prudent shopping through usual trade channels. The
balance of project costs (US$31.3 million) would be staff salaries and
related expenditures, training and fellowships (US$16.3 million), and
contingencies (US$15.0 million).
66.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as follows:  100%
against foreign expenditure for imported equipment; 70% against training,
research and consultancy; 60% against monitoring and evaluation and
communication and extension services; 50% against civil works, local
expenditure for equipment and vehicles, direct planting costs and SFW
operating costs; and 43% against incremental staff salaries. Disbursements
for all force account work, salaries, local training, civil works
expenditures less than Rs 300,000 and other procurement involving
expenditures of less than Rs 150,000 each for locally-procured vehicles and
equipment would be made against statements of expenditure. These
certificates of expenditure would be audited annually and the audit report
submitted to IDA. Supporting documentation for these expenditures would be
retained by the State Governments for inspection in the course of project
review missions. Disbursements against expenditures for all other items
would be fully documented.
Project Benefits and Risks
67.     The project would help lay a sound basis for development of social
forestry in the two States and increase the availability of fuelwood and
other forest products. Incremental annual production of fuelwood would
average about 159,000 tons in J&K and 294,000 tons in Haryana, sufficient to
satisfy the total fuel needs of about 450,000 persons in the two States. In
addition, annual production of small timber and bamboo/poles would average
465,000 cubic meters and 2 million pieces, respectively. Over the project
period, about 111,000 ha of idle or under-utilized land would be brought into
productive use. The project would generate about 29 million man-days of
employment. The major environmental benefits from project plantations would
be soil conservation, hill and sand dune stabilization, micro-climatic
improvements and soil fertility restoration. The overall economic rate of
return for the project is estimated at 27%.
68.     The project faces no major risk in terms of an unsatisfactory rate of
return since it could withstand improbable adverse affects such as cost
increases of over 100% and price or production declines of over 50% and still
show a favorable rate of return. There is a potential risk that free
distribution of seedlings might lead to some waste. Experience in other
projects indicate strong demand for seedlings but currently available
statistics regarding their survival rate are inadequate. For this reason,
the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit would monitor the actual survival rate and



-20-
would study the overall impact of free distribution of seedlings. There is a
risk that village panchayats may not be sufficiently motivated or organized
to manage village woodlots. These risks would be minimized through the
project's programs of education, training, extension work and information
dissemination. Overall project risks are low.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
States of Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.     Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
71.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
July 15, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVPRAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL           3287.6                                MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1818.2              1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  70.0       110.0     240.0              261.4                   890.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    111.2        152.5     194.4             448.7                    701.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)  434850.0   547569.0  673207.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9        19.7      22.3               17.3                    32.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     994.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      1694.4
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      132.3       166.6     200.6             158.1                    255.9
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    247.0       307.8    362.8              355.9                   1748.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.9        42.7      40.2              36.8                     39.9
15-64 YRS.                         54.5        54.2      56.8              59.7                     56.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.6         3.1       3.0               3.5                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8         2.3       2.1               2.0                      2.3
URBAN                              2.5         3.3       3.3               3.3                      3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    43.7         40.0      35.6              29.3                     31.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    21.8         16.7      13.6              11.0                      9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.9         2.7       2.4               2.0                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0       3782.0   5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         12.0      22.6              19.3                     36.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       102.0      99.0             108.1                    115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   95.6        90.4      88.8/c            97.3                    106.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          53.6        49.7      48.4/c            56.9                     54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.2        14.8      13.1/i            20.0                     13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     26.2        20.7      17.4              10.9                      6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.2         48.1      51.8              57.8                     59.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          165.0       139.0     123.4              89.1                     63.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        17.0      33.0              32.9                     32.0
URBAN                               ..        60.0      83.0              70.7                     51.9
RURAL                               ..         6.0      20.0              22.2                     20.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        18.0      20.0              18.1                     37.7
URBAN                               ..        85.0      87.0              72.7                     65.7
RURAL                               ..         1.0       2.0               4.7                     24.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4850.4      4889.0   3630.6             3297.8                   8540.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10975.3/d    8296.5    5696.1            4929.3                  4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2178.7      1612.9    1311.0/e          1100.4                   1047.5
URBAN                               ..          ..    362.3/;i           301.3                    651.6
RURAL                               ..          ..  10432.8/e           5815.7                   2597.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..                ..                     27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2         5.6       5.2
URBAN                              5.2         5.6       4.8
RURAL                              5.2         5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6         2.8
URBAN                              2.6         2.8        ..
RURAL                              2.6         2.8        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDI-A 1JDCAL INDICATORS DATA SHET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVgS tES
- MOST RECZNT ESTIMATE)l
MOST RSCENT        LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ZSTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 61.0         73.0      78.0/c             97.4                     96.2
MALE                  80.0        90.0       92.0/T            101.0                     99.8
FEMALE                40.0        56.0       63.0/7             87.8                     92.1
SECONDARY!  TOTAL                  20.0         26.0      27.0/c             53.0                     37.6
MALE                  30.0        36.0       36.0/'c            63.8                     41.1
FEMALE                10.0        15.0       17.0/,i            41.3                     34.1
VOCATIONAL EN'ROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   8.0          1.0       0.7/f               1.7                     20.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            46.1         41.5      51.8/c             37.7                     35.5
SECONDARY                          16.0         20.9         ..              20.2                     25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        28.0         33.4      36.0               52.1                      73.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOLSAND
POPULATION                          0.6          1.1       1.3/c              1.5                      9.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.9         2i.5      33.6               35.4                    116.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.0          0.0       1.0                3.2                     37.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOLUSAND POPULATION                 10.6         16.0      19.8               16.4                     53.7
CIN'EMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.1          4.1       3.7                3.6                      2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   185951.1    219194.2  264204.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   30.7         32.5      31.8               29.5                     33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              74.0         74.0      69.3               70.0                     52.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0         11.0      13.2               15.0                     17.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.8         40.0      39.2               40.0                     38.5
MALE                                 57.0         52.4      51.8               51.8                     50.5
FEMALE                               27.3         26.9      25.9               23.8                     26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1          1.11.0                                                 1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGEEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.7          26.3/g    22.2/f
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7          48.9/g    49.4/.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1           6 77j     7.0/i-
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6          17.27j    16.2/.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVER*Y INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     132.0              133.8                    194.7
RURAL                                ..           ..     114.0              111.1                    155.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 ..                    178.2
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 ..                    164.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      40.3               43.8                     24.4
RURAL                                ..           ..      50.7               51.7                     41.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962;  /e 1976;  /f 1975; /I 1964-65.
May, 1982



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFPIhTIOflH OF SOCZAL INDICATORS
Notest Although the data are drot ftoo souce  generlly judged the oust au-h-itat- leasd reliable, in should also be noted abut ebay ay not he  iter
oetlonally comparable b.ecoos  of the tool of etondsodieod doffnititene end noeepto aced.by dIfferent contie   In 11ontlooig the doto.  The data  teeno-
thelas .. es..fel to d.esibe orders at sgoitudo, indicate trends, and eh-orutnenleeorat i    j-r diftfr-nuas bot-.aoe .. torndi..
The   I: re .ro.egou 00(1) tho san  couctry grop of ath  eabi ce  nettyad (2) a coun.try groap oAth toeahat hIgher oveag                       on   rho. nh. -outry grop
ofthsbec   onr  (acptfr                 High Ieoor    Ol Ei ttup e      goP where "KIddie I.oos. North Afttio  and Riddle teen" In chose  be..aue of e-rogor
ecoo-ultrofffefrao)     1I  the r-feror  group dots the s.tergs ae- poultontightad oribhetie  -.en  for cony iudinatorand ebo-  eniy chat
sjety of the -ttuni.t too. grop hat iota for abut iauioatr.. to  the  ---eosg  of o-oestao  ala indloro. depeade an teo ,urndlsbiliey of dane
and in non unifoa  cau ..tion sut hr. reocised in talon lg onarago  of on  indioonon  aehr.Tea  nrg    t   only uteful It -opani.gthOe v-lu  of
ace indictor. on a also caca  the  -cotly ond ref-..ete g9-ps.
AREA (thousan.d oq.k.)                                                                            Fpu..lattn tor HOsPia   nd    tast. ere ,ad rc-I    ouato    ttl
Tonal - Tat. ao -Eu-ae oreo .op9rinig laud are  and Inlad nooses; 1979 data.                      -rhor, and -urol) dAidedb   hi  oepoilno nhro  hoapinal hd
Agtir.u .ur I - Elndeat.ouf ogrtjat.tura  srs ua-d tanpara..ily o- pere-tnly                      avilbl   in 1 pbdoad plouto goneel and ep-ctlioed hoPita~lsaat
fur or.p., pasture, toahon and kltnhet gardao.  or no Ii  fallon; 1979 dota.                   h.hloaiI_roo.H-optasl a1re eooablfhtrn-    poone  ly  cfe
by at leas.t eta phyaito_lnE.stalliaho..nta providlog princ ipally -teno
dNP PER CAPITA (TU' $- GHP p-r naylta atieste  at ourr..ta -arli   priore, -al-                     dial I--r 000 Ia Inclde.   lte  hoepitaic'.-ho-ot  in,luda healh
alndby eas  ocarodo  rotbod at Scld Both Atlac (1978-HO hualo); 1960,                        gad e_dgua  caroe  nor p_ eaonl  etoffodbyaPhy lt  fnby
1971, ead 19H0 date.                                                                              odleel ...siataot, nura,  idnifo, eto.) ohioh  ffor ic-pan .lenaos-
datln and Provlide a linoited range uf nedi-at Isoillti-n         a  casttle-
ENERGY1 CEI0000LOH PiR CAPIT6 - deAl-1e .. otapdgo. of  goeosoagp  (coal                            ti-al Pu-pese urban ho-pdtls inotu'd. bWHs pcinlTpal/Hgo-l hoepitala,
on Vigti., Penee'ue  eaart  cooI%   ad hydra-, nulear and  rotb-real ela-                     end reo  heo.pinels, localnoI aro  ho-ital  and erdical and. ecorily
Ioitity) to Angaa  af  .t.t equilvett pot capita; 1960, 1970, and 1979                            o          Spa n   coialtead huspleoha coo itoluded only ender tcet.
date.                                                                                          Adeistiots~ c- Hospital Had - Tets1 nush- of adlcosto  ndIacorgnt
foce h_pirale ditoddd by the  -uber of bode.
POPUILATION Hill VITAL _STATISTICS
leat.1 poono M id-Trot (thouaodt) - As of Jely 1; 1960, 1970, sod tggo80HtOUSN
dana.                                                                                        deAgefeKo   oseod(orta90   oarod   avia, ubao, and rural-
Urban Populanat ldoruott of total-bni   iabn  ontlpeualn                                          A  ....th-td  Anootat  of o grap uf ld2ividual. eho tho living qa...core
differoet dofenin   f  o  t  ra  sa'l,"   Y alo   oerblta I          i face.                    ad thei  not  eola A heondro or lcdger nay or toy non ho inoladad in
amog oitore   9h0, 1970, and 1    data,tho hausohcld  vo  aaodo  pu-pao..
Poculanlu- O-ctjeOotn                                                                          Atroag  nombor cf pernoe poprvu-ntotat, urban  end tarot - unesge nun-
P.eploaton in- yea201  C- lurnt P"y"lt            to yejottl -e  hated oo, 19.B                bee ufP.. peros  e  rues in all  _rhan, ud rural  _uonladonncul
rura  PpupudaNdu  hoy ago an  tnan eo  ea~t roal    n  fertility  pates.                     dolliga,  -ost-iv-ly.  Ot-IlingSo eo uatnpsaoe    ono   a
P-ujanel  para      -  fer   duo atahit  -teno     opicof ohr.. len-1eue                     u    -nplod p-ot-
leg lite oapeonu-y ut hloth ivoeaieg cith  __eney'cper c.yi,. mo-net                       nAct-o  tlao-tinitvy Ipona-E          dnlng)   tn l,buhun  and r-rl -
Irnol, and fEt-lc life -n-yolony e-oili.lott  at 77.5 Yearn.  The pura-                      Euvono innu  dottioge with alatotity in linlog quorcara .. pr--otogo
outer afIt  ir-ilety rar1.e  . b..h.n sI-t-ar  len .s..eong drolina Ic                       oy rual      bo-t  -vd rura  du1dliupt -r -tyo   iny.
fer-lity uno-diost.c ico.-  tota  and yuan fantly pleotlog P,ooenn
~4henh -strY it tlhanastoe   o  tI  -hoen 1oosinanln     of mentitty                    EDflChTIyN
an  frellI  tecde fo  pocjecon pupoos                                                   Adjusted f-uo ,tlrot Istion
Statinary  coaluinn . . ....atictuc y ypuplattun there in cc grooth teo                   ocaoahol-etl,ci   n  f                  l- rot.e  octal, usa cod fonale
nhc bloth Pole Iaqual no tin death rtot, end alto tho uge ntrut-tr  no-                        acolncof ci1 lago   an the yrieary burl us pancse                 f ronpeotio_
salon_ t- unno.`4  f. t ahiovod only af..r ftcnlidcy I_tr  deolaric t.P,leacy  gocle  poynlanture.;  -ocally itvlndrn  ohildoro ugad 6-Il
the onpla--ss  lool of coit una reprodunnion rte.t  chen eah ge.tortino                        yuaa hut  udj-etod too dlff..eot lo-goba uf prieary odurativ; for
ofentcpareinl   ooly    bsuip   ppalatlc  etrwo                                                 uenice~ith ni--ona  odunatio- anolutny rootd Ill po-tro
redao   nrobsnutl   ojnrd  ohtanaratonof hepoplatu                                          sun      .um   yp.pl.ta  r  halue cc aben  the offinial1nheuleg.
in tin yvo.  2000. aed the .r.touf d-Iiter cf fertility  atr, no  oryl-c-                    hoodc   ue            cal-aaadftl                uputod an  huo;t-occtday
eotln,a  ntu  noquicoc at Iroe.t four yonran af pprovod yiuyAtnni
Year stunltoy populati- is re-nhod - The y-u  when eatio...cy population                         p-tidon gnoroh   ncicl  ctahrna                      aiotnit          f.orppIs
uioo ali  ha rear)bed.                                                                          ..u.llY of 12 tc 17 year  of age; ntcepodrn   ootedrt  act gnooraIlp
Pouato   ouslay                                                                               ocoluded,
Per a. ha.-  hMid-y-a  population pro aqeoe kileo-ner (111 h-ot-ar)os   f                     Vcoatiuo Ianrc11h...t dor-ant cf toude-yd  - Vo-ttona. ins-tinutiote
ncaae;  90  197  and 1977 data.                                                       duocdc tabotc-l.  od_dunoA-.o   oa   rg-an  ohiob nyentn indapond-
Per t. Is..aonunrI.lad - EC.p-ed .. ahc- for ugti-lt-Iu land                                   -noy c  on doatronned           eruayjs-tru
cely; 19610, 1970 und 1979 data.                                                             .pi-toaharonc   p -ay. cud ecoan-d-y - TItta  snudreonn oulled in
poclalt  c  Ironr  (percent) - Childoac  (0-14 yaara(, arbioHegr.g  (to-                         prinuty aod on-rdery loe-la dinIdru by d-e-eo   of oaobthn in rho
64 years), and atitird (61 yaso  and -onol so paroeontane  of atd-yrer popyce-o.rroponddng 1-oa-
lettcr; 1960, t970, end 1980 dana.                                                           Adult ItIeo   oa  ptool- Litaraa uda1ee (dolet noread and erinel
%Populaao  Orcai  burn (p00c)-crl - Adu.naI granih rtotc of ntal. old-                           aaPannga u  cn    dutpnpulatio- agog i  y-rs andovr
year pep lato   too 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-HO.
Ptpelaoion Iroth bu tt (Percen t) - -rhen - Mnnua  croath ranr  cf urben popn-               EONS*TfTIONl
acesfor 19 50-601, 1960-75, and 1970-HO.                                                 yatna  lm (o   hon.end pepulantiua  - Pant-ege  0000 ou -in   nto
Irude  itoth eata dp-_ tho..ncod) - Annual lde hirthe par ohuenad of aid-yea                     care  ..atI,g loan that~g eig tpaea; c.eoludueanuaoa  harscn cod
ppoylanien; 1960, 1970, and 1980 data.                                                         teliecry nahtclc
Good  Octh Oor parthoacoed) - -,..Il deaths pro th....ndonf mid-y-a                      Aal  raor   yncoan   eo ln       ll types of  -eooonfr  oi
Cpopelselco,;t1i96i.,.1970, and 187 data-                                                       broadoanotn   goerlpuln  rontued of poyulonion;t_enlcds
Ivoso  aRaduoo    a A-horogo  -oah- of d-cghtnr-             oaatill hoar it                           "Iaternrnr  in  -untoirs ad in  ec 0.10  00fl-ears-Ivo of radio
baa  -nnl  rrueniopnrind if a ho  opretnu.e..P....n.  ac-nrn  ..m far-                         at: asea  i,  ff,ot; data Ior -ren-s Yeon nay nonb ho-p-rblo clon
cllcyra__;e...ally Y  toe-year a .oraen andiog In 1960, 1970. cod I9H0.                        ens         ieonninic   ahihad linenetog.
YaioaEiue-nont"ctsl, Anneal (thc-suds) -  ueAl u..          ahorb of u--ptnon               2IfroveeSa ohc....od 1populsocce  - 'VIPo..dcrafo  hooadcuoonu
uihohoorldroinn endro ouspiors ci notIonal  lamily plo.onig p-ogr'IV genera  puhtinl proohutad popultion   _oldcul__nand    aoo
Oseldy Plaaaeeg    Tarot (pomona  i turned neece)- Petontair of  -urird             inno-ona - Ir  ud it poare whoa roienraniu_ of TV nets wa  ic rifrot.
auo  o   hild-ooIng ago fl-ha yaanfeo-       s  birth---erl  d-oi-r   u                 tnpprloclec   poroco   oeain  - Shoneoh  a-r-goclo-
all cooled  on in tsLar c   group.                                                             onuiau   dlygnrlttraowppr,doOedoe e oiodina
Pblnou daoo  prtsarily an recor.ding groorul oes..  Ito In               eidnetd
Pl'o  PANe 770RITLON                                                                                to  y  dI"ifItappoa_  an loano Pour odo  o earl.
lud-n of Food                                                                                                                                etdclnpoCpr  1997A1)-lduofponptano  tnn   nnlonoo_ erEyt   o    rccnd on the  -esh- of
p-adu-ti-o of aid foo.o.       doia rd   cono-selyd-s sed and ford and                         tickols acid during the Year, iu-lcdtnf adei-i...to drlva-ioolnm-
is on -ol-v- Year hacia.  Ece_da  co  00c  plsr  goode fag. eua..ode                           and nobdlcun-no
lostead of  lno)aiol apr edible uad-otuinnolre(eg. o-Ofa  and
tao  oa  eon ldai.  AgArrato pondunti- of redt  -o-u y in has..d on                       1A108 PFOtC
natonl  -oorgo po-d-c- pollco  ouhoa; 19906. inyI, and 1910 dor.                             Ton-l taInt Fo-a fthoc..uodnf - inonoalnally ecti-ne-y-nn, Including
foe rapina tupply of nolorire  (p:ter.n  c  rof   lrtotf -Toputod f-c                              ro   uoncduepor   u   ccuIghurfo,enoto   t.
.ontogy eevaotof co  food seppyl i   ovailbhlo 10 no..anry Pro caPita                          narigppion             f all  se. eti toan  to ve_cu  couctooca
pro doy.  Aoadlahla eoppllos  -opolee dn-oerd  prod.icodn,Isporne loan                         octcco-blo; 1960, 1970 nnd 1990 dane.
onpo-t, and chong9- to t-e.  Net toppli. ie.nonida anioa  (cad, so,Pelofrct) - P_ul  labor f.... aa percov-ge of.n.rI laborfoc
qetinOl-e    it ic fod prunn-iag. ud 1...a. in distolbu.tlu.  haqir-igitar(eort  -1Ztaboo foo-  lv fanning. foonoy  h-nniog and
ene rae redot od by PC h-eod on physiologinlteeo           unnomlani                         firhing  -n proneotgo of ocou1 ehb- nfono; 191, 1571 cod 1990 dana.
vity cod ha-lth -o-ed e.in  tolonteneo  necoscr. hdy    ght, age                               Indooto  (poner -   - Labor forco On odvOoc. ....ucn. s. -uiutrt.tog
aod non  ietribu-i- of poploo..ad all1wlng 10 poonent caceasnoane                                ed oloo iy,000  aod got as yetor ngr of totu1 hobo foon;
hout.ahold lard; 1961-65, 1971 atd 19ff data.                                                    1960. 1970 and logy daIs.
Pot -altc eupply of procain (rat- pe  dayf - P-ctolo  on--tu od  rr nopeas                     Paroondpatloo bu-o  -pcef      unl   at   ndiel      ooli                 no
era suply If foud p dr by   Ntl  auppl 'Y  (of    d Is bi nd a   hoo   in-                     sictyottotoro -p-tddoe  total, na1a,  nd fon... laho 1              ubce an-
quI"en  inal   onnI inot hlnhd by IlIA  -vuido  c    ii.                                       p--notgon of cono1, nale ond fesale pocl-niun of oll uganor-p-oti-ly;
illua.o... of 60 co-n  of cotle  ptoocan pro day and 2f g,.- of coOu  cad                      1960, 1970, and 1980 duna.  Three art heard on ILOe p-tOinipat.o tOat
I.,sr proteIn, cf which 10 Sote  nhould ho onheal pootniit.  Th-os  enud-                      rof1ootlog art~   taop  of the po-pelani, sod 1c-g tuna  _rod.  A
a-dn 000 1ert than Icone of 75 gosse of to,.I ponnin and 23 i9usa of                           f..ew neoteut i      rceusolc...l noncome.
fdorl  Pond -Sroy;091-61,  197  nod 1977 dan..0  aba` meal ohn  forco.
Pro  aple ponet npyl (ru  acnalandpulr -Pro.i Oe   .npp ly of feed de-
niod fntanual  au  pI sn a  feespr  do;  961-hi,1 170 etd 1977 dato.         IfNCOME DISTRhlBhTI0N
Itild  anes 14) loah lato(porthutend A-.Anea  deathsP pr  thocas-d Ic              Peoooag-ow      Plon  1000c  (bhoo  o n-ah an      >Od  - ho-de-d by nich-e
agn goup  -S yrce.  o nhldronIn tin oe grou, too noe  dao-tupfogcoo                 7pmoa   'Ih"a   0pr u,pon2  p-o-n, and p--ac  Al p.oon-
tolec data 10-1-0  Icon life nanl-; 19h,GI1970 cod 1950 data.                                  of ho..a. hld-.
HEAf.TH                                                                                        POVERTY TARlET GR0UPS
life eorcoany so  donh (earn) A hoenge    b oho  f Ycaoeof life tr-oaioot            he fu.llowing a  nbar    Y0 r  appro-oneare onanI.,. f p-onty lo
at birth; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.                                                           sod  h-ld ha l~orepoered  dth --nsld-ch tcoioc
oI.oso K.tunl ity tate (p00 th .....d) - Acocul deaths of lef- can  codro coo Year              E itt,eted Aheolate P-IryInn   .nlfS   oroio      oa   n   ua 
ef ag  Pen otoce-d li-dor  hlre; 1960, 1970 aod 1961 dana.                                     Ano1uno pu-e-y i...e  level.In that Incom           -1vt  hbtn  ouch a tlinat
Acens to Suit ~ uleno  fo-c-ro  ooclaof...         -tonal. ura..ad rucal - flu-                  nunotod-osly edoqu-t  dirt pcl esnta  co-food.  oaqu-reooont in oto
hoc of pcaplo (tonal  urbu, sod  -unif wih               bloai  accent.n ache                  affucIleh
ounc   oply lianlodce aoeatad  -feeo  cuerr  or unoreot-d hnt nm.otnnsiaanad                 isti_tod lelanto- Pov-nty Inuttol(0$yvcpnf-co-nadcr
wnceooathat I.oa pooneccd bthoohl-n  eprlngs, and  sualtary walls) us                  lRaI  ralnitne puvnny boonto-             ncanid  fueueornpt
poongs  fte. 10rop-ctiv  poyclutlane.  Ioo-oubhao  ocespublln                          proctulfta c_  hof   ocu__rY.  loben lootl is deri_. f              to nO  tarel
fv-tnin or  ened...n located net noe tnho 200   __eo  foam  n          .. hos  to  ho          IaI cith adjusturon  too high- on  oe  of ltinig In  -tbonren
"esosl e uonns..'Id isply that nha ho-ttf  or  ener  nt oha housetold                       unocl-Procot ofpupalri-r (-bo- aud  -nuf l. on"helt
do no  bore no nPtd.d Olynyrec         -t yr  of the day  no nenhing thr                       Poor"
fHarly'~ scre cerda.
Noocovraget o   I ooaotltpplnoc    orr   topoc dofp .o..oI
tIe.... nucio  aed disposol, aeh -c ---tn         ..n n _roe, od h_ a -an orr
aod   u          bywaach   -or-bh...o nouno-  oo the Ise of  it potuiio  -nd ciol-
Poeolnco   hnoen- - Popolaroon dhoOded hy tatte  of paaet  plcel-                                                          jo-oonlo ad Sonlab lute Dlininio
cloneqoelilodEros   nadcal  ohuolat uineriny Irel.                                                                conomic AnalysOo and yoicdos  0poe-
Pepuanlo  co  tertogProno -Popoletlon dtoided by oalbtr of ponoiti.g                                                                     ta  19H2
tub  ad   fnl  god ae  ooo, aa enro-rs                      pcfo_l  _      Ise  ad
tuelo  onoilcoirsi.



ANNeXC I
Page 4 of 5
ECbNOPC DEVm,0P9?ENT DATA
h/~ ~ ~ ~
GNfP tER CAPITA IN 19 80 US 240
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81 -                                                           ANNUAL RATE OF GROTH (7  conseant Prices)
U$ Bln.                         1955156-1959/60  1960161-1964165   1965/66-1969/70 B1970/71-1974175   1975/76-1979/ 8
GNP at Market Prices                 159.37      100.0                     3.7               3.6                3.6                 2.9               4.1
Gross Domestic Investment             38.46       24.1
Gross National Saving                 35.30       22.1
Current Account Balance               -3.16       -2.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added (at factor cost)           Labor Force   i             V.A. Per Worker
US  Btn.             %              Mil.        %                 US$         7 of National Averag
Agriculture                           39.8            39.6             180.6      70.7                220              56
Industry                              25.2            25.1              32.2      12.6                783             199
Services                              35.5            35.3              42.6      16.7                833             211
Total/Average                        1100.05                           TS3         = T77-
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goversaent        e/                                      Central Goverment
Re. Bln.         7. of GDP                                         Rs. Bln.   _        of GD
1980/81   1980/81  1976/77-1980181                                                       197677-1980/81 181
Current Receipts                   238.19      19.0        19.1                                       125.41       10.0           10.6
Current Expenditures               238.93      19.0        18.0                                       133.29       10.6           10.6
Current Surplus/Deficit             -0.74      -0.1          1.1                                      - 7.88      - u.6           N.S.
Capital Expenditures  fl           107.35       8.5         7.6                                        79.99        6.4            5.4
External Assistance (net) d/        12.86       1.0         1.0
MONEY, CRELILT AND PRICES          1970/71    1974/75    1975/76    1976177    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    February 1981   February 1982
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Honey and Quasi Money               109.8       194.6       223.2      273.2       329.1       398.6       467.9       553.1        536.13           615.53
Sank Credit to Governeent (net)    54.6          95.3        97.9      118.5       137.3       162.4       201.0       258.1        238.22           292.18
Bank Credit to Commpercial Sector   64.6        126.5       153.7      185.1       212.2       253.5       306.3       363.2        349.03           422.15
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                                   Acril-Feb 1980/81  April-Feh  1981/82
Money and Quasi Money as . of GDP  27.3          28.0        30.1        33.9       40.8        40.9        44.1        44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71   100)                   100.0      174.9       173.0       176.6       185.8      185.8       217.6       257.0          255.9                   280.5
Annual percentage changes in-
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7        25.2        -1.1         2.1        5.2         -          17.1        18.1          19.4                      9.6
Bank Credit to Governoent (net)    15.0           9.2         2.7       21.0        15.9        18.3        23.8       28.4           28.6 f/                 Z2:7 h/
Bank Credit to Comemercial Sector   19.4         18.2        21.5       20.4        14.6        19.5        20.8       18.6           16.6 y/                 20.9 h/
al  The per capita GNP estimate is at narket prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Bank Atlas, 1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
h/ Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organication.
c/  Computed froe trend line of GNP at factor coat series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
d/ World Bank estimates, not necessarily consistent with official figures.
e/  Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/  All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
A/  Percentage change fr.. end-February, 1980 to end-February 1981.
h/ Percentage change fron end-February, 1981 to eod-February 1982.
i/ Total Labor FPrce and percentage breakdoun fron Sixth Five Year Plan, Table 2.6 and Annexure Table 13.8.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS               1978/79    1979/80    1980/81    1981/82  i          MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977/78 - 1980/81)
(US $ Mln)                                                                                                          USS Mln        .
Exports of Goods                   6,978       7,998       8,504       8,700           Engineering Goods              908         12
Imports of Goods                  -8,519    -11,302    -15,838    -16,000              Tea                            506          7
Trade Balance                     -1,541      -3,304    - 7,334    - 7,300             Gems                           403          5
NFS (net)                            717       1,100         722         915           Clothing                       501          7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                   - 824      -2,204    - 6,612    - 6.385                Products                    457          6
Jute Manufactures              303          4
Interest Income (net) k/              14         196         370          212          Iron Ore                       321          4
Net Transfers   11                 1,185       1,577       3,079       1,840           Cotton Textiles                316          4
Sugar                          102          1
Balance on Current Account           375       - 431      -3,163       4,333           Others                       3,541         48
Official Aid                                                                           Total                        7.448        100
Disbursements                   1,695       1,738      2,337        2,724  _/      EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1981
Amortization                    - 702       - 608       - 707       - 659                                                 US$ billion
Transactions with IMF              - 158         -         1,035         690           Outstanding and Disbursed                  17.2
All Other Items                      265       - 475         147       - 797           Undisbursed                                  7.5
Outstanding, including                     24.7
Increase in Reserves (-)          -1,475       - 224         351       2,375               Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year) P/       7,357       7,579       7,228       4,853
Net Reserves   (end year) m        7,357       7,579       6,901       3,876           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980/81 ]  ./  11.2 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                             IBRD/IDA LENDING, DECEMdER 31, 1981
imports  (Petroleum)               2,043       4,045       6,657       6,075                                                US$ million
IBRD         IDA
Exports                                24          26         33         n.a
Outstanding and Disbursed         984          5646
Undisbursed                       880          4634
Outstanding, including
Undisbursed                  1864         10280
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971             US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0S13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972         US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                        Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1980                US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - USS0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1981               US$1.00 - Rs 9-099
Re 1.00 - u0s0o110
]/ Estimated.
7Z  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans and
charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
3/ Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
m/ Excludes net use of IMF credit.
T4 Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of exports of goods and services.
/  Includes $ 234 million of commercial borrowings.
i/ Including gold.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 20
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1982)
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal 
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval         Purpose                         Bank             IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
45 Loans/                                               1,516.0
73 Credits fully disbursed                                  -           4,315,.4            -
342-IN    1973      Education                                              12,0           1.70
456-IN    1974      HP Apple Proc. & Marketing              -              13,0           1.15
1011-IN    1974      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD               52.0              -             8.38
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                        -               30,,0         15.19
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                    -              83,0           27.24
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                        -               27,,7         10.71
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -               16,4           2.41
585-IN    1976      Uttar Pradesh Water Supply             -               40,0          12.40
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                    -              105,0          12.71
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                  -              150.0          34.00
609-IN    1976      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.           -               4,0            1.30
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development          -               18.0           9.24
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation            145.0             -             68.27
1260-IN    1976      IDBI II                               40.0              -             8.17
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                      25.0             -            20.90
1313-IN    1977      Telecommunications VI                 80.0              -            11.52
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport                25.0             -              6.94
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development              -              30.0           20.86
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development              -              20.0            5.82
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power                -              150.0          19.37
687-IN    1977      Madras Urban Development               -              24.0            0.10
690-IN    1977      WB Agric. Extension & Research         -               12.0          12.00
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                     14.0             -              6.57
712-IN    1977      M.P. Agric. Development                -               10.0           4.40
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation              -              23.0           12.88



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development        -               8.0           5.18
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                -              70.0          23.76
737-IN    1978      Rajasthan Agric. Extension            -              13.0           3.43
740-IN    1978      Orissa Irrigation                     -              58.0          21.29
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                     78.5             -             4.24
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage              -             107.0          75.63
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II         -              87.0          16.59
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -               8.0           6.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0             -            10.04
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0             -            38.55
788-IN    1978     Karnataka Irrigation                   -             117.6          70.93
793-IN    1978      Korba Thermal Power                   -             200.0          90.86
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture            -              14.0          12.37
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                    -              85.0          56.51
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -              17.5          12.48
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                     -              16.0          13.74
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII              120.0             -            43.46
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                        -             150.0         112.81
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -             196.0         181.19
843-IN    1979      Haryana Irrigation                    -             111.0          27.64
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -             190.0         130.32
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -              38.0          15.56
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research        -              27.0          24,01
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -                25.0          14.95
871-IN    1979      NCDC                                  -              30.0          15.14
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0             -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              -             200.0         135.20
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                     -             129.0          88.33
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply              -              48.0          35.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II        -             175.0          59.52
925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry         -              23.0          14.63
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                      -              20.0          19.22
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II             -             210.0         155.28



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry             -              37.0          26.50
981-IN    1980      Population II                          -              46.0          44.73
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                   -              32.0          29.33
1004-IN    1980      U.P. Tubewells                         -              18.0          14.05
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                  -             175.0         160.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                   -             300.0         249.36
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                              -              22.0          20.95
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension          -              10.0           9.64
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport               -              56.0          51.85
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                  -              54.0          51.69
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply
and Sewerage                        -              80.0           73.53
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                    100.0             -            33.50
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 25.0             -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                  -             225.0         199.63
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0              -            28.09
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore
Development                      400.0             -           148.49
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -              35.0          34.20
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      -              83.0          80.70
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II            -              42.0          42.00
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                 -             140.0         140.00
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII                -             314.0         267.50
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation              -              54.0          54.00
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project              -             400.0         387.90
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.          -              23.0          23.00
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.           -              28.0          28.00
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II              -              37.0          37.00
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -             125.0          124.30



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 20
US$ million
(Net of Cancellations)
Loan or  Fiscal
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                          Bank          IDA 1/        Undisbursed 2/
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project - II    -                400.0         400.00
1177-IN*   1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation        -             220.0         220.00
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                 100.0             -           100.00
1178-IN*   1982      West Bengal Social Forestry            -              29.0          29.00
1185-IN*   1982      Kanpur Urban Development              -               25.0          25.00
2-051-IN    1982     ICICI XIV                            150.0             -           150.00
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II          300.0             -           300.00
2095-IN*   1982      ARDC IV                              190.0             -           190.00
1209-IN*   1982      ARDC IV                               -              160.0         160.00
1219-IN*+  1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural
Extension                           -               6.0           6.00
Total                                     3,570.5        10,632.6
of which has been repaid               1,137.4             94.7
Total now outstanding                     2,433.1        10,537.9
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8           -               -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/         2,433.1        10,537.9
Total undisbursed (excluding *)           1,062.1         4,192.2
1/  IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in
terms of their US dollar equivalents, as established at the time
of Credit negotiations and as subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived
from cumulative disbursements converted to their US dollar
equivalents on the basis of the SDR/US dollar exchange rate
(1 SDR = US$1.11309) in effect on March 31,1982.
3/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.
+   Not yet signed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 20
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                      Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5        -        1.5
1959            Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4        -        1.4
1961            K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.          0.6        0.4       1.0
1964            Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79      Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8       1.3      13.1
1964            Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1       0.1       1.2
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1       3.8      18.9
1976            Escorts Limited                         6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                            4.0        1.2       5.2
1980            Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.        7.5        0.9       8.4
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited        15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0           -       38.0
1981            Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.            2.9        0.3       3.2
1981            Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5       0.2       1.7
1982            Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0         -       28.0
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         164.7       11.8    176.5
Less:   Sold                          40.0        2.6      42.6
Repaid                        24.5         -      24.5
Cancelled                      6.2       1.3       7.5
Now Held                      94.0        7.9    101.9
Undisbursed                   84.9        1.4     86.3



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 20
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Brief notes on the execution of individual projects are
below.  The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year. Disbursements in the current fiscal
year through March 31, 1982 total US$858 million, representing an increase
of about 28% over the same period last year. The undisbursed pipeline as of
March 31, 1982, is US$5,254 million.
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843 Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Ln. No. 2051 Fourteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$150 million loan of October 8, 1981;
Effective Date: December 3, 1981; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Disbursements under all loans are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 1260   Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1511   IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. It is fully committed, but close
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 20
supervision is required to ensure timely implementation of sub-projects and
full disbursement of the loan by the closing date. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Ln. No. 2050 Tamil Nadu Newsprint Project; US$100 million loan of
September 23, 1981; Effective Date: March 22, 1982; Closing
Date: August 31, 1985
Land acquisition has been completed. Basic engineering work is
expected to be finished by June, and construction to commence in July 1982.
Tendering for major equipment is underway. Project progress is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105 million credit of
December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 1125 Hazira Fertilizer Project; US$400 million credit of
October 28, 1981; Effective Date: January 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1986
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government, and in
order to bring the project to a close in a timely manner, no new sub-project
proposals will be approved. Credit 1125 is proceeding satisfactorily with
initial implementation and procurement actions on schedule.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing well. Engineering and construction
activities are proceeding on schedule. As of January 1982, four of the
fifteen well platforms included in the project were already producing, con-
tributing over 30,000 bls/day to Bombay High's total oil production. The
project is expected to be fully disbursed on schedule.
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200 million credit of May 12,
1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
18_5



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 20
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31. 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50 million loan and
and       US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 874   May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and       US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Ln. No. 2076  Second Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$300 million loan of
January 6, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
Cr. No. 1172  Second Korba Thermal Power Project; US$400 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: March 16, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1989
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MW Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feeding
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 together with Credit 1172,
which became effective March 16, 1982, support the construction of the
2100 MW development, consisting of three 200 MW and three 500 MW generating
units, at the second such station, at Korba, together with related facilities
and associated transmission. Loan 1648/Credit 874, together with Loan 2076,
which also became effective March 16, 1982, support similar investments at
Ramagundam. Loan 1887/Credit 1053, assist in financing the first three
200 MW generating units at the Farakka station. The National Thermal Power
Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation of these
power stations. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW exten-
sion of the Tata Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help
meet the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. All these large-scale
thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily. For Singrauli and
Korba, construction works are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage
has occurred in the implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project. The
first unit at the Singrauli station was commissioned on schedule in
February 1982. In the Third Trombay project, design modifications for plant
equipment, price increases for materials, and increases in customs duties
have resulted in an increase in the total cost of the project. The Govern-
ment of India is raising additional funds from internal sources to meet the
additional cost.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 20
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily; disbursements are ahead
of appraisal projections.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily and there are no
major problems. Imports of electronic switching equipment for the projects
were behind schedule, but procurement contracts have now been finalized and
the loan amounts fully committed. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts and
Telegraphs Department remains sound. Credit 1112, which became effective
in June 1981, provides for the continued expansion, over a three-year period,
of the Indian telecommunications network, particularly in rural areas. It
also provides for the modernization and upgrading of three existing telecom-
munications equipment factories, and the establishment of three additional
ones. Progress with bidding procedures is excellent and it is expected that
the project will proceed according to schedule.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability.  Physical execution of the project is
proceeding satisfactorily, with procurement for the two major components over
75% completed.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
The project aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads
and to improve maintenance of the rural road network in Bihar. It is
proceeding on schedule, with the first year's program of rural road construc-
tion well underway and agreement reached on much of the second year's
program.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 20
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the Bombay project is satisfactory, with over 70%
of the loan disbursed. All project-financed buses are in service, increasing
the fleet to nearly 2,000, in accordance with appraisal estimates. However,
delays in construction of new workshop facilities have been substantial;
construction began in January 1982, but to allow for completion the loan
closing date may have to be extended one year. Traffic management civil
works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceeding satisfac-
torily.
Implementation of works under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily,
a good start having been made on the important early procurement steps.
However, financial and managerial performance is lagging behind expectations
and must now receive project authorities' full attention if physical and
financial performance targets are to be achieved.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effective Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
Cr. No. 1185 Kanpur Urban Development Project; US$25 million credit of
February 4, 1982; Effective Date: April 22, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Progress on Credit 687 is generally satisfactory; costs are within
appraisal targets on most components and the credit is nearly fully dis-
bursed. Construction is complete and cost recovery is excellent in the first
sites and services area.  For the other two areas, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction required a one-year extension of the
closing date. Slum improvements benefitting about 30,000 families are com-
plete. Legal constraints and initially poor maintenance of improvements
hindered cost recovery for slum improvement at the outset. However, project
authorities have taken action to resolve these problems and cost recovery has
improved markedly.
Early project implementation of the second Madras project is
proceeding satisfactorily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the
first project are being heeded.



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 20
The Calcutta project is proceeding quite well in most sectors. Ini-
tial delays caused by materials shortages have eased and the pace of
implementation has picked up. Procurement and financial management issues
are being handled satisfactorily. Staff shortages in some of the implement-
ing agencies continue, and institutional development remains a priority.
Disbursements are ahead of schedule, but revised cost estimates for the
project, together with the initial implementation delays, may necessitate
a revision of the implementation timetable and adjustments to project scope.
Credit 1185 is aimed at providing shelter and urban services in
Kanpur, the largest city in Uttar Pradesh. Initial tendering is underway.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply anti Sewerage Project; US$196
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046  Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Implementation under Credit 848 is satisfactory and the institution
building aspects of the project are nearing completion. However, initial
procurement problems and the Government's slow release of construction funds
may delay the project by about 12 months and result in cost overruns. Con-
struction work under Credit 842 is now gaining momentum and a large number of
contracts are due to be awarded shortly. However, the Government has had to
prepare a revised financing plan since the delay in the appointment of con-
struction consultants, together with last-minute design changes, caused a
two-year delay in the start of construction and consequent substantial cost
overruns. Initial delays in implementation of institutional arrangements and
tariff measures proposed for Credit 899 have been overcome and the project is
progressing satisfactorily. Implementation of Credit 1046 is proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction of rural schemes has commenced, and work on



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 20
urban schemes is expected to begin shortly. All major materials contracts
for the first two years' requirements of the project have been awarded.
Ln. No. 1011  Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Ln. No. 1251 Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)        Composite Project; US$145 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Medium Irrigation Project; US$85 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$129 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 20
Cr. No. 1108 Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
Cr. No. 1177  Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation Project; US$220 million credit
of February 24, 1982; Effective Date: Expected May 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation.  Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. The Periyar Vaigai project in
Tamil Nadu experienced a 50% cost overrun due mainly to an underestimation of
rehabilitation work required and higher-than-anticipated unit costs. An IDA
mission undertook a comprehensive review and reformulation of the project in
1981. Project completion is now scheduled for March 1984. In the
Maharashtra I project, civil works in some project components are well behind
schedule and of poor quality. Remedial measures are under discussion. The
overall management and planning for implementation of the Gujarat II project
has been disappointing. The State Government and GOI are discussing ways to
resolve staffing difficulties and expedite progress. Progress of the remain-
ing projects is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction of about 160 tank
irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka. As of February 1982,
six of these schemes had been sanctioned for implementation, and another 28
were in various stages of preparation. Initial progress with project
preparation has been slow due to staff constraints and unfamiliarity of local
engineers with the design criteria agreed under the project.
Cr. No. 1004 Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Physical progress is proceeding satisfactorily, with approximately
40% of planned tubewells completed. The operation and maintenance, and
monitoring and evaluation components of the project need considerable
strengthening. The Government of UP has agreed to undertake specific actions
designed to address these deficiencies. Project completion may be delayed
by six months due to initial procurement delays.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 20
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Projtct;
US$12 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137 Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135 Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1138 Second Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1219 Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$6 million credit approved March 30, 1982; Effective Date:
Expected August 1982; Closing Date: March 31, 1988
These twelve credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh I and Orissa, in particular, significant
gains have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, a change in govern-
ment brought a temporary hiatus in project implementation, but the new State



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 20
Government has reaffirmed its commitment, and project activities are resum-
ing. There has been considerable progress in staffing and civil works, but
the initial delays are likely to cause a two-year extension of the project.
In Bihar, project progress had been disappointing mainly due to serious
staffing vacancies. However, the pace of project implementation is expected
to accelerate following the decision by the Government of Bihar in January
1982 to provide necessary funds for the project and fill key posts. A
revised implementation schedule is under preparation. In Gujarat, Haryana
and Karnataka, all covered under the Composite Agricultural Extension
Project, the basic extension system has been established and attention now
needs to focus on the quality of extension recommendations and the filling of
remaining staff vacancies. In Kerala, project implementation has begun in
three of eleven districts; but further progress on the project will require
an early decision by the State Government to extend the T & V system to the
remaining eight districts. In Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, initial project
implementation is encouraging. Most extension workers have been posted and
are undergoing training. There is good evidence that extension recommenda-
tions are having a positive impact on farmers' activities. In the Madhya
Pradesh II project, implementation has begun in five of the twelve districts.
Extension workers are undergoing training and all staff are expected to be on
board by early May 1982.
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date:_ June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Following the resolution of initial implementation delays caused by
staffing and funding problems, the project progress continues satisfactorily.
However, farmers' demand for coconut rehabilitation has been disappointing
and is not likely to meet the target. This shortfall will be offset by
increased implementation of new coconut planting and pepper rehabilitation.
Ln. No. 2095  Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation IV Project;
and       US$190 million loan and US$160 million credit of February 24,
Cr. No. 1209  1982; Effective Date:  Expected May 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project, which is a continuation of ARDC III, consists of a
two-year time slice of ARDC's lending program to farmers, mainly for minor
irrigation, and including amounts for diversified lending and for the support
of training programs for the staff of participating banks. Implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, there has been significant recent
progress, especially in Haryana and Andhra Pradesh. Commitment of funds to
research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although corresponding
disbursements lag behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 20
the Project Unit have been made to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
The primary aim of this project is to assist in the development of
the agricultural universities in Bihar and Assam, improve the quality of
practical training provided to students and enhance their employment oppor-
tunities. Implementation of the civil works component of this project was
initially delayed at both locations on account of frequent top management
changes, shortages in raw materials and political unrest (in Assam). Project
implementation has picked up since and disbursements are expected to be
completed by the extended closing date. The technical assistance component
of this project has been satisfactorily completed and the computer for the
Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics is fully operational.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date
June 30, 1982
There has been progress in the construction of bag storage
warehouses. However, difficulties in land acquisition and in providing rail
sidings, exacerbated by management problems, have caused GOI to propose
modifications to the project to provide additional bag storage capacity in
lieu of bulk storage facilities. Land acquisition for the additional bag
storage warehouses is proceeding, but a significant extension of the closing
date would be necessary to complete the project.  GOI's proposals are cur-
rently under review by the Association.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146 Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Project; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date: November 11, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
These credits provide funds to rural cooperatives in various States
for the construction and operation of godowns (warehouses) and cold storage
and marketing facilities. Major emphasis is placed on institution building
in order to make NCDC grow into a more effective development institution to
serve India's rural cooperative sector. Credit 871 is proceeding well.
Subproject appraisal and loan sanctioning are in accord with appraisal tar-
gets, and disbursements are ahead of schedule. However, as a result of
initial shortages in the supply of steel and cement, construction costs have
risen 30-40%, necessitating a revision of quantitative targets. Implementa-
tion of Credit 1146, which became effective in November 1981, was slower than
anticipated in the initial stages due mainly to poor preparation in most
States in the pre-project year. However, during the first 5 months of the
planned project period, development has been satisfactory, although disburse-
ments are currently considerably less than projected at appraisal. NCDC is



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 20
taking steps to ensure that the progress in preparatory work attained during
the last few months is maintained.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. Nearly 3,000 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects, with
membership of almost 300,000. Farmer response has been excellent and project
authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the estab-
lishment of DCSs. Profitability in almost all DCSs is good and construction
of dairy and feed plants is proceeding at a satisfactory pace. The coal
fired boilers being installed in the dairy plants throughout the State
projects appear to have a design flaw. The NDDB has assured IDA that this
flaw will be corrected or the boilers replaced. The project in Madhya
Pradesh has had significant success in the conversion of wasteland to pas-
tureland. Under the National Dairy Project, six sub-projects are under
implementation, and further sub-projects are in various stages of preparation
and appraisal by the Indian Dairy Corporation. Progress has been slow due to
the longer-than-anticipated time required to secure the appropriate agree-
ments on institutional structure and guarantees on loans to the sub-projects.
The IDC is considering the establishment of a special review committee to
deal more expeditiously with this issue.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). Project implementation has been slow because of initial
problems in coordination and monitoring particularly at the national level.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 20
Although the projects are generally about three years behind appraisal tar-
gets, their implementation has gained greater momentum since 1980 and the
stage is now set for all infrastructure and investments planned under the
projects to be completed by June 1984.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Cashew planting and improvement programs are proceeding well and
the targets are expected to be fully met. Economic effects of cashew planta-
tion, particularly in Orissa State, are expected to be very significantly
favorable. Cashew research and cashew study components are behind schedule
but are expected to pick up soon.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation continues to improve. The area to be
covered by the project (183,000 ha) has been attained, and yields are
increasing. Major processing facilities in Maharashtra and Haryana are under
contract and bid evaluation. The link between university research and
project activity is excellent. However, because of poor performance in the
early stages, the project closing date has been extended by two years to
December 31, 1983, to allow for completion of the project works and full
utilization of the credit proceeds.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is satisfactory and, based on revised planning
by the project authorities in late 1981, it is expected that the time lost
in the initial stages of the project can be recouped during 1982. The
research staff has commenced operations and the overseas training component
of the project has been initiated with the collaboration of Japanese experts.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is making good progress, but project facilities
will have to be reduced due to cost escalations. The project's research
activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to difficulties in
obtaining technical assistance.



ANNEX II
Page 19 of 20
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
A study financed under this Credit and completed in November 1979
established the technical feasibility of setting up two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district. The GOI is now reviewing a study on the
socio-economic impact of such investments, and the State Government is
assessing the industrial development proposal.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1178 West Bengal Social Forestry Project; US$29 million credit of
February 24, 1982; Effective Date: April 9, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves. There has been excellent performance in establishing healthy
plantations in UP and Gujarat, exceeding appraisal targets, but the staffing
of the forestry extension service is behind schedule and requires the atten-
tion of the project authorities. Initial implementation of the West Bengal
project is proceeding very well.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986
There has been considerable progress in project implementation since
the last review in June 1981. In the upper catchment, cattle grazing has
decreased and afforestation increased, with a consequent improvement in the
vegetative cover to reduce erosion and floods--a main project objective.
Construction of the Dholbaha dam has started, a feasibility studies of other
watershed schemes to be financed by the project are well in hand.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and      million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 20 of 20
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, the construction of harbor and shore facilities has been
delayed by a contractual dispute. This is expected to be resolved by June
1982, in which case harbor works should be finished by mid-1984. Village
roads and water supply components of the project are proceeding satisfac-
torily. In Andhra Pradesh, the project harbor at Visakhapatnam was offi-
cially opened in February 1982; harbor works at Kakinada and Nizampatnam are
progressing satisfactorily following the resolution of design problems.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. After a slow start in the first
18 months, project implementation is now satisfactory. Detailed designs for
the first two fish seed hatcheries in each of the five project States has
been completed and construction work is expected to start in June 1982.
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation is
proceeding generally satisfactorily and there has been a large build-up of
activity since the last review in April 1981. The major delay is in the
construction area where, despite good progress in site selection for popula-
tion centers, the shortage of architects and construction materials and slow
progress in staffing of construction units are causing problems.
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block has proceeded according
to schedule. Based on this experience, the nutrition program is being
expanded to the other 32 blocks.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of I
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR AND HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:           Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Six months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The State Governments assisted by Bank Group staff.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
June 1981; October 1981.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
October 1981.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
June 28, 1982.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
November 1982.
Section II:          Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:         Special Conditions
(a) Each State to establish the State and District
Committees not later than December 31, 1982 (para
60); and
(b) Each State to establish a Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit with adequate staff not later than
December 31, 1982 (para 61).



INDIA
Approximate line of control                                      JAMMU AND KASHMIR SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT
_ /              /                                                                           RESEARCH AND TRAINING CENTERS
// 
Project area
_   /   /   OKupwara             \                                                              Seed godowns
Forester and forest guard training center
Research centers
Soil conservation training school
`    Forestry divisional headquarters
10     i      3 7rForestry divisional boundories and numbers
:a;rn      O Ia                 Srinogar                                                             -   .      International boundaries
\ 0 ~~~~~~Badg a  <9,
0Pulwana
I   Anantnog
(   ~       ~        ~       ~      ~                          r~ his map has bean prepared by the World Banks staff exclus,vly for the -oneience
ooi-ho  madenr f the repon to which it is attached The denom-nations used and the
Rfi .|;Rajori                                                                            bo.  ies s- on ~D" thcs m,ap do not inmPY ano the poet of the Word Bank aod its
affhates. any 1udgmet so the legtl status of any territory or anr endorsement or
/ J   ,,           .                                         ,s              acceptance of such b.sndaries.
-~~~ ~USS.R .              ~       pprox,mate                   90u
,oda                             -                                   line of Control C H I N A
DEM. REP. OF    L          <         Approxin-ate boundary o
7                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFGHAN ISTAN V1         indicated by China
dap_  .t~   Approsimote boundory as
.o    indicated by India
c'i,;Udhompur
'4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.'
P A K I S T A N                                                                                                                 PAKISmmu  T J  |AN r      New
Mira sahib                 -Y     10           /                                                              Deh                  _ B      _
hu a .   5'                                                                                 BANOGIADESH w
C                                                                            g                          Kilometers              Ar-oabiar_ i                                       -'be''tK  tl
JO                                       >                                                           ~~~~~70n  t                                0lto  9jO 



y



IBRD 16200
MAY 1962
31~~~~ '        /                                                                             ,v
INDIA                                                            r-O
HARYANA SOCIAL FORESTRY PROJECT                                                                                                      V
RESEARCH AND TRAINING CENTERS                                                                          Ceocoho>(S<
Projecr                                             main Roads                                                          '    (            /'
Seed Godowns                                        Broad Gaoge Railways                                                      )
Nurseries                                                 Narrow Gauge Ra Iways                                    ,olpuao cj!no""'.
Forester and Forest Guard Training Center      0    Selected Towns -                                                              Naa 1c 0
Research Cenlers                            -        Rivers
Circle Headquarters                      -   -District Boundar,es                         '                                         /
Forest Grcle Boundaries           -*             -Stale Boundaries                    _\                         0 /'
o      DCiso.ral Headquarters                    ---International Boundaries                                                          y                            / 
C eisional Roondariet                                                                                      "vs5)         'o1xSF'''          Joi ooct
r                ?                                                                    rE    <   M f   >   /           X            r   <       X       1     /  '~~~~~~/Y G so     ,    S
Mardidabsoli..        L-'s   t (- to                                                                           e             '                5stietr0    /                         37-
> .c gP<- Thanesot                   F,Ou 
:    >~~4ansl                          )           /   I ohanaNoraorrO                                    c
NZ   ,St                           oGOBhlwar~~~~~c?l  d            K                   -'--         |
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
tt  t                                 (             t;iO~~ ~~~~~ ~ Bahaoogoc              3Dh h
/na,,,00,t        -harhldoolt  ({a lenqarhr thol
O            '\  ~ X N n      PsK--
'/5                                                                                           0>t     ' ,0.a (                /                   Nht                              
> ?> IND A   ->   '   4   >,,   j   ?   t  J  9
_A.                  0 2                                                                                               J r   O                                q
0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
v~~~~~~                                         ,,,r.rsoioc,r,, ,,r,,nr  eru,,.,,,                                0    13   = _  ce  20   30   u0   cc  en   70   a0
0'            cr0                                                                Sn'                                                     77'



