Document of
The World BankFIL
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2373-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SEVENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
November 29, 1978
4.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authotization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at 29.525
to the Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats relative to
the US Dollar and consequently the Taka/US Dollar rate is
subject to change (as of November 30, 1978, US$1 - Tk 15.1).
The rate below has been used throughout this report.
US$1          = Tk 15.5
Tk 1              US$0.0645
Tk 1 million       US$64,500
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
BCIC      -    Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
BJI4C     -    Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
BMR       -    Balancing, Modernizing and Rehabilitation
BSB       -    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
IKSRS     -    Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
BTMC      -    Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation
CIDA           Canadian International Development Authority
CFTC      -    Commonwealth Fund for Technical Cooperation
EEC       -    European Economic Community
EPB       -    Export Promotion Bureau
GOB       -    Government of Bangladesh
ITC       -    International Trade Center
JICA      -    Japanese International Cooperation Agency
ODM       -    United Kingdom's Overseas Development Ministry
SIDA           Swedish International Development Authority
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
UNIDO     -    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ANNEXES
I.   Economic Development Data
II.   Status of Bank Group Operations as of October 31,1978
III.   Supplementary Data Sheet
IV.   Production Trends of Selected Industries
V.   The Current Situation and Prospects for Major Industries
VI.   Past Action Programs
VII.   The Jute Industry
VIII.   The Cotton Textile Industry
IX.   Export Development Program
X.   Projection of Export Earnings FY79 - FY80
XI.   Utilization by Sector of the Six Previous Imports Credits
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BANGLADESH
SEVENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:           US$75 million equivalent
Terms:            Standard
Purpose:          To provide foreign exchange for the import of indus-
trial components, chemicals, raw materials and spare
parts to enable selected high priority industries to
reach their full production potential. In connection
with this proposed credit, apart from monitoring
progress in implementing the programs agreed under
previous imports credits to improve the efficiency
and financial viability of the jute, cotton textile
and paper industries, it is proposed to focus on
issues relating to export promotion.
Estimated
Disbursements:                           --------US$ Millions-------
IDA FY            FY79       FY80         FY81
First Quarter                        20            5
Second Quarter            -          10            5
Third Quarter            20           5            -
Fourth Quarter            5           5            -
25         40           10
Cumulative Total         25          65           75
Foreign
Exchange
Risk:           To be assumed by the Government.



Recommended Categories
and Ceilings                                    (in US$ million)
Maximum Amount
Average Estimated      of the Credit
Annual Imports          that can be
Category                        FY1979 and FY1980          Withdrawn
Industry:  Raw materials,
spare parts, chemicals,
components and packaging
materials for:
1.  Jute Industry                                15                  15.0
2.  Textile Industry                             95                  35.0
3.  Paper and Board Industry                     15                   7.0
4.  Fertilizer Industry, (including
finished fertilizers)                       150                 30.0
5.  Steel and Foundry Industry                   40                  18.0
6.  Export-oriented Industries
(frozen fish, shrimp, and
frogs' legs, tea process-
ing and leather tanning)                     10                  5.0
7.  Chemicals and Pharmaceutical
Industry (excluding proprietary
items)                                         40                 10.0
Construction Activities
8.  Cement and raw materials
for cement manufacture
including packaging
materials, spare parts
and other intermediate
building materials                           40                 18.0



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SEVENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$75
million, on standard IDA terms, for a Seventh Imports Program. The purpose
of the Credit will be to provide foreign exchange to help finance imports of
raw materials and spare parts required by high priority industries.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD, of September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. An economic
mission visited the country in June 1978 and its report entitled
"Bangladesh: Current Trends and Development Issues" (Report No. 2245-BD)
is expected to be circulated in early December 1978.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent seven years ago, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost a large number
of its academic and business elite, while much of the physical infrastructure
had been demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had
come to a standstill. Attempts to revive the economy and put it on a. growth
path were complicated by the necessity to fashion a national government out of
a provincial administration; to establish development institutions serving
agriculture, industry, trade, and banking; and to reorient agriculture and
industry after the loss of the West Pakistan market.
4.        Despite the destruction and disorientation prevailing immediately
after independence, some economic improvements have occurred. GDP has in-
creased annually by an average of 5.7% between FY73 and FY78 and since annual
population growth is about 2.8%, this represents an annual growth of per
capita GDP of nearly 3%. The output of foodgrains has shown an annual aver-
age increase of 4.6% during this period, but has nevertheless necessitated
an average of 1.8 million tons of foodgrain imports per year. The growth of
output of jute - Bangladesh's major export -- has been disappointing, however:
this has declined by an annual average of 4.4%. Hence, despite a rapid growth
of non-traditional exports in recent years, export earnings have increased by
about 8% annually, while imports have risen by an annual average of 7.7%,
resulting in an average external resource gap amounting to 8% of GDP during
FY74-78 and 7% in FY78.



5.        While the GDP growth rate over these five years has been relatively
high, a comparison of key indicators shows that what has happened is that the
economy has recovered from its post-independence low point, but that it has
yet to reach fully the levels of FY70 - the last normal year before :indepen-
dence. Per capita GDP was then higher in real terms than in FY78. The ratio
of savings to GDP, which stood at 7.1%, averaged 2.0% during FY74-78 and had
recovered to about 3.0% in FY78. The investment ratio returned in FY78 to
about 13.0%, around the FY70 level, after lower figures in intervening years.
The volume of output of jute manufactures as well as a number of industrial
products and the volume of exports of jute and jute goods has only recently
reached preindependence levels. Thus, the encouraging trends of recent years
should be viewed as having only laid the basis for development. The dimen-
sions of the problems remaining are clearly seen at the social level. Many
Bangladeshis continue to have inadequate food, clothing, and shelter. Levels
of nutrition have declined and the number of landless and unemployed has
increased. Even primary education is still the luxury of a few. Many have
little or no access to safe drinking water and preventive or curative medicine.
The life expectancy at birth is estimated to be only 45 years.
6.        As a first effort to begin to build on the foundation laid in the
last five years, the Government has clarified its priorities -- the control
of the rapid growth of population and a substantial increase in the output
of foodgrain. In 1975, the Government initiated a stabilization program in
conjunction with the IMF which helped reduce drastically the rate of infla-
tion, improve the competitiveness of exports, and increase revenues. Con-
cern with monetary stability is a continuing -- and encouraging -- feature
of government policy. In recent years, steps have been taken to improve the
operational efficiency of the jute manufacturing sector. For the first time,
in FY78, steps have been taken to provide an incentive price for foodgrains
through appropriate procurement policies. Action has been taken over the last
few years to reduce the levels of producer and consumer subsidies and to im-
prove the working of public sector corporations. The beneficial results of
these reforms are not always readily apparent, and in a number of cases will
take considerable time to show. However, the Government has made a start on
some of the issues that hamper the growth of savings and investment. The
Government has drafted a Two Year Plan (FY79-80) feeling the need for a more
fundamental reorientation of policies, and has put off the implementation of
a new five-year plan by two years. The Two-Year Plan is meant to clear the
decks for future action by completing as many ongoing projects as possible,
abandoning those that are uneconomic and creating time for thought about the
long-term direction of development. The TYP itself is, of course, unlikely to
change the course of development, since its period is too short and most of
the development budget during these two years (83%) is pre-empted by ongoing
projects. The TYP's targets in such fundamental areas as employment creation
and population control are unrealistic. A further weakness is that it does
not clearly indicate which uneconomic projects have been weeded out nor what
criteria will have to be used to make decisions about abandoning suclh projects
during the remainder of the TYP period.
7.         Nevertheless, the TYP period should be an extremely useful occasion
for defining policies relating to fundamental development issues. The TYP



document lists five important areas where the policy makers must make criti-
cal choices: the respective roles of the public and private sectors; the
organization of agricultural producers; the goals of the national education
policy; the role of subsidies in agricultural prices; and the respective
roles of foreign aid and domestic savings in development financing. While
outlining alternative solutions for these major problem areas, tLe document
does not present a full analysis of the options. Moreover, it seems to
skirt the question of the creation of non-farm employment for those who can
no longer be absorbed by agriculture; this problem is assuming increasing
importance and requires concentrated Government attention.  The Two Year Plan
offers the Government a good starting point for introducing economic reforms.
Specifically, key issues which should be addressed during the plan period
include pricing policy, improvement in levels of domestic savings, expansion
of export earnings, and greater efficiency in project preparation and imple-
mentation.  The scope of private sector participation in the economy should
be clarified, and the management of the public sector improved.
Current Economic Situation
8.        Economic growth in Bangladesh in FY78 was influenced to a large
extent by good performance in agriculture and industry. Aided by good prices
in the previous season, favorable weather, and the expectation of a further
strengthening of demand in FY78, farmers responded by increasing the acreage
sown to jute and rice, and demonstrated a willingness to invest in modern
agricultural inputs. Foodgrain output reached 13.4 million tons, the highest
level since independence. Jute production, although somewhat less than fore-
seen, due to untimely rainfall, was 11.5% higher than in FY77.
9.        A strong upturn in industrial output has occurred because of a
revival in consumer demand, an improvement in investment, and more liberal
availability of imported raw materials. Capacity utilization in industry
is being stimulated by an increase in demand for jute goods and cotton tex-
tiles, and an intensification of construction activity.
10.       The volume of exports has continued to show improvement as a result
of better market conditions for raw jute and jute goods. However, because
stocks were run down to uncomfortably low levels in FY77, the quantity of
jute effectively available for domestic and export use rose less than produ-
tion. However, since there was a concurrent world shortage of jute, due to
poor crops in other producing areas, Bangladesh benefited from higher export
prices. The performance of minor and non-traditional exports has been modest
as compared with the previous year, due to competition from other exporters
and slower growth in output.
I1.       The Government has endeavored to adhere to prudent monetary and fis-
cal policies. Planned monetary expansion in FY78 was initially linked to the
prospective rate of economic growth and the budget, when presented, made no
provision for deficit financing. However, during the year, some unforeseen
expenditure was undertaken: the Government thought it was necessary to
purchase 296,000 tons of foodgrain in order to ensure adequate supplies early
in the year, at a cost of $53 million. There were other unexpected increases,



- 4 -
such as a rise in the fertilizer subsidy caused by sales which exceeded fore-
casts. Thus, a budget deficit of about Tk 1,100 million (9% of current revenue)
materialized, even though revenue collections, which were sluggish at the
beginning of the year, exceeded the level estimated in the budget.
12.       Imports rose by 50% in FY78, reflecting the increased tempo of
economic activity. The volume of imports of foodgrains, raw cotton, fertil-
izer and cement rose substantially. Imports of edible oil and minor consumer
products have also expanded. The biggest single factor (about 20% of the
total) was the increase in the volume of foodgrain imports. These imports
were required -- despite the record foodgrain crop -- to enable the Government
to begin moving towards the official foodgrain stock target of one million
tons. This is desired both for maintaining food security and for facilitating
open market operations to sustain the market price of foodgrain within a
desired price range.
13.       In sum, the overall rate of economic growth for FY78 was about 7.8%;
this derives from an estimated growth rate of over 7.4% in agriculture, 10.4%
in industry and about 8.3% in other sectors. Although the improved supply
position for foodgrains, combined with an increase in the volume of imports,
helped to contain inflationary pressure, the overall budget deficit suggests
a rate of inflation of about 12% as compared to 1% in FY77.
Major Developments and Policy Issues
14.       Foodgrain.  The improved harvest in FY78 was the result of a combi-
nation of good weather and improved production policies. Incentives for ex-
panding the output of rice consisted both of a higher procurement vo].ume and
price. For the first time these were announced to the farmers well in advance
of the planting season. To facilitate procurement, many new purchasing centers
were opened, staff cadres strengthened, the number of grain dealers expanded,
quality requirements made more flexible, and the number of bank branches and
payment points enlarged. At the production level, input packages consisting
of fertilizer kits and an expanded credit program of Tk 1,000 million (of
which about Tk 400 million was actually disbursed), were introduced as an
experiment. While these latter supporting measures for increasing foodgrain
output were generally in the right direction, attention needs to be paid to
the longer term impact of some parts of the program. Repayment of agricul-
tural loans under the expanded credit program has been very slow and irregular.
Failure to ensure credit discipline could in the long run jeopardize the
Government's plans for channeling credit to agriculture and fostering the
application of inputs in the desired mix. There is evidence that the expanded
credit program has also led to some disruption of extension activities which
are indispensable for providing the foundation for sustained agricultural
growth.
15.       Further steps were taken in FY78 to reform the ration system and to
achieve a reduction in ration offtakes. The prices of rationed rice and wheat
were increased by 11% and 14% respectiveLy; those enjoying a monthly income of
Tk 1,600 a month are to be shifted from the ration shops to "Essential Supply
Shops" where the price would be between the ration and the market prices; and



- 5 -
the number of ration cards is to be reduced to a maximum of 6 per household.
The composition of the ration was also changed so that 2 units of the more
nutritious but cheaper wheat are now distributed for every 1 unit of rice to
some categories of consumers. The Government has indicated that its ultimate
objective is to restrict access to the ration to vulnerable groups in urban
and rural areas. As now structured, however, the ration system still bypasses
a large segment of the poor and landless and more intensified efforts to reach
these are, therefore, in order.
16.       Jute.  Responding to last year's favorable jute-rice price ratio
and the early announcement of a higher procurement price, the area sown to
jute increased by 13% to 1.8 million acres in FY78 and, despite bad weather,
output rose from 4.8 million bales in FY77 to 5.4 million bales. An impor-
tant factor was the increase in the area under the Intensive Jute Cultivation
Scheme to 500,000 acres.  Meanwhile, the effect of the decrease in the area
available for rice production during the aus season was compensated by an
increase in productivity. Demand for raw jute -- both for export and supply
to domestic jute mills -- was buoyant. As a result of the very low level
of stocks carried over from the previous year, demand could not be met, and
prices rose throughout the marketing season by over 40%. The improvement
in price helped to raise farm incomes substantially, especially during the
months immediately following the harvest season, when prices traditionally
are depressed. The acreage sown to jute, and output, are expected to rise
further in FY79. The improved supply position should also help to maintain
the international price of jute goods at competitive levels. The Government
intends to increase jute output over the next few years -- relying to an
increasing extent on the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme. Since the current
world shortage is likely to persist for some time, Bangladesh should benefit
from these efforts to expand output over the short run.
17.       The jute goods sector still requires further rehabilitation.  The
sector benefited from the improvement in international demand in FY78 which
led to a 25% increase in export value. A reduction in the wastage rate from
11% to 7.5% in FY78 was a major achievement. Despite this and the improvement
in price, however, the industry's losses are expected to be about Tk 605 mil-
lion (Tk 525 million in FY77) which is largely explained by factors beyond the
control of the jute industry, namely the substantial increase in the price of
raw jute, though in incremental terms, most of the mills appear to be economic-
ally efficient. These losses are now being financed by a differential scale
of subsidies applied to categories of jute exports, based on the f.o.b. export
value. The weighted subsidy, which amounts to about 15% of the value of
exports, is intended to help improve the overall liquidity of the industry,
but does not fully compensate ailing jute mills whose unit losses exceed this
percentage. This new method of paying the subsidy could be of help to the
Government in separating the better performing mills from those that are not,
although once the BMR programs currently under preparation are completed
further criteria of performance can be aidded. Even with improvements in
efficiency, and investments in rehabilitation, some mills will continue to be
a financial liability. The need is to determine how to produce in the most



- 6 -
efficient manner the quantity of jute goods that the market will absorb at
remunerative prices, and then to restructure the industry accordingly.
18.       Public Enterprises.  The genera'L upturn in economic activity in
FY78 has led to a substantial increase in capacity utilization in public
enterprises, particularly in cotton textiles, newsprint, paper, jute and
steel. The combined losses of public enterprises are expected to decline --
both because of the effect of higher capacity utilization and the decision
to price cotton textiles at a level that reflects the enhanced cost of raw
cotton. The basic problems which afflict the working of public enterprises,
however, continue; they relate primarily to the excessive centralization and
control exercised by ministries over the day-to-day commercial operations
of enterprises. Some progress has been made in alleviating the most diffi-
cult problems. However, any marked improvement in the performance of public
enterprises must be predicated on greater functional autonomy particularly in
the determination of input and output prices and the incentives offered to
personnel. A. number of supplementary measures, including a decision to sell
off any enterprises that have continually been incurring losses, may also be
necessary although it may be difficult to find purchasers.
19.       Resource Mobilization.  Inadequate mobilization of domestic re-
sources remains one of Bangladesh's key problems. As pointed out, domes-
tic savings finance only a small proportion of total investment and unless
savings, particularly those of the public sector, are raised, it will be
difficult to step up the pace of development in Bangladesh. Under present
conditions, the revenue gap tends to widen as development expenditures rise.
Budget performance in FY78 provides an illustration. Preliminary estimates
of the balance for the year indicate that both revenue and current expendi-
tures increased sharply leaving a current surplus of Tk 2.1 billion (Tk 1.7
billion in FY77), which is roughly 20% below the budgeted amount. Develop-
ment expenditures, however, increased by much more and despite an increase
in aid disbursements, which amounted to 75% of development expenditures, an
uncovered gap of about Tk 1.23 billion emerged, the equivalent of 10% of
current revenue and about 10% of the money supply.
20.       More stringent action than undertaken so far is clearly needed
to put public finance on a sound footing. On the revenue side, measures to
lessen tax evasion, improve tax administration and reduce exemptions and
loopholes offer most scope for increasing resources in the short run. On
the expenditure side, an examination is urgently required of the cost effec-
tiveness of production and consumption subsidies. Further efforts are also
needed to reduce the losses of public enterprises, a major cause of which
is the failure to allow input price increases to be passed on to consumers.                    ^
There is no doubt that a combination of such revenue and expenditure meas--
ures, in spite of Bangladesh's poverty, could lead to substantial improve-
ment in domestic resource mobilization.  Some modest steps have already been
taken -- improvement in the administration of the income tax, improvements in
the pricing policy of the textile industry (although here the benefits have
been eroded by changes in the price structure), and the recent increase of the
ration price for foodgrains -- and further measures are under active consider-
ation by the Government. Of course it will be difficult to implement these



- 7 -
measures unless the Government is at the same time successful in carrying
out its development programs. Consumption levels in Bangladesh are extremely
low and an increase of incomes arising from accelerated GDP growth is a
necessary condition for the implementation of any set of policies designed
to raise the rate of savings.
21.       Project Implementation.  A number of steps to improve the Govern-
ment's capacity to implement projects were taken during 1977. The Project
Implementation Bureau's staff was strengthened, and its ability to monitor
progress improved. Project entities were assigned much greater functional
autonomy -- especially with respect to the authorization of expenditures.
For FY78 the complex procedures for the allocation of funds to projects
were simplified, and the Government is trying to speed up the approval of
projects in the pipeline, and to weed out existing projects that do not
promise early completion. These measures are welcome. At the same time,
it is important to focus on other major problems which have slowed down
project implementation in the past. Greater fungibility in the use of funds
appropriated for development should be introduced, so that fast moving proj-
ects can employ the funds of those that have stalled. Delays resulting from
breakdowns in machinery, shortages of supplies, absenteeism, and bad planning
of sequences of activity, must be avoided. Donors could help by ensuring that
project resources are supplemented by the provision of a higher proportion of
local currency cost in external assistance in order to ensure that the imple-
mentation of projects is sustained in the face of acute stringency of local
resources.
22.       External Capital Requirements.  Even with significant improvement
in its domestic resource mobilization, Bangladesh will continue to need sub-
stantial external assistance to support its development efforts. In the short
run, such support is even becoming more important in view of the fact that
the pace of development expenditures has begun to accelerate. Roughly it
is estimated that aid disbursements, which amounted to $797 million :;n FY78,
should rise to $1,095 million in FY79.  rhese would comprise $250 million of
food, $520 million of commodities and $325 million of project aid. Since
Bangladesh would commence the year with a pipeline of aid amounting to $1,912
million, it should be possible to disburse about $625 million from that pipe-
line. Hence, about $470 million of disbursements from new aid would be nec-
essary. To yield disbursements at this level in FY79 and to build up the
pipeline for FY80, it is estimated that commitments in FY79 will need to
be approximately $1,600 million. If current projections materialize, the aid
pipeline at the end of FY80 will be about $2,700 million. It is important
to stress the widening gap in external resources which must be met by exter-
nal assistance at least for the time being, if economic growth and execution
of the development plan are not to be slowed down for lack of financial re-
sources. At the same time, the Government must strive to increase exports
and be prudent in the use of foreign exchange, as well as make efforts to
increase domestic resource mobilization.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
23.        Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.
Initially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactiva-
tion of uncompleted projects financed under credits made originally to
Pakistan, before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.6 million
(including US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts disbursed under the
corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of cancellations) were
made to Bangladesh. In addition, as of September 30, 1978, 30 new credits,
excluding the consolidation credit of US$31 million referred to in para-
graph 24, have been made, totalling US$912.9 million. Of these, US$425 mil-
lion have been for six program credits. The project credits have emphasized
agricultural development, but also included amounts for population, telecom-
munications, transport and industry.  On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the
105th member of the IFC, but no IFC investments have been approved as yet.
24.        Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the bi-
lateral and multilateral donors concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of
portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan, before Bangladesh became inde-
pendent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the debt
service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% over the next ten years, it may
do so by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued,
and aid is provided on appropriately concessional terms.   With respect to the
Bank Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA credits
extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before inde-
pendence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of US$54.9 million
and a consolidation credit of US$31.0 million were signed on February 14,
1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding external debt is
not expected to rise significantly above the present level of about 22% over
the next few years.
25.        Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of September 30, 1978, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged behind expectations,
owing inter alia to delays in the release of local funds, clearance of con-
tracts, employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Government
has taken some steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are beginning
to be reflected in improvements in project implementation and disbursement
performance. However, serious implementation constraints remain because of
shortage of qualified staff, over-centralized bureaucratic procedures and
organizational deficiencies. Progress is being made on these issues. For
example, at the Government's request, IDA is providing assistance to improve
organization and procedures, especially in the ministries and agencies deal-
ing with agriculture and water resources. Further, the Government has taken
actions including improved procedures for recruitment of civil servants and
increased emphasis on training - which are important not only as steps towards
gradually improving the quality of public administration, but also as evidence
of its awareness of the problem and concern to do something about it. On the



-9-
organizational side, the Government is in the process of establishing planning
cells in the main ministries and agencies and in strengthening the Planning
Division which has been transferred to the Ministry of Finance. In this con-
nection, IDA is providing assistance both under specific projects and under
the Technical Assistance Credits (409-BD and 622-BD).
26.       Of the 24 new project credits totalling US$367.7 million, 12 credits
totalling US$216.5 million have been directed towards agriculture and rural
development (excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance credits devoted
to this sector). Their basic objective is to support the delivery of inputs,
including assured water, through quick yielding projects with low capital
intensity. While the pace of implementation has been disappointing so far,
the fundamental importance of improving agricultural productivity means that
projects geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future
IDA lending. However, in the shorter term, the rate of planned lending for
agriculture will be a function of progress in improving the currently limited
absorptive capacity of the project executing agencies. At the same time,
greater efforts in institution building are being made through closer super-
vision and technical assistance where necessary. Some progress has already
been made in correcting problems in ongoing projects. During the latter part
of FY79 projects for drainage and flood control and fisheries are expected to
be ready for consideration.
27.       Industry has been the major beneficiary of the six program credits
to date. For the reasons given in paragraphs 33-38 below, program lending
to Bangladesh will continue to be required while efforts are made to correct
basic structural weaknesses in the economy. The industrial sector has also
benefitted from DFC and small industry projects and a fertilizer production
project. IFC is currently in the process of identifying suitable investment
opportunities.
28.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem gives this sector
an extremely high priority, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first IDA-supported population project is now making progress, and a second
population project was appraised in April/May 1978. Improved availability of
trained manpower is also crucial. Past lending in this field has emphasized
agricultural and technical training and future operations, while maintaining
a similar basic emphasis, are expected to include assistance for vocational
and management education as well.
29.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, specific efforts to identify
projects in agriculture, transport, industry, energy and power, and telecom-
munications are now under way. In this connection, particular emphasis will
be placed upon possible projects which provide infrastructure for the rural
sector, which process or provide outlets for its products, or which reduce the
strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Such projects could make
a significant contribution towards supporting Bangladesh's development efforts.
In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA credits should
cover all foreign exchange costs. However, all external lenders are inhibited
from achieving the levels of resource transfers appropriate to Bangladesh's



- 10 -
economic circumstances by difficulties in the preparation and implementation
of development projects. The Government's capacity to carry out projects is
constrained, inter-alia, by a low domestic savings rate. In these circum-
stances, and in order to direct IDA lending to those sectors - such as agri-
cultural and rural development - where the percentage of foreign exchange
costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency expenditures is
also justified.
30.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
31.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design, preparation
and implementation to the administrative realities. They will also have to
contemplate higher amounts of technical assistance and supervision than is
the case in many other countries. Nevertheless, there are opportunities
for making significant progress 'in improving economic conditions for the
people of Bangladesh. While progress is bound to be slow and will require
painstaking efforts, they are nonetheless worth making.
PART III - THE PROJECT
32.       The proposed Credit was appraised by a mission which visited
Bangladesh from March 20 through April 10, 1978 (Annex III). Negotiations
were held in Washington from October 23, 1978 to November 7, 1978. GOB was
represented by a team led by Mr. Mokammel Haque, Chairman, Export Promotion
Bureau. The Credit would be the Seventh in a series of Imports Program Credits
and would bring the total of IDA program lending to Bangladesh to $500 million.
The first four of these credits have been fully disbursed. The progress of
disbursements against the Fifth and Sixth Credits (each of $75 million) is
satisfactory. Total disbursements (including Qualified Agreements to
Reimburse-QAR's-issued) as of October 31, 1978 were about $69 million under
the Fifth Credit, and in the case of the Sixth (approved in November 1977),
$45 million. However, while there still remain balances available for dis-
bursements under both credits, as of October 31, 1978 GOB had fully committed
the funds available under the Fifth Credit and had issued import licenses for
and committed $70 million of the funds available under the Sixth Credit.
Thus, as of November 1, 1978 GOB had reduced its commitment ability to only
$5 million, and new commitment authority will be needed as least by the time
this credit can become effective.



- 11 -
The Case for Program Assistance
33.       Bangladesh needs program assistance because of the gross inadequacy
of its domestic savings and foreign exchange earnings to finance its develop-
ment program. A large inflow of external capital has been, and will continue
to be, required merely to achieve a very modest growth of per capita income.
At present, domestic savings constitute only about 3 percent of GDP. External
assistance is financing about 80 percent of investment which is quite inade-
quate at about 10 percent of GDP. In the public sector, external capital,
directly and indirectly in the form of counterpart funds generated by com-
modity assistance, contributes 75 percent of the development budget. 1/
34.       The corollary of this disequilibrium between savings and investment
is a severe imbalance in the country's external payments position. Between
FY75 and FY78, export earnings, of which jute and jute goods account for about
80%, have been equivalent to only 35 percent of imports. Moreover, the share
of capital goods in total merchandise imports has been only 16 percent; the
remainder consists of food (30 percent), other essential consumer goods (26
percent), fertilizer (5 percent), industrial raw materials (11 percent) and
crude petroleum and petroleum products (12 percent).
35.       These structural characteristics, both internal and external, com-
bined with severe administrative weaknesses make it impossible in the short
and medium term to transfer the amount of external assistance required by
Bangladesh to sustain a modest rate of growth by means of project financing
alone, even if it includes substantial provision for financing local currency
expenditures. It is generally recognized that there are limits to the extent
that components of a country's development or investment program can be formed
into projects suitable for external financing. In the case of Bangladesh
which does not have an experienced and efficient development administration,
external financing requirements at a level equivalent to 80 percent of total
investment spending in the country are clearly well beyond this limit particu-
larly as they are equivalent to such a large share of investment spending
in the country.
36.       Given the structural constraints in the country's foreign trade
discussed above, including the composition of imports, requirements for im-
ports of general commodities cannot be met by net foreign exchange earnings.
Without program assistance to finance imports of general commodities, the
supply of non-agricultural goods to the economy would be reduced greatly. In
particular, production in the industrial sector, which provides commodities
essential to the livelihood of the population and to exports, would have to
be cut back substantially. Utilization of existing industrial capacity has
been improving and is now at an average level of about 65%, compared with less
than 50% in FY73 and about 70% in FY70 (Annex IV shows production trends for
selected industries including those eligible for assistance under IDA Program
Credits, which are also discussed in Annex V). Even with investment in
1/   Further details of GOB's external financing and resource mobilization
policies are given in Report 1919BD: Bangladesh - Report on Domestic
Financial Resource Mobilization, dated April 26, 1978.



- 12 -
additional capacity since FY70, industrial productlion has reached only now
the FY70 level. While this situation has many cauises,, the slow growth in per
capita income has restrained domestic demand below the level required for
fuller utilization of capacity.
37.       GOB has initiated certain steps i-o improve resceutsce mobilization
and to enable the present amount of external assistance to support higher
levels of investment and imports. During the June 1978 Aid Group meeting,
GOB announced the establishment of five comuittees to explore ways of:
(i) reducing food subsidies, (ii) revising the rate structure of public utili-
ties, (iii) improving the performance and economic pricing of production of
public sector units; (iv) reducing agro-industry subsidies; and (v) improving
the financial performance of public sector industrial and commerical enter-
prises.  These actions are in line with the recommendations contained in
IDA's Report No. 1919-BD dated April 26, 1978. "Bangladesh Report on Domestic
Financial Resource Mobilization". GOB has, in addition to the 1975 devaluation,
taken a number of steps for promoting exports including increased financial
incentives, such as export performance licenses, reduced taxes and discounts
on export financing and development of institutions such as the Export Promo-
tion Bureau. The proposed credit initiates a program to supplement GOB's
efforts to promote exports (paragraph 84).
38.       The Bangladesh Aid Group has recognized that it will take time for
GOB to ease substantially the country's severe structural imbalances. They
have accordingly accepted the continuing need to provide large amounts of non-
project aid.  Of total aid commitments of about US$1,600 million which they
expect to make to Bangladesh in FY79, US$900 million would be in this form.
This amount includes US$575 million in commodity assistance other than food
excluding the proposed credit. As the undisbursed pipeline of non-food
commodity assistance would be about US$397 million at the beginning of that
year, new aid commitments at the level indicated would bring to about US$972
million amounts available for this purpose. Against: this, it is estimated
that Bangladesh will have to draw on non-food commodity assistance in the
amount of US$425 million to help finance the imports projected for FY79.
This leaves US$547 million to be carried over into FY80 whiclh is insufficient
to ensure continuity of supply and proceed with measures to accelerate the
pace of economic activity. The pipeline should cover at least the imports
for FY80. On the basis of current projections commodity imports in FY80
are expected to be about US$651 million and given no shortfalls in food aid
there is at present a shortfall of US$104 million in the amount of non-food
commodity assistance available. It is this shortfall that the proposed Credit
is intended to help cover.
Program Content
39.       The primary rationale for the first three program credits to Bangla-
desh was to meet the rehabilitation requirements of the economy caused by
natural calamities and the war of 1971. The programs were designed with a
particular focus upon the requirements of the industrial sector and the need
for a better utilization of existing capacity.  The Fourth Credit introduced
as a new element a longer term development component in the form of programs



- 13 -
to help improve the efficiency of the two largest industries in the country;
jute and cotton textiles. The Fifth Credit expanded these programs and also
initiated a number of studies on the pulp and paper industry as a first step
towards formulating a long term development program for this industry. The
Sixth Credit strengthened the previous programs for the jute and cotton tex-
tile industries and introduced new elements such as a greater emphasis on
their organizational and managerial problems, pricing policies, evaluation
of mill investment requirements and setting of quantitative performance
targets.
40.      The objective of the last three import program credits was chosen
because improving the efficiency of the country's major industries, particu-
larly jute and cotton textiles is vital for long term economic growth and
given GOB's limited administrative capacity there was a need to concentrate
efforts upon the key priority industries. Although improvements must be
expected only gradually, the action programs initiated under the last three
credits are tackling most of the important problems affecting the jute and
cotton textile industries, including production, marketing, management and
financial matters and have laid the foundations for their rehabilitation.
Thus while continued progress and close monitoring is required to meet the
long term goals set under the previous credits, the time has now come to
address other issues facing the industrial sector. Accordingly, work on a
new policy focus concerning in particular export promotion would be carried
out under the proposed Seventh Program Credit.
41.       The discussion below assesses the progress in implementing the
action programs for the jute and cotton textile industries, reports on the
status of the rehabilitation studies for the pulp and paper industry and
outlines the proposed program to improve export promotion.
Jute Industry
42.       General.  Given the serious problems faced by the jute industry in
1975 (when the Fourth Credit was processed), the program of assistance had to
be designed as a long-term effort where progress would be gradual and results
would be seen only after some time. Therefore, while the initial action pro-
grams touched upon a variety of problems, they focussed upon key areas where
immediate action was needed.
43.       In the case of jute, this was, for example, the need to link the
production and sales efforts. At that time, many mill managers chose to
produce those items which raised fewest problems in manufacture rather than
those which could be sold. The net result was inventory accumulation of a
number of goods with limited sales potential and shortages of items in rela-
tively better demand. Therefore, the Fourth and Fifth Credits sought to
strengthen marketing and production planning. Maintenance work and the
establishment of an adequate data base were other priority areas where work
was initiated under the Fourth Credit and strengthened under the Fifth, which
also introduced initial measures to deal with financial matters, such as the
need for capital restructuring.



- 14 -
44.       By the time of the Sixth Credit in 1977, sufficient progress had
been made to tackle more directly the problems of mill efficiency and ques-
tions of profitability. Thus, the Sixth Credit broadened the scope of pre-
vious efforts and introduced measures to strengthen the organization, manage-
ment and financial aspects of both the Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
(BJMC) and the mills and their relationship with GOB. Further, in connection
with the Sixth Credit, action was initiated to deal with raw material costs,
which had been the main factor causing the losses by the industry to increase.
Because of the improvements generated by the action programs, it was thus
possible to set performance targets intended to help BJMC's planning by pro-
viding a framework for decision making. They were also to be used by IDA in
monitoring the progress under the action programs. To provide a basis for
planning future operating and investment strategy, a mill by mill survey was
undertaken to determine: (i) investment requirements, (ii) anticipated
operational improvements, (iii) incremental benefits resulting from the
improvements and (iv) financial and economic rates of return for each unit.
The study provides the basis for determining the criteria for appropriate
future investment and rationalization plans for the industry.
45.       Impact.  Annex VI contains a detailed description and status report
on the jute industry action programs for the Fifth and Sixth Credits, and
Annex VII a discussion of the current position and prospects of the jute in-
dustry. Although there is need for further efforts and close follow-up, there
have been improvements in a number of aspects such as marketing, production
efficiency, wastage, maintenance work, spare parts purchasing procedures,
and training. Under the Sixth Credit incentive systems for mill management
and employees have been introduced, although these require some modifications
to relate them more closely to achievement of production targets.
46.       Regarding marketing, a first phase study was carried out with tech-
nical assistance from ODM to help in the restructuring of BJMC's Marketing
Directorate and establishing an appropriate organization and procedures, in-
cluding staff training, to develop programs for market studies and promotion
programs overseas. A second phase technical assistance program, also from
ODM, is now being carried out to implement the recommendations of that study.
Meanwhile BJMC is going ahead with the commissioning of market research pro-
grams to determine specific marketing strategies for particular products e.g.
jute carpeting. Sales efforts have been strengthened and BJMC has established
overseas sales offices in a number of commercial centers. Bangladesh's share
of the jute goods export market has improved substantially accounting for
about 47% in FY77 and FY78, compared with 33% in FY75, and the trend towards
market losses to synthetic substitutes has been greatly reduced. Further,
with improvements in production planning, production is being closely linked
with sales booked, although there were instances of sales without adequate
raw material cover during FY78. However, it remains to be seen whether it
will be possible to achieve the longer-term objectives of recapturing at least
in part some of the world market previously lost to synthetic fabrics. Longer-
term growth of the industry will require a substantial increase in research
and development to find both new uses for traditional products as well as new
end-uses for jute. UNDP is providing assistance to Bangladesh on research
and development for its jute industry while efforts to develop jutton (a blend



- 15 -
of jute and cotton fibers to produce yarn for the textile industry) continue
under IDA's Technical Assistance Credit. Another critical area for improved
marketing is quality control. The more organized effort required to improve
quality control began in January 1977 with the arrival of a UNIDO expert,
Some improvement is already evident in this area as reflected by the sub-
stantial reduction of claims received for substandard material. Moreover,
in mid-1978, under the provision of the Sixth Import Credit, GOB established
an export inspection service which is now monitoring production in BJMC's
mills.
47.       In the case of maintenance, four Maintenance Task Forces (MTFs),
consisting of expatriate consultants (financed under IDA's Technical
Assistance Credit) and local counterparts completed during 1977 detailed
surveys of 16 mills and drew up specific maintenance programs for each.
Comprehensive maintenance and lubrication manuals also were prepared and
distributed to all the mills. After the consultants left in 1977, four local
MTFs were formed which continued this work. They have already established
maintenance programs for 33 more mills. In mid-1978, BJMC reallocated half
of the maintenance staff to the UNDP productivity team, but intends to return
this staff to the MTF by December 1978. Implementation of the maintenance
programs is underway although somewhat behind schedule and overhauling work
is proceeding according to guidelines laid down by BJMC. The work of the
local MTFs is satisfactory and maintenance throughout the industry has improved
although there have been problems in implementing the overhauling work mainly
because a number of mill managers are not maintenance minded and BJMC's orga-
nization was not adequately geared for appropriate supervision. These prob-
lems are expected to be solved gradually under the ongoing training program
and through further improvements (discussed below) in BJMC's organization
particularly in the area of technical control. Further, purchasing procedures
for spare parts have improved and all mills have been given autonomy for the
local purchase of spares following procedures given by BJMC. Local spare
parts production under the CIDA technical assistance program has started
although full scale production will not commence until the arrival of
additional machinery required in December 1978.
48.       On organization and financial management, a new cost accounting
system was devised and is under implementation in 16 mills. Work is now
underway on the design of a new management information system both for BJMC
and the mills. Internal audit has also improved and the program to complete
the backlog of external audits is proceeding, although slightly behind sched-
ule. In accordance with its new Rules of Business, established in 1977, BJMC
has given more autonomy to the mills for their day-to-day operations. Given
the critical raw material situation during FY78, however, BJMC's and the mills'
autonomy in raw jute procurement vis-a-vis GOB was hampered and this was partly
responsible for the continued high financial loss (paragraph 51). Another
problem area has been the implementation of an efficient organizational struc-
ture. Although there has been greater delegation of authority to the mills,
BJMC's own organization was not decentralized as planned, so its supervision
and control role was not as effective as would be desirable. This matter was
discussed during negotiations for the proposed Credit and understandings have
been reached with BJMC on a clearer delineation of responsibilities between
its head office and its zonal offices. An initial training program prepared



- 16 -
by BJMC is being implemented. Finally, BJMC has introduced an incentive
system for its workers and other personnel. Following a review by IDA of
the system, BJMC will implement suggested changes to improve the system.
49.       Operational Targets.  Under the Sixth Imports Program Credit, tar-
gets were set to help monitor the impact of the action program being imple-
mented within BJMC. The targets included projections of demand, volume of
production, production efficiency, reduction in wastage, control of procure-
ment costs and operating profitability. Wlerever possible, expected improve-
ments resulting from the implementation of action program requirements were
built into the targets. Not all the targets were under the control of BJMC
(e.g. the two main elements of operation, selling prices and raw jute costs, 1/
are governed by market factors upon which BJMC has limited influence).
50.       The table below shows some key indicators of BJMC's performance
compared to previous years and targets agreed for FY78 as part of the Sixth
Credit action program (additional indicators and other details are in the
attachments to Annex VII). For monitoring purposes, targets and costs were
expressed in constant FY78 values:
FY75    FY77   FY78       FY7A    FY81 /a  FY83
Actuals ---Targets-------
Production ('000 long tons)       444    490    530         512      602       614
Exports ('000 long tons)          379    462    522         469      552       565
Average spinning
efficiency (%) /b                60      65     65         68       75        75
Weaving efficiency
(lbs/operating loom hour)
Hessian                      6.1    6.05    6.33       6.05    7.56      8.70
Sacking                     16.7   17.57   18.0       17.57   20.21    21.96
Carpet Backing              14.8   14.21   13.9       14.21   16.35    17.77
Raw Jute Consumption Ratio
(Ave BJMC jute cost/
Ave mkt price)                 1.09    1.20    1.19       1.18    1.10       1.10
Wastage (%)                         NA    8.9      7.5       8.0     6.5       6.5
Conversion costs (Tk/ton)       2,106   2,328   2,573    2,261   3,136    3,148
Profit/(Loss) Before Interest
and Depreciation; Tk/ton       (176)   (134)  (137)       (467)  (114)       (99)
Profit/(Loss); Tk/ton sold        (579) (1,053)(1,075)    (1,329)  (938)    (908)
Profit/(Loss); Tk million         (239)   (525)  (605)       (670)  (518)    (513)
/a   Targets for FY81-FY83 are based upon IDA projection of exports and
related production.  BJMC targets for these items are more optimistic
giving BJMC projected profits in FY81 of Tk 515 million and Tk 412
million in FY83.
/b   Efficiencies shown are on basis of operating equipment.  The FY78
actuals for spinning efficiency are based only on one month production
(February 1978) as figures for the period July 1977-June 1978 were
not available.
1/   Raw jute prices can be influenced by GOB action



<                          ~~~~~~~~- 17 -
In general, the FY78 results are in line with the targets and in some cases,
such as reduction in wastage, the improvement was better than expected. The
table also shows improvements in efficiencies compared to FY75 except for the
weaving of carpet backing, which is largely explained by a change in produc-
tion from heavy (and easier to produce) grades of carpet backing to lighter
grades of fabric. The FY78 financial results show a lower operating loss than
projected mainly because of higher market prices than envisaged in FY77 and
higher levels of operating efficiency. Due to the increasing cost of raw
jute, losses have continued to increase since FY75. While the financial and
average economic indicators of the industry show that operations must be made
more efficient, the incremental domestic resource cost calculations, for
hessian, sacking and carpetbacking at Tk 16.6, Tk 15.8 and Tk 14.3 respective-
ly, show that the industry is making a significant contribution towards the
economy. 1/
51.       The increased losses are mainly explained by a retroactive wage
rate increase granted in July 1978 which added about Tk 250 million to BJMC's
wage bill and the rise in raw jute costs which accounted for about 65% of
costs of goods sold during FY78. Raw material costs have increased by about
78% since FY75, compared with selling price increases of about 44%. Some of
the steps agreed for the Sixth Credit to deal with the raw material costs
problem, such as timely availability of credit to mills for raw jute purchase,
efficient use of raw jute in batching, and reduction of wastage through im-
proved production efficiency, were taken by GOB/BJMC. However, under the
Sixth Credit, GOB/BJMC also provided for more autonomy to the mills in buying
coupled with (i) the strengthening of BJMC's mechanism for monitoring the
mills' buying performance through the newly created Raw Jute Directorate; and
(ii) the formulation of appropriate policies for pricing and distribution of
raw jute in order to maximize economic benefits from exports of raw jute and
jute goods. As explained in Annex VII, paragraphs 9 to 11, given the critical
shortage of raw jute during FY78, GOB intervened in raw jute buying decisions
and its incorrect judgment of the situation was a factor in the large loss by
BJMC. Under the Sixth Credit, a study to determine appropriate policies for
jute distribution and the allocation of jute to mills and for exports is being
carried out with the assistance of consultants financed by ODM. Once this
study is completed in February 1979, it should be possible to avoid the type
of raw jute purchasing problems faced in FY78. Efforts to increase the levels
and efficiency of raw jute production, such as the Jute Project (Credit 765-BD
Jute Development) which contributes to the financing of the Intensive Jute
Cultivation Scheme (IJCS) are expected to play a part in reducing raw material
costs. Another important factor for improving profitability, besides the
control of raw material and conversion costs, is the need to reduce interest
costs which accounted for about 60% of FY78 losses. After some delays, in
view of the need to complete a revaluation of BJMC's assets, GOB has agreed
1/   The domestic resource cost is the ratio between the domestic resources
used in each unit of production and the foreign exchange saved by pro-
ducing that unit in Bangladesh, rather than importing it. The ratios
are expressed in Taka per dollar saved. Any ratio below 15 means that
the domestic value of resources used is less than the value of foreign
saved or earned at current exchange rates.



- 18 -
in principle to bring BJMC's debt-equity ratio to 60:40 within a maximum
period of five years from credit effectiveness by (i) reimbursement of
operating cash losses for 1977-78 and years thereafter in full on a period-
ical basis; (ii) making provision in the annual Government budget for the
unbridged operating cash losses for years prior to 1977-78, and (iii) making
provision in the annual Government budget for equity contributions to the
jute industry.
Mill Rehabilitation and Rationalization
52.       Under the Sixth Import Program Credit, GOB/BJMC, through the use
of consultants, have carried out a study of the market for jute goods, and
have completed an assessment, on a mill-by-mill basis, of the balancing,
modernizing and rehabilitation (BMR) needs of BJMC's mills. As part of this
exercise, the consultants have assessed the potential increases in production
efficiency resulting from BMR and have proposed an investment and development
strategy for the industry. The consultants' report indicates that there is
an urgent need for a program of essential rehabilitation in all the BJMC mills
in order to keep equipment operational, reach acceptable levels of technical
operating efficiency and contain conversion cost increases and that the
technical and operational performance of many mills is affected by serious
imbalances in existing production facilities, which prevent the units from
operating as efficient balanced units. However, this study also indicates
that the total production capacity of BJMC (before any program of BMR) is in
excess of projected levels of world demand (paragraph 53) for Bangldesh jute
goods, and that while BMR is technically and economically desirable, it would
result in increased output which would add to the projected levels of excess
capacity. Against this background, the consultants have recommended that, in
order to achieve an optimal economic scale of production, GOB/BJMC carry out
an interrelated program of mill BMR and rationalization of production facili-
ties. Under this approach, a program of rehabilitation maximizing incremental
benefits would be carried out in selected economic mills and production would
be rationalized - according to agreed criteria - by transferrring production
from high cost conversion units to low cost conversion units with the produc-
tion facilities of the most uneconomic units being phased out of operation
and, where technically feasible, transferred to economic units with imbalances
of production facilities.
53.       The study of demand for jute goods carried out by the consultants
indicates that world demand for jute goods has been steadily declining, a
decline which is expected to continue during the foreseeable future, although
at a much reduced rate. For the period 1977-1985, the consultants have pro-
jected that demand will decline by about 1.5% although demand for specific
product lines, e.g. hessian sacking and carpet backing will fluctuate. Cur-
rent estimates by IDA (and the consultants) indicate that by 1985, (given a
continuation of GOB/BJMC's present strategy of maximizing production), BJMC
would be producing excessive quantities of hessian and sacking, although it
would not be able to meet projected levels of demand for carpet backing. To
meet this situation and to maximize the economic return on operations, the
consultants have proposed that, within a program of overall industry ration-
alization, (i) production be limited to projected levels of demand which



- 19 -
would be reviewed on an ongoing basis; (ii) production should be transferred
from the most uneconomic high conversion cost units to the most efficient low
conversion cost units; (iii) the most efficient units be operated on a three-
shift basis to increase production and to absorb the transferred production;
and (iv) the demand for carpet backing be met by a net increase in production
facilities.  nte net increase in carpet backing production facilities would
be by way of investment in new facilities and the phasing out of obsolete,
uneconomic facilities. Alternatives to achieve the same objective include:
(a)  working a third shift in those carpet backing mills
which have been on two shifts;
(b)  switching production in some mills from hessian and
sacking to carpet backing;
(c)  installing additional looms in unused space in existing
carpet backing mills; and
(d)  running a third shift on hessian and sacking in three-
product mills, thereby releasing back-processing
machinery to make yarn for carpet backing and space
for additional carpet backing looms.
Presently, BJMC is reviewing the consultants' recommendations in which a key
assumption is the share of jute goods market which Bangladesh can be expected
to capture without endangering future export price trends. The Government
feels that a more ambitous marketing strategy than that sketched by the con-
sultants is called for. With this perspective, the problem of rationalizing
production facilities is not as paramount or as urgent as the consultants have
postulated. On the other hand, there are risks involved in postponing the dif-
ficult decisions involved in production rationalization. However, this risk
would be minimized by the semi-annual review and adjustment of BJMC's opera-
tional targets, including projected levels of world demand, levels of exports
and related production. These adjusted targets would serve as the basis for
revising GOB's/BJMC's rehabilitation and rationalization program to ensure
that BJMC does not have a growing excess of unproductive and uneconomic
units.
54.       The mill surveys show that all BJMC mills require essential reha-
bilitation and that many units require balancing of production facilities.
However, the study shows that BJMC has an overall surplus of equipment which
could be transferred from one mill to another and thus, balancing of facili-
ties would require little additional expenditure. To achieve optimal bene-
fits from any BMR, the consultants have proposed a two-phased program of
rehabilitation; the first, involving expenditure of about $20.0 million,
would cover about 40 units which (because of their current economic and
financial efficiency) form the basis of an optimal production structure
for the industry. The second stage would cover those units where the need
for rehabilitation would not be established until after rationalization.
The first units to be rehabilitated would be those units already operating



- 20
at acceptable levels of economic efficiency and givilg the bigheSt incremiental
rate of return from a given araount of investmenit.  To determine investment
priorities among the eligile mills, all mills would be ranked in order of
return on investment (i.e. rate of return on incremental production).  A
preliminary ranking indicates that 45 mills warrant rehabilitation, with
rehabilitation taking place progressively, starting with the. mills with the
highest rate of return and proceeding, in turn, to the less efficient units.
Obviously, the final selection will have to take into account other consider-
ations, including alternative use of facilities, redeployment of staff,
availability of alternative employment for workers, etc.
55.        Criteria were agreed with GOB/BJMC for determining priorities for
rehabilitation investment and mill rationalization. Rationalization of pro-
duction facilities would be carried out in (i) those units whose marginal
revenues after BMR do not cover their marginal costs; (ii) those units which
are not financially viable after BMR and which when ranked in order of economic
viability have the lowest rates of economic return; and (iii) those uneconomic
and unprofitable units whose production is in excess of projected levels of
undertaken by the GOB in consultation with the Association to attain an
efficient industry in the 5-year period after the completion of the BMR
program or by December 31, 1986 whichever is earlier.
56.        Identification of the main parameters to be used in selecting the
units to meet demand would require the preparation of an annual operating
program, relating production to projected levels of demand for Bangladesh
jute goods and the preparation of an annual mill production mix optimizing
production efficiency, with production being allocated to the lowest cost
units in order to achieve optimal economic levels of production. For this
purpose, BJMC would submit to IDA for each of its mills operational targets
for items such as production, spinning and weaving efficiency, conversion
costs per ton, raw jute purchasing efficiency, wastage, financial profits
and economic costs of production, taking into account the effects of BMR
investment. The targets for individual mills would be arrived at by taking
into account the overall market potential for BJMC jute goods at alternative
prices, the cost of raw jute and the different levels of economic produc-
tion costs in individual mills. In February and October of each year, BJMC
woulld review its yearly sales targets, production plans and raw jute purchas-
ing plans (consolidated and for individual mills after having ranked the
mills by economic efficiency) with the first revision being made in March/
April 1979 on the basis of actual results for the first six months of trading
in FY79.
57.       Although the consultants have prepared a tentative BMR program for
the industry, further work is necessary to identify the specific rehabilita-
tion and balancing requirements of individual mills.  This analyses is ex-
pected to be completed by December 31, 1978 and a specific BMR program avail-
able by March 1979. Pending completion of the report no specific financing
arrangements have been made, although GOB has indicated that it would approach
IDA or ODM or both for assistance. Irrespective of the source of financing,
GOB has agreed that it will continue its dialogue with IDA on the jute
industry and will furnish for IDA's review and comments its BMPR proposals
based on the consultants report not later than June 30, 1979.



- 21 -
58.       Conclusions.  When viewed against the situation that prevailed in
1975 when the first action program was introduced, and taking into account
that the objective of that and following action programs was to achieve the
long term viability of the industry, progress to date has been satisfactory,
although not as rapid as had been expected. Not all the problems of the
industry have been solved and the industry faces major difficult>?s in meet-
ing the challenge of synthetics and eliminating operating losses. However,
the past action programs have laid the institutional foundation to tackle
these problems and the criteria for the proposed rehabilitation program for
the industry should allow it to return to the levels of operating efficiency
necessary to meet the competition from synthetics. Rehabilitation and ration-
alization promise some relief from the problems that face the industry, and
progress will be assessed by monitoring the action programs under way. BJMC
has anticipated some of the improvements from the rehabilitation program and
has projected an increasing share of the world market for jute goods during
the period FY79-FY83. This increase is reflected also in BJMC's financial
projections (Annex VII, Attachment 1) which show a decreasing loss through
reduced conversion costs, etc. These projections are considered optimistic
and IDA has prepared alternative projections of BJMC's share of the world
market. These are lower than those of BJMC and assume a continuation of
BJMC's share of world market and a slower decline in the level of operating
losses (paragraph 50).
Cotton Textiles
59.       General.  Physical damage and disorder following independence were
relatively minor in the cotton textile spinning and weaving mills and there
was little loss of managerial and supervisory personnel. Nevertheless, at the
time of the Fourth Credit, there was need to develop a long-term strategy for
the industry, particularly in view of its complete dependence upon imported
raw materials. Thus, the initial action programs for the cotton textile
industry focussed on the preparation of studies to lay the basis for choices
between local production or imports of yarn, creation of weaving capacity
in the mill or cottage sector, and the possible local production of man-made
fibers to reduce the foreign exchange cost of imported raw materials.
60.       The action programs for the Fourth and Fifth Credits also attempted
to tackle selected short-term technical problems, particularly, improvement in
productivity and the availability of spare parts. Although progress was made
in improving the efficiency of some mills, there were delays in starting the
programs mainly because of difficulties faced by UNIDO in staffing the expa-
triate teams required. Thus, the action program for the Sixth Credit was
designed to strengthen this effort and also to introduce other measures to
improve management control, including the setting of targets. Further, at
the time of the Sixth Credit, there was need to deal with some policy ques-
tions which more recently had hampered progress by the industry and caused a
decline in profitability. The most important related to selling prices, and
the autonomy of the Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation (BTMC) in purchasing
raw cotton and in staffing decisions.
61.       Impact.  Annex VI contains a detailed description and status report
on the cotton textile industry action programs and Annex VIII a discussion of



- 22 -
the current position and prospects of the industry. The four major industry
studies, required under the Credits, have been been initiated although in
some instances completion will be somewhat later than originally planned.
The study to determine the feasibility of producing polyester fibres from
natural gas resources was completed in June 1978 but showed negative results
and GOB has requested IDA technical assistance to finance a further study to
determine the feasibility of producing polynosic fibres using a mix of local
and imported raw materials. The study to determine the relative efficiency
of producing cloth on handlooms versus large-powered looms was completed in
August 1978. However, the study suffered from a number of data weaknesses
and did not address a number of important issues affecting such areas as cost
structures, capital/job costs, employment creation, etc. The GOB and IDA
delegations have agreed that a new study should be undertaken with the TORs
and work program being submitted to IDA for review by March 31, 1979 and the
study to be completed by September 30, 1979. The project to improve mill
productivity has been approved by UNDP/UNIDO and the advisors are scheduled
to start work in December 1978. A request for financing the related project
of providing assistance on spare parts manufacture has been made to IDA and
is now under consideration. This program will make use, to the extent pos-
sible, of the surplus capacity available within the engineering sector,
particularly within the Bangladesh Steel and Engineering Corporation.
62.       To improve levels of production, BTMC has taken a number of steps
to upgrade its spare parts availability and the operational efficiencies of
its equipment. Since July 1977, BTMC has prepared mill maintenance programs
for each of its mills and has established six mill maintenance review teams
to help in and supervise mill maintenance. Allied to these actions, spare
parts procurement has been improved by giving greater procurement autonomy
and higher foreign exchange allocations to managers to purchase essential
spare parts. Action has been taken also to create central spare part pro-
duction facilities to serve the needs of groups of mills located in close
proximity to each other.
63.       As part of the measures to improve operational efficiency, improve-
ments have been made in general management systems and procedures. Since July
1977, BTMC has been granted more autonomy in its operations, particularly in
the purchasing of raw cotton. This autonomy has been strengthened by the
development of detailed procurement plans, relating purchases to production/
market requirements, which should avoid the 1977 crisis situation whereby
BTMC was unable to purchase raw cotton on a timely basis resulting in cotton
shortages, the closure of production facilities and the eventual purchase of
raw cotton at peak prices, which have flowed on into 1978 production costs.
Training is another area where BTMC has implemented a number of significant
changes. The training function has been upgraded, a formal training program
for employees at all levels, established, and a new mill/training institute
has been commissioned. The third batch of 600 trainees commenced the three-
month training course in October 1978. BTMC has also introduced apprentice-
ship training schemes for spinners and weavers, which will be expanded further
under the UNDP/UNIDO program to improve mill productivity (paragraph 61).
Coupled with the employee upgrading programs, BTMC has introduced an incen-
tive system for its mill personnel. The system does not address the need
to aim for better than target performance and, following discussions with



- 23 -
IDA, is being revised. However, the introduction of a comprehensive system
for all the industry's employees (including BTMC staff) will have to await
the completion of the work of various Wage Commissions currently reviewing
the salary and benefit scales of public sector enterprises.
64.       Operational Targets.  The table below shows some key indicators of
BTMC's performance compared to previous years and the targets agreed for FY78
in connection with the Sixth Credit (some additional indicators and other
details are in the attachments to Annex VIII):
FY75    FY77   FY78 /a  FY78   FY79   FY85
-Actuals                 --- Targets---
Production
Yarn (Million lbs)             100.6    93.5   106.9  110.0  122.4  213.5
Cloth (Million yds)             85.9    68.6    84.5  100.0   97.7  158.2
Efficiency Targets; Spinning /b
Equipment utilization (%)       81.9    77.5    81.7   83.0   82.0   97.0
Average Ounces/Spindle shift  2.31    2.19    2.38   2.26    2.40   2.93
Efficiency Targets; Weaving /b
Equipment utilization (%)       66.5    60.7    67.0   74.6   73.0   90.0
Average Yards/loom shift        21.1    18.3    20.3   19.7   21.4   25.7
Wastage Percentage
Yarn (raw materials) (%)        14.1    10.6       9.5    9.0    8.3    8.3
Cloth (yarn) (%)                 4.1      4.5      4.2    4.0    3.0    3.0
Profitability
Net Profit/(Loss) before
tax; Tk million /c           125.0  (138.0)  (45.0) 141.1  135.9  220.2
Tk Conversion Cost/lb yarn            13.6    17.3    20.4   21.0   21.4   21.8
Tk Conversion Cost/yd grey
cloth                               4.4      5.8      7.1    6.6    6.9    7.1
/a   Results shown are unaudited actuals for FY78.
/b   Efficiency targets for FY79-FY85 assume improvements in equipment
from the proposed balancing, modernization and replacement program.
/c   FY78 targets discussed during the negotiations for the Sixth Imports
Program Credit have been adjusted to take account of changed financial
policy including the timing and level of price increases during FY78
which were aimed at giving BTMC a 5% return (before tax) on sales.
FY79-FY85 targets were discussed and agreed during negotiations for
the Seventh Import Credit.
The results for FY78 shows a mixed pattern of performance with some results
generally in line with targets, while others are substantially worse than
expected with the financial result showing an operating loss of Tk 45.0 mil-
lion as compared to a target profit of Tk 141.1 million. This situation
was due to (i) higher raw cotton costs, a result of GOB procurements in FY77,
(ii) the delayed increase in 1977 in selling prices to cover increased operat-
ing costs, (iii) lower than expected levels of cloth production and sales and



- 24 -
(iv) a recroactive wage rate increase, for che per:iod Mlarch 1  7 -7 -3une 19-78, of
Tk 127.5 million.  Although production effici.erncy Las .iLxsroed L it is still
quiite low by internationial- standards.   wpr-oveesl:s-  u. pi.JP'; i-    efficiency
have however been restricted by power failuires- labour u:res- an.  absenteeism.
65.        Additional to the factor-si noted above. - norll.             r or affect-
i.ng t-he profi obi' ity of Ihe text -i.e i.adUnstri  i I s It, cyas  ceu It lg poliiCy
and the timning of price adjustm-ents.  Unlder thIe Si .<th -L 1e    (.OM' agreed to
prepare a review of its pricing policies anid to  iriplernect price increases
necessary to restore the industry's profitability, allowing for an adequate
debt service coverage of about 2.1. The required pri.ce increases were delayed
and subsequently i.n July 1.978 reduced. GOB's approach to its pricing policy
for the industry highlights thle need to address the conflicting requirements
of consumer subsidies versus unit/industry profitability (in financial and
economic terms). Allied to the setting of realistic selling prices is the
need to consider the financial viability of the BTMC units which have incurred
severe operating losses for rea.sons other than management inefficiency.  In
all, 25 of BTIC's 55 mills have negative equities and are in need of capital
restructaring to remove the burden. of excessive interest pn:.ynts caused by
inadequate working capital resources,   IL recogioitJiorl o        o.eed to strengthen
the firtances of BTMC uni;ts GOB has agreed in,                  eric    e  , raDlish debt/ennuity
ratios or 6tJ:410 1r al1 t-he BTMC ..,is wit"ii r';ve years From the date1 of
effectiveness of the proposed Seventh Credit (i.e., by December 1983).  GOB
has indicated also that it will convert the Annual Devel-opment Program loans
of many of these mills into equity and wiLl make npro1ision i n          Lhe annual GOB
budget for equity infusions and payment of past operating losses, especially
for those units kept operational for socio-econonlic purposes. Additional to
these actions, BTMC, with the assistance of external accountants, is under-
taking a revaluation of its assets. This exercise should be completed by
November 30, 1978 and BTMC's recommendations available to GOB by December 31,
1978.
66.        Although BJMC's performance has been                byfacted by industrial unrest
and by the im,pact of actions outside its control (e.g., the retroactive wage
rate increase and GOB price controls) its overall econoivic efficiency is
satisfactory and steps being taken by GOB/BJMC to rehabilitate seven unecono-
mic units should further improve the position.  The current induIstry average
increuental DRCs for cotton yarn is 9.4 with a range oL 1t cii 6.5 for good
mill to 11.1 for less efficient units.  DRCs for the production of grey
cloth show an iridustry average of 11.6 with a ralnlge of 1b  ' to 12.3,
Hill Rehabilitation
6 7.       In accordance wiLh the regqureuimet_'. of the S i xth Topor s Program
Credit, BTMC has carried out a mill-by-mili  survey ceviewin; the operating
efficiency of its mills and their requirements for balancing, modernising and
rehabilitation (BMR) and estimating the investment requiremernt to return the
mills to a satisfactory level of operating efficiency. The survey indicates
that (i) in seven of BTMC's units there was a serious imbalance/obsolescence
in existing production facilities which required extensive rehabilitation.
(These units had been identified before the survey and contracts entered into



- 25 -
for their rehabilitation); 1/ (ii) there is an imbalance in the weaving/
finishing sections of some units; and (iii) there is a need to rehabilitate
the spinning facilities in all but the most recently constructed units.
(Spinning efficiencies averaged 2 oz. per spindle shift compared to 3.8 oz.
in Pakistan and 6.2 oz. in Europe). Rather than invest scarce resources in
the construction of new mills, the survey shows that additional output could
be obtained more economically through BMR. BTMC has proposed a US$36.0 mil-
lion program of selective rehabilitation aimed at maximizing production and
incremental economic benefits for the industry.
68.       Criteria were agreed with GOB for determining priorities for reha-
bilitation investment. BMR investment would only be carried out where the
proposed investment gives (i) a positive internal financial rate of return;
(ii) a positive economic rate of return; and (iii) a level of conversion costs
after rehabilitation not greater than the CIF (Chittagong) price of similar
products produced by the production facilities being rehabilitated.  The level
of conversion costs, financial and economic rates of return resulting from the
rehabilitation of each mill would form the basis for determining the priority
of mills for BMR. Mills with the lowest level of conversion costs and the
highest financial and economic rates of return on investment would be selected
to form the first stages of any BMR program. BTMC has prepared a proposed
investment program on such a basis and has passed this to GOB/Ministry of
Textiles to arrange project financing through IDA or other agencies.
69.       Conclusions.  The action programs to tackle the technical problems
of the mills and the measures to improve management and management control are
being implemented and problems that caused the decline in production and the
financial losses during FY77 and FY78, namely cotton purchasing and prices,
have also been tackled and have lead to some improvement in performance. The
institutional base needed to achieve the action program objectives is now in
place and if closely followed up, a continuing improvement in the industry's
performance is expected. Progress on the studies proposed under the initial
action program to tackle the long term issues facing the cotton textile sector
has been slower than planned originally although two studies are due to be
completed by December 1978 with the major investment related study following
in September 1979. However, there is still a need to monitor closely such
problem areas as prices, and the continuing inter mill transfer of managers.
On these matters, and in other areas, a continuous dialogue will be maintained
with BTMC on policy decisions resulting from the findings of the various
studies and on the implementation of its investment program.
Pulp and Paper Industry
70.       With the installation of new plant in some mills and rehabilitation
of equipment in others, the pulp and paper industry recorded a sharp increase
1/   Rehabilitation has been completed in two units and is scheduled to be
completed by March 1979 for three more units. In the two units
rehabilitated, production increases of 20%-25% have been recorded.



- 26 -
in production during FY78 with total production estimated at 55,000 metric
tons as compared to 40,000 metric tons in FY77. However, despite the rehabi-
litation and modernization carried out, the physical condition of mill equip-
ment is still poor and in need of improvement. Although sales of pulp and
paper increased during FY78, capacity utilization in the mills was still low
at between 30% to 70%. Profitability is affected by the low level of the GOB
controlled domestic price for newsprint which is well below current cost of
production. As at June 30, 1977, the industry had recorded accumulated oper-
ating losses of Tk 414 million (Tk 350.0 million, FY76) and further substantial
losses were expected for FY78. The financial viability of the mills now ranks
as a major problem which should be tackled as soon as the long term plan for
the industry is prepared. Annex VII details the major trends in the industry
during FY78.
71.       The need to improve the financial viability of the industry has been
recognized by GOB/BCIC and several studies are underway to identify rehabili-
tation measures which would increase production efficiency and product quality
while also reducing conversion costs. The first stages of studies on rehabi-
litation requirements for the North Bengal, Khulna and Sylhet Paper Mills
have been completed and in the case of the North Bengal and Khulna Paper Mills
recommendations have been made for BMR investments which would rehabilitate
the mills and help restore capacity utilization to rated levels of utilization.
GOB has indicated that they will approach IDA to finance the proposed North
Bengal Paper Mill rehabilitation program and CIDA for the Khulna rehabilitation.
72.       All actions agreed with IDA in connection with previous Program
Credits have been initiated and most of the objectives are expected to be
achieved although in some instances much later than originally planned.
Delays in completing some of the actions have been due to difficulties in
obtaining suitable consultants for mill rehabilitation programs and recruit-
ing a senior consultant to evaluate the various studies being carried out as
the basis for a long term development plan for the industry.
73.       The senior consultant is now in place, and has begun a review of
the various rehabilitation programs currently being carried out by external
agencies. Based on this review together with an analysis of the raw material
base and an assessment of the present and future domestic and export markets
for pulp, paper and paper board products, a long term development program for
the industry will be developed, which should form the basis for a detailed
operational upgrading program for the industry for which the Government is
expected to request Bank Group assistance. The development program is
expected to be available early in 1979.
Export Promotion 1/
74.       General.  GOB's general policy on industry has shifted towards pro-
viding greater encouragement to the private sector and reducing somewhat the
1/   Major issues relating to Export Promotion in Bangladesh are discussed
in the Industrial Sector report-Bangladesh: "Issues and Prospects for
Industrial Development," dated December 5, 1978.



- 27 -
dominant role of the public sector but it has yet to formulate an industrial
strategy linking policies, incentives, and investment programs so as to
achieve realistic levels of industrial diversification. GOB has announced on
different occasions a number of objectives for industry, such as: industrial
growth; employment creation; more self-reliance; more equal distribution of
industry, incomes and employment among people and regions; greater agriculture-
industry linkages; and higher export earnings from industry. However, GOB is
not clear on the trade-offs among these objectives and on the policies, pro-
grams, incentives and controls necessary for optimal achievement of these goals.
The preparation of a Two-Year Plan (paragraph 7) has given GOB a pause for
identifying its options for industrial development and designing consistent
policies to push development in the desired directions.
75.       Given GOB's own objectives, the low per capita income in Bangladesh
which limits the prospects for development solely based on import substitution,
and Bangladesh's critical foreign exchange shortage, an important element of
this strategy will be export promotion. The proposed Credit attempts to assist
GOB's efforts in this regard by developing a medium-term strategy for export
promotion.
76.       Export Structure.  Between FY73 and FY78, total Bangladesh exports
averaged about $390 million per year, comprising only about 35% of total im-
port payments in this period. The export sector accounts for roughly 8% of
value added in agriculture and industry, and thus plays a relatively minor
role within the Bangladesh economy. Manufactured products account for about
60% of total exports, with jute goods the most important item accounting for
about 85% of manufactured exports, followed by semi-tanned leather which
accounts for 11%, forest products 2%, petroleum products 2%, and specialized
jute products and handicrafts (each less than 1%). Raw jute and jute goods
constitute about 80% of total exports.
77.       Export earnings increased in nominal terms at a rate of only 4.4%
per annum between FY73 and FY77, with all the growth accounted for by non-jute
exports (35.7%), while jute exports declined by about 1.6%. However, during
FY78, export earnings from jute are estimated to have increased by about 19%
as a result of increased export prices and shipments, and as non-jute exports
maintained their high growth rates, total exports are expected to increase by
about 21% over the FY77 level, reaching about US$490 million.
78.       Given its importance in terms of the country's exports, and
Bangladesh's comparative advantage, export promotion of jute-related products
should be the main thrust of export development at least in the short-term,
and there is need for substantial promotional as well as research and develop-
ment efforts. However, as discussed above, the prospects for expansion of
jute goods exports in the long-run are limited. Therefore, the medium and
long-term development strategies have to focus on possibilities for rapidly
expanding the presently minor export items (such as leather) and, more impor-
tantly, developing new exportable products (such as readymade garments).
79.       Institutional Framework and Policies.  Over the last few years, GOB
has given priority to increasing exports. In addition to the Taka devalua-
tion of 1975, Government has introduced a number of incentives including the



- 28 -
issuance of export performance licenses for raw material imports, rebates on
indirect taxes, tax reduction on export income, export subsidies for particular
products and greater availability of export financing. An analysis of these
measures carried out by the recent industrial sector mission indicates that
the "effective" exchange rate (taking account of all the incentives) has more
than doubled in real terms during the period since the May 1975 devaluation of
the Taka as compared with the pre-devaluation period, although this has varied
for different commodities since various types of incentives have been product
specific. In general, the combined effect of the various export incentives
and export taxes amount to a real exchange rate of 8%-9% over the official
exchange rate. While the data are not clear for a firm judgement, it appears
that despite these incentives, export activities are at present, inferior from
the viewpoint of financial returns, to other alternatives such as import and
domestic trading, real estate, and even import-substitution industries. Thus,
there is need for (i) rationalization of the incentive structure to avoid
unequal support of export products and uncertainty resulting from arbitrary
subsidy rates and frequent policy changes, (ii) higher export incentives in
relation to those for alternative activities, and (iii) for simplification
of procedures. These improvements would form part of the priority actions
of any export development program.
80.       There are a number of committees and councils to coordinate and set
policy. The most important institution is the Export Promotion Bureau (EPB),
a specialized GOB agency under the Ministry of Commerce. It is the main
agency responsible for making suggestions to GOB on policy matters, exploring
the potentials of export oriented products and providing promotion, and coor-
dinating export efforts of various private and public sector corporations.
EPB can play an important role, particularly in the areas of export marketing
and trade information as one of the major problems is that most potential
exporters are at present, inexperienced in these fields. The Commonwealth
Fund for Technical Corporation (CFTC) made a study in 1976 of EPB's organiza-
tional structure and CFTC's recommendations are being implemented although
there is need for more efforts to deal with the shortage of trained staff.
CFTC also plans to finance specific export market studies.
81.       Other agencies providing assistance are the International Trade
Center (ITC) which has provided advisors financed by the Swedish International
Development Authority (SIDA), for trade information and export promotion and
short-term consultancies on special export promotion problems. The European
Economic Community (EEC) is also providing experts to undertake market studies
for particular products, and UNDP/UNIDO has agreed to finance consultants to
prepare an implementation program for the establishment of an export proces-
sing zone.
82.       Export Policy.  At present, export policy is formulated on an annual
basis relying heavily upon short term trends and a limited analysis of major
issues affecting the development of a comprehensive export strategy. Thus in
order to strengthen the content of the annual export policy, there is need to
(i) develop a new export strategy (paragraph 83); (ii) strengthen the institu-
tional and financial structure of the Export Promotion Bureau which implements
Government policy, (iii) establish standard rates of export rebates and (iv)



- 29 -
establish a clear policy basis and rationale for the issuing of export promo-
tion licenses. Further the mechanisms to monitor the impact of export policy
needs to be considerably strengthened (paragraph 90).
83.       Development of a New Export Strategy.  As noted in paragraph 76, the
export sector plays only a limited role in the economy of Bangladesh. Export
earnings finance less than half of current imports and the sector makes only
a minimal contribution to GDP. However, given the poor performance of many
of the current exporting industries, the revitalization and expansion of the
export sector could have a considerable impact upon the economy, becoming a
valuable source of foreign exchange and a major catalyst for economic expan-
sion. Further, emphasis on export promotion with a gradual liberalization of
imports could lead to much improved production efficiency in the manufacturing
sector. However, to achieve such a situation, the weaknesses noted in para-
graphs 79 to 82 with regard to institutional frameworks and policies, export
incentives, etc. indicate a need for an overall coordination of approach and
improvement in the existing institutional and policy framework.
84.       GOB's recent policy measures clearly reflect its awareness of the
critical need to develop exports and its willingness to take the necessary
steps to rectify the weaknesses that exist. However, Bangladesh lacks the
experience and expertise required for developing an integrated and detailed
export development program. Further, existing technical assistance programs
provided by the external agencies are too piecemeal in approach and do not
provide the concentrated focus needed to establish a comprehensive program.
In an effort to provide a vehicle to overcome these weaknesses, GOB/EPB have
prepared a tentative five-year program linking the various studies now under-
way. This outline program was discussed with the GOB delegation and major
components of mutual interest were identified for implementation during FY79-
FY80. Annex IX shows the items drawn from the GOB/EPB program to form an
agreed basis for a short-term Export Development Program leading to the
development of a medium-term export strategy.
85.       The need for such an export development strategy arises from the
lack of experience, by both the private and public sectors, in identifying
and marketing export products, and the lack of information on useful invest-
ment possibilities and available markets. As discussed in paragraph 76-80,
an array of policies, institutions, and incentives are in place. Exports have
increased, although growth has been insufficient and has not met the expecta-
tions of GOB. Given the experience gap, the relatively greater risks for a
new exporter, and the lack of information at the operational level, uncertainty
is preventing export development. While some work has been done to identify
products which appear to be exportable, there is need to define more precisely
export potentials.
86.       The proposed studies which GOB has agreed to carry out (Schedule 3
Section B2 of the Development Credit Agreement) have been designed to take
account of the strategy for export development to be incorporated into the
Second Five-Year Plan. This will be completed by June 1980.
87.       IDA's industrial sector mission reviewed the problems and prospects
of export industries and these findings will be supplemented by the initial



- 30 -
visit of consultants to Bangladesh in December 1978, sponsored by the Common-
weatn Secretariat to identify any gaps in the present external technical
assistance programs.
88.        In addition, a series of in-depth market, product development, and
policy studies will consist of (i) close monitoring of the studies under the
on-going technical assistance programs by CFTC, EEC, ITC and UNIDO, and (ii)
implementation of new studies to be identified from the consultant's visit
and to be financed by either UNDP funds or an IDA TA Credit.
89.       This work will be synthesized to formulate a medium-term export
development strategy/program for Bangladesh, based on the findings of the
studies during the earlier stages, within the overall framework of the Second
Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85). Such a program will include recommendations
on export incentives and institutional framework for export promotion as
well as product-specific strategies and export targets.
90.       GOB is expected to play the leading role in implementation by
appointing a team of Bangladeshi specialists, representing relevant ministries
and agencies (e.g. Ministry of Planning, Ministry of Commerce, EPB, Ministry
of Industries etc.), for the purpose of supervising nrogress and carrying
out the synthesis phase with the assistance of suitable expatriate experts.
IDA will monitor the progress of all aspects of the project, in close con-
sultation with GOB, EPB and any interested external agencies.
91.       Export Targets.  In addition to monitoring the progress of the
various studies being carried out, it was agreed by GOB that quantified
assessments of export improvements would provide a basis for assessing the
impact of the studies and its export policies and would further provide a
framework for decision making and planning. Accordingly, tentative targets
have been prepared for major areas of exportable commodities for the next
two years (Annex X). These targets were discussed and agreed with the GOB
delegation during negotiations, subject to revision as necessary in the light
of investment within the various subsectors and annual projections of world
demand for Bangladesh products.
Coordination
92.       As discussed above, apart from IDA, other bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies are providing GOB with technical assistance to improve the
operations of the jute and cotton industries, and for export promotion. In
the case of jute, the main ones are CIDA, ODM, and UNDP/UNIDO: and in the
case of cotton textiles, UNDP/UNIDO and JICA. CFTC, ITC/SIDA, EEC and UNDP/
UNIDO are providing technical assistance on export promotion. There is need
for a periodic exchange of views to ensure consistency and maximization of
impact as well as to avoid duplication of efforts. Coordination in the case
of jute and cotton textiles has worked well and this is also expected for
export promotion which will be assisted by IDA's close relationship with EPB,
the agency responsible for monitoring this work on behalf of GOB. As in the
past, IDA would provide, from its Technical Assistance Credits, the financial
resources to fill gaps not covered by other external agencies.



- 31 -
Administration of the Credit
93.       The Credit and Project Summary lists the industries which would
be eligible for assistance under the proposed credit, their estimated total
import requirements for FY80 and the maximum amounts to be allocated to each
category (paragiaph 1 of Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). Prior to negotiations IDA advised GOB that it proposed to exclude
steel billets and rock phosphate from the list of industries eligible for
financing under the credit on the grounds that both had negative DRCs.
However, GOB presented data which showed that recent price increases had
improved the DRCs, justifying the inclusion of both commodities. All the
industries recommended for inclusion are high priority, namely, export-
oriented industries (jute manufacturing, pulp and paper, frozen fish, shrimps
and frogs legs, tea processing and leather tanning), industries producing
intermediate goods (fertilizer, steel, cement, and industrial chemicals),
and industries producing essential consumer goods (cotton textile and pharma-
ceuticals). Allocations for imported raw materials and spare parts have been
determined taking into account projected production, current level of stocks,
the existing import pipeline, and commodity assistance from sources other than
IDA. Annex XI details the utilization of previous import credits by major
categories.
94.       Prior to negotiations, GOB requested the inclusion of finished fer-
tilizers as an eligible industry under the credit on the grounds that existing
production levels and aid commitments did not cover Bangladesh's finished
fertilizer requirements for FY79-FY80 and that, on the basis of present con-
sumption trends, there was a supply gap of about 200,000 tons. GOB has taken
action to bridge this gap by obtaining a diversion of funds from projects to
fertilizer under Norwegian aid, utilization of savings under yen credits, and
procurement out of the Government's own foreign exchange resources. Addi-
tionally, arrangements have been made for the supply of 50,000 tons under a
Saudi Arabian grant and OPEC has also approved a grant of $7.0 million for
fertilizer purchases. Notwithstanding these arrangements, there is still a
substantial supply gap and, given the disruptive effects of non-availability
of finished fertilizer upon ongoing Bank Group financed agricultural projects,
it was agreed that, as a short term expedient, finished fertilizer and rock
phosphate for use in TSP production would be included in the list of eligible
items for this credit. However, we do not expect substantial fertilizer pur-
chases under this credit, as the amount is the same in absolute terms as in
previous credits, and the needs of "traditional" user industries have to be
met less fully if large amounts were diverted to fertilizer. Including fer-
tilizer as an eligible item will also assist IDA in administering the OPEC
grant, as the OPEC fund and the Government have requested. A proposed sector
credit in fertilizer is currently being prepared for Board consideration
in FY80, in order to help meet, in a more substantial way, the anticipated
fertilizer supply gap through FY81.
95.       The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(i) at least half of the Credit would be allocated to categories where IDA
has established action programs (jute, cotton textiles and pulp and paper)
(paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement);



- 32 -
(ii) prior to disbursement for steel billets and cement, GOB would supply
information on current trends of capacity utilization and stocks and future
plans on overall production, import and distribution to ensure that existing
domestic capacity is utilized to the fullest extent possible (paragraph 2(e)
of Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit Agreement); (iii) prior to
effectiveness, GOB will have issued to potential end-users at least 40% of
the licenses to be financed under the proposed Credit (Section 4.01 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement) - this requirement has facilitated more
rapid disbursements during the first months after previous credits became
effective; and (iv) GOB would deposit taka funds equivalent to the amounts
withdrawn from the proceeds of the proposed Credit in an account currently
being maintained with the Bangladesh Bank and would utilize these funds en-
tirely to finance its development programs. GOB will furnish quarterly re-
ports to IDA on the amounts released from such Counterpart Fund to IDA-
financed projects (Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
96.       Procurement and Disbursement.  Responsibility for procuring most
public sector imports rests with the various public sector corporations.
The Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) has responsibility for procuring
cement. The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports (CCIE), in addition to
issuing all the licenses for imports under the Credit, will be responsible
for handling the allocation of Credit funds to the private sector.
97.       Procurement procedures followed by GOB and its sector corporations
for purchases under the Import Program Credits are satisfactory and in line
with Bank Group guidelines. Specifically goods costing $100,000 equivalent
or more would be procured, either through international competition bidding
as through international shopping on the basis of at least three offers
invited from Switzerland and member countries of the Bank. As was the case
with the Sixth Imports Program Credit, IDA would review GOB's procurement
decisions after such contracts have been signed and prior to the submission
to IDA of the first withdrawal application in respect of such contracts. For
imports under $100,000 equivalent normal commercial channels would be used.
In the past these procedures have worked satisfactorily. Withdrawal appli-
cations will be prepared by the Bangladesh Bank and forwarded to IDA. The
Credit is expected to be fully disbursed within 24 months, i.e., by December
1980.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
98.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
99.      Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special in-
terest are referred to in paragraphs 55, 68, 84 and 91 of this report. The
issue of import licenses covering foreign exchange allocations aggregating



- 33 -
not less than US$30.0 million has been made an additional condition of
effectiveness (see Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Special conditions of disbursement require that (a) half of the proceeds of
the proposed Credit be disbursed for jute, textile, and paper and board in-
dustries; and (b) no withdrawals for steel billets and cement be made until
the Borrower has furnished to the Association satisfactory program of pro-
duction, distribution and import for steel and cement (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 2(e). The agreed program for
export development is set out in Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit
Agreement.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
100.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
November 29, 1978



- 34  -                                               Page I
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BANGLADESH                                               /a
)ANI AREA (THOUSAND SQ. IN.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            144.0                                                    SAME         SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     101.1                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE Lb        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP Le
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   40.0        60.0       90.0            167.4      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         ..          ..      28.0             65.7       88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                         53.9        70.8      82.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  4.8          6.4        9.2            12.8        15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       374.0       492.0      574.0            85.2        46.8        42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    566.0        730.0      818.0           322.6       254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.3        46.4      46.2             44.0        43.6        44.9
15-64 YRS.                          52.5        51.0      51.1             52.9        53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2         2.6        2.6             2.9         2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.7         2.8        2.1 /f          2.2         2.4         2.7
URBAN                                           6.2        7.4             4.2         4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      49.8        50.3       49.5            45.1        44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      27.2        22.9       28.1             17.3       19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.5          3.1        ..              3.2        2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..       345.6      655.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           ..        4.7            13.7        14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             106.2       100.0       93.7            95.6        96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    89.0 71     89.0       93.0            91.1        92.3        99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           42.6 71       ..       58.5            49.6        50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.2 a         ..       8.0            12.6        13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..           ..        ..               ..         ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    38.7         43.3       45.0             43.1       45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              ..           ..     140.0             99.5      102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        45.0       56.0             30.0       26.4         31.1
URBAN                                ..         13.0      22.0             66.3       63.5         68.5
RURAL                                *-        47.0       61.0             17.2       14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         6.0        5.0             15.7       16.1         37.5
URBAN                                ..           *.      40.0             66.9       65.9         69.5
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..              2.5        3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          10000.0 /h   7600.0oh 11000.0            8830.8    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   110000.0 /h  72030.0/h 56070.0             8479.3     6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           11000.0 /i   8120.0 Jj 5200.0            1624.5     1157.6        786.5
URBNNi...                                                   ...                      183.3        278.4
RURAL                                                                               1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..               ..        19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..               .,        5.2
URBAN                                .-           ..        *-               *-        4.8
RURAL                                ..           *.        ..               ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           *.        .-
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..        1.8          2.3
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                                                                 25.9         28.3
URBAN                                                      3.0
RURAL                                                                                  8.7         10.3



35                                             PaRe 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
BANGLADESH                                             /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb      REGION /c  GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                47.0         61.0      73.0             59.1       62.9        75.8
FEMALE               26.0         42.0      51.0            38.4        45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  8.0         19.0      25.0             19.9       14.4         17.7
FEMALE                1.0          8.0      11.0             9.9         8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)  1.0          1.0        ..              1.5        6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
1'RIMARY                             ,.        49.0      50.0             38.2       38.5         34.3
SECONDARY                           ..         2ti.0     24.0            23.5        19.8         23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        21.6          ..      23.0             35.6       36.7         63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         0.4       0.4 Li           2.2        3.1          7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         6.0        ..             14.9       31.1         71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ..         .,              ..        2.8         14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..          ..       5.0              6.4        6.0         16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..         ..              ..        1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    19400.0      24500.0   26200.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2        16.5      17.0             21.3       24.2         28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              87.0        86.0      78.0             62.8       60.7         54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.3         3.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                36.0        34.6      34.4             35.8       39.8         37.8
MALE                                 58.7        55.8      55.3             52.4       53.3         50.3
FEMALE                               11.4        11.8       12.1            15.6       19.6         20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.3         1.4        1.4             1.3        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.3 /k      16.7 /       *.            18.6       20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44.5 /k      42.3 L       .             42.8       45.1         48.9
OWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9 /k        7.9 /       ..             7.3        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9 /k      19.6 /       *-            19.3       16.8         15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     110.0             80.2       88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      90.0             67.2       71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..      100.8        143.7
RURAL                               ..           ..      29.0             39.8       42.0         87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
,                            INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..      61.0             50.3       46.0         22.9
RURAL                                ..          ..       70.0            44.6       48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f  The 1970-75 growth rate is abnormally low due to the effects of the war of independence and
the mass population movement across the borders during that period.  Presently, the average population
growth rate is estimated at 2.81 per annum;  /y  Av. 1961-65;  /h  Registered, not all practicing in the
country;  /i Govt. establishments only;  /1  1972;  /k  1963-64;  /1  1966-67.
September, 1978



- 36 -
9fFINITIONS 3O  SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                    aye '
Unix'  The adjusted group averagea for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme valoes of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not unIform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta diapasal, housing, income ditributfion and poverty are
siople population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. kb)                                                             Population per hopital bed - total, urban. and ruavl - Population (total,
Total - Total surface ares comprising land ares and inland waters.                       urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hosyital bed.
Agricultural - MHst recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or persanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                  habilitation centers.  Hospitals arc establishmente permanently staffed by
lie fallow                                                                            at least one physician.  Istablishmeots providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitala, however, include health and medi-
GNSP PER CAPITA (13$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices.,               cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis)              sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer ic-patient accomuodation end
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                            provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of adniuions to or discharges
fNERGY CONSfUtPTION PIER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                 from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) is kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Average site of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and enrol-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a group of individuals whn shore living qoartere
Total population, oid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                  and their asin mels.  A boarder or lodger may or nay not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                         the household for statistical parpoass.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                    hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban erase  may affect comparability                Average nusber of oersuns per room - total, urban, and rural - Avetage num-
of data atong countries,                                                              ber of parsons per roam in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Pption densitY                                                                          dwellings, respectively.  Dwelliogs exclude non-pernanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectaree)                 unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                      Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per  o  km.  agriculture land - Computed ms sbone for agricultural land                Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters an p.rce-tage
only.                                                                                 of total, urban, and rural dwellings re-pectively.
PoPulotio  age   tructur rcent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EDUCATION
year population.                                                                   Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (perceot) - total, nd urban - Compound annual                   Primry school - total, and female - Total and fe=ale enrollmont of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-yesr populations for 1950-60,                     at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 pepulatison; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but udjnsted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                     different lengths of primary educatiun; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmretic averages ending in 1960 and                 cstion enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils arc bolaw or
1970 and five-year aver- ge ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                  above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous.nd of mid-                  Secondary school - total and female - Computed as above; secondary educe-
ycar population; tan-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                  tion requires at least four years of approved primary instraction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for meat recent estimate.                        videe general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pnpilu
icons rooroducrion rote   - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                usuatly of 17 to 17 years of age; casuespondence courses are gemerally
in her normal reproductIve  eriod if  "he expciLences present age-                    excluded.
specific fertility rates; ususlly five-year averages ending in 1960,                Vocational enrollent (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                       clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
FaPily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                       or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family               Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                     primary and secondary 1evelo divided by tumbery  of teachers in the corre-
FPmily planniog - usert (percent of married mem) - Percentage of                         spondiag levels
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control             Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to all married women in same age group.                                       a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUKPTION
lnde  of food production per capita (19709100) - Inde  unuber of per                 Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise metor cares
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                   seating less than eight persona; eocludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of require.entt) - Computed from                vehicles.
energy equivalent of net foed oupplies available in country per capita             Radio receivers (per thousand populatian) - All types of receivera for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports lass             broadcasts to general public per thou-snd of population; eacludes unlicensed
enport., and changes in stock.  Net supplies seclude animal feed, seeds,            receiver. in countries and in years when registration of radio aets was in
quantities used in food processing, and lossas in distribution.  Re-                effect; data for recent years may net be comparable since moat countries
quirements were ses.imated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-             abolished licensing.
mal activity and hc!alth considering environaental temperature, body               TV receivers (per thousand populatien) - TV receivers for broadcant to generA
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                 public per thousand population; eacludes unlice -ed TV recoivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level,                                                     tries and in years when registration of TV unto was in effect.
Per capita uupplv of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - ihows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                   tion of '!dnily general interest newspaper", defLned as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                 cation devoted primarily to recording general new.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of totaI protein per day and 20 grasa                  be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.           Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Ba.s,d on the number of tickets
These standards err lower than those of 75 gras of total protein and                   sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cineese and mobile
23 grena  of animal protein as an average far the world, proposed by                   units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per rapiL n protoin supply from animl and pulse - Protein supply of fend            EMPLOYMENT
derived from  ons=ale and pulses in grams per day.                                 Total labor force (thousands) - fconomically active perons, inclading armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                forces and unemployed but excluding housewives,  tndeetn, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                             tions in -arious countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force no percentage or total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                 Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                       as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Lbor force in mining, ceastre,ction, m6nufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                              electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                 Participetion rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, end                      a
one year of age per thousand live birht.                                               female laonr f-rre as percentages of their respective populatins.
Accees to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban.  and rural -                These are ILO's sdjested participation rates retlecticg agi-see
Number of people (tot*i, urban, and rural) with recsenable access to                   utrortsrc of the pop,lation. ond long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                 Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of populatiun under 15 and 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                   the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective Populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not mere                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                 Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
senable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                  percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poerest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                    of households
upend a disproportionate part of the day ir fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                       POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta dispesel (percent of Population) - total, urban, and                Estimtated absolute poverty income level (1S  per capita) - urban end rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excrets                     Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a miaimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations,  Excreta                      nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-Eood requirements is not
disponal may include the collection end disposal, with or without                      affordable.
treatment, of hunan excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                  Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
cr the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                   Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                    per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                    Eftimnted population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                          Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                      "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurseen
Ecopngic and Social Data Diviais
Econumic Analysis and Projections Department



37                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNX I
on993PI0PNTDTA
(Assuntrnmflion  of  .S.dollars)
Actual                        EPstimated         1960-   1965-    193             Aw.
Av. 1967-69  1972/73  1974/75   1976/77             1977/78          1965    1970       1976           _967-69 1974/75 1-977/78
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                                                                       __
In Constant 1972-1973 Prices & Exchange Rate              Average Annual Growth Rates          As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product            6,012    5,833    6,51    -7,255                  7,83             4.7      3.3       6.1           9.       0.       0.
Gains from Terms of Trade()          89         -      -117        -146              -88I                                              1.5    -1.8    -1.1
Gross Domestic Income             6,101    5-,833    6,397        7,107             7,745            5.6      2.5       5.8          100.0   100.0   100.0
Import (ind.- NFS)                  879       747       703        506                791           20.6      6.8       0.7           14.4    11.0    i0.~
Exports   "(import capacity)    598           369       197         243               315           12.3   -14.6       -3.2            9.8      3.1      4.1
Resource Gap                        21        38        56           6346                                                                       79     -i;7
Consumption Expenditures          5,668    5,817    6,404        6,764              7,521            5.7      3.6       5.2           92.9   100.1    97.3
Investment   1  (inel. stocks)    714         394       499         660               700           13.3      8.8      12.2           12.9      7.8      9.0
Domestic Savings                    433        16        -6         343               Z244           4.3    10,0       72.0            6.8    -0.1       2.1
National Savings                    416        32        10         378               279            8.7    20.5       56.3            7.1      0.2      3,8
IERCHNAIqESE TRADE                          Annual Data at Current Prices                                                            As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                       .       100       135         227               318                      .       22.9              .     16.8    25.5
Tnternediate goods (osa.fuels)    ..        176       386        270                459             ,        ..      21.9             ..     30.4    34.1
F'uels and related materials
of which:  Petroleum             .         23       155        141                166              ,       .      48.5              .      10.0    12.3
Consumtion good                             428       726         227               406                      ..      -2.4             ..     42.8    30.21
ToalMrch.  5spot  (i)                    727    142           865              1,4                               12.2                    100.0   100.0
Exports
Primary produacts (excl. Thela)             145       119         220               203..                     .       7.0             .      40.9    40.8
Fuels and related materials
of which: Petroleum
Manuifactured goods                 ..      195       239         240               294             .        ..       8.5             *.     59.1    59.2
TotalMecrch, Exports (fob)        W8T 65Z0                                         7                                  7.                    100.0   100.0
Tourism andBodr  Trace
Merchandise Trade indices                      Average 1972-73= 100
Export Price Index                 61       100      133         118                137..                     .      6.5
Import Price Index                 52       100      215         189                180..                     .     12.5
Terms of Trade Index              118       100       62          62                 76..                     .     -5.6
Exports Volume Index              148       100       80         115                107..                     .      1.5
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual Data at 1972-73 Prices and Exchange Rates               Average.Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
Agriculture                     3,542    3,403    3,712        4,020             4,318              .        ..      4.8             59        59       57
Industry and Mining               420      412       466         582               642..                     .       9.2              7         7        8
S~ervice                        2,050    1,848    2.146        .2,44              2.645                              7.4            3m4       -34       35
Total                           6,012    5,663    6,324        7,044             7,605                               6.1            100       100      100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                          As Percent of GDP
(Cen-tral Goverumnent)
Current Receipts                  317       280      469         563                665..                     .     34.2            5.3       7.2      8.5
Current Expenditures              365       364      419         464                553..                     .     16.8            6.1       6.4      7.1
Budgetary Savings                 -48       -84       50          99                112                                            -0.8       0.       14
Other Public Sector                .         .        .            ..                                .       .
Public Sector Investment          421      239       248         516               514'                             lo:. 0.         7 .0      3.8'    6.6
us $ million L-i
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                            Actual      -           Estimated      RETAIL ON                            At: Av.  1977/78  P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)             1969/Q 1972/73 1974/75 1976/77,   1977/78           PUBLIC SECTOR                       Two.-Year Plan   P. of Total
Education              ..       15.5     vr  -iir            1~~~~~~~~~~~~~-3 .0  INVESTMENT PROGRAM4           (1978/79 - 1979/80)
other Social Services                      .        4.5      3.6     4.2         4.9        Social Sectors                             27         1.
Agriculture and                                                                             Agriculture                                600        27.6
other Economic Services                  .        5.0    12.5       6.6         7.0       Industry and Mining                         380        17.5
Adminiistration and Defense                .       70.4    57.1    61.5          61.2       Power                                      314         14.4
other                                      .        4.6    12.3    15.3         13.9        Transport and cosmsunications              387         17.8
Total.Current Expenditures                        10-0.0   100.0   100.0       100.0        Other                                      206         9.5
_________________________________________________________________________Total Tota eExpenditure                2,174       100.
SELECTED INDICATORS                                 196o-     1965-        1973-              FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)              1965      1970         1976
Average ICONR.                                                 377Th     -089                    public Sector Savinigs                  557         25.6
Import Elasticity                                     .        1.29        1.11                  Program aid counterpart                 838        38.6
- y1arginal Domestic Savings Rate                        .       0.22        0.05                   Foreign Project Aid                     605        27.8
Marginal National Savings Rate                        .        0.35        o.os                  o~ther (cine. dom. borrowing)           174          8.0
Total Financing                      2,174       100.0
LABOR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                   Value Added Per Worker (1972-7        rcs&Ec  Rates)
OUTPUT PEN WONRKER                In Millions          5 of Total           19 61  73         In U.S.Dollara       Percent of Avernge         170 -73
19 60/61    192/273 1960/61   1972/73  Growth Nate            19 69/70   19 72/73    19 69/70   19 72/73   Growth Nate
Agriculture                        16.1        20.5      85       78          2.0                ..         166         ..76
Industry                            1.0         1.8      5         7          5.0                ..         229        ..105
Service                             1.8         3.9     10        15          6.7                ..        484         ..222                     _
Total                              18-.9       26-.2    10-0     10-0        2i.8               248         217        100         100         -4.9
not appli1cable        - nil or negligible
not available        -- less than half the smallest omit shown
Note: Figures are on fiscal year basis (July l-Juas"I0).Data prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhile East Pakistan.
/I     plan targets.



ASNNX I
-38-
BA.ANCE OF PILMnS1, EXTERNAL ASST8ANCE AND DENT
7nenente in oilons of U.S. dollars at torrent prices)
Actual                           Estibnted       oE1te          Avere            G
96/7        1n72/7       1914/75       197(71    to/S977/78        1978/79                   974 - 1978
8 NY BAILANCE OF PAflST
7mports (teal. NFS)                           515          369           358           529          9482             648                      13.7
tappfm(4cl.l NIS                             639          -747        -142            -957        -1,427         -1,179                         9.8
17eec0664WBA1 X-Pi)     -It4          -378        -.1,044         -428         c              ?                            7.4
Interest (net)
Direct Irveetmeret Deor.e   1                                                                                         9
Wcr2ere' Remittance           I                .            45              7           66             83
Balanc  fon i 0rletAcEapnt.                    ..         -333        -i,07         -3 
Private Direct Tnoesert                                                                 3829            8            409                       13.6
Official Capital MOante                        *           482            397          229
Public 9987T lanc
LDib-ram.este                                *            76           527           273           411             695                       5.2
-Rsp  ent                                                               -23           -16           -91             -34 
flKe08Ym    ate                                            1             502          25             lO              lv4.
Other MLLT L.=a.
Diebarsemeen.n.                                                         .             .
-Repavacere ,0                                             .             .
Net Diebhr-eeete                               ..           ..t.
Capitol Trean6ctiona n.e.!.                    ..         -25             73 4                         14            -33
Change in Nat RI-erv    9. ircceese)           ..          -20          -196           -80             24             23                                  Atten7   tocd  1c7i7d     1E9tinotcd
itcce Onoervee (end period)                    ..          107           263           293            269            A44  DLRbT                               1974/7C   1975/76 1
1710 ADD 10BT 0909IC0
Public Dsbt Oat. I Diibo-ed         229      1,366      1,812      2,065       2,556
GRANT AND LOAN COMIITIIERSN
Official Ornate & llrent-1ilr                  -            514           368          338            452           Ict-reot co Publi Debt                       10          21         25          27
RepaY'-tcct  a  Public Debt          -         23         78         17          51
Pablo M&LT Ioans                                                                                                   Tota  3abt S.v ee33                                       99          42          7d
5900                                                       -             -             -             -           314c  Debt Ser-ic  (net) 
IDA                                                       68            150           50           211           Total Debt Servioe (at)
Other  lltlater-l                                          11            87           84             74
C"ver-eneCt                                              2C4           678           290           376        Purdeo  on  Evport Esrnin6s (9)
seppIiere                                    ,.           55            17             2            11
Financil                                                                  -                         13          Publa Debt Service                   *       9.8         22.4        7.9        13.7
blnd e       -                                                                                                         Dolt 7     cc                 .         ..          ..         ..
T       public  MALT Lne.e                     .-          338           932           341            69'          TDS+Dirsct lnve3t. In.
Av-r-ge Tor- of Pablio Debt
Acta1l Debt Octoteading on June 30, 1978                              Int. a0 9 Prior Year W&D            *-       2.0         1.5        1.4          1.3
XTERNAL DEBT k                                                                    'Perotet                           Amort. 00 9 Prior leer Y  DO&D       .        5.0         5.7        0.9          2.5
W-orld PanltA                                    
IDA                                                     554                        21.7                         ITbD Debt (t. & Disb-reed
Other Ihltilateral                                        64                        2.5                            0  as % Public Debt OvD               -      4.0          3.0        2.7         2.2
Govarnments                                           1,746                        68.4                            "  as % Poblit  Debt Service          -         -         1.6        7.5         4.4
S.n-lli.e                                                111                        4.3
Financial IcetiWtioaa                                     26                         1.0                         TDA Debt Out. & Dinborsed
Dconds-                                                                                - .' ae    Pbloi  Debt ouD                                     7.1      18.7         21.0       22.7        21.7
Pablio  Debts M.e.1                                                                    - D                           00 , Public Debt Service            -      2.3          2.0        7.5         4.9
Total Public MALT Debt                                2,556                       100.0
Other MALT Debte
Short-tern Debt (disb. only)
root applicable                                                       a  ateff esti-ate
..ot availble                                                         -  nil or negligible
not availoble separately                                             --  less than half the
b4t ineluded in total                                                     anelleet coit stow,1
iconehe 1978



- 38a -
ANNEX II
Page 1
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of October 31, 1978
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                       Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                 Purpose                      Amount  Undisbursed
(net of
cancellations)
Eight Credits Fully Disbursed                                 329.1        -
339        1972     Cyclone Area Reconstruction (replaces
Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)             25.0      5.4
340        1972      Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184-PAK of 1970)             13.0      1.8
341        1972      Tubewells (replaces Credit No.
208-PAK of 1970)                        14.0      2.0
343        1972      Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)           7.3      0.5
367        1973      Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)               7.0      0.4
368        1973      Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage
replaces Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                   13,2      0.2
407        1973      Education (replaces Credit Nos.
49-PAK and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                   21.0      5.6
408        1973      Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                25.0     10.7
409        1973      Technical Assistance                       4.0       0.9
410        1973      Cereal Seeds                               7.5       5.3
424        1973      Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation    8.7         1.6
487        1974      Second Telecommunications                 20.0      14.3
527        1975     Ashuganj Fertilizer                        33.0      14.2
533        1975      Population                                15.0      12.5
542        1975      Barisal Irrigation                        27.0      24.2
605        1976      Karnafuli Irrigation                      22.0      16.2



- 39 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 2
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of October 31, 1978
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh (CON'D)
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                      Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                  Purpose                    Amount  Undisbursed
621        1976      Agricultural and Rural Training         12.0        10.9
622        1976      Technical Assistance II                   7.5        6.5
631        1976      Rural Development                       16.0        15.0
632        1976      Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                  25.0        21.2
676        1977      Imports Program V                       75.0        13.3
724        1977      Shallow Tubewells                       16.0        16.0
725        1977      Muhuri Irrigation                       21.0        20.7
729        1977      Extension and Research                  10.0        10.0
735        1977      Inland Water Transport II                5.0         5.0
752        1977      Imports Program VI                      75.0        49.6
765        1978      Jute                                    21.0        21.0
787        1978      Foodgrain Storage II                    25.0        25.0
825        1978      Second Small Scale Industry              7.0         7.0
828        1978      Agricultural Research                    6.0         6.0
SUBTOTAL                  913.3       342.9
Principal Repayment                                0.4
Effective Credits held by Association           912.9
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087       1975      Consolidation Loan                      54.9         0
TOTAL                  967.8       342.9



- 40
ANNEX _ I
Pag 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Erfective Date:  January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
After a very difficult start, the project is expected to be com-
pleted by end 1978, about three years behind schedule. Parts A, F, and G
(Inland Water Transport, Coastal Fisheries, and Cyclone Warning System)
have been completed for some time. Parts D and E (Primary and Feeder Roads)
have been substantially completed except before the remainder of the road
can be constructed. Work on the completion of Part B and C (Telecommunica-
tions and Cyclone Shelters) appears to be proceeding satisfactorily although
we have had reports that the Project Director did not get as much allocated
in the budget for the cyclone shelters as he requested.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17. 1973;
Closing Date: February 28, 1979
The project should be completed by May 1979, about two and a half
years behind schedule. Delays have been due to major flooding, labor prob-
lems, shortages of materials, equipment breakdowns and rebuilding the
embankment as a result of rapid river erosion during the construction phase.
While problems remain, substantial progress has been made both in physical
construction and agricultural development. The main regulator is operational
and major agricultural development is about to commence.
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January13, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule.  project completion is expected around April 1979.  Nearly
3000 wells have now been drilled, and verticality problems have already
been corrected by the contractors. Pumphouse construction and engine/pump
installation is proceeding satisfactorily.  Agricultural development is
about to commence on 2400 wells in the winter 1978/1979. Project audit for
1975/1976 has been received while audit for 1976/1977 is being awaited.
Arrangements for extending consultant's services have been agreed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 41 -                   ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1979
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems have been com-
missioned. The fourth microwave system, equipment for which was ordered
together with the microwave systems under Credit 487-BD, is expected to be
commissioned by June 1979, completing the project four years behind schedule.
The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1978
and a request for further extension to June 30, 1979 has been approved.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: October 31, 1978
The project is now virtually complete. A major setback occurred
in September 1977 when the Battali Hill Reservoir failed under test. The
contractor has since carried out all remedial work following failure and the
reservoir has been retested in June 1978. The Kalurgat treatment plant and
booster pumping station have worked successfully since commissioning in
September 1977. Substantial progress has been achieved in fulfilling Section
4.03(a) of the Credit Agreement pertaining to finances. The Water and Sewer-
age Authority (WASA) has further raised tariffs in November 1977. In addi-
tion, all Government loans have been converted to equity while IDA loans
have been made repayable by WASA in over 30 years at 3. However, WASA has
experienced continuing difficulty in obtaining payment for arrears owed by
the Government and its agencies including arrears on Government's employees
housing. WASA continues to provide a large portion of its water to public
hydrants for which it receives no revenue. WASA has also been in default
of (i) Section 4.01(c) pertaining to audit: requires that WASA furnish IDA
no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year, audited financial
statements and (ii) Section 4.02(c) pertaining to insurance: requires WASA
to take out and maintain, or make adequate provision for, insurance against
such risks and for such amounts as shall be consistent with sound public
utility practice.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973, Closing Date:
October 31, 1978
Work on the Project is now almost complete, with final completion
expected by the Closing Date of October 31, 1978. Though final completion
will be three years behind original target, construction work has been on
schedule as established by the February 1975 supervision mission. The major
pumping station at Narinda has been completed and tested and appears to be
a sound installation. The meter testing stations and laboratory is now
completed, equipped and staffed. All arrangements for delivery of materials



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
and spare parts requiring foreign exchange are well in hand. WASA's operat-
ing results have improved during the last two years when an earned surplus
was recorded and forecasts show that it will continue to show a surplus even
after it begins servicing the IDA Credit in FY79.  However, non-revenue
water through public hydrants and illegal connections remain high and
arrears owed by Government agencies have yet to be cleared. WASA is in
default on the covenants relating to (i) audit and (ii) insurance.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Progress on the Agricultural University component of the project
is about 70% complete but 30 months behind schedule. The academic complex
facilities are now virtually completed. Staff housing is about 70% complete
and should be ready for occupancy by January 1979. Completion of remaining
civil works is expected around mid 1980, six months before the Closing Date.
A number of new programs intended to improve the practical skills of
students and increase their involvement in research and extension have been
introduced.  The Technical Education component, although 30 months behind
schedule is practically complete. Procurement of equipment is only 60% comr
plete because of the time-consuming procedures of the Supplies Directorate.
Efforts to revise curricula and improve quality of teaching staff are being
made. However, action has yet to be taken to complete the facilities at
Joydeppur intended to be used for the training of technical teachers.
(Construction of this facility is not part of the project).
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Several project elements are complete with others due for completion
mid-1979 about 2-1/2 years behind the original schedule. The Sitalakhya
bridge was opened to traffic in December 1977, the Keane bridge repairs were
completed and the bridge opened June 1977, and the improved ferries have been
carrying loaded trucks since July 1977. Progress is now steady on the Feni
bypass and provided no serious problems develop with the paving and stone-
crushing equipment, the bypass should be open to traffic mid-1979. Similarly,
the Roads and Highway Directorate (RHD) building construction progress is
steady with completion also around mid-1979. However, progress on improving
RHD's equipment maintenance repair capacity is slow with no new workshop
construction having taken place. RHD is negotiating with consultants for
the Surna River Crossing Study.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Contracts have been signed with consultants for eighteen sub-
projects utilizing the full credit amount. Completed studies have played
a key role in the preparation of projects for IDA financing. Due to delays
in initial commitment of credit funds, disbursements are 3 years behind
initial estimates.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
There has been an improving trend in project implementation during
the past two years. Seed sales and quality are good. Contract growers' in-
terest is high. Staff morale has also improved considerably. Civil works
are underway and machinery for seed processing has been ordered. Tenders are
being prepared for equipment list agreed with IDA in July 1978. Staff housing
is about 80% complete. On the other hand, five vacancies still exist in the
staff to supervise contract growers. With ten trainees presently at the
University of Maryland, most of the planned staff training has been completed.
The Seed Certification Agency has received a budget allocation of only Tk 0.5
million out of the FY79 budget request of Tk 5.3 million. Five field officers
have been sent for overseas training in September 1978.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the Original Credit
has been substantially completed. The two lighterage tankers provided under
the Supplementary Credit have been operating since January 1978, transfering
crude oil from the mother tanker, "Banglar Noor", to the ERL refinery at
Chittagong. However, Bangladesh Shipping Corporation (BSC) has experienced
some problems in maintaining the tankers' cargo pumps and manufacturers'
service engineers are now in Chittagong. IDA has agreed to finance under
the credit additional Technical Assistance to improve tanker operation and
maintenance.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
After initial delays, action has been taken on the procurement of
all items except the national trunk automatic exchanges (TAXs) and the inter-
national telephone exchange. Technical specifications prepared by the T&T



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page  7
Board were found by IDA to be inadequate. At IDA's suggestion, the Board
has now asked UNDP/ITU for the assistance of a consultant to prepare spe-
cifications and bid documents for the TAXs and the international exchange
and assist in tender evaluation and subsequent supervision of their
installation. Delay in procurement of the exchanges is likely to delay
project completion until June 1981, two years behind the original estimate.
Physical progress of other works although behind schedule has begun to
improve. The T&T Board was established in July 1976 but little progress
has been achieved in meeting project institution building goals including
transfer to the Board of responsibility for its accounts (currently main-
tained by Comptroller and Auditor General) and introduction of a commercial
accounting system within the Board. The Rules and Regulations defining the
Boards power have not yet been issued leaving the Board with less autonomy
than the prior Director General of the Telephone and Telegraph Department.
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit.  Site preparation
work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
However, based on the soil analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site was undertaken to protect the plant
against earthquake risks.   Currently the project is about two years behind
schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial slow
progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning for
construction. Process engineering and procurement have progressed substan-
tially and the Project is now entering the construction phase. The soil com-
paction work has been completed and work is progressing on contracting arrange-
ments for the critical compensatory foundation works of the Project. Revised
estimates indicate that due to the need for additional site work, the delays
and the currency fluctuations, costs will be substantially higher than lender
funds currently available. Arrangements are being discussed among the Govern-
ment and the various cofinanciers to raise the additional funds required to
complete the Project. The fertilizer company has terminated the contract of
the consultants who had been providing management assistance, and has hired
a new firm to provide assistance during the construction phase. The company
is considering several possible firms which have expressed interest in pro-
viding assistance during the operations phase.
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent in addition to IDA credit. Some progress has
been made in project implementation. Tenders have been received for all



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
construction packages except the Family Welfare Visitors' Training School
in Khulna and Faridpur. Scrutiny of bids received for four tenders are
underway. Recruitment of staff training teams is under progress while local
consultants have started working with Project Finance Cell to strengthen
central accounting system. Government is considering implementing manage-
ment study recommendation for strengthening district level organization. Over
60 out of 90 medical doctors deputed from the Health Division of the Ministry
of Health and Family Planning to Population Division and Family Planning
Division (PCFD) have joined. Deputation of another 100 doctors is expected
shortly. On the other hand, proposals to strengthen the Building, Planning
and Design Unit (BPDU) are still pending with the Health Division while pro-
gress on service statistic system has been discouraging.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1980
The project is making good progress and is expected to be completed
on schedule. Procurement of low lift pumps by BADC may cause some delay.
None of the bids received met tender specifications and a new tender will be
required with revised specifications.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project had been behind schedule due to initial delays in
hiring project consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the
project began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by
delays in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. After a period of good progress the
project has again slowed down due to shortages of local Taka. If adequate
additional funds are alloted, the project could still be completed on schedule.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of civil works is about three months ahead of sched-
ule. All but 8 of the sites have been acquired and the major project items
have been contacted. Completion is about 50% on weighted average. Equip-
ment lists are being revised following 1978 World Bank/FAO guidelines. The
staff development and fellowship program for Agricultural Training Institutes
(ATIs) has been approved by IDA. An expert on "rural institutions" for Bogra
Academy has arrived in September 1978 for a two-year assignment. The Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) is seeking the support of the Ministry of Planning
to assist in resolving the staff shortage problem and the timely replenishment
of the revolving fund. The National Committee on Rural Training (NCRT) has
yet to make selection of experts for the high level consultant committee.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Twelve subprojects have been approved amounting to about $6 million.
Other subprojects are under consideration.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of June 3, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The project was designed as a pilot application of the rural devel-
opment approach pioneered at the Comilla Academy in the mid-sixties. It
aims at introducing accelerated agriculture and rural development in seven
thanas in Bogra and Mymensingh Districts. It provides financing inter alia
for rural roads, minor irrigation, buildings, storage, rural credit and
strengthening of rural cooperatives. The project became effective on
August 3, 1976. Initially, despite some teething problems, the project was
progressing satisfactorily. But by June 1977, the following weaknesses
became apparent: (i) lack of cooperaLion the various ministries and agencies
involved; (ii) lack of effective organization ineffective supervision of
the project by the implementing agency, the Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP); (iii) basic deficiencies in the cooperative system (complex
regulations and procedures); (iv) inadequate training of project personnel;
and (v) conflicting government policies in the field of rural credit. In
November/December 1977, IDA, in association with IRDP, undertook a compre-
hensive review of the project, and an Aide Memoire, setting out an action
program to overcome these problems, was presented to the Government in
December 1977.
The Government has made a concerted effort to implement the recom-
mendations of the Aide Memoire prepared in December 1977. A full-time Project
Manager has been appointed who is assisted by three assistants responsible for
credit, cooperatives and training, respectively. International recruitment
is being used to obtain for IRDP technical assistance in project management,
supervision, and monitoring. At the field, two district managers, for Bogra
and Mymensingh, have been appointed to work full time on project activities.
Budgetary and procedural changes have been introduced to enable participating
government agencies to be fully responsible for the implementation of the
projects subcomponents.  This, together with a revitalized coordinating com-
mittee of Secretaries of the Ministries concerned has greatly improve coopera-
tion. Implementation of the physical aspects of the project such as rural
works is proceeding satisfactorily but project beneficiaries have, so far,
yet to receive tangible benefits in the form of farm inputs farm equipment.
(A proposal is underway to change the Credit Agreement to finance incremental
fertilizer needs for the project instead of incremental credit for fertilizer.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of September 1, 1978, Bangladesh Shilpa Bank (BSB) has sub-
mitted 31 subprojects for IDA approval. Of these, 22 have been approved
and nine are being held up pending clarification by BSB of queries raised
during IDA reviews. As of October 31, 1978, disbursements (including QAR's)
were US$10.4 million.
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979
As of October 31, 1978, disbursements were US$69.0 million. The
credits Closing Date has been extended by three months to enable GOB process
reimbursement from IDA under Procedure Case I.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bids for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells have been re-
ceived and are being reviewed by the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation's Tender Committee. A consultant for workshop management has
been hired and the preparation of tender documents for workshop tools and
machinery is at an advanced stage. Construction of 3 out of the 5 project
zonal workshops has been completed. Thana irrigation maps are yet to be
reviewed by consultants.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Delays occurred initially in obtaining Government approval of the
project budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for
hiring the engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor
who will construct the Feni Regulator. The contractor, with the Bangladesh
Water Development Board (BWDB) approval, has signed in August 1978, a contract
with the Implementation Assistance Team to participate and assist in construc-
tion work. A BWDB engineer has been appointed as Project Manager and has set
up office in Feni township. The Contractor has started construction site
development and assembly of staff.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
The project is making good progress since it became effective
January 6, 1978. Pre-qualification of contractors for the construction of
training unit at Bogra and Santahar has been advertised while detailed draw-
ings and cost estimates have been submitted and forwarded to IDA for review.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Procurement of essential project vehicles and equipment is progressing
satisfactorily. Suitable salary scales are now approved and DEM has been
requested to proceed immediately with filling of posts for crop production
specialists and district training officers. In the case of Project Imple-
mentation Unit/Sub-Unit (PIU/PISI), gazetted officers have been appointed
in late September 1978; selection of senior staff (Class III and IV) has
been completed but appointment awaits Government's clearance. On agricul-
tural extension, a consultant has been appointed to review unification of
extension services.  Village Extension Assistants (VEAs) have already been
relieved of extension duties. The Ministry of Agricultural has also re-
quested the Planning Commission to increase the taka allocation of the
project to Taka 65 million.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 10, 1978;
Closing Date June 30, 1980
BIWTA and BIWTC have started inviting firm quotations for spare
parts procurement on the basis of the lists approved by IDA during the
November 1977-January 1978. On the appointfienLt of consultants, communications
have been sent to all short listed firms under the technical assistance com-
ponents (except for telecommunications) requesting additional information,
MPSI has received all clarifications and evaluation for final selection is
now underway. Regarding the telecommunications technical assistance compo-
nent which had been omitted by MPSI from the original published invitation
in November 1977, IDA has reviewed the proposed terms of reference and com-
ments have been transmitted to the Government.
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Program; US$75 Million of November 30, 1977;
Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
As of September 30, 1978 disbursements (including QAR's) were
US$45.0 million.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project; US$21 Million of February 8, 1978; Effective
Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
As of September 30, 1978, disbursements were US$604,000. In addi-
tion, about US$13.5 million of letters of credit are outstanding.
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25 Million of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 825    Small Scale Industry II Project; US$7 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1983



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Cr. No. 828    Agricultural Research Project;  US$6 million of June 16, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1974;
Because of the delays in approval of the Project Proforma the
effectiveness deadline was extended from September 16, 1978 to November 15,
1978.



- 50 -
ANNEX III
Page I
BANGLADESH
SEVENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
This Credit is the seventh in a series of Program Credit
Operations in Bangladesh and, consequently, preparation
for each Credit is a continuing process.
(b) Agency which prepared project:
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) and IDA.
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
During negotiations for Sixth Imports Program
Credit in November 1977.
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
Appraisal mission during March/April 1978.
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:
March 1978.
(f) Completion of negotiations:
November 7, 1978.
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:
60 days after signature.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
(a) Discussion of Industrial Sector Report.
(b) Agreement of Export Development Program.



- 51 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Assurances have been obtained from the Government that:
(a) Agreed Development Programs for Export Promotion
(paragraphs 83-86 of text) will be implemented.
(b)  Implementation of Action Programs for jute and
cotton textile industries agreed under the Fourth,
Fifth, and Sixth Credit will continue, in consulta-
tion with IDA (paragraphs 42-69 of text).
(c) Prior to the effectiveness of the proposed credit,
at least 40% of the licenses to be financed under
the credit will have been issued.
(d) As a condition of disbursement for steel billets and
cement, Government would present to the Association
acceptable detailed programs for such commodities
outlining expected demand, pricing and distribution
policies, planned levels of production and imports
and measures designed to implement the programs.
(e) GOB shall deposit taka funds equivalent to the
amounts withdrawn from the proceeds of the proposed
credit in an account currently being maintained with
the Bangladesh Bank and to utilize these counterpart
funds entirely to finance its development programs.
GOB will furnish quarterly reports to IDA on the
amounts actually released from such Counterpart Fund
to projects financed by IDA.



- 52 -
ANNEX IV
5ANGLADESH
* lTI3 I)qORTS P3DGRUM CREDIT
Production~ Trends of Selective Industries
1S990    t9         1it3 4?- 79    19.5176   1976 177                               1??6 -7   ;'-      . -
2ndw~j6n1.g                              .     _t-                        -   - - ---(-c--    1s)            ---            --       ------  15'' _     4
rt* Textile                         (thft&=d loQX tos)        60        446        5(         6-04      4?8.0      45$.7         2154     .          2.5
228       153        172                   if, ISI.  19S.5          9 1.               3.4             3.1
Ski.             (       "           )   ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~279  210  227  :_:S  121.C    .2'.1         I24.1              2.5            15.?
eel-set k7'                    (                    ) >   33         54         66S       4          ?1.0 40.5                36.-             -0.1             a.6
Otebr.                                                    2.)        27         35        3X?        24.0       2s..6        :.S                6.7            -2.;
Cestt T1exll.
ClIQC                               (million yds)         60         56         79        66         ?6.0      6S..           39.5            -10.4             7.6
yam                                 (illicn Ib&)         106         81         9S        101         91.0      82.4          44.1             -9.5            -3.4
F.pcr & B6rd
X; prL.t                          (tbous,A toza)          36         28         26        29         2D.0       14.6          12.8            -27.0             7
paper                             (       -      )        31         21         24        25         is.0       23.7         13.0              31.,
PAyo2                              ( T           )         2.7        1.9        2.1        1.6        1.2       1.4           0.5       1       5.?            0
Eaazdlbd                          (ftillim(1 aq.ft)      U5           6         16        1S         14.0       17.1         ,                 2:.1             _
Particle 6ord                     (thboa&o  tons)          5.5        1.5        2.0        2.1        1.4       2.0         n..               U.S
Cene t                                        "          )    53         32         53        143        ISO        30S          150                9_.5            S.6
Stee1 Ingot          -                                )       54         68         74         76         111       102           57.8              l?.S           24.2
Et,role pducts                         (              )      653        776        323        761        61.      10.4S          527                29.;.
EoiRoeeT-r93 Podocts
Diese  Engine                     (thoud  no..)            1.3        1.4        1.7       5.2        0.9        1.4          -                22.2           -9'!
Psr=ps                            (       "         )      -          0.9        2.1       27.5       -          2.8           1.2              -               4.1
Carcial & Hsa)v  VehcIl            (      *      )         O.S        1.2        2.1        1.3       0.6         1.0          .3              66.7             -
C. 1. & W. S.  ipes                (             )         5.1        2.8        3.7        2.7       4.8         3.4         u.e.            -20.8
Radit>                                    "      )         6.0        5.0       11.0        8.7       4.0        3.9           1.5             -2.5
VsT                               (tbc.ssd Tans)          96        211        279        63        2S2        2S5          '15                  1.1
'SP                                (             )         _                               2S        46         48            14               -2.1
A         Pa3tmulph               ( h)                     4.7        6.0       10.3       4.9         6.2       9.3          5                5).0            31.6
ffwros                                 (rhosand doz.)        586        448       391         250       283        255          120                -1&.5           14.3
1'arserrlets
.ablets                            (0lhicno Wo.)           -        :21       209        253        225        232          12.                 3.1           49 9
Ltqid                           <2lSUms bottlas)          -          2.8       4.5        5.1        3.9        7.3           1.0             -7.,    .
$.*PA                                  (tbms*d tons)           8.7        8.0       10.4        5.9        t.3        7.5          5.2              -S 6           23.6
0128 SbIect                              (MtU1Sn ft)           7.2        7.2        5.7        5.7        5. f      5.            3.6               3.6           15.I
h.tcbss                             (illion groos bo,o")    13.0          5.9        6.2        6.2        6.9        7.2          3.2               4.3
svgt ar(tbossaod tons)                                        93         19         88         98        87        137            41                60.0            2.5
86s1a-s~s                              (              )       51         10         45         52         39         59           is                51.3            S.6
Tes                                     (.iliton lbs)          67        53         61         66         68         78           53                14.7          1l.5
Fopod 6 A11ied Prod-ets
Edible 6 Vegetable Chew           (tboe4*rd tons)         19.1       14.1       18.4      15.4       19.1       24.9         13.3               30.4           18.e
Fisb Pr-eessia                     (million De)            3.0        2.3        3.0       2.7        5.1        7.3          3.3               43.1         -27.7
Soft Beerqe                      (tho*d  C*es)          264        330        25t       271        235        223          104                 -5.1           15.2
Ctgarett.S                        (billion stick.)        17.8       11.4       11.9      10.4       12.2       11.6        *.s.                -4.9             -
8itsei5t  & Iread                 (thoa.d tos)             3.9        6.4        6.4       4.6        4.0        4.z          2.5                5.0
/a      public sector only a=cpt te, ciger.ttes &  stcbls.
Sogwce: Uttlaslized Industries DivI.o1m,           S:bie Sctor C*rporetona, Plsn!og Cco.ctu.J, or So5  of Statiot.i..



- 53 -
ANNEX V
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SEVENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
TRENDS IN MAJOR INDUSTRIES
1.        A discussion of the jute and cotton textiles industries is contained
in Annexes VII and VIII, respectively.
2.        The paper and pulp industry was originally conceived to serve both
East and West Pakistan markets and with the loss of the West Pakistan market
the industry depends critically on other export markets since local consump-
tion accounts for less than 35% of rated capacity for newsprint and 50% for
printing and writing paper.
3.        For the first eight months of FY78, production showed a substantial
rate of increase and total production for the year is estimated at 55,000
metric tons as against 40,000 in FY77 and 38,000 metric tons in FY76. The
sharp increase in production was possible because of improved plant facilities,
rehabilitation of equipment (para 6) and improved domestic and export sales.
4.        Export prospects for the immediate future remain relatively uncer-
tain, although with the exception of the Philippines and India, Bangladesh is
the only significant producer of newsprint in the South and South East Asia
Region and should, if it can improve the quality of its production, be able to
capture a large share of regional demand. Export sales are increasing because
of very low export prices (below direct cost). Since FY73 export sales have
been 16,300 11,600, 8,700, 5,500 and 9,800 metric tons respectively for FY73,
FY74, FY75, FY76 and FY77. For FY78, sales are projected to reach 20,000
metric tons. However, as the average export price is about Tk 5,700 per ton
and cost of production Tk 9,800 per ton, exports are not profitable at current
prices, a situation unlikely to change until major rehabilitation now under
way are completed.
5.        During FY78, there have been improvements in some of the areas
identified previously where action was needed to improve production efficiency
For example, from August 1976 to January 1978, Tk 5.0 million has been spent
on improving Karnaphuli plant facilities and a recent Swedish grant of about
Tk 140.0 million should enable the mill to implement a modernization program
to help improve paper quality, reduce production costs, and diversify product
ranges. At Khulna production is expected to increase from 16,000 tons in
FY77 to about 23,000 tons in FY78 due to improved spare parts supplies and
the installation of new equipment. Implementation of a BMR program currently
proposed should enable the mill to produce about 28,000 tons per annum.
Production at the North Bengal Paper Mill is still affected critically by



- 54 -
ANNEX V
Page 2
power failures and the lack of raw materials. However, Swedish consultants
have completed Phase I of their study of the situation and a project pro-
posal submitted by BCIC to the Planning Division for consideration. IDA
has reviewed the study and indicated that the findings are acceptable as
the basis of a BMR program which IDA would be prepared to consider financing
within the context of an overall development program for the industry. Such
a program is due to be completed in mid February 1979.
6.        The setting of ex mill prices by GOB has had a serious impact upon
the profitability of the industry. At present the domestic prices of news-
print and paper have been kept at an artificially low level by GOB in order
to provide raw materials for reading material at a low cost. Selling prices
should be calculated based upon a reasonable return on investment and should
be continuously monitored to take account of rising costs etc.
7.        During FY78, a major problem facing the pulp and paper industry was
the continued losses of operation. As at June 30, 1977, the industry had
recorded accumulated losses of Tk 414 million and a further substantial loss
is expected for FY78. Present price levels are inadequate to cover variable
costs and the industry is unable to service its debts. Allied to the current
programs of mill rehabilitation, GOB/BCIC should develop an adequate program
of capital restructuring and replenishment of the mills' inadequate working
capital.
8.        Performance of other major export-oriented industries has been
encouraging. Exports of tea, benefiting from higher export prices as well
as a good tea crop, increased from US$17 million in FY76 to US$36 million
in FY77 and US$46 million (estimated) in FY78. Largely due to an increase
in export price, exports of tanned and semi-tanned leather increased from
US$30 million in FY76 to US$38 million in FY77 and US$40 million (estimated)
in FY78. Exports of frozen shrimps also increased from US$11 million in FY76
to US$17 million in FY77 and US$23 million (estimated) in FY78.
9.        The prospects for these non-jute exports depend on the availability
of raw materials and the level of export demand. The latter is determined by
factors beyond the control of Bangladesh, although there is room for improve-
ment in marketing, promotion, prices and quality control. In order to improve
the quantity and quality of their supplies, a number of measures need to be
implemented. Replanting of tea bushes and balancing and modernization of
factories are required to improve efficiency in the tea sector. In order to
increase exports of leather, both quantity and quality of hides and skins
should be improved and further processing of semi-tanned leather encouraged.
For the purpose of increasing the supply of shrimps and fish for exports, the
trawling and catching facilities should be expanded, and the supply of fresh
water shrimps increased by culture and breeding. The proposed Credit initiates
an action program to assist GOB in planning and promoting non-traditional
exports.



- 55 -
ANNEX V
Page 3
10.       Cement production increased from 159,000 tons in FY76 to 308,000
tons in FY77 and 360,000 tons (estimated) in FY78, reaching about 90% of
rated capacity in FY78. Since the present level of cement consumption (about
600,000 tons per annum) is greater than the total rated capacity of the exist-
ing cement plants and costs of production in these plants are lower than costs
of imported cement, the Government is considering several investment possibi-
lities to expand the country's cement production capacity.
11.       Ingot steel production at the Chittagong Steel Mills has also shown
a gradual improvement from 90,000 tons in FY76 to 102,000 tons in FY77 and
120,000 tons (estimated) in FY78, reaching about 80% of rated capacity in
FY78. Since some of its products such as heavy plates are produced at costs
much higher than the costs of importing them, a major study of the steel
industry is currently planned in order to estimate the future demand for
steel products in the country and to make suggestions on how to meet this
demand most efficiently. Such study is expected to be financed by UNDP with
IDA participation in the monitoring committee.
12.       Fertilizer production was 278,000 tons in FY74, 101,000 tons in
FY75, 322,000 tons in FY76, and reached 342,000 tons in FY77. In FY78, pro-
duction is estimated to have decreased substantially due to frequent factory
breakdowns. Only 214,000 tons were produced during the 9 months ended
March 31, 1978. All existing fertilizer plants are suffering from various
technical difficulties due to the shortage of technical staff and the poor
operating condition of machinery resulting in low capacity utilization and
high production costs. An overhaul of the major urea factory was completed
in July 1978, which should help increase production. The other urea factory,
which is working beyond its normal expected life is scheduled for major re-
pairs from October 1978 until March 1979. In addition, consultants financed
under an IDA technical Assistance Credit (409-BD) are assisting in improving
operation and maintenance of the fertilizer plants.



-56 -ANNEX VI
Page 1
BANGLADESH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDITS
Action Programs
Jute Industry
1/
Required Action (Fourth and Fifth Credit)    Agreed Completion Date                                          Stat.ts
i) Marketing Consultants to be hired              April 30, 1977                  A marketing advisor under phese one prepared a
to study requirements of marketing                                            diagnosis report for Marketi,ng Department; TORs
directorate, organize training                                                 for two consultants for 24 rncnths to implement
programs, market studies and                                                   recommendations have been agreed with BJMC. Formal
promotion programs overseas,                                                   request by GOB to UK for assistance has been made.
ii) Consultants to advise on spare parts           June 30, 1977                   Three consultants originally expected by June 30,
production of Galfra Habib to be                                               1977 are nov scheduled to arrive by December 1,
recruited.                                                                     1978 to initiate local manufcscture of spare parts
at Galfra Habib. Arrival dot e potponed to allow
for delivery of spare parts production machinery.
iii) BJMC to prepare reconstructed                  June 30, 1977                   BJMC has made proposals to GOB for improving
balance sheet for each mill and                                                debt/equity ratio and some action has been taken.
recommendation of adjuatments                                                 GOB has indicated that over oi five-year period
required to achieve appropriate                                                it will (i) provide the equity infusion
debt/equity ratio.                                                            necessary to give BJMC's unite a debt/equity
ratio of 60.40; and (ii) provide subsidy payments
to meet BJMC'a operating lobiaes.
iv) GOB to establish an adequately                 March 31, 1977                  An allocation of 1k 500,000 uas made in the FY78
staffed export inspection service                                             GOB budget to set tip and stafdf this unit.  The
in the Jute Ministry.                                                          organisational set up has been arranged and
recruitmtent of senior staff lias been completed.
Required Action (Sixth Credit)
A.  Rehabilitation/Profitability ImEprovement
i) BJMC to carry out a survey of each             February 28, 1978               UK/ODM consultants submitted draft final report
mill to identify the need for                                                  to GOB/BJMC in August 1978. Hlowever, the study
rehabilitation and to determine                                                does not identify specific i:habilitation and
(a) the necessary investMent required;                                        balancing requirements for each mill.
(b) anticipated operational improve-                                          Consultants to return to Bang.adesh in December
mentEs; (c) incremental benefits                                               1978 to clarify/expand on thoir report.  Revised
resulting from the improvements; and                                           report and specific BMR reqivlrements now expected
(d) financial and economic rates of                                           in June 1979.
return.
ii) On the basis of the mill-by-mill survey,    March 31, 1978                     Delayed until June 1979 given additional work
and taking into account projected levels                                       necessary under A(i) above.
of demand, GOB will submit to IDA with
comments, BJMC's recommendations on
mills selected for investment and
actions to be taken with respect to
uneconomic units.
iii) BJMC shall continue (a) to carry out             i) Completion of Report -   Maintenance program continued in Dacca and Khulna
its programn aimed at appraising the               March 31, 1978.             zones, although there have been problems in
preventive maintenance systems of its                                          implementation.  In mid June 1978, BJMC
mills, make recommendations for their          ii) Appoinitment (if            reassigned half of its main8unance teams to a
improvement and implementing such                  necessary) of Consul-    productivity study.  However, following review by
recommendations; (b) furnish to GOB                 tants, July 1, 1978.       IDA, GOB/BJMC have agreed        , not later than
and IDA its report on the program and,                                         December 31, 1978,to reassigni the transferred
if necessary, employ consultants to                                            members to the MrFT teams.
improve the implementation of its
program.
iv) GOB/BJMC to carry out a study of raw           December 31, 1978               Consultants appointed in September 1978.  Study
Jute supply, including the review of                                           under way.  TOR agreed between IDA and GOB/BJMC
the present pricing policies of raw                                            for Sixth Program Credit and Jute Project being
Jute and the optimal mix between                                               followed.
raw Jute and jute goods exports.
B. Operational Targets
BJMC to prepare operational targets            October 1, 1978                 Consolidated targets preseot,,d for IDA's review.
for each mill and consolidated                                                Agreemdent reachbed on alll ar1eas excepting (i)
"Corporation" target for items such                                            projected share of world marl;et; (ii) related
effisiency, conversion coats per ton                                           Operating profits.  IDA projections for these
eaw jute purchasing efficinype   ton,                                        items included in President'sl Report.  GOB/BJMC
rawndute purchasing efficiency, wastage                                       targets to be revised in Mar(:h 1979 following
completion of mill-by-mill survey and Six months
operation in FY79.
C. Management and Systems Improvements
i) GOB to assist in reduction of raw               Understanding with COB/        Increased credit allocations have allowed for some
jute purchasing coats through better           BJMC already reached.           improvement in procurement.  However, there has
timing of credit availability                                                  been little progress in estaolishing complete
coupled with more autonomy for BJMC                                            procurement autonomy for BJMK.
and the mills in raw jute purchasing.
1/ Under the action program of the IV Program Credit, BJMC was required to (i) carry out a world market study oa Jute products; (ii)
complete an inventory of production capacity and to create a Production Planning Directorate; (iii) employ cansultants to develop
and implement a program of planned maintenance; and (iv) prepare financed projections for FY76 and for the period FY76-EY80.  All
these actions have been satisfactorily completed. Under the Action Program of the V Program Credit, BJMC was required to update
(i) the study on world demand for Jute products; (ii) its Production program and initiate a revision of its zout accounting
system. These requirements have been completed.



- 57 -                                                  ANNEX VI
Page 2
ii) GOB to give BJMC and the mills more         Rules of Business              GOB has given BJMC increased autonomy in some
autonomy in areas such as personnel        reviewed by IDA.                areas of operation but still  dictates production
policies, raw jute purchasing, etc.                                        levels, transfers of senior staff and wage rate
The degree of autonomy is to be                                            levels.
clarified in the Rules of Business.
iii) BJMC to decentralise its organisation    July 1, 1978                      After initial trial of zonal administration, zonal
and delegate more authority to zonal                                       offices have been stripped of most of their
offices and mills.  The decentralisa-                                      operational functions and reduced to administra-
tion would be combined with the design                                     tive units.  BJMC currently implements revised
and implementation of a revised                                            grouping mills for production purposes.  At
management control system.                                                 present one good till has been linked, under
common management, with one bad mill.  GOB/BJMC
will review experience by September 1979.
iv) GOB to establish a policy that the          Understanding already          GOBIBJMC reconfirmed policy of limited transfer.
Chief Executive should remain at           reached with GOB/BJMC.          However, implementation of new personnel
his post for at least three years and                                      policies is resulting in a considerable number
BJMC will reduce inter-mill transfer                                       of inter-mill transfers. The level of transfers
of managers.                                                               should reduce after implementation.
v) BJMC to present to GOB recommendations   March 31, 1978                    BJMC has introduced a GOB approved incentive
for an incentive system for BIMC and                                       system for mill operatives.  GOB/BJMC have noted
mill personnel.                                                            IDA suggestions for revisions to introduce more
efficiency/profitability criteria.
vi) BJMC to prepare and implement a             Preparation by December 1,   Initial stages of t.raining program under way with
training program for BJMC and mill         1977 of training program to  training of mill muechanics, weavers and sirdars.
personnel.                                 be completed by June 30,        Progress on implementation will be progressed by
1980.                          IDA mission.
vii) BJMC to implement improved spare            March 31, 1978.                Revised procurement procedures and expenditure
parts purchasing procedure including                                       limits introduced ind working satisfactorily.
greater autonomy for mills in the
purchase of local spares.
viii) BJMC to expedite completion of FY77           i) Annual audit for          Annual audit for FY76 uncompleted with 21 audits
audit and thereafter have its                    FY77 to be completed    still in progress.  FY77 audit not commenced for
external audits completed within                 by October 31, 1978.    most mills.  Revised  completion date June 1979.
6 months of the fiscal year end
starting with the accounts of                ii) Annual audit for FY78
FY79.                                            to be completed by
March 31, 1979.
iii) Thereafter audits to
be completed within
6 months of each year
end.



BANGLADESH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
Action Program
Cotton Textile Industry
Required Action                         Agreed Completion Date                                    Status
i) GOB to initiate a prefeasibility                   March 31, 1977                 Initial study financed by UNDP/UNIDO
study of the potential for man-                                                   completed.  Results indicate that local
made fibres.                                                                      natural gas unsuitable for the production
of polyester fibres. BCIC has proposed
a further study to explore possibility of
producing polynosic fibres utilising local
and imported resources. The proposal for
the study is under consideration by the
Planning Commission.
ii)  GOB to undertake a sample survey                   December 31, 1976              BTMC did not follow-up the study and by
of the handloom sector and a census                                               December 1977, it was found that the study
of small-power loom sector.                                                       carried out did not serve its purposes.  A
new sampling/census is being undertaken by
the Handloom Industry Board. The sampling/  a
census is expected to be completed by
October 1978 and a final report available
by December 1978.
iii)  GOB through the BIDS to complete                    December 31, 1977             The study has been completed but has been
a study of the relative efficiency                                                found to be inadequate in a number of areas.
of handloom small-powered looms vs.                                               TOR for a revised study are to be submitted
larger mills.                                                                     to IDA by GOB/BIDS by March 31, 1979 and the
revised study is to be completed by September
3, 1979.
iv)  BTMC to initiate program  to improve               December 31, 1976               i) UNDP has approved project proposal for
mill productivity and spare parts                                                     training, mill productivity and spare
manufacturc using T.A.                                                                parts facilities within BTMC.  Advisors
are to commence assignment December 1978.
ii) Spare parts facility project has been
agreed. GOB/BTMC have made application
to IDA (October 1978) for project   
financing.
\                                                                                                          u   H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



59                                                 ANNEX VI
Page 4
BANGIADESH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDlI
Action Program
Cotton Textile Industry
Required Action (Sixth Credit)                 Agreed Cowpletion Date                                Status
A. Rehabilitation/Profitability Improvement
I) BTsG to prepare, on a mill-by-mill             April 30, 1978                Survey completed in July 19783  formal
bagis, a long term rehabilitation                                            report submitted to C0B Septeziber 1978.
program for the industry to obtain
a least cost solution to meet
expected demand.
ii) On the basis of the mill-by-mill               May 31, 1978                  Ranking of rehabilitation reqt.irements and
survey and taking into account the                                           outline implementation progralmi submitted
projected level of demand, GOB will                                          to IDA. Ministry of Textile; has made
submit to IDA with comments, BJMC's                                          request to Planning Comeissior.. (Octber 1978)
recosminendationa concerninig investments                                    for project financing.
that are economically justified as well
as actions to be taken on uneconomic
units.
iii) GOB to prepare a review of its pricing         Ongoing                       Price structure revised in October 1977.
policies,including recommendations for                                       Benefits offset by retroactive wage rate
price Increaaea necessary to restore                                         increase of Tk 128 million and price
the industry's profitability.                                                reduction in July 1978.  GOB to review cost
structure in December 1978 and March 1979.
iv) GOB to give BTMC autonomy in the               Ongoing                       Autonomy given in July 1977.  BTMC has
purchase of raw cotton in order to                                           prepared and submitted to IDA for review
allow BTMC to take advantage of                                              purchase program for EY79-FYEO.
seasonal prices.
B. Operational Targets
I) each to prepare operational targets for         April 30, 1978                Completed and submitted for review, October
each mill, with specific targets for                                          27, 1978.
production, spinning efficiency, waste,
conversion costs, raw cotton procurement
costs, and profits.
ii) BTMC to prepare consolidated operational    May 31, 1.978                      Submitted October 25, 1978
targets based upon the targets established
for individual mills.
C. Management and System Improvements
i) BT1C to prepare draft Rules of Business         Ongoing                       Rules of Business accepted and implemented.
which include specific definition on                                          Board of Directors being established for all
degrees of autonomy for the BTMC                                              units.
(particularly raw cotton purchasing
and personnel matters) and mills.
ii) COB to establish a policy that the              Understandlng                 Policy is operational.  However, COB has
Chief Executive should remain at his           already reiached with          recently transferred four of W"MC's six
post for at least three years and               GOB/BTMC.                     directors, including the ChaPiMtan.
BTMC will reduce inter-mill transfer
of managers.
iii) BTMC to initiate improvements to                Initiate by December 31,    One hundred additional accouna.ng officers
management information and control             1977.                          recruited and trained for system improvement work
systems, together with the increasing                                         Additional staff under training.  Upgrading
and upgrading of staff.                                                       of Management systems under way in mills
where recruits have been posto c.  Expected
completion date December 31, 1978.
iv) BTMC to present to GOB proposal for an          March 31, 1978.               Mill system operational but BSIIC staff incentive
incentive system for all BTMC and mill                                        system still under consideraticn.  Mill system
personnel.                                                                    requires refinement to convert it from a bonus
system to an incentive system lased upon better
than target performance, and efficiency
criteria.
v) BTMC to prepare and implement a                 March 31, 1978 through        BTMC has prepared and is implccenting a five-
training program for BTMC and mill             FY78 and FY79.                 year training program.  Training mill and
personnel.                                                                    institute operational and secvnd batch of 600
operatives under training.
vi) BTMC to prepare an overall program,             December 31, 1977.            Audit program prepared, additional staffing
including staff requirement, etc. for                                         approved and offers made to staff necessary to
systema and procedures.                                                       strengthen audit division.  Recruitments to be
completed by December 31, 197E.
vii) The external audit for BTMC accounts             i) Annual audit for FY77   FY77 audited balance sheets ccmpleted for 10
up to FY77 to be completed, thereafter             to be completed by         mills, balance expected by December 31, 1978.
annual audits to be completed within                June 30, 1978.
6 months of the fiscal year end.               ii) Annual audit for FY78
and thereafter to be
completed within 6
months of year end.
viii) BTMC to carry out a revaluation of              June 30, 1978                  Asset revaluation under way and expected to
its assets in accordance with sound                                           be completed by October 31, 1973.  Final
accounting principles.                                                        report and recommendations to br  ready by
December 31, 1978.



- 60 -
ANNEX VII
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SEVENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
THE JUTE INDUSTRY
General
1.        In 1975, IDA conducted a study of the jute industry in Bangladesh
(Report No. 883-BD of September 25, 1975), on the basis of which the jute in-
dustry action program for the Fourth and Fifth imports program credits were
developed. The President's Report on the Sixth Imports Program Credit (Report
No. P-2155-BD of November 8, 1977) gives the background for the action program
agreed under the Sixth Credit. This annex concentrates on the developments in
Bangladesh's jute industry since then. The jute industry is the most important
industry in Bangladesh. It accounts for approximately 50% of export earnings
(and raw jute for another 30%) and about 25%-30% of value added in the manu-
facturing sector. About 10% (170,000 workers) out of Bangladesh's industrial
workforce of 2 million work in the iute industry.
Principal Trends in Output, Exports and Prices
2.        Prior to independence, Bangladesh's annual production and exports
averaged about 500,000 long tons and 450,000 long tons, respectively. Produc-
tion during FY72 dropped to 315,000 long tons and was 446,000 long tons in
FY73, 500,000 long tons in FY74, 444,000 long tons in FY75, 478,000 long tons
in FY76 and 490,000 long tons in FY77. Exports were 221,000, 412,000, 438,000,
379,000, 438,000 and 462,000 long tons during FY72, FY73, FY74, FY75, FY76
and FY77 respectively. Bangladesh's share of the world market which dropped
to 35% in FY75, from about 44% in FY70, reached its highest level since
independence in FY77 (48%). This market share was maintained in FY78.
3.        During FY78 the export market was favorable. A sharp increase in
jute goods prices, i.e., 37% on hessian, 43% on sacking, and 11% on carpet-
backing, was coupled with about a 12% increase in the volume of exports (about
20% increase over FY77 in hessian, about 10% increase in sacking, no increase
in carpetbacking, and 20% increase in others). The sharp price increase was
possible only because the prices for competing synthetic substitutes rose
too.
4.         The upward trend in exports of Bangladesh's jute goods has there-
fore continued. Exports were 522,000 tons during FY78 and thus surpassed pre-
independence levels of 498,000 tons in FY70. Similarly, production of 530,000
tons in FY78 constituted a 10% increase over the previous year. The FY78
results exceeded export and production targets agreed with IDA by 11% and 3%
respectively. Export earnings from jute goods increased by 39% from US$180
million in FY77 to US$250 million in FY78, as a result of the price increases
and the increase in volume of exports. The product composition of exports did



- 61 -                     ANNEX VII
Page 2
not change in FY78 as compared to FY77 and is composed of 34% hessian, 45%
sacking, 16% carpetbacking, and 5% of others, although in the previous years
there was a shift from hessian to carpetbacking, while sacking was holding
its share. Also, in the years since 1969 there was a clear trend towards the
production of lighter fabrics in which Bangladesh has become highly competi-
tive with synthetics. However, during FY78, the product mix between heavy
and light cloth has remained about the same as in FY77.
5.        During FY78, jute goods continued to be priced basically in parallel
with competing polypropylene which is the price setter. Both prices were
increased, although the manufactured jute price increased slightly more than
that of polypropylene. As in the past, light weight jute cloth was priced
below polypropylene. In contrast, the heavy jute cloth traditionally was
priced above the competing polypropylene cloth, and in FY78 the margin
increased.
Export Prospects
6.        Export prospects for the immediate future remain uncertain, as it
is not clear what the strategy for pricing synthetics will be (paragraph 7).
A similar increase in FY79 as in FY78 in total volume of exports is unlikely.
The demand for Hessian is expected to decrease but remain about static over-
all slightly from its present level in the developed countries. On primary
carpetbacking, a trend towards falling market shares is expected to be com-
pensated by an increase in secondary carpetbacking, with a limited overall
increase. The demand for sacking continues to be primarily from developing
countries but is likely to fall slightly or stay at its present levels. There
continues to be relatively good prospects for Australian wool packs, corn sacks,
cotton bagging, and export of yarn (of carpetbacking quality) all of which,
however, account for only 6% of total exports.
7.        The medium term demand outlook for jute products remains problematic
also in view of the competition with synthetics. Total world exports of jute
goods did not show an improvement during the past four years, although the
initial trend in favor of synthetics was halted (jute goods accounted for
about 41% in 1975 and 1976, compared to about 70% in the late 1960s). The
major competing synthetic, polypropylene, is largely substitutable for jute
goods. Although polypropylene has certain technical disadvantages against jute
(such as low melting temperature, difficulty in dyeing and printing, slipper-
iness which affects handling, stacking, and its utility for secondary carpet-
backing, and less appeal to taste in decorative applications and secondary
carpetbacking), polypropylene also has certain advantages (tougher, water
resistance, lightness, and greater ease of contouring).  Since it is expected
that technological developments are likely to overcome these technical disad-
vantages, price competitiveness and reliability of supply will be the key
factor in future. Since synthetics are generally derived from petroleum, the
cost of production will be influenced by the price of oil and by the extent
of pollution control required. An FAO study expects polypropylene prices
to grow by about 8% and 10% per annum between 1978 and 1980, assuming crude



- 62 -
ANNEX VII
Page 3
oil prices of US$11 and US$15 per barrel, although some U.S. firms forecast
that the price will remain at about the present levels. Another factor which
introduces uncertainty about the price is that synthetics are a by-product so
that producers have flexibility in allocating costs. Moreover, during the
last year, new relatively high cost plants of polypropylene production came
on stream at a time when there was already considerable unused capacity. 1/
On balance, the prices for polypropylene can be expected to be maintained at
the present levels or fall slightly, and jute good prices are expected to
follow suit.
8.        As discussed above over the period since 1975 the share of
Bangladesh in the world's exports of jute goods increased from 33% to about
46%. Compared to India, the other major jute good exporter, the Bangladesh
industry is likely to at least maintain its market at the present level, given
the high quality of its raw jute, its relatively cheap labor, its improved
quality over the past year, and its competitive production costs with India.
As the quality and reliability of Bangladesh's output improves, Bangladesh
may be able to capture markets from some European manufacturers. However,
to expand the current limited world market for jute goods, new fields of
application for jute goods should be developed and substantial research and
development efforts are necessary. UNDP/UNIDO are providing technical assist-
ance to BJMC in quality control and UNDP is also financing an advisor for
research and development. Strengthening of marketing and promotion efforts
will also be important. This is underway with technical assistance from ODM
and BJMC has taken steps to increase the number and the staff of its overseas
sales offices. Finally, diplomatic efforts must be continued to obtain re-
duction in tariff and quota barriers impeding efforts to export jute goods.
Raw Material Supplies and Prices
9.        Although average export prices in FY78 were 21% above those in FY77,
the average increase in the price of raw jute by 32% continues to be a major
factor affecting profitability. Raw jute acreage increased by about 15% and
raw jute production by about 10% annually during the last three years to about
1.8 million acres and 5.4 million bales in FY78. However there was still a
major shortage compared to the needs of BJMC's mills and export demand, which
caused the price increases. There are two major reasons for the further in-
crease of the raw jute price in FY78: first, at the beginning of the FY78
season most of the carryover of FY77 and even part of the new crop was already
committed to overseas contracts; at the same time the raw material stocks of
many mills did not exceed three to four days requirement at times, so that
jute purchases by the mills prevented prices from dropping. Secondly, in
late November 1977 when it was already clear that the FY78 crop would fall
short of the requirements, the Jute Ministry announced an ambitious production
target for BJMC, which contributed further to price increases.
1/   When about three years ago chemical companies decided to build new plants,
annual demand increases were expected to be about double of what they
actually turned out to be.



- 63 -
ANNEX VII
Page 4
10.       In FY77, BJMC was unable to buy sufficient raw jute directly at the
agencies as it was short of working capital. As a result, it had to buy jute
later at a higher price from traders. To avoid a similar situation in FY78,
GOB issued instructions to the commercial banks to provide timely credit to
the mills so they could build up their raw jute stocks to a level equal to six
months' production. Moreover, in FY78 BJMC appointed about 150 jute purchas-
ing officers, who would buy the raw jute in the field. However, when partly
as a result of BJMC's purchasing of raw jute the prices remained at relatively
high levels (Tk 128-135 per maund), 1/ GOB instructed BJMC to enter into a
"igentleman's agreement" with the private traders that no purchases would take
place above a certain price (Tk 125 per maund). Many of the private traders
ignored the agreement (particularly after GOB announced the revised production
target) and bought substantial amounts of raw jute which they sold towards the
end of FY78 to BJMC at Tk 180-200/maund, about 50% above the price prevailing
at the time of the "gentleman's agreement".
11.       Some of the effects of the increased raw jute prices on BJMC's
profitability were mitigated by increased prices for manufactured goods in
FY78 (paragraph 3). However, there is a definite need for GOB and BJMC to
deal with the raw jute prices and the allocation of raw jute among the mills
and the private traders. A study to this effect is under preparation as part
of the Action Program for the Sixth Credit and is due in February 1979. In
any case, favorable weather conditions and increased acreage as a result of
the high prices may result in a FY79 crop larger than that in the previous
years. This, in turn, might cause the prices to go down to the FY77 levels,
although they are unlikely to be allowed to go down much further since other-
wise farmers are likely to switch over to rice cultivation. Assuming that
prices of jute goods do not go down as much, improvement in profitability
would result. Another factor which would enable BJMC to reduce its losses,
or make profits, would be reduction in manufacturing costs, the measures for
which are discussed below. Efforts under the IDA jute project to increase
jute yields per acre should help also.
Factors Affecting Production Efficiency
12.       One major objective of the action programs agreed with IDA was the
need to increase the production efficiency of the industry, which was esti-
mated to have considerable potential for improvement. Among the principal
factors of low production efficiency were (i) the poor state of the equipment,
which had suffered from both inadequate supplies of spare parts and a virtual
lack of appropriate maintenance programs; (ii) unbalanced production capacity
due to shift in demand to lighter fabrics; and (iii) shortages of skilled
labor and management, which was closely related to the first problem; and
(iv) large scale absenteeism and power shortages. Moreover, the wastage
percentage was quite high due to inefficient use of raw materials.
1/   Cross bottom rate.



- 64 -
ANNEX VII
Page 5
13.       Overall, there has been an improvement in efficiencies achieved in
FY78 as compared to FY77 and FY76. In FY78 the average technical efficiency
in spinning remained at around 65% although overall efficiency (on basis of
installed rather than operating equipment) improved. Technical efficiency in
weaving was about 58% during FY78 compared with about 56% during tL-he previous
year. While the efficiency in weaving hessian increased by 3% and that of
sacking by 1% over the previous year, the weaving efficiency in carpetback-
ing fell by 1%, if calculated on a tonnage basis. Calculation on a yardage
basis would result in a slightly better efficiency because of more production
of lighter fabrics. Under the present condition of the equipment, the mills
are running at full capacity.
14.       The major bottleneck for increased production and for more effi-
cient use of the existing weaving equipment are the spinning departments of
the mills, which have not been able to produce yarn in sufficiernt volume and
quality to permit looms to operate at their optimal level of efficiency.
Past reports identified three major factors. The most important one was
the poor condition of equipment due to lack of appropriate maintenance pro-
cedures and availability of spare parts. During the last year, considerable
progress has been made in implementing comprehensive programs of preventive
maintenance together with programs of overhauling and rehabilitation of
machinery carried out by the maintenance task force, established under the
action program for the Fourth Industrial Imports Credit. However, some mill
managers do not fully appreciate yet the benefits of proper maintenance com-
pared to the cost of the spares and are therefore at times hesitant to install
the spares when the worn out machine parts are still functioning. Further
progress is expected in the coming years with improvements in training and
better supervision by BJMC after its organization is streamlined. The mills
have improved considerably the spare parts supply situation given better
foreign exchange availability and more efficient spare parts procurement
procedures, which allows them to order domestic and foreign spare parts
directly rather than through head office as previously done. The improved
maintenance has not been reflected yet in substantially improved production
efficiencies, but is expected to have its full impact during the coming years.
15.       The second factor was that two of the three makes of spinning frames
installed in Bangladesh (which are no longer marketed) have not reached their
desired levels of production and need some modification in order to increase
their outputs. Unfortunately, the modifications executed by BJMC during the
past year were not well considered and planned. As a result, the improvement
is only marginal and compares unfavorably with the resources spent. BJMC is
reviewing the situation to prepare adequate designs and production schedules
for the spare parts needed for the modifications.
16.       Another factor was the continuing shift to lighter fabrics (for
market reasons) in both hessian and carpetbacking. While this shift seems to
have slowed down in FY78, the imbalances created as a result of such a shift
during the previous years still persist and constitute a serious problem. To
meet the input requirements for operating looms for a given period, lighter



- 65 -
ANNEX VII
Page 6
yarns require more spinning time than heavy yarns; as a result the relation-
ship between spinning equipment and weaving equipment has changed, requiring
more of the former to keep a fixed number of looms operating. Balancing of
spinning equipment is proposed in the mill-by-mill survey (paragraph 29) and
would be clearly specified by BJMC in its BMR proposal.
17.       BJMC has also made progress in reducing the wastage percentage from
7.95% in FY77 to 7.51% in FY78 which, while still being rather high, is a
satisfactory achievement and ahead of the target for FY78 of 8.0%.
18.       The improvement program, as discussed above, will only have a gradual
effect on increased efficiency of the industry. In particular, there remains
also the shortage of skilled managerial and operational personnel, which
contributed to the problem in the first place. However, as agreed in the
action program for the Sixth Credit, BJMC has prepared a (satisfactory) train-
ing program which should be followed up closely during implementation. BJMC
has also prepared an (adequate) incentive system for its personnel, under the
action program for the Sixth Credit, to improve efficiency and reduce turnover
of qualified personnel.
19.       Two other aspects affecting the efficiency of the industry, i.e.,
quality control and productivity, are being tackled under UNIDO/UNDP assist-
ance. Since early 1978, one quality control advisor has embarked on an 18-
month program, and a group of consultants is studying possible productivity
improvements in individual mills. They intend to concentrate their efforts
initially on 4 mills, 1 in each zone, thus providing a model which other mills
can copy as the basis for further training. Other measures to improve the
performance of the industry, such as the implementation of a process account-
ing and budgeting system, a management information system, the monitoring of
the jute purchase and jute utilization, and the preventive maintenance and the
rehabilitation system are expected also to be initially concentrated on the
selected 4 pilot mills. This would mutually reinforce the effects of these
measures.
Organization, Finances, and Economics of Production
20.       BJMC continues to be managed by a Board of Directors consisting of
a Chairman, who is the Chief Executive, and 6 Directors, each of which is
responsible for one of BJMC's departments. Up to October 1978, there has been
sufficient continuity of BJMC's top management, since basically all Directors
were in their positions since creation of their respective departments. How-
ever, the Chairman, who joined in March 1976, was replaced in October 1978,
and the Finance Director leaves BJMC in November 1978.
21.       BJMC's mills are fully owned by BJMC and GOB is unlikely to de-
nationalize the jute industry in the near future. GOB appoints BJMC's Board
and auditors and approves BJMC's budget, which is reasonable. However, BJMC
is still lacking sufficient autonomy in raw jute buying and has faced pres-
sure by GOB to maximize production and sales, without due regard to the



- 66 -
ANNEX VII
Page 7
financial implications. GOB's intervention in FY78 when raw jute prices
were at worrisome high levels, and its pressure on BJMC to maximize production
and exports which made coordination between raw jute purchases and sales of
finished goods difficult, is largely responsible for about half of the losses
incurred by BJMC (paragraphs 9-11). Once the political situation stabilizes
(which in an election year was an important factor forcing GOB to deal with
the problem of raw jute prices and at the same time achieve high production
and selling targets), and as the necessary policy structure is established
(i.e., the raw jute allocation policy mentioned in paragraph 11) it should be
possible, to avoid the type of problem faced this year.
22.       BJMC's organizational structure at Headquarters appears adequate.
However, the problems of insufficient delegation of authority and lack of
decentralization .t the zonal level which prevents BJMC from being run more
efficiently, persist. Up to mid-1977, BJMC's 4 zonal offices were each re-
sponsible for supervising about 18-20 mills under their jurisdiction. That
arrangement did not work well, partly because most decisions were referred to
Headquarters and partly because the General Manager of each zonal office did
not have any qualified assistants to help him supervise effectively the mills
under his control. IDA and the ECL/PA consultants had recommended that the
zonal offices be strengthened so that below the zonal general manager some 3
deputy general managers would become responsible for a group of not more than
5-6 mills each. The zonal general manager would supervise these deputies and
would be the Chairman of the mills boards which BJMC had established (in July
1977) for each mill in an attempt to delegate authority at the mill level.
BJMC headquarters would mainly set policy and with an improved management
information system would coordinate and exercise control (although some as-
pects, such as sales of certain products would still need to be centralized).
However, in late 1977 BJMC stripped its zonal offices of all supervisory power
and gave them only an advisory role and data collection responsibilities. In
addition, the 77 boards for each mill met on average less than 3 times during
the 9-month period from July 1977 to March 1978, partly because it was arranged
that they be chaired mainly by BJMC directors who, given functional responsi-
bilities could not meet that often. At present, the zonal offices which have
been reduced in staff, are another layer in the bureaucracy and are not of
much use. An alternative approach to the organization, (if zonal offices are
not be given power), is to eliminate them completely and exercise control at
head office with an appropriate information system and delegation of respon-
sibility to BJMC's middle management who would be BJMC's representatives in
the mill boards. As they are, the zonal offices create delays in decision
making and are a burden to the mills administrative workload. GOB/BJMC have
clarified during negotiations that they have grouped in each zone one good
mill with one bad mill under the manager of the good mill in an experiment
which, if successful, could ultimately lead to the implementation of a reor-
ganization in which six to eight mills would be grouped under one senior mill
manager. BJMC will review its experience with the mill grouping by September
1979 and then decide on a reorganization.



- 67 -
ANNEX VII
Page  8
23.       BJMC's staff has basically remained at the FY77 level of about 900
at Headquarters and zonal offices, and 22,000 in the mills in addition to
173,000 workers including badlies and temporaries. However, the major problem
remains the quality of the staff rather than the quantity. BJMC continues to
have difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel because of
its low salaries compared with the private sector and employment opportunities
abroad. A GOB pay commission, has not yet come up with any final recommend-
ations directly affecting BJMC's staff. (However, a GOB wage commission has
increased wages by about 25%). The implementation of the comprehensive train-
ing program and incentive system discussed above should help solve this prob-
lem (paragraph 18). Although it was agreed under the Sixth Imports Credit that
BJMC should reduce the inter-mill transfer of managers, this remains a problem.
As of March 1978 out of 33 mills in Khulna and Chittagong, 16 managers had been
with the mills for less than 1 year. In order to develop an adequate under-
standing of the problems of a mill's operation, BJMC should keep its managers
in the same mill for longer periods, and it has confirmed that it will do so
after BJMC has implemented its present policy of posting a mill manager out-
side his home area.
24.       The scope of the internal audit which was modified in 1976, is now
appropriate. However, the procedures followed for clearance of the audit
report are still cumbersome and take up to 3 years. The steps being taken
for increased staffing and training of the Headquarters Audit Department and
for streamlining of procedures should improve this situation. The external
audit of every mill is still slightly behind the schedule agreed under the
Sixth Imports Credit, although further progress has been made. The audits
for 5 mills out of 77, are oustanding for FY76. The FY77 audit was due to
be completed by October 1978, but only 48 audits were completed by that date,
with another 19 in progress.
25.       While the consolidated losses of the mills during FY74-FY76 ranged
from Tk 240 million to Tk 330 million, the loss for FY77 almost doubled to
Tk 525 million, mainly as a result of sharply increased raw jute prices with
prices of manufactured jute goods remaining about the same. In FY78, the
average raw jute prices increased by 32% over those of FY77. However, the
losses increased only slightly over the FY77 level (Tk 605 million) before
subsidy (para 27) mainly because the prices of manufactured jute goods also
increased by 21% in FY78. Due to the better market situation than that envi-
saged last year, this loss would be lower than the target for FY78 (Tk 670
million). By product line, sacking, which broke even in FY76, made losses
in FY77 and FY78 (accounting for 11% of BJMC's losses), the reason being that
its sales prices did not increase to the same extent as raw jute prices in-
creased. Hessian continued to make losses in FY78, accounting for 51% of the
total, compared to 72% in FY76, mainly because of substantial increases in its
sales prices. The share of carpetbacking losses increased from 25% in FY77
to 34% in FY78. On sacking, the industry is covering its raw material and
conversion cost, which justifies continued production. Continued production
of hessian and carpetbacking is also justified since in FY78 the sales price
covered the raw material cost and almost all the conversion cost. For both



- 68 -                   ANNEX VII
P age  ~9
product lines the shortfall constitutes 20% of the factory wages so that 80%
of the wages are still covered. This would constitute a conservative shadow
wage rate of 80%. Under the additional assumption of a conservative shadow
exchange rate of 20% lower than the existing rate, not only the average mill,
but most mills are economically viable.
26.       The four major factors affecting operating profits remain raw
material cost, selling prices, conversion costs, and interest charges. Raw
material costs, which are expected to account for about 67% of the cost of
goods sold in FY78, had the most important impact on losses, and a study to
help determine adequate pricing policies for raw jute (paragraph 11) is under-
way. Concerning selling prices, the world market situation, particularly the
pricing of competing polypropylene has allowed a substantial recent increase
in jute good prices. However, further increases in jute good prices are un-
likely (paragraph 7). Conversion costs, which accounted for about one-third
of the cost of goods sold during FY78, are expected to increase substantially
due to the recent wage increase. This effect could be partly off-set through
increased production efficiencies subsequent to better maintenance, quality
control, equipment rehabilitation, and baiancing investmetiLs (paragraph 29).
Furthier, the Tk 335 million interest payments by BJMC representing about 60%
of its expected losses in FY78, had a major impact on BJMC's profitability
which could be improved through adequate capital restructuring.
27.       This capital restructuring program is required to assure BJMC's
financial viability. GOB had decided in 1977 to convert Tk 1 billion of the
mill's current liabilities (of which about half is owed to GOB and the other
half to commercial banks) into equity, but has not issued an administrative
order to this extent yet. However, GOB has confirmed that it will establish
BJMC's debt-equity ratio at 60:40 within a maximutm period of five years from
credit effectiveness by (1) reimbursement of operating cash losses for 1977-78
and years thereafter in full on a periodical basis; (2) making provision in
the annual Government budget for the unbridged operating cash losses for years
prior to 1977-78, and (3) making provision in the annual Government budget
for equity contribution to the jute industry. In practice, as of FY78, GOB
introduced a subsidy scheme, amounting to 20% of the value of hessian export
sales, 10% for sacking, and 15% for carpetbacking which is expected to cover-
ing almost of the FY78 cash losses 1/.
28.       There is a possibility through combined action on the points out-
lined above to make the industry economically efficient, as projected in the
targets. Assuming (i) a 5% drop in sales prices of jute goods in FY79 for
adjustment from the high FY78 level and constant sales prices thereafter;
(ii) a raw jute price of Tk 126/maund (cross-bottom) in FY79 and thereafter;
(iii) conversion cost reductions of about 2% p.a. (constant prices) due to
1/   The elimination of part of the mill's debts to BSB and BSRS with con-
comitant elimination of the same amounts of debt to GOB from the develop-
ment banks is also under consideration.



- 69 -
ANNEX VII
Page 10
improved efficiencies (after a 23% increase in FY79 over FY78 to reflect the
wage increases) the industry would break-even on a marginal costing basis
(excluding interest and depreciation) in FY83, even without applying shadow
wage and exchange rates.
Prospects
29.       General.  As discussed above, market growth is expected to be
limited averaging about 2% per annum until FY85. Even with this slow growth,
to maintain its market share, BJMC would need to make substantial efforts in
marketing and quality control. At the same time, there will be need for in-
creased research and development efforts to determine alternative uses for
jute and improve existing processing. Given the cost of continued financial
subsidies to the industry, there is need to make the industry economically
efficient and thus keep subsidies to a minimum. As discussed in paragraph
28, this is feasible with strong marketing (including quality control) effort
(paragraph 8), adequate raw jute pricing and allocation policies (paragraph
11), a program of capital restructuring (paragraph 27) and improvements in
production efficiency to reduce unit conversion costs.
30.       Balancing, Modernization and Rehabilitation (BMR) Investment.  Apart
from improvements in management, there would also be the need for a BMR in-
vestment, which consultants have shown to be economically viable, based on a
mill by mill survey. The internal financial rate of return, and the internal
economic rate of return for rehabilitation requirement for each mill are the
basis for listing all of BJMC's mills in order of priority for BMR investment.
Mills with the lowest levels of conversion costs and highest rates of return
on investment are to be selected to form the first stage of the proposed BMR
program. The Government of Bangladesh will continue its dialogue with IDA on
the jute industry and will furnish for IDA's review and comments its BMR pro-
posal based on the ECL/PA consultant's report not later than June 30, 1979.
31.       Impact of BMR.  The improved production efficiency from BMR is
likely to result in an increase in potential production which would bring
BJMC's total production to a level where it would exceed the projected demand
for jute goods given that world demand is likely to remain static or at best
show only marginal increases if prices are maintained at sufficiently high
levels to maximize the economic return on production. Thus, to achieve an
optimal economic scale of production (rather than to follow the past policy
of maximizing production tonnage which could entail a further increase in the
level of BJMC's losses and higher GOB subsidies) BJMC would have to reduce
production in its high conversion cost/uneconomic units as the levels of pro-
duction increased (because of BMR) in the low conversion cost/economic units.
Apart from optimising economic benefits, this course of action would minimize
financial losses and the need for Government subsidies.
32.       Marketing and Production Planning.  Prior to and during implement-
ation of the BMR programs, BJMC would submit to IDA for each of its mills
operational targets for items such as production, spinning and weaving



- 70 -                    ANNEX VII
Page 11
efficiency, conversion costs per ton, raw jute purchasing efficiency, wastage,
financial profits and economic costs of production, taking into account the
effects of BMR investment. The targets for individual mills would be arrived
at by taking into account the overall market potential for BJMC jute goods at
alternative prices, the cost of raw jute and the different levels of economic
production costs in individual mills. BJMC would review its yearly sales
targets, production plans and raw jute purchasing plans (consolidated and for
individual mills after having ranked the mills by economic efficiency) 1/,
every six months.
33.       Criteria for Rationalization of Production and Production
Facilities. Rationalization of production facilities would be carried out
in (i) those units whose marginal revenues after BMR do not cover their
marginal costs; (ii) those units which are not financially viable after BMR
and which when ranked in order of economic viability have the lowest rates
of economic return; and (iii) those uneconomic and unprofitable units whose
production is in excess of projected levels of demand. If the proposed
rationalization program to be applied to a mill could cause socio-economic
hardship, e.g., closure of a production line in a mill which is an area's
major employer, it may be necessary to continue operating all the produc-
tion facilities of the mill until such time as alternative employment oppor-
tunities can be identified even though this would result in a sub-optimal
economic scale of production and production mix. Should sub-optimal mills
be maintained in production for these reasons, the Government will exchange
views with the Association on alternative measures for providing employment
opportunities and for the elimination of the burden on the exchecquer re-
sulting from such operations. Steps will be formulated and undertaken by
the GOB in consultation with the Association to attain an efficient industry
in the 5-year period after the completion of the BMR program or by December 31,
1986 whichever is earlier.
34.       Although BJMC could be faced with a situation where its production
capacity (and production) is in excess of world demand for Bangladesh jute
goods, BJMC feels that the diversification of its product range and the
development of new markets should allow it to utilize such excess capacity
economically. However, given the projected decline in the world demand for
traditional jute goods, BJMC accepts the need to rationalize production in
order to achieve optimal scales of output and for BMR to reduce conversion
costs and improve operating efficiency.
1/   BJMC would rank its mills according to economic efficiency by sub-
tracting the marginal economic costs from the marginal economic benefits
of production for each mill. The marginal economic cost of production
would be calculated crudely as financial cost excluding depreciation
and interest and adjusting labor cost by a reasonable shadow wage
rate. The economic benefits would be crudely calculated as sales minus
raw material costs, adjusted by a reasonable shadow exchange rate.



7 71 -
ANIj;EX VII
A: flc-nt I
aANCIADESII JUJTE MI1L1S CORFLYS ION
Actual Performance, Targets and Other Indicators
(IDA Projection)
Target
PA RT IC U LA RS                               FY74      FY 75      FY76      FY77       FY78      FY78       Fy79      FY80       FY81      FY82       FY83       FY84      FYsis
A.  MARKET FROJECTION  (figures in '000 ton)                                                               I
1.  Total World Escorts for lure Goods
Hessian                                363       411        380       379        478       385        393       401        410       415        420        420       425
Sacking                                370       363        300       325        38)3      325 J   325          325        325       325        35        325       325
Csrpetbackisg                          228       143        210       182        214       191        20        210        220       225        215        235       240
Others                                 153       124         92        77         41.        79    9            110        120       123        15        125       130
Total                                1,114    1,041         972       963      1,1361    990    -1,017    -1,046    -1,075    -1,088    -1,10-5  -1,105            1,120
2.  Esports by 81MG
Hfessian                               153       136        162       158        185       160 j   175          185        185       185        195        185       085
Sacking                                208       174        210       254        244       205        245       2 45       245       245        2':)5      245       245
Carpetb-cking                           62        42         64         72        76         74        80        85        102       111        i .5       115        155
Other                                   23         17        22         22        171        301       20         20        20         20        :l0        20         20
Total                                  446       369        458       464        522      469,    525           535        542       561        565        565       565
3.  Production by B1MC                                                                     I  
Hlessian                               168       144        160       263        173        169       180       190        190       190        toO0       190        190
lacking                                222       220        218       224        260       235        285       285        285       285        73f5       285       285
C-rpetbacking                           65         40        68         69        74         74        HO         85       103        110       0S         115       -Il)
Others                                  30        28         24         25        23 ~   34            24        24         24         24        14         24         24
Total                                  485       432        470       481        530       512        569       584        602       609        414        614       614
1., EFFICIENCY TARGETS
4: Spinning Perfo---ance (Production lb-./spiodle Hr.)
lbs.,  7  lbs.  7.    ba- 1 lbs.   .  lbs. 7.Ie.7  lbs.  7.  lbs.  7%  lbs.  7.lbs.  7.lbs.  7.  lbs.  %.
Hessian WARP                                                     N                        602 72) .626 75  .651 78  .668 80  .470 78  .665 82---------
Hessian WEPT                                                        aveage average   .622 61   653 64  .673 66  .694 68  .70  68  .714 70 ---------
Sacking,IWARP                           HA        NA         NA      657.       65.      :65) 61  :685 65  .707 66  .728 68  .735 69   .749 70---------
Sacking WEPT                                                                (           183  62 11.90  64 1.96  66 2.02  68 7.05  69 7.08  70---------
C.EB. WARP                                                        J                       595 75, .636980  .659983  .67 585  .66  83  .691187---------
C. B. WEPT                                                                               .555 75  .593 80  .616 83  .630 85  .65  85  .645 87---------
5.  Weaving Performance (Production lbs./pE.ratisg loon Hr.) 
Hessian                                                   6.14 49  46.05 48  6.33 51) 6.05 49  6 38 51  6.80 54  7.56 60  8.06 64  8.70 69---------
lacking                                 NA        NA    17.63 60 17.57 60 18.00 61 17.57 60 l9:05 64519.3) 66 20.21 69 21.28 72 21.96 75---------
Carpetbacking                                            14.37 61 14.21 60 13.87 59114.21 60 115.21 64 15.64 66 16.35 69 17.52 73 1 7.77 775---------
6.  Wastage Percentage                      HA         NA      HA        7.95      7.51 I 8.0           7.3       6.8        6.50       6.50       6.30    ----------
7 .  conversion Cost. (Tk. per toe)       1,838    2,145  2,255         2,320      2,573    2,261        3,173    3,130        3,035   7,950        2,.397---------
8.  Raw Jute Consuption Ratio
Ratio of Av- 81MG Jute Gust
to Av. Market Price                    1.23   1.09         1.19      1.20        l.l9j   1.19        1.15      1.10       1.10        1.10        .10 --------
C.  CAPACITY REQUIRED                                                                                      I
9.  Number of Looms Operating 2/
H-sian                                                     12,165   82,702    13,6194' 13,035    12,782   12,680    11,711   10,985    10,177---------
lacking                                  NA       NA        5,939     5,981    6,7311   6,247     6,971    6,870          6,571      6,240     6,3148.---------
Carpetbacking                                               1.806    1,520    i 6S~                             1 690      1.935     1,952   2..Q12---------
Looms-   ~~~~~~L990    010                         2,932   21,388   21,240   20,217   19.177    18,2!37
10.  Percentage of Non-op-rtinR            3/1990                           010      2,0        2
(76)     (77)A/   (78)    ( 79-854/                                 I
Hessian         14,514  13,4,86      13,699   14,048           16          6         DE,       10         9       10          17        22         28----------
Sackieg          7,445    7,502       7,504     7,742          20         20        10o        16        10       11          15        19         22----------
C.8.C.           2,141   2,141        2,103    2,104           17         29        211        24 I      21       20           9          7         5---------
D.  EIMPLOYfMENT (Pernanent Workers '000)    141            137        131        132       1341;       -  I     134      133         128       123          319E----------
E.  CAPI-TAL STRUCTURE TARGETS 
11.  Debt/Equity RAtio 
LTD/EqolCtp Ratjo                      20.2:1    NEC          NEC        NEC        NEd      2:1 I       NA       NA         NA        60,40 -------------
TD/Equity Ratio                        10.0:1    NRC          NRC        NEC        HlC9   3.5:1 I      NA        HA         NA        3.5:1 -------------
I/ Is FY78 tie nmber of he...ian looms actually operatingwa  by about 157. lower than Indicated due to partial  104 shifts.
2/ Calculated on the basis of 2.4 14lg./'ton a             Inna   rdyucti,n. (In tone)        fur hessian and saking sod on 3-shift basis for cat petbacking.
16  7/da  (2 shIfts) s300 dy/yr. slbs.(o... hr.
3! GIve  the preent ned for maintenance, overhaul and rehabilttstio- about 10% t,, 157. ci l:-s have to he no-operating to allow ti-  for this.
4/ Based oninstalled looms.
5/ Hased onbudgeted loans.                                                                                                                           N-vm:l.-  II, 19/6



BA1ZGL,%DESH JTJTF 'q]ITLS C0RPCRATIION
Actual Performance, Target and other Indietors.
OCTSOLIDATED                         (IDA Projections)                                                  T  FFR -_
A     T  U  AL                   0rig:al                A  R  G  v  T
profitability                                                              r                                 _
,Y 1974  F`75         6 FY77         Y '7c    FY7&     -79 iY6                                 3
~~~T7~~~ ~                                                            . .F3  F0  '3
Se.les                       3487    5000    5914    5928    7194          6176    6794     6919   6983       7016     7030
Raw M!terials                 1867    2723    3156    3600    4747  i  417.5   3675         3692   3699       3704     3707
Ccnversion Cost              1838    2145    2255    2320    2573          2261    3249     3511   3136      3136      3148
Zpreeiation                    227      267     291      306      23c  .   29:3    272       262     256       252      251
In-entory Adjustmeflt         (234)   (317)    (27)   (1030)   (262)    (100)    116         (34)    -          -        -
Cost of Goods sold            3690    4813    5675    6046    7>50  |  6629    7312         7091   7091       7092     7106
Gross Profit & LOss           (211)    182      239    (118)   (156)    (452)   (518)    172    108           ( 76)     (76)
1  eteset                     (299)   (497)   (558)   (613)   (66)    (596)  (603)    (582)  (569)    (558             (558)
Other };xpnnsee               (230)   (2S3)   (2'79)   (322)   (273) I  (280)  (269)    (261)  (262)    (268)    (274)
Financial Net Profit/Loss (n1/ (7&0)    (558)   (593)  (1053)  (1075)   (1329)  (1390)  (1015)  (939)    (902)   (908)
ton)                                            -      __         -    _
Net Profit/loss (Tk mill.)                               (525)    (605)   (670)    729)   (543)  (518)   (506)   (513)
r  C
V                                                                  .                               3



- 73 -                              ANNEX VII
Attachment 1
Page 13
ASSUMPTIONS FOR PROJECTTIONS FY79 TO FY85
The sales prices of manufactured jute goods and raw jute prices have
been estimated conservatively.
1.  Sales Price:                Sales price has been taken as projection for the
year 1978-79 for all the years:
Hessian         -  8,000/- per ton
Sacking         -  5,500/- per ton
C.B.C.          -  9,000/- per ton
Cotton bagging -  3,500/- per ton
Others          -  6,849/- per ton
2.  Raw Jute:                  Tk 126/- per md. white X. Bott. has been pro-
jected for 1978-79 which has also been considered
for 1979-80 to 1982-83 projection.
3.  Other Fact. O/H:           At actual cost per ton of 1977-78 has been
taken for all years.
4.  Wages:                     As per revised projection of 1978-79 cost per
ton basis considering 60% fixed and 40% variable
wages, taking into account the wage increases
during 1978.
5.  Salary:                    As per actual amount of 1977-78 taking 5%
increase in each subsequent year.
6.  Depreciation:              Based on actual amount of 1977-78 and taken as
100% fixed for all the subsequent years.
7.  Spares and Stores:         As per actual cost per ton of 1977-78 consider-
ing 75% fixed and 25% variable.
8.  Power and Fuel:            As per actual cost per ton 1977-78 taking 20%
fixed and 80% variable.
9.  Insurance:                 At actual cost per ton of 1977-78 which has
also been considered all the subsequent years.
10. Other Factory O/H.
Interest & Adm.
Expenses:                  Based on the actual amount of 1977-78 taken
as 100% fixed for all the years.
11.  Selling Expenses:          At actual expenses per ton of 1977-78 and
considered the same cost per ton for all the
subsequent years.



- 74 -                                              ANNEX Vil
IAWUImI 1W! W?3s3 aoovn70                                        Atta&Lwet I
Page 14
znazi ha 11) ten
F   t * I  6  10   1  *  r   * FY7m4   FY75  Ym76   rrFY7 |Y78    Y mg        00   FY01n   FY2 jmg  ro Ij FM    I  J5
A. MAR"S P1O1SC?IO3
1  7etal world  xErte for Jute i.4 e
Boesisa                            363    411    330    379    440    393    401    410    415    420    420           425
Seeking                            570    363    300    325    575    325    525    325    325    325    325           325
Carpet EaokiUg                     228    143    210    182    190    200    210    220    225    235    235           240
Others                             153    124      82      77     75      99    110    120    123    125    125        130
Tot*l                             1114   1041    972    963   1OSO   1017   1046   1075   1OS   1'1n5   110S    1120
2. Ixporte by AM
Neo Lan                            153    156    162    156    185    180   10    204    210    235    235            240
Sackiug                            20     174    210    214    244    242    255    255    255    275    275           275
Coarpet BaOkiug                     62      42     64      72     76      83     85    102    111    115    115        115
Othere                              23      17     22      22     17      20     18      20     1S      21     18       19
Ftal                               44      369    458    464    522    525    548    531    594    C46    643          649
3. Pieduction by UAC W   AOI )
Hemojan                            168    144    160    163    173    191    192    214    228    246    246           246
SaekiRg                            222    220    218    224    260    285    282    295    311    321    321           321
catp.t Soaking                      65      40     60      69     74      n       99    103    110    112    112       112
Other"                              30      20     24      25     23      24     24      24      24     24      24      24
Fetal                              493    452    470    4&       no0   59n    597    656    673    705    703          703
P Y74       M5 ms      M S7       Pm7         n r7s    mTg         nw IT8               rm        M"1t82 n 5-
B. SWIOI.NCY TARGU
4.  Driwdaa Psrforn4eo((prodedatlen lbS./ei4o br.)
lbrg -f   be  lba. -1   DM      b .  lb      r. -1  lbs  .  S lb.. LNG   i  lbe  AL
..eeiam WARP                                                               .626 75   .651 78   .668 so   .670 78  .685 82
H*eean  wxrs                                                               .653 64   .675 67    .694 6"   .70  6e   .714 70
Seeking WARP            NA         NI        NA          NA    *    &      .685 64   .707 66   .728 68   .735 69   .749 70
Sacking WEFT                                                              1.90  64  1.96  66  2.02  68  2.05  69  2.08  70
C. B. WARP                                                                 .636 80   .659 33  .675 85   .66  83  .691 87
C. 3. WMFT                                                                 .593 80   .616 85   .630 85   .65  85   .645 87
5. wno-img perfeoraeae(?rodu,tina lb*./egrSting lo Hr..)
gOceGaM                                    6.14 49   6.05 4J   6.33 51  6.38  51  6.80  54  7.56  60  8.06  64  8.70  69
Sackiag                 NA         NA    17.63 60  17.57 60  18.00 61 19.05  64 19.33  6"20.21  69 21.28  72 21.96  75
Carpet Backlng                            14.37 61  14.21 60  13.87 59 15.21  64 15.64  6C 16.35  69 17.52  73 17.77  75
6. weatage frroontage       NA        NA        No       7.95      7.51      6.50       6.50       6.50      6.50       6.50
T. gftnvwLm_ eft(I.Yer $ea) 1935  2145    2t55             23tO       2573     31         3130       5035      2950     287
rY74   F75   PY76   PY77   F7    F7             0              2   ?T83-85
B. Muaber of ls-mseverstAn
Mc icn                                                    12165  12702  12514  13219  13219  13219  13219   13219
Secking                                     NA     NA      5939   5981   6841   6818   6818   6818   6"l8    6818
Carpet Back1ig                                             1806   1520   1901   2n04   2004   2004   2004    2004
9.       toc^ r   ^~r ts1
9.Proviss A*Of van-vogratxad loom
(2LA    () 2  (1ILA(1:) 2/
Ii*Mwian    14514 13486   13644   14084                      16      6       8       6      6       6      6       6
Saeking     7445  7502    7504    7742   NA        NA        20     20       9      12    12      12    12        12
C. B. C.    2141  2141    2103    2104                      17      29      10      5      5       5      5       5
1inal T ortld onpri an- based or- W-od Bank Report.
2/ Etr:-mnt' b-sed -1r operting looms d\ring June 1978.
3/ Based on installed lowms.
4/ Based o bo,dgetd bon-.                                                                        November 10, 1978



P90QZMA E JV!  IWILS  OOIAO IOXN
lotual Perferuaroa   7aw ct and ethr Ialae.atev
OOUOLIDATRS 
A   U  T  U  A  I                   Original             T  A  R  G        T
Prof itabllity                                   ?UALTarget    173W.jW sj!2                                                      T,
Prefltabl1tty e ~1974[  n7s  I  Pr6 1   1M    I  W7                    Ff       PY79  Pn9|o  L m                        TM1
ga1lc                           3487     5000      5914     5928      7194      6176     "29       6816      6880     6910       691*
Raw haerials                    1867     2723      3156      3600     4747      4175      3678     3692      3699      3704      3707
O.nvers.a ooct                 1838     2145      2255     2320      2573      2261      3173     3130      3035     2950       2897
Depreclation                     227       267      291       306      292       293       262      259       243       230       220
Ir*JktoXY Ad JvBtu*zt           (234)   (317)       (27)   (180)    (26t)    (100)         116      (34)       -         29          2
cost of G*OdS sold              3698     4818      5675      6046     7350  |  6629       709      7047    6977    6913          6826
_   -    _    _                         . _I               -    - _   _    _-.
0rua  Profit & Leas             (211)    182        259      (118)   (156)    (453)  I (400)   (231)    (97)             (3)        90
Intere t                        (299)    (497)    (558)   (613)    (646)    (596)     (p90)  (574)           (539)   (509)    (4ft)
Other Expenses                  (230)    (293)    (279)    (322)   (273) I  (280)  I (2f8)   (258)   (251)    (245)              (240)
__                              I          j--- 
Financial Net Profit/Loss (Tk/ (740)     (588)    (598)  (1053)  (1075)   (1329)  1(1938)  (1063)    (887)   (757)                (633)
ton)                                                                .                                        - 
Net Profit/Loss (Tk mill.)                                   (525)     (605)    (670)    (650)   (582)       (515)    (450)      (412)
Net Profit/Loss before                                                       I                                
Depreciation & Interest       -214      +176      +251      -134      -137                -396    -230      -105       -18        +70    a
Deduction of costs assuming                                                                                                               U
shadow wage rate of 80%                                              +276  |             +390    +387       +374       +363      +354      Ft
Marginal Economic Profit/Loss                                           139                -6      +157      +269       +345      +284



AGsLUH  OVTU W              POR
A*tual PeOf rsz Ao*., Tarigt and *tni X5i*ep         .
MUSIANfks
r1f  111          F           A       C  S  U  A  L             riTgnatl                T  A  a G   I  t
1 19741    7         Y76    FY77    P T        rS Y78    V79     Y0    P1    TM2   P183
Salea                        4223    6252    6543    6951    8142    7000   S000    8000    8000    a000    8000
law Eatzrialo                2108    3120    339        3837    5065    3790 1 4015        4013      4013    4013    4013
a erime  Cent                2464     29%6    3029    3106    3556    3019   4359    4306    4051    3919    376
DSPXeoiati*a                  297      338      358      366       31|  355    332           328      295      277      257             1
IrnYatery Adjustm.Nt         (218)    (S4)        4    (132)   (429) I (100)        64       (73)       1       28       (2)
Cost of Coeds gold           4651    6370    6790    7179    8553    7064   8766    8574    8560    8237    8034 
_ -                 -        -       -a t.  
Gross Profit                 (428)   (118)    (247)   (228)   (41l) I  (64)  (766)   (574)   (360)   (237)    (34)
Interest                     (414)   (672)   (718)   (810)   (816)   (790)1  (750)   (742)   (668)   (626)   (580)
Other UIp.nrs.               (278)   (314)   (318)   (412)   (5*4) I (326)1  (525)   (323)   (304)   (293)   (281)
Not Pr.fit/1.sa             (1120)  (1104)  (1283)  (1450)  (1572)  (1180) (1863)  (1639)  (1332)  (1156)   (895)
-  --               -    -    -  ---                             - -. - -
Net Profit/Loss before
Depreciation & Interest     -409     - 94      -207     -274      -393  1          -781     -569      -369    -253      - 58          >
Deduction due to 80% shadow s
Marginal Economic8 520 -789    +729                                                                                      452
tiarginal Economic                               - ~~~~~~~~~                    ~ ~~~17  -257  49  +119    +219  +394



Ih.IQLAD;SK JVTh WThLl C ORPOk&TI02
ACtual P*rOf*    co. Ta.rt and !tbr 
z       ~~A  C  T  U  A  L                erg                   A. I  6  I  I
?repil 7  1974   ps    YVk    Yf       w      FY78               ss9  |          irn 7F.3
B .1.                         2745    4071    4995    4768    6139 i 5000           1     550      550       "55     ."55
UV Wiatoriali                 1530    2356    2C18    3072    4245    3130 13M            3188'   3188    3158    3188
conversion Cost               1381    1532    1589    1643    1794    1618  2230    2230    2180    2123    2093
D@pr7sistioU                   149      1SO 0    164      167      160      163   144      148      141       134      130
Inv  nt.ry AdJustmobft        (233)   (575)    (77)    (97)   (215)j  (75)j 11               (6)       1      (13)      -
aset of aGso  sold            2827    3465    4448    4785    5984  1 4836  54S           5560    5510    5432    5411
-      -        -       -          -         I_        ,,         __
oreg# Profit                    (82)    606      545       (27)    155      164 1 (1)       (60)    (10)       68       89
Zt-r Ft               ~~~~~(18)    (2581)   (301)   (312)   (363))  (305)1 (332)   (335)   (321)   (305)   (296)
Other Axpenas                 (190)   (230)   (216)   (228)   (213) I (215)1 (206)   (207)   (20*)   (200)   (198)
-I-       -72 -                        I  -         -        -        -4-
et profit/Los                  (59)       8        28    (557)   (421)  (356) (725)   (602)   (535)   (437)   (405)
Net Profit/Loss before                                                          l
Depreciation & Interest       -123     +290    +437       - 78    +102           -247     -119      - 73     + 2    + 21
Cost Reduction due to 80% Shadow
L..b Ratc                                                          208            292      294       286      278     272      - |
Marginal Economic Profit/Loss                                       310  f          45      175      213       278     293       I -H



3JGU~IR11~ JUTIWLS GII       OIPCRATION
Aetval Performaos, T.rg.t and *ther Ialioate._'u
CAOPX? BACKING CLO?                                                                                 YAA 13  YOU
A CTUAL                               a           T L U G I 7
Prof Ttabilt.                                                           T^rzet
4 19741   Y75    FY76    F Y77 IY78    FY78                     0 1  F8                  Y 3
sal..                        4697    6117    8089    78 99    8929  1 8200 I 9000    9000    9000    9000    9000
flaw materials                2485    3588    4294    4668    5786 5    4230   4637    4637    4637    4637    4637
Goaver.i.t cost               2158    3049    2813    2913    3287    2874   3902    3647    3569    3444    3434
Depreciatisn                   364     i99       576     628      619      610    492      459      439      410      404
Inventory Adj3utusat           (60)   (428)       13    (116)   (181)             1 -  317  118       1      (19)    (14)
-  - -  - - - - - <
Cost of goods Sold            4947    6908    7696    8093    9511  I 7714   9168    8861    8646    6472    8461
-  ---a           -        -       _ I              -      -         -        -
Gross Profit                  (250)   (791)    399    (194)   (5s2)   (486)  (168)    139           354      528      539
Intereet                      (474)  (1-101)  (1152)  k1217)  (1259)  (1179) ('1000)   (934)   (894)   (834)   (8l22)
Other Epenses                 (271)   (399)   (401)   (424)   (335) 1 (380)  (504)   (296)   (290)   (262)   (261)
-     ~-          -        -        -,  I           ----  _ -
Not PrQfit/Lose               (995)  (2291)  (1160)  (1835)  (2178)  1073) 1(1472)   1091    (830'   (588)   (564)
Net Profit/Loss before
Depreciation & Interest      -157     -491     +568    + 10    -301              + 20     +302     +503    +656      +662
Cost Deduction due to 80%                                                                                                         0  t
tShaudow Wage Rate                                                3i  i           ,, 
Marginal Economic Profit/Loss                                       15             442      728      917    1055      1058



- 79 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SEVENTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
COTTON TEXTILE INDUSTRY
General
1.        In 1975, IDA conducted a study of the cotton textile industry in
Bangladesh (Report No. 833-BD of September 25, 1975), on the basis of which
the textile industry action program for the Fourth and Fifth Imports Program
Credits were developed. The President's Report on the Sixth Imports Program
Credit (Report No. P-2155-BD of November 8, 1977) gave the background for the
action program agreed under the Sixth Credit. This Annex concentrates on the
developments in Bangladesh's textile industry since then.
2.        Bangladesh's cotton textile industry accounts for about 15% of value
added in the manufacturing sector and employs some 70,000 workers, approxi-
mately 4% of Bangladesh's industrial workforce. Bangladesh Textile Mill
Corporation (BTMC) produces about 60% to 70% of the yarn and about 15% of the
cloth needed by the country. The private sector produces no yarn but about
60% of the cloth. The balance of about 30% of the yarn and cloth is imported.
General Trends in Production and Sales
3.        In FY77, as a result of serious raw cotton shortages (para 5), the
production of yarn and cloth dropped from its FY75 high of 91.7 million lbs.
of yarn and 84.6 million yards of cloth, to 82.4 million lbs. and 68.1 million
yards respectively. However, in the latter part of FY77, GOB made substantial
purchases of raw cotton which removed this constraint and FY78 production is
expected to peak at 106.9 million lbs. of yarn and 84.5 million yarns of cloth.
These results are in line with target for yarn but fall 17% short for cloth. 1/
1/   Reference to targets relate to the target agreed with IDA for the Sixth
Program Credit although in the case of the financial results they have
been adjusted to reflect decisions on prices discussed during negotia-
tions.



- 80 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2
PRODUCTION AND STOCKS OF YARN AND CLOTHi  ETMC
FY70   FY74   FY75   FY76   FY77   FY78 /a
Yarn (in million lbs)
Sales /b                             66.7   60.2   84.1   70.4   83.7
Production                  105.7   95.5  100.6   91.1   93.5  106.9
Closing Stock                        13.2   23.3    7.7    2.1    8.1
Cloth (in million yds)
Sales                                71.1   77.3   75.0   84.7  112.4
Production                   59.1   78.7   85.9   75.9   68.6   84.5
Closing Stock                        17.5   24.8   24.2    7.6    1.2
/a   Preliminary actual.
lb   Does not include yarn used by BTMC mills for its own production.
Source:   BTMC.
4.         Similarily, BTMC's sales are expected to increase in FY78 over the
FY77 levels by 17% for yarn and about 20% for cloth, mainly because of unsat-
isfied demand in FY77, but also because BTMC has expanded a number of its
direct sales outlets and revised the general allocation of the yarn and cloth
to wholesalers and cooperatives (para 23). During FY77 and FY78, cloth sales
were larger than production, and as a result the closing stock position de-
creased from 4-month's sales in FY76 to about 1 month's sales in FY77 and is
expected to fall to about one week's sales at the end of FY78.
Stocks and Raw Materials
5.        During 1976 and early 1977, BTMC was experiencing severe shortages
of raw material due to a lack of autonomy in the procurement of raw cotton.
Several major purchases had been rejected by the Ministry of Industries on
price grounds. The shortages resulted in a drop in capacity utilization from
66% to 21% for the three months of April 1977-June 1977 and the closure of some
units. To alleviate this situation, GOB authorized towards the latter part of
FY77 the immediate purchase of 30,000 bales of raw cotton against cash foreign
exchange and approved the placing of contracts for a further 90,000 bales or
about 9-month's stock.  This was done at a time when prices were at a peak
level averaging 78 cents per lb; subsequently, prices fell to 50-60 cents per
lb. As at October 31, 1978, BTMC still held 29,000 bales or 2-month's pro-
duction of this high priced cotton in stock, which will affect its cost
structure until December 1978.
6.        On July 1, 1977, GOB removed the constraints upon BTMC's procurement
autonomy giving it freedom to procure raw cotton and spare parts without the
need to refer contracts to its supervising Ministry for approval. This
should help avoid the problems faced in the past and BTMC has prepared a
detailed procurement plan of phased purchases for FY79, assuring a 3-month
minimum stock of raw cotton at the mill and a 3-month supply in the pipeline.



- 81 -                     ANNEX VIII
Page 3
7.        Since July 1977, BTMC has intensified experiments with blends of
cotton and viscose staple fiber, import prices of which are 15% to 20% below
those of cotton in an effort to reduce production costs. Initially, BTMC
introduced an original mix of 75% cotton, 25% viscose. Early in FY78, this
was increased to 60% cotton, 40% viscose which sells at 5% to 10% below pure
cotton yarn. However, consumer reaction to a 60-40 mix has not been good
because of a weakening of cloth strength and durability - particularly under
Bangladesh climatic and user conditions - and BTMC has now reverted to the
lower viscose mix of 75-25.
Factors Affecting Production Efficiency
8.        General.  During FY78 there have been improvements in some of the
areas identified previously where action was needed to improve production
efficiency. For example, there is now increased procurement autonomy, better
maintenance practices and a greater availability of spare parts. However
some of the factors constraining further improvement in production efficiency
have continued, such as industrial unrest and absenteeism, power failures
and inadequate quality control.
9.        Spindle utilization increased from 78% in FY77 to 82% in FY78.  The
average ounce per spindle shift improved substantially from 2.2 in FY77 to 2.4
in FY78, although this is still considerably below international standards
including those in other countries in the South Asia Region. Loom utilization
increased from 61% in FY77 to 67% in FY78; while the average yards per loom
shift increased from 18.3 in FY77 to 20.3 in FY78. Overall, the total number
of installed spindles and looms increased by 2%-3%. BTMC reduced its wastage
on yarn production from 10.6% in FY77 to 9.5% in FY78, and the wastage on
cloth production from 4.5% in FY77 to 4.1% in FY78. These results are in
line with the targets that had been agreed with BTMC.
10.       Industrial Relations.  Capacity utilization could have been higher
had there not been constraining factors, which are somewhat outside BTMC's
control, such as strikes and absenteeism. During February/March 1978, all
but 5 of the 54 textile mills were closed for 2-3 weeks as a result of workers'
strikes for higher wages and fringe benefits, which resulted in a loss of
about 5% of BTMC's annual yarn production and 4% of its annual cloth produc-
tion. Absenteeism during FY78 was the same as during FY77 (30%) and accounted
for the loss of about 2% and 4% of possible annual yarn and cloth production
respectively. In order to reduce absenteeism in the future, BTMC has intro-
duced (i) the payment of an attendance bonus, payable after 290 days of attend-
ance, (ii) an incentive system based upon production performance (para 22),
and (iii) increased the pool of trained badlies.
11.       Power Supply.  Due to power failures which were in FY78 about equal
to those in FY77, BTMC lost the equivalent of about 3% and 1% of the annual
yarn and cloth production respectively. There is very little BTMC can do
about this, except to install standby generators, which, however, may be
uneconomic. These constraints and the need to rehabilitate equipment, pre-
vented BTMC from utilizing its capacities to a fuller extent since there
does not seem to be any market constraint at present levels of production.



- 82 -                  ANNEX VIII
Page 4
12.       Quality Control.  Quality control is another major factor affecting
production efficiency, particularly in the areas of back processing and spin-
ning. Quality control throughout the Corporation is far from standard with
many units having little or no equipment to carry out quality control checks.
Primary quality control of raw cotton purchases in particular, is an area where
close attention is needed. Laboratory facilities at Chittagong are inadequate
so that the extent of quality control is limited to a minimal random sampling
from bales for micronaire and staple length testing. Normal quality control
standards call for a 10% testing of deliveries. With the facilities available
to the Corporation, it would have taken 13 months of single shift operation to
have tested the bulk purchases in April 1977-June 1977.
13.      The inadequacy of primary quality control has two immediate effects
upon efficiency: (i) incorrectly graded cotton is passed to the mills with
disruption to production of specific yarn counts and dislocation of the rela-
tionship between spinning and weaving equipment geared to specific material
types; and (ii) BTMC could be paying for lower grade cotton than it agreed to
purchase which affects profitability. As of October 31, 1978, claims for
US$5.8 million were under negotiation. BTMC is taking the following actions
to deal with these problems; (i) review of claim nrocedures and negotiation
of outstanding claims, (ii) introduction of USDA 1/ standards for raw cotton
specification; and (iii) upgrading of facilities in the mills and at the
central laboratory, at Chittagong. Progress in the area is important and
will be closely followed up by IDA.
14.       Maintenance.  During FY78, there was a considerable improvement
in the spare parts/maintenance situation that had existed during FY76/FY77.
During the first part of FY78, GOB made available cash foreign exchange for
spare parts purchases and this eased the shortage situation that had existed.
Spare parts ordered in FY75 and FY76 have now been received by mills and the
general position has been improving. BTMC has delegated authority to mill
managers to purchase spare parts on the local market and up to certain finan-
cial limits on foreign markets. BTMC is now monitoring the spare parts
position of the mills on a monthly basis to help correct inventory imbalances
among mills.
15.       As from November 1977, BTMC has introduced a program of planned
maintenance for all mills. Six maintenance review teams 2/ have been estab-
lished (one for each administration zone) to assist mills which have not
yet prepared maintenance programs and to help with implementation. Further,
BTMC has carried out a review of its workshop facilities and has identified
the equipment needed to allow these units to produce many of the mill spare
parts requirement. Proposals have been prepared by the Technical Directorate
for the establishment of three types of workshop (depending upon the mill
size) capable of producing some critical spares and non-proprietary spares.
Proposals have also been made for the strengthening of existing facilities
by the replacement of equipment and the expansion of services provided. This
1/   United States Department of Agriculture.
2/   Each team has six members headed by a qualified engineer.



- 83 -                    ANNEX VIII
Page 5 
will be reviewed under the UNDP/UNIDO technical assistance program to improve
mill productivity and spare parts facilities. In this regard, GOB/BTMC have
made a formal request to IDA for technical assistance. When implementing the
latter program there should be a close follow up to ensure that existing
facilities, such as those of the Bangladesh Engineering Corporation, are
utilized to the fullest extent.
16.       Mill Investment.  During FY78, under the provisions of the Sixth
Imports Credit, BTMC established review teams to examine the balancing, modern-
ization and rehabilitation (BMR) requirements of each of its mills. The re-
view was intended to help find the least cost solution for meeting expected
levels of cloth and yarn demand and to establish procedures for allocating
scarce foreign exchange resources to specific mills, including those units
classified as sick units (i.e. units with severe imbalances of equity struc-
tures and/or operating obsolete equipment). The results of this survey were
to be linked with the results of ongoing studies aimed at identifying the pos-
sibilities for producing man-made fibres locally and to obtain basic data on
the handloom and "small"-powered loom sectors, including their relative effi-
ciency as compared to the mills in the organized sector.
17.       The review of BMR requirements for BTMC has been concluded, and a
proposed BMR program prepared and submitted to the Ministry of Textiles for
arrangement of project financing either through IDA or some other bilateral
agency financing source. GOB/BTMC have excluded the BMR requirement of five
"sick" mills from the survey on the grounds that contracts and financing
arrangements for rehabilitation had been concluded before commencement of
the mill-by-mill study. (As at October 31, 1978, two mills had been com-
pletely rehabilitated and a major part of the rehabilitation of spindles
completed in three others). While the review of BMR requirements has been
concluded and a program for implementation prepared, the study of the rela-
tive efficiency of handloom versus large-powered units, which is an integral
part of the overall investment requirement analysis, will not now be completed
until September 30, 1979.
Organization
18.       General.  Notwithstanding the large number of mills under its
control, BTMC's organization has continued to function satisfactorily. The
vacancies on BTMC's Board of Directors existing last year were filled with
4         the appointment of 3 new Directors (the Board comprises 6 Directors plus the
Chairman). However, in October 1978 GOB transferred four of BTMCs seven
directors.
19.       Staff.  Among the major problems still affecting BTMC's general
management is the continued inter-mill transfer of managers. During FY78,
110 mill managers/supervisors were transferred. This was due partly to BTMC's
attempts to improve the performance of the inefficient mills. However, this
action has served to weaken the more efficient units without any immediate
benefits in the weaker units. This matter has been further discussed with
BTMC which has confirmed its intentions to reduce such transfers in the future.



- 84 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 6
Another major problem continues to be the turnover of senior staff. In FY77,
49 senior mill managers/departmental managers left the service of the BTMC,
while to March 31, 1978, 67 senior officers left its service. In both years,
recruitment to offset the staff losses was lower than terminations, leaving
some units without experienced officers. This reinforces the FY77 mission
finding of the need to upgrade BTMC's executive training program. The dis-
ruptions caused by senior staff transfers have been further aggravated by
the recent transfer of BTMC's directors including the Chairman.
20.       Training.  During FY78, BTMC has done a considerable amount of
development work on preparing and implementing a comprehensive training pro-
gram. In March 1978, a training mill (Kohinoor) with 25,000 spindles was
commissioned together with the creation of a training institute staffed with
lecturers from the Cotton Textile Institute, BTMC, the University of Dacca
and the Institute of Business Administration. Using the facilities at Kohinoor,
BTMC plans to provide refresher technical courses for existing employees and
basic training for 600 new employees every three months. 1/ The first two
of these courses have been completed and the third commenced on November 1,
1978. The BTMC has also introduced an arpprenticeship training scheme for
spinners and weavers, whereby an apprentice (intake equal to 5% of each mill's
total workforce) will undergo a 20-22 weeks training course in spinning and
weaving procedures. Unlike previous schemes where the trainees did not receive
any pay, trainees under the program will receive a monthly wage of Tk 180.
BTMC also has prepared a corporate training program which is being revised
based on discussions with IDA.
21.       Autonomy.  The major problems of BTMC's autonomy vis a vis GOB had
been in procurement, personnel recruitment and remuneration, and marketing.
These problems have been largely resolved, except for remuneration (para 23).
With regard the mills, spare parts procurement has been strengthened, and with
the creation of enterprise boards, the mills are now also operating with
sufficient autonomy.
22.       Pricing.  The setting of ex-mill prices of yarn and cloth is still
controlled by GOB, whose present policy is to set price levels on a cost plus
percentage basis (currently a 5.0% return on sales before tax). Thus, BTMC's
prices were adjusted by an average increase of 25% in October 1977 to recover
part of the substantial increases in the cost of raw cotton and staple fiber,
which had taken place during FY76 and FY77. The adjusted BTMC's prices did
not constrain sales.  At present, both ya-rn and cloth produced by BTMC is
being sold by retailers on the free market at substantial premia over the ex-
mill price. Although the October 1977 price increases were aimed at restor-
ing BTMC's debt servicing capacity the impact of wage settlements approved
in July 1978 and which were retroactive to March 1977 have offset any bene-
fits gained from the price adjustments. Following the announcement of
1/   BTMC also has been asked by GOB and is assisting in the training of
labor which is to be sent to the Middle East.



- 85 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 7
the wage rate increases, GOB reviewed BTMC's pricing structure and, on the
basis of projected increases in production and decreases in raw material
costs, announced a 10% price reduction on BTMC's basic products. The price
structure now established is projected to give BTMC an operating profit of
Tk 136 million for FY79. The frequent changes of price for textile products
highlight the need for GOB to establish a pricing policy for the industry
which addresses the issue of conflicting objectives (e.g. consumer subsidies
vs. unit profitability) and to base BTMC's pricing structure on (i) production
at given levels of operating efficiency; (ii) procurement of raw material at
given levels of price and procurement efficiency; and (iii) the provision of
an adequate rate of return on sales/investment in order to maintain and re-
place production facilities.
23.       Wage/Incentive Systems.  Under the provision of the Sixth Program
Credit, BTMC agreed to develop a comprehensive incentive system for the
Corporation and its mills. In early FY77, BTMC introduced a revised system
applicable to all mill workers providing for the payment of incentives based
upon the attainment of an agreed percentage of a production target established
by BTMC. This system is supported by a series of bonuses which provide for
lumpsum payments to employees of the "mill of the month" and "mill of the
year." 1/ On the basis of discussions with IDA, BTMC is revising its system
inter alia, to deal with the problem of providing rewards for a percentage
achievement of target rather than attainment of target or better than target
performance. Further refinements and expansion of the BTMC's incentive system
would have to await the results of the Wage Commission currently reviewing
public sector wage structure as GOB feels that these should be consistent
for all public sector corporations.
24.       Marketing.  Since July 1977, there have been no major changes in
the method of distributing and selling yarn and cloth with 55% of yarn and
cloth production being distributed through governmental/semi autonomous agen-
cies and 45% through mill outlets, sales centers and wholesalers. However,
BTMC has opened 20 sales and display centers in 19 administrative districts
and a program of appointing Thana-based cloth dealers (with a maximum of 5
dealers in each Thana) is being implemented. BTMC has started also, on an
experimental basis, to sell yarn directly to the weavers through mobile sales
centers. Additionally, BTMC is studying the possibility of opening retail
outlets in areas of concentration of weaving units and in rural communities.
If implemented, this would result in the creation of a separate selling company
with responsibility for sales and distribution from the mills. The study would
determine the desirability of a systematic penetration into the wholesale and
retail distribution market of yarn and cloth.  In this regard, it is important
to ensure that the private and public sector distribution outlets compete with
each other, under the same terms and conditions, to promote efficiency and so
that all aspects of marketing and distribution are covered.
1/   The mill achieving the highest yarn and cloth production during the
period.



- 86 -                     ANNEX VIII
Page  8
25.       Management Control.  During FY78, BTMC implemented a number of
imnprovernents to its in,ormation and control systems.  The delays in data
presentation have been greatly reduced. Monthly production statistics and key
financial data such as sales, cost of sales, gross and net profit and total
stock holdings are now available within 6 to 8 working days after the end of
each month. Detailed financial statements are, however, still not available
until about the 15th working day after the quarter end. While presentation
lhas been improved, the Board receives too much detailed information.  BTMC is
taking action to replace the detailed schedules received by the Board with
reports derived from the mill level reports, but showing aggregated and
filtered exception reports.  As part of its program to rectify the weaknesses
in the control system, BTMC is increasing the number of accounting officers at
each mill and has undertaken a program aimed at recruiting about 200 graduates
in commerce and business administration during 1977/78. As of October 31,
1978, 100 officers had been recruited and had completed a three-month train-
ing program based upon BTMC's management system and information requirements.
Some improvement is evident in the operation of the control systems. Once the
recruitment and training program is completed in mid FY79 BTMC will, as pre-
viously agreed with IDA (i) introduce flexible budgets and predetermined!
standard costing; (ii) establish updating of financial records on a daily
rather than month-end/quarterly basis and (iii) redefine management's control
data requirements with greater emphasis upon management by exception.
26.        Internal Audit.  Since July 1977, BTMC has taken action to upgrade
its internal audit function and remove the weaknesses that existed in the
level of audit staffing. The number of audit teams has been increased from
six to te-n and a detailed mill audit program prepared for FY78/FY79. BTMC
has accepted IDA's recommendation to expand the role of the internal audit
function to include a review of management practices and has established a
technical audit team to review production procedures and efficiencies. The
reporting responsibilities of internal audit have been changed and the func-
tion is now under the direct control of the Chairman.
27.       External Audit.  The external audit program is slightly behind the
schedule agreed under the action program of the Sixth Imports Credit which
called for completion of the FY76 audit by October 31, 1977 and the FY77
audit by June 30, 1978. By October 31, 1978 the FY76 audit had been completed
for all mills, but the FY77 for only about 75% of the mills. The delay is
because of the shortage of accountants in the country. The revaluation of
assets program being carried out by BTMC's accountants is now due to be
completed by November 30, 1978.
Financial Position
28.       General.  Due to sharply rising prices of raw cotton and viscose
staple and a controlled price structure, BTMC incurred an operating loss
of Tk 138 million in FY77. In October 1977, GOB approved a 25% increase in
BTMC's selling prices. This was expected to give BTMC an operating profit
of Tk 141 million for FY78. However, a retroactive wage rate increase of



- 87 -
ANNEX VIII
Tk 127.5 million in July 1978, together with the effects of industrial un-
rest which reduced production and sales of yarn and cloth, resulted in BTMC
incurring a FY78 operating loss of Tk 45.0 million. For FY79, on the basis
of projected improvements in production and production efficiency, GOB has
reduced BTMC's prices by 10% and has projected an operating profit of
Tk 136 million. However, given the changes possible in the price/cost struc-
tures, an understanding has been reached with GOB/BTMC that further revisions
of BTMC's price structure will take place once the implications of the wage
rate increase and price reductions upon BTMC's operations become clearer.
Such a review would be carried out in December 1978 and March 1979.
29.       Although controlled selling prices and rising costs have had a con-
siderable impact upon BTMC's profitability, the operation of "sick" textile
units has also been a major factor in BTMC's profit deterioration. These
units incurred losses of Tk 90 million in FY77 (about half the total unit
losses) and losses of Tk 60 million in FY78. However, it is anticipated
that these units will become profitable once the rehabilitation programs
currently being carried out are completed and GOB convert the Annual Devel-
opment Program contributions into equity.
30.       As part of the overall program to rationalize the cotton textile
industry, an understanding has been reached with GOB that a capital restruc-
turing of the industry will be carried out within a maximum period of five
years from the date of effectiveness of the proposed Seventh Imports Program
Credit. The restructuring would include infusion of sufficient equity funds
to give all units a debt/equity ratio of 60:40, conversion of ADP allocation
into equity and reimbursement of the operating losses of the sick textile
units prior to FY78.
Prospects
31.       It should be possible for the textile industry to improve its
services while returning to profitability through adequate pricing policies,
procurement procedures and continued improvement in productivity, as well as
in management systems, including distribution policies. However, there are
a number of long-term issues concerning the industry which need to be resolved.
One issue is that presently all the raw material has to be imported. This
may put a constraint on BTMC's total production, given Bangladesh's limited
foreign exchange. The Bangladesh Council for Scientific and Industrial Re-
search (BCSIR), with funding under the IDA technical assistance credit, is
continuing to examine the feasibility of mixing a chemically treated jute
fiber with cotton (jutton) to reduce the import requirements and the possi-
bility of producing man-made fibers using local and imported resources is to
1/   The accumulated losses of the seven sick mills is about Tk 250 million
as of June 1978.



- 88 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 10
be investigated with IDA technical assistance. Another possibility is exports
of grey cloth, but the prospects, however, are rather limited given the quality
of BTMC's products. Finally, the need for a least cost solution to meet the
expected levels of demand is being addressed by a related progranm of phased
BMR investment and the expansion of production facilities.



- 89 -
ANNEX VIII
Attachment 1
BANGLADESH TEXTILE HELLS CORPORATION                                        page         1
Performamce Indicator  and ODeratlonal Targets
FY74 - Y85
Actual                             Estimated                         -        TarRet
21                 FY74          FY75           FY76           FY77           FY78          FM78         FY79           FY80           FY85
Markeat Projection
Yarn lbs. (Million)                    128.5          133.9         147.4          161.4          175.9         175.9        1911,-         206.8          288.6
Cloth yds. (Million)                   513.8         535.8          589.4          646.4          703.7         703.7        764.5          827.3         1154.2
3/
Production
Yarn lbs. (Million)                     95.5          100.6          91.1           93.5          106.9         110.0        122.4          147.6         213.5
Cloth yds.(Million)                     78.7           85.9          75.9           68.6           84.5         100.0         97.7          109.1         158.2
4/-
swEfficiency Targets: Spinning
Installed capacity ('000)              858.1         889.5          905.5          925.8          976.8         988.5       1042.0         1118.0        1200.0
Capacity utilisation (%)                80.4           81.7          76.5           77.5           81.7          83.0         82.0           86.0          97.0
Average per spindle shift (oz)           2.31           2.31           2.36          2.19           2.38          2.26         2.40           2.57          2.93
Efficiency Targets: Weaving
Installed capacity (No.)              7375.0        7563.0         7636.0         7863.0         7986.0        7982.0        7982.0        7982.0        7758.0
Capacity  utilisation (%)               61.4           66.5          66.7           60.7           67.4          74.6          72.0          77.0          90.0
Average yds. per loom shift             21.4           21.1           18.3          18.3           20.3          19.7          21.4          22.7          25.7
5/
Wastage Percentage
Yarn (raw materials)                    15.7           14.1           12.6          10.6            9.5           9 0            &3           38.0          38.
Cloth (yarn)                             4.8            4.1            4.7           4.5            4.1           5.0303030
6/
Material
Requtrement of raw materials:
(Cotton/Staple Fibre for
Million lbs.)                        103.7          105.5         101.9          105.5          108.5         120.9         133.0         161.4         222.5
Cotton Procurement Efficiency
(Cost to BTMC/LCA)                    0.7            0.9            1.1           1.0             1.2          1.1           -               -          23.5
Labour Utilization
Employeea per spinning unit
(running spindles per worker)           16.4          17.2           18.0           21.0           21.5          21.5          22.0           22.5         23.5
Financial Ratios
Total Debt/Equity                         2.4           4.2            6.1          10.7            16.1           5.6           3.1            3.1            3.1
Long Term Debt/Equity                    0.4            0.7            1.2           2.3             4.0                         1.Z            1.0            1.0
Debt Service Coverage (After Tax)    2.5                2.8            1.3          (1.9)           (1.8)               '        1.2            1.2            1.2
Profitability (at current prices
in Tk million)
Sales                                  1295.0        1516.0        1820.0         1813.0          2071.6       2466.0         2827.4         3320.4         4591.8
Cost of Sales:
Raw Material                         706.0        977.0         1003.0         1157.0         1464.4        1648.0        1633.5          1970.3         2717.4
Conversion Costs                     336.0        451.0          485.0          494.0          682.4         510.8         773.3          869.3          1186.0
Depreciation                          29.0         31.0           35.0           36.0           41.8          52.1           8C.6           97.1          169.6
Inventory Adjustment                 (23.0)      (162.0)         176.0)         135.0         (231.6)
1048.0       1297.0         1699.0        1822.0          1957.0        2210.9        7.            _2936.7         473.0
Gross Profit/Loss                       247.0         219.0         121.0            (9.0)         114.6         255.1         339.8          383.7          518.8
Operating Expense                      93.0          78.0          83.0           84.0            86.0         103.0          75.0           50.0          102.5
Operating Profit/Loss                   154.0         141.0           38.0          (93.0)          lt.6         152.1         264.8          303.7          416.3
Interest                               -             25.0          35.0           58.0          133.8           41.          154.9          173.2          229.1
Other Income154.0                         116.0           -3. 0        (151.0)        (105.2)        111.1         109.9          130.5           187.5
Other Income                            9.0           908/          14.0          13.0            60.2          30.0          26.0           29.0           33.0
Net Profit/Loss  (Before Tax)           163.0         125.0           17.0         (130            (45.0)       _              135.9          159.5          220.2
9/
Earnins Ratios
GrdsF-Profit to Sales (Z)                19.1          14.5            6.7           (0.5)           5 5           14.0          9.4              9.4            8.6
Operating Profits to Sales (%)           11.8           9.3            2.1           (5.1)           1:4           10.0          6.4              6.6            6.3
Net Profit (BT) to Sales (1)              12.6          8.3            0.9           (7.6)           2.2            7.2          5.0              5.0             5.0
10/
Unit Cost (in Tk)
Yarn per lb. (average)                    10.9         13.6           16.0           17.3            20.4          21.0         21.4              21.5           21.8
Cloth per yd. (Grey cloth)                 3.6          4.4            5.4            5.8             7.1            6.6         6.9               6.9            7.1
Ortcessed fabrics per yd.                  4.5          5.4            6.9            7.3            8.6            8.0          8.4               8.5
,1



1. Market projection is based on:
- Growth of population from FY74 at 3% with sliding rate of .05% each year upto FY79, 0.1% in FY80 and FY81,
0.2% in FY82.
- Consumption of cloth per head has been estimated at 6.8 yds. in FY74 and assumed to increase at 9.5 yds. per
head per annum in successive years, reaching 12.3 yards per capita in FY85.
2. 62,500 spindles have been put into production during FY78. Total expansion in spindlage including these projects
assumed to be 275,000 by FY82. Average capacity utilisation should gradually increase due to increased availability
of spares,implementation of BMR and installation of new spindles.
3. Wastage should gradually decrease due to a higher ratio mix of raw cotton and staple fibre.
4. International price is based on Liverpool market. The ratio of BTMC's purchase price to Liverpool price was 1:1.12
in FY76 and 1:1.05 in FY78 and is expected to continue in future.
5. On the basis of the FY77-FY78 cost per lb. the C & F cost of cotton and staple fibre has been assumed at 65 cents and
60 cents respectively.
6.  Net profit has been computed at 5%  mark up on cost for the years FY79-FY83.
7.  For all new projects long term loan financing has been assumed at 49% of the total project cost, with interest                  
computed at 11.5%.
8. For all new projects equity has been proposed at 51% of the total project cost.
10. Per spindle/per loom shift production has been revised based on weighted average of the capacity utilisation/proposed
to be utilised.
11. Net profit and unit cost of FY79 are subject to adjustment for the impact of new wages and salary rates announced
in September 1978.
o  It
m W K



BANGLADESH
Seventh Imports Program Credit
Export Development Programs
(FY79-FY80)
Technical         Implementation Schedule                      Status as at
Activities                   Support                (FY79 - FY80)                            Oct. 1978
I. Strengthening the EPB                                                                             EPB Ordinance
(a) Establishment of Legal status)                                                                  No.XLVII est-
as semi-autonomous organisat-)                                                                   ablishing semi-
ion;  further review and      )                                                                  autonomous
change in light of experience)                                                                   status promu-
lgated in
Oct. 77.
(ii) Recruitment                                ( Positions advertised
(iii) Staffing of posts                          (        Aug. 78
( recruitment ongoing
(placement Dec. 78
(iv) Training of staff                            Inservice training programme start
Jan. 79.
ITC Training Adviser (12 m/m)
available from Nov. 78.
(b) Improve capability of EPB                      Establish and implement progress control
to monitor export programme                    system - Jan.-Mar. 79
and facilitate implementation
of activities to achieve annual
export targets.
OQ
bc



Technical               Implementation Schedule                 Status as at
Activities                    Support                       (FY79--FY80)                      Oct. 1978
II. National export policy and
Strategy development
(a) Review existing Government       ITC,           PA Associates being recruited through
policies, regulations,           Comm Sec       Comm Sec as consultants for Stage I:
procedures and restricti-                       Nov. 78 - April 79.
ons pertaining to export
related activities, with a                      For actions in specialised areas, also           Technical inputs
view to achieving a co-                         see Sections VI and VII.                         in specialised
ordinated export policy and                                                                      areas are pro-
development programme,                                                                           vided for in
especially in production,                                                                        other parts of
marketing, investment,                                                                           this Action
financing, transport and                                                                         Programme.
pricing.
(b) Carry out studies and            ITC,           Specialist consultant from Jan-June 79:
establish the net                UNCTAD        work will be coordinated with rationali-
foreign exchange                                sation of export rebate and XPL schemes.
earnings delivered by                           (See also Section VI)
each major export product
(c) Establish co-ordinated                          PA Associates (from Nov. 78) will make
guidelines for deriving                         initial proposals.  Work of Specialist
product-specific targets                        Consultant under II(b) (Jan-June 79) will
to be inaorporated in                          also provide data.  Guidelines will be
Second Five Year Plan,                         published by Aug., 79, and targets will
and prepare targets.                            be prepared by Dec. 79.
III. Products
(a) Carry out export                 ITC, EEC,     Product specific activities will be
potential and marketing          Comm Sec       implemented during period.
studies:



Technical             Implementation Schedule                   Status as at
Activities                    Support                     (FY79-FY80)                         Oct. 1978
(1) Marine products                                 Stage I.  ITC Specialist Adviser's
recommendations Nov/Dec. 78.
EEC report (Dec. 77) available.
Stage II. Implementation of specific
development and marketing plans -
Mar-Aug. 79.
(2) Leather and Leather                             Experts being recruited.
products
(3) Handicrafts                                     Stage I.  Specialist Adviser May-June 78
Stage II. Implementation of recommenda-
tions Feb. 79-June 79.
(4) Tea                                             Specialist Adviser Aug-Dec. 77.  Report awaited.
(5) Spices                                          Stage I.  ITC Marketing of Spices Seminar in
Oct. 1978.
Stage II.  EEC study to be commissioned.
(6) Knocked-down furniture.                        EEC report received May 78.
(7) Processed and preserved                         EEC report received Sept. 78.
fruits.                                                                                                                1
(8) Plywood and venner                             EEC report received May 1978.                                             %
particle board
(9) Natural gas and by-                             EEC report received May 1978.
products
(10) Forest products                                 CFIC report received Sept. 1978. Comm Sec
(paper, newsprint,                           marketing study to be commissioned.
rayon, timber)
(11) Ready-made garments                            EEC report awaited, study completed Aug. 1977
(12) Electric wires and cables.                     Comm Sec study to be commissioned.
(13) Safety matches                                 Comm Sec study to be commissioned.
(14) Molasses                                       EEC study to be commissioned.
(15) Potatoes                                       EEC study to be commissioned.
(16) Coir products                                  Comm Sec study to be commissioned.
(17) Jute rugs and carpets.                         EEC study to be commissioned.
(18) Jute wall materials and furnishings.           EEC study to be commissioned.
(19) Fresh fruits and vegetables.                                                                                           X M
(20) Specialised textiles.



Technical               Implementation Schedule                Status as at
Activities                   Support                     (FY79-FY80)                        Oct. 1978
IV.  Markets                        ITC, EEC,
Comm Sec
(a) Initiate and carry out,                        Stage I - In-depth review of markets,           Studies available
for non-traditional                                existing studies and identification          in EPB and TIS.
products, market                                   of new markets, using ITC systems such
development programmes                             as ITS - June 79.
including market                               Stage II - Establish comprehensive plans
research, product                                  on product and market specified basis -
development and                                   Dec. 79.
adaptation, test                               Stage III - Implementation Jan-Dec. 80
marketing and promo-                               and during Five Year Plan period.
tional programmes.
(b)Provide marketing and                          A detailed plan will be prepared Oct. 79-
promotional support                               Mar. 80 for implementation during Five
for achieving the export                          Year Plan period.
targets that will be
incorporated in the
Second Five Year Plan 1980-85.
V.  Trade Attaches                  ITC,
Comm Sec
(a) Establish procedures for               )       Stage I - Implementation Jan-Feb. 79            Stage I proposals
briefing and servicing                 )                                                        under consideration
trade attaches in regard               )       Stage II - July 79-June 80.
to EPB activities and                  )
export development work.               )
(b) Establishing regular reporting         )
and follow-up system.                  )
(c) Organise and implement                         Two special ITC training courses will be        Design of courses
special training programmes                    held in Jan. & Apr. 79.                          under preparation.
for Trade attaches.
VI. Incentives
(a)Examine existing financial                     Comprehensive proposals will be made after
incentives with a view to                      results of actions being taken under
measuring their adequacy and                    Section II a and b are available:  Mar-Oct. 79.                      O M
rationalising them, and
propose new measures as                                                                                                M
required.
In particular:
I                  v     >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f



Technical                Implementation Schedule                Status as at
Activities                   Support                        (FY79-FY80)                       Oct. 1978
(i) review of export rebate                        Announcement of revised schemes planned           EPB prliminary propos-
scheme, rationalising of                       for Export Policy Statement 79/80 to be           als submitted.
duty drawback system,                          made on 1 July 79.
and establishing
procedures for the duty
free use of raw materials.
(ii) establishment of rational
basis for export
performance licences (XPL).
(b) Examine and propose the                        Comprehensive proposals will be made              EPB VC leads inter-
foreign and local incentive                    July-Dec. 79.                                    Ministry body responsi-
measures necessary for the                                                                       ble for overall
establishment of export                                                                          proposals.  UNIDO study
industries in the proposed                                                                       on physical infrastructure
Chittagong Export                                                                                completed April 78.
Processing Zone.
VII. Strengthening Export
Infrastructure
(a) Review present export           ITC,           Stage I - PA Associates Nov-April 79.                                     n
administrative formalities      UNCTAD,        Stage II - Specialised technical
and regulations, with a view   Comm Sec            inputs will be provided from
to their rationalisation,                         July 79-June 80 to implement
simplification and                                proposals.
improvement.
(b) Institute trade facilitation   ITC,            Establish national trade facili-
by streamlining existing        UNCTAD             tation Committee - June 79.
export procedures and            (FLPRO)
documents.
(c) Improve export financing                       Review needs and propose                          Scheme presently
facilities and expand                          comprehensive plan July-Dec. 79.                  operated by
export credit guarantee                                                                          Sadharan Bima
and insurance schemes.                                                                           Corporation.
mt;
tn>4
H



Technical                Implementation Schedule                Status as at
Activities                    Support                       (FY79-FY80)                       Oct. 1978
VIII. National Export Training
Programme (NETP)               ITC            ITC Training Adviser for 12 m/m from Nov. 78
(a) Identification of national
training needs in relation
to export promotion and
development.
(i) Preliminary survey                                                                           Completed July 77
by ITC Team.
Report available.
(ii) In-depth evaluation                         Evaluation and proposals by Training
and action plans.                          Adviser Mar-June 79.
(b) Designing of training
programmes/activities and
implementation according
to priorities.
(i) Coordinated series of
courses under NETP                         Special ITC training team will implement          Preparations completed.
8 courses mid Oct.-mid Dec. 78.                  EPB under NETP has
conducted 6 national
(ii) Design and provide                         In-service programmes start Jan. 79.              training events Jan-  @
in-service training                                                                          Sept. 78 and 14 more
courses for EPB staff.                                                                       are planned until July
79.
(iii) Provide training courses
abroad, fellowships,
study tours.                               On-going
x 



Technical                  Implementation Schedule             Status as at
Activities                   Support                         (FY79-FY80)                    Oct. 1978
(c) Development/upgrading of      )                Stage I will be Implemented Nov. 78-Oct. 79    Activities start in
national training capability )                 by Specialist Training Adviser, who will        Oct. 78 with series
)               also make proposals for Stage II, i.e. in-    of ITC courses.
(i) Provide technical         )                depth programmes with a few selected
inputs to enhance         )                organisations to be implemented Jan-Dec. 80
export training           )
capability of             )
Universities, Institu- )
tes, etc.                 )
)
(ii)Train a cadre of local )
instructors in export    )
promotion and develop- )
ment.                     )
IX. Trade Information Services      ITC            ITC Trade Information on going and
Documentation Adviser for 18 m/m from
(a) Reorganise Trade Information                   Jan. 78.
Service, instal administrative
procedures including Manual of
Procedures, and upgrade present
facilities
(i) Staffing                                   See Section I (c).                              in progress
(ii) accommodation                             Renovations complete by Dec. 78                  Start Oct. 78
(iii) equipment and furniture                    Installation complete by Jan. 79                Some available,
others on order.
(iv) Library - provision                       Arrangements and access complete                 In progress from
of source material                        by Jan. 79.                                      Jan. 78.
and cataloguing.
(v) Staff training                            Intensive in-service programme                   Manual of Proce-
Jan-Mar 79.                                     dures ready.
(vi) extension of services                     Systems implementation methods and               Preliminary
to Regional Offices                       proposals ready by Jan. 79;  telex               arrangements in
link to Chittagong office Dec. 79.              hand.
{D m
H



Technical                 Implementation Schedule                 Status as at
Activities                     Support                        (FY79.-FY80)                       Oct. 1978      _-
(b) Establish procedures for                         Implementation of proposals by Mar 79.             Discussions with
disseminating information                        Training events in use of Trade                    TCB, Handicraft
to target users and assist                       Information (under NETP) will be held              exporters, etc.
in utilisation.                                  Mar-Apr. 79.                                       in progress.
(c) Upgrade existing publications
and introduce new publications
to disseminate information.
(i) Exporters Directory                          1978/79 Directory publication Dec. 78h             With printers.
Work on 79/80 Directory starts Mar. 79.
(ii) Export News and Trade                        New format and contents from Jan. 79               Proposals submitted
Information Bulletin                                                                            MIay 78.
(iii) Series of export guides                      First issue available Nov. 78.                     Preparatory work for
first few in series
in hand.
(d) Acquire and exhibit foreign                      Implementation proposals ready by
competitive advertising and                      Jan. 79;  first display planned for
sales material, packaging                        April 79.
material, brochures catalogues,                                                                                              a
etc., for information of exporters.
(e) Establish and maintain Company                   Forms will be despatched progressively;            Forms ready.
and product profiles on all                      completed profiles ready for use by
exporters and their products.                    Mar 79.
(f) Provide import related infor-                    Specialist Import Procurement                     (Job description
mation (prices, sources, stand-                  Information Adviser for 3 m/m from                (approved and post
ards, etc.) to importers and                     Nov. 78.                                          (requested by Govt.
Governmental agencies.                                                                             (price and supplier
(information parti-
(ally available.
b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
aD 
co



- 99 -                            ANNEX  X
BANGLADESH                            Page 1
Seventh Imports Program Credit
Projection of Export Earniings
(FY79-fY80)
Actuals                              Targets
FY77             FY78                FY79          FY80
A: PRIMARY GOODS                                    (Tk Crore)
1.  Jute raw              176.54            144.90             228.00         245,00
'  Non-jute items
2.  Tea                    55.87             69,28              65.50          70.00
3,  Frozen food(shrimp,
fish and froglegs)    26.22             31.06               60.00          80.00
4.  Fish (fresh & dried)c  0>09              0Q34                 p.50          5.00
5. Prccessed fish            -                                   0 .50        050
6. Sharkfins & fishmaws   0.62                1.08                1.50          3.00
7. Spices                   1o96              2,o6                3.00          3.00
8^  Tamarind                0.11             0o04                0.10           0.20
9,  Fresh fruit &
vegetables              0.34             1o24                3.00           3.00
10. Betel leaves            0.30              o,58'               1.00          1.00
11, Patato                  O.g5             0o.42                4.00          4,00
'12. Raw cotton & kopak     O.61              1.84                2.00          2.00
13J Tobacoo                 0.13             0O09                0.40           0.40
14. Animal fe*d (oilcake
wheat' rice bran)       2e50              1.96               2.50           2.50
15. Crude fertilizer(crush
bone & bone meal)       0.36             0.58                1.00           1.00
16. Animal cas.ings         0.40              0,17               0,50           0.50
17. Wood and timber          -                0.08                7.50          7,50
18. Other primary products 1 .73              2.45               5.00           5.00
Total primary
non-jute items         91e31            112.84              160.00        188.00
Total primary goods Z67.85             257.74               388.00        433.00
B: MA-NUFACTURED GOODS
17 Jute goods             267.75           371.65              36.00co        390.00
2.  Jute carpet & screen
cloth                  o.86              0.93                2.00           5.00
35  Tanned seri-tanned
leather               58,72             68,83               70.00          75-00
4. Leather goods &
footwear              001               0.11                0.25           0.50
5,  Furn-ace oil g22.10                      23,08              19,00          20.00
7. Newsprint                2.24              8,78               8.50          10.00
8. Paper                    1o20              2.17               7,50           9.00
9, Rayon                    0O60              0.75               1.40           2,00
"0,Cellorhane               0.44              0.05               1.40           2.00
,, Hardboard               0,08               0.09               0.20          0050
120 Particle Board          0.19              0.05               0,40           0.50
13, Safety matchs           0,03              0,C1               0.25           0.25
14n Sugar                     -               8.38               9,00          10.00
15, Mol asses               0.21              0,69               1.90           3,00
16. Cotton fqbrics            -                -                 0.70           1,00
170 Electric wires & cablesO.70               0024               3,00           3.00
18, Super enar:el coppcr"wire          -                         0.50           0.50



-100                                    ANNEX  X
Page 2
Actuals                          _ 7 Targets
FY77             FY78                FY79          FY80
(Tk Crore)
19. Telephone cablGs    -                                      1.00           1,00
20. G.I.Pipe                      -                            1.00           1O00
21. M.S.Plates            -                -                   1C00           1.00
22. Glycerine             0.15             0.25                1.00          100-
23. Medicine              O.O6             0.09                1.50          1.50
24. Paper pulp            0.03             0.99                2.00          300O
25, Handicrafts           1.40             2,65                4.oo          7,00
26. Specialised textiles 7.                P.08                3,00          3.00                 4
27. Readymade garments    -                0,02                1.00          5.00
28. Stgnless seel  cutlery                  -                  1.00          1.00
29. Other manufactured
products            1.09              0.54                10.57        11.00
Total manufactures
(non-jute)         103.68             117.62             150.00        172.00
Total manufactures 357.64             489.27             512,00        561.Co
A: Jute items
1.  Jute raw              176.54           144.90              228X-'C       245.00
ii, Jute manufactures    267.75            371.65              360.00        390.00
ii) Jute carnet & :creen
cloth                  o.86              0.93                2.00          5.00
i   Total                 445.15           517.48              590.00         640o00
B: Non-jLte items
i. Primary products        91.31           112.2?              160,00         188,00
ii. Manufactures          189.19           11?7*9z2            150,00        172,00
Total                 180.50           230                 310,00        360.00
Grand total:          625.50           74 7e 72i           900,00       1000.00
E)0ORT PROM0TION BUREAU
3 October 1978



BANGLADESH
SEVEVTU IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
UTILIZATION BY SECTOR OF THE SIX PREVIOUS IMPORTS CREDITS
(in US$ Million as at 10.31.78)
Credit    Credit    Credit    Credit    Credit    Credit
Category                                      345-BD    458-BD    515-BD    591-BD    676-BD    752-BD    Total
Agricultural Equipment                          8.4      N.E.       Nil        N.E.       N.E.      N.E.       8.4
Fertilizers & Raw Materials for
Fertilizer Manufacture                        5.5      2.2        9.0        4.1        9.7       0.9       31.4
Components, Chemicals, Raw Materials
Spare parts, Equipment and Packing
Materials for:
Jute Industry                               1.6      3.8        4.9        5.7        4.3        1.3      21.6
Textile Industry                            9.8     11.4       18.6       50.0       27.2       17.9     134.9
Paper & Board Industry                      0.9      2.9        6.5        0.6        1.6        2.5      15.0
Food & Allied Products Industry             3.1      2.8        N.E.       N.E.       N.E.       N.E.      5.9
Chemical & Pharmaceutical Industry          7.3      9.6        7.3       15.3        4.1        2.9      46.5              1
Sugar Industry                             0.3       1.0        0.9        0.8         -         -         3.0
Steel & Foundry Industry                    0.5      7.3        9.6        8.7        3.5       13.9      43.5
Selected Export-Oriented Industries        N.E.      N.E.       0.7        0.9        1.4       0.1        3.1
Commercial Vehicle Industry                 6.3      3.4        2.7        2.7        N.E.       N.E.     15.1
Small-Sca'e Industry                        1.5      0.4        0.5        N.E.       N.E.       N.E.      2.4
Construction Industry                       1.3      4.3       14.3       11.2       17.1        5.2      53.4
Ship-building Industry                      3.3      0.9        N.E.       N.E.       N.E.       N.E.      4.2
Telecommunications Industry                 0.2      N.E.       N.E.       N.E.       N.E.       N.E.       0.2
50.0     50.0       75.0      100.0       68.9       44.7      338.6
N.E. - Not Eligible
Source:  IBRD, Disbursements Division.                                                                                         x



