CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 866 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Seventh Imports Program)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 22, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 866 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 22, 1978, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreemetns of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Sixth Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement
(No. 752-BD), dated November 30, 1977, entered into between the
Borrower and the Association for the purpose of the Sixth Imports
Program, as such agreement may be amended from time to time;
(b) "taka" means the currency of the Borrower;
(c) "BJMC" means the Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation; and
(d) "BTMC" means the Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01 The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000).


﻿- 2 -
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Project forms part of the Borrower's program (i) to
make available foreign exchange to eligible importers for the
import, into the Borrower's territory, of industrial components,
chemicals, raw materials and spare parts required by high priority
industries, (ii) to monitor the implementation of the action
programs for the jute and cotton industries referred to in Sched-
ule 3 to the Sixth Development Credit Agreement and (iii) for
formulating a medium-term strategy for export development in
accordance with the action programs referred to in Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980,
or such later date as the Association shall establish.       The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1989, and ending December 1,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The authorized representatives of the Bangla-
desh Bank are designated as representatives of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause it to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) promptly upon receipt of appropriate applications
from the eligible importers issue, or cause to be
issued, such import licenses as shall be required
to carry out the Project;
(ii) make available, or cause to be made available to
the eligible importers promptly as needed, such
amounts of foreign exchange as shall be required to
import goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit; and
(iii) take all such action as shall be necessary to
facilitate the timely importation of goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured, or
cause adequate provision to be made for the insurance thereof,
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.


﻿Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's accredited representatives to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the program (referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement) of which the Project is a
part, the cost of the Project and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than six months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Association, prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, the benefits derived and to be derived
therefrom, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall deposit amounts in
takas equivalent to the amounts disbursed by the Association
pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, in an account
currently being maintained with the Bangladesh Bank, which amounts
are to be described in accordance with standard practice, as
the proceeds from "IDA Credit No.          BD".
(b) The amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
shall be utilized entirely to finance the Borrower's development
programs.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than July 31 of each
calendar year, inform the Association of the local currency pro-
visions made in the Borrower's Annual Development Program for
the fiscal year which began on the preceding July 1, for the
development projects being financed by the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall inform the Association on a quarterly
basis of the amounts of takas actually released for the projects
being financed by the Association.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall implement each of the programs described in
paragraph 2 (e) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement after its approval
by the Association.
Section 3.07. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, the actions des-
cribed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement for the purpose of carrying
out its export development program.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause BJMC to rationalize
its production and production facilities (particularly its uneco-
nomic mills) based on the results of the mill-by-mill survey
referred to in Part B.2 of Schedule 3 to the Sixth Development
Credit Agreement in accordance with criteria agreed with the
Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause BTMC to undertake a
balancing, modernizing and rehabilitation (BMR) program of its
production facilities based upon the results of the mill-by-mill
survey referred to in Schedule 3, Section C3 of the Sixth Imports
Program Credit. To this end, BTMC shall carry out such a program
in accordance with criteria agreed with the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has issued import licenses
in respect of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit covering foreign exchange allocations aggregating not less
than $30,000,000 equivalent.
Section 4.02. The date March 22, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 6 -
Section 4.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.06 and 3.07 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date twelve years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE V
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:
BAH IRSAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By Is! Tabarak Husain
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of imported goods
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
maximum amount of the Credit which may be withdrawn in respect
of each such Category:
Maximum Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                  Dollar Equivalent)
INDUSTRY: Raw materials, spare parts,
chemicals, components and
packaging materials for:
(1) Jute industry                                15,000,000
(2) Textile industry                              35,000,000
(3) Paper and board industry                       7,000,000
(4) Fertilizer industry (including                30,000,000
finished fertilizer)
(5) Steel and foundry industry                    18,000,000
(6) The following export-oriented                  5,000,000
industries: frozen fish, shrimp
and frogs' legs, tea processing
and leather tanning
(7) Chemicals and pharmaceuticals                 10,000,000
(excluding proprietary items)
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
(8) Cement, raw materials and spare               18,000,000
parts for cement manufacture
(including packaging materials)
and other intermediate building
materials


﻿-9-
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation, manufac-
ture, procurement or supply thereof;
(d) expenditures under Categories (4) to (8) inclusive in
excess of the aggregate equivalent of $37,500,000; and
(e) expenditures for steel billets and cement under Catego-
ries (5) and (8) respectively until the Association has received
from the Borrower, in respect of steel billets and cement, respec-
tively, programs satisfactory to the Association for the Borrow-
er's fiscal years ending 1979 and 1980 showing demand projections
and setting: (i) planned levels of import and local production;
(ii) detailed pricing and distribution policies; and (iii) actions
to 'e taken to implement the foregoing.
3.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts for goods
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more shall be let, at the
Borrower's option, either through international shopping, on the
basis of not less than three offers invited from major suppliers
from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland, or through
international competitive bidding, under procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines). The award of any con-
tract shall be made to the supplier whose offer is the lowest
evaluated offer. However, whenever the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall be satisfied that goods of a specific type, design or
manufacture shall be required in the interest of equipment stan-
dardization or of other valid considerations relating to the
efficient utilization of existing productive capacity, such goods
may be procured on a negotiated basis on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent may
be procured through normal commercial channels.
3.   Contracts for steel and cement shall be let on the basis of
international competitive bidding, under procedures consistent
with those set forth in the Guidelines.
4.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first .ender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding.


﻿- 11 -
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to any contract for goods estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such
contract, (a) two conformed copies of such contract, (b) the
details of the offers sought, the names and addresses of the firms
invited to submit offers and a summary of the offers submitted for
goods subject to international shopping, (c) the bidding documents
as well as a report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received for goods subject to international competitive bidding,
and (d) such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request. In the event the lowest offer or bid is not accep-
ted, the Borrower shall also furnish to the Association the
reasons for the award of the contract to the successful supplier.
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of such
cono,ract was not consistent with the provisions of this Schedule
or the Guidelines, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, and such other information as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Export Development Program
A.   General
1.   Dates by which actions are required to be taken pursuant
to this Schedule may be extended by the Association upon the
request of the Borrower.
2.   All consultants to be employed pursuant to Parts B and
C of this Schedule shall be qualified and experienced. Those
consultants to be employed pursuant to Parts B and C of this
Schedule and to be financed in whole or in part by the Association
shall have qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association and shall be employed pursuant to
terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
B.   Initial Examination
1.   The Borrower shall, not later than February 28, 1979, employ
consultants to assist the Borrower in examining in detail areas of
export potential, and in determining a listing of priorities for
future actions in export development.
2.   The Borrower shall, with the assistance of consultants,
undertake and complete: (a) by December 31, 1979, (i) specific
commodity studies in the sectors set forth below, and (ii) market
studies for the promotion of specific jute products; and (b) by
June 30, 1980, studies in the areas of export financing and export
incentives.
Sectors to be covered by the commodity studies, including
without limitation, the following:
Marine products, leather products, handicrafts, tea products,
spices, natural gas and its by-products, jute rugs and carpets,
ready-made garments, jute wall materials, knocked down furniture,
processed and preserved fruits, fresh fruits and vegetables,
plywood, coir products, forest products (pulp, paper, newsprint,
rayon, etc.), electric wires and cables and safety matches.


﻿- 13 -
C.   Synthesis
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1979, formu-
late, with the assistance of consultants, a medium-term strategy
for Bangladesh export development based on the findings of the
studies referred to in Part B of this Schedule, and take the
necessary steps to incorporate this strategy into the Borrower 's
Second Five-Year Plan (1980/81 - 1985/86).


