Document of
The World Bank
ReportNo: 18313-LE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80 MILLION
TO THE
LEBANESE REPUBLIC
FORA
FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
MAY 26, 2000
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 2000)
Currency Unit = Lebanese Pound or Lyre Libanaise (LL)
LL I = US$ 0.000664
US$ I = LL 1,504
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL          =    Adaptable Program Loan
BOA          =    Board of Accounts
CDR          =    Council for Development and Reconstruction
COM          =    Council of Ministers
CSB          =    Civil Service Bureau
EA                Environmental Assessment
ERRP         =    Emergency Reconstruction and Rehabilitation
EU           =    European Union
FMIP         =    First Municipal Infrastructuret Project
GDU          =    General Directorate of Urbanism
GOL          =    Government of Lebanon
IBRD              International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB               International Competitive Bidding
ImF          =    Independent Municipal Fund
LA           =    Local Account
LACI         =    Loan Administration Change Initiative
LE                Lebanon
LL                Lebanese Pound
MOE               Ministry of Environment
MOF          =    Ministry of Finance
MOI          =    Ministry of Interior
MOMRA        =    Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs
MOPW         =    Ministry of Public Works
NERP         =    National Emergency Reconstruction Program
OM           =    Operations Manual
O&M               Operation and Maintenance
PCU          =    Project Coordinating Unit
PIP          =    Project Implementation Plan
SA           =    Special Account
SOE               Statement of Expenditures
UNDP              United Nations Development Programme
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
Vice President:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:   Inder Sud
Sector Director:   Jean-Claude Villiard
Sector Manager & Team Leader:    Sonia Hammam



LEBANON
FIRST MUINICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       6
3. Benefits and target population                                                      7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           13
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        14
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          14
2. Financial                                                                          16
3. Technical                                                                          17
4. Institutional                                                                      18
5. Social                                                                             20
6. Environment                                                                        20
7. Participatory Approach                                                             22
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    22
2. Critical risks                                                                     23
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     24



G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            24
2. Other                                                                              25
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          25
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         26
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          27
Annex 2: Project Description                                                             29
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         36
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           37
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    42
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       43
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     58
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   59
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  60
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            62
Annex 11: Municipal Finance Policy Agenda Note                                           64
Annex 12: Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Studies                        67
Annex 13: Terms of Reference - Preparation of an Environmental Management Plan           77
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 24699



LEBANON
FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
Infrastructure Development Group
Date: May 26, 2000                               Team Leader: Sonia Hammam
Country Manager/Director: Inder K. Sud           Sector Manager/Director: Jean-Claude Villiard
Project ID: P050544                              Sector(s): UY - Other Urban Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Urban
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
1 Loan         O] Credit       O Grant         F] Guarantee    El Other (Specify)
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): US$80 million
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.85% for first three
years; 0.75% on fourth anniversary and
thereafter
GOVERNMENT                                                    20.00           0.00         20.00
IBRD                                                          30.60          49.40         80.00
Total:                                                        50.60          49.40        100.00
Borrower: LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF MUNICIPAL AND RURAL AFFAIRS (MOMRA)
Contact Person: Colonel Nicolas Habr
Tel: 961-1-751-601                Fax: 961-1-751-622               Email: ministryglocalgov.gov.lb
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYUS$M):
Annual    12.0          18.0        20.0        20.0       10.0
Cumulative    12.0         30.0        50.0        70.0        80.0
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 10/20/2000  Expected closing date:  12/31/2005
OC  A P .O F-,,, R. WAh, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to address urgent municipal works while setting the stage for gradual
assumption of responsibility for municipal services at the local level. The project would: (a) in the short
term, restore selected basic municipal infrastructure to improve living conditions; and (b) in the medium
term, set the stage for the development of the municipal sector by enabling municipalities to begin
addressing local infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation needs.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Evidence of sustainable rehabilitation of basic municipal works, number of beneficiaries impacted, as well
as evidence of use of resources for capital investment and maintenance would be used as key performance
indicators.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17153                    Date of latest CAS discussion: 12/04/97
The Bank's assistance strategy for Lebanon is based on the Government's priorities for achieving
sustainable development, namely, rehabilitating and expanding essential infrastructure and strengthening
weak public sector institutions.  The project's emphasis on the rehabilitation of essential local
infrastructure, and strengthening the capacity of local and central institutions to undertake rehabilitation in
a cost-effective manner, is in line with the strategic focus of the most recent CAS. It would strengthen the
capacity of municipalities to design and implement local rehabilitation projects rather than rely on central
institutions to provide needed infrastructure. Immediately after the civil war, the Government gave priority
to reestablishing the country's economy through a major National Emergency Reconstruction Program
(NERP), which focused on rehabilitating and upgrading regional infrastructure, particularly services such
as power and telecommunications, water supply and wastewater disposal, solid waste management, and
transport. NERP was not designed to rehabilitate or upgrade the essential infrastructure and services in
municipalities, neglected or damaged during the civil war years. Despite the achievements of NERP in
reconstruction, the needs of municipalities for rehabilitation and upgrading of essential infrastructure to
improve living conditions, have not been met in the post-conflict years. Their capacity to undertake such
programs has not been reinforced, due to the absence of local representation until 1998. In an effort to
address some of these concerns, the Government established in February 1993 the Ministry of Municipal
and Rural Affairs (MOMRA), charging it with the responsibility to: (a) address the institutional and
infrastructure needs of municipalities and rural communities, particularly those that cannot provide
municipal services on their own; and (b) coordinate regional initiatives concerning municipal services. The
Ministry's activities have been fairly modest, to date. In 1995-96, it used Independent Municipal Fund
(ImF) resources to invest about US$30 million equivalent to address a small part of the backlog of essential
infrastructure needs in municipalities. More recently about $120 million, repres-enting 1997 transfers, were
distributed to municipalities in 1999. Early this year, a decree has been issued distributing $300 million to
municipalities, representing 1998 and 1999 transfers. In 1998, municipal elections were held after a 35
year hiatus on local representation. Local officials have, however, been constrained in programming
investments to improve living conditions by the unpredictability of transfers, due to municipalities, through
the ImF, and the weak institutional and financial resource base. Their immediate needs exceed available
resources, and for this reason the Government is now seeking the assistance of the World Bank. The
proposed project would be the first Bank-financed municipal sector initiative in the country. The project
- 2-



would also empower recently elected municipal councils to better identify and respond to community needs
and demands.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Historically, there is a strong tradition of local government in Lebanon, which has been interrupted at
various times, most recently during the seventeen year period of civil strife. The concept of an independent
municipal sector has been reaffirmed through the Taief Accord, endorsing administrative decentralization
combined with strengthening of municipal powers and responsibilities. Municipal elections took place in
June 1998, and the existence of locally elected bodies should encourage local control over local fiscal and
investment decisions. Beyond, these general principles, however, there are enormous challenges to
establishing an appropriate framework for an intergovernmental system that reaffirms the key role of local
governments with adequate own sources of revenues to assume expenditure responsibilities for local
services. The process of building consensus on these issues lies ahead.
Main Sector Issues
The municipal sector faces many challenges including:
(a) Inadequacy of infrastructure. Urban areas in Lebanon generally have reasonable access to basic
services. Sewerage coverage rates are about 70 percent and access to piped water network is about 89
percent. However, these overall averages hide great disparities between districts, with the poorer districts
of the North and South having much lower rates of access. Quite apart from differential access rates,
existing infrastructure, notably roads, drainage and water and sewer networks are in a state of disrepair due
to prolonged lack of expenditure on maintenance and upgrading in most municipalities. Only the largest
and better off municipalities have been able to begin addressing the backlog of maintenance and upgrading
needs since municipal elections took place. Improvements in existing infrastructure are key priorities to
reduce the backlog of maintenance and upgrading needs, and have generally been the first set of projects
undertaken, as resources become available.
(b) Inadequate municipal finance. Currently, municipal revenues are not adequate to meet local needs.
One reason is that own-source revenues collected by municipalities are derived from 16 different fees and
taxes, which are not cost effective to administer. The most important of these taxes is based on the lease
value of all rented or occupied residential and commercial property (the assessed value is in need of
reevaluation). It will take time to reform and rationalize the local tax base and establish systems for
improved valuation and collections of property taxes. An equally compelling reason for the inadequacy of
local resources is that the central-municipal transfer, consisting of surtaxes and fees collected by the state
on behalf of all municipalities, has largely been folded into projects of the CDR or other regional
development agencies through Decree 7425 of 1995. Most municipalities have, therefore, not been able to
count on the intergovernmental transfers that are legally due to them as a bloc grant and for capital
projects. The sustainability of municipal investments depends largely on substantially improving the
municipal and intergovernmental fmance system.
(c) The lndependent Municipal Fund (ImF) Arrears. The ImF is an account-held in trust, as part of the
account of the Lebanese Treasury, for the benefit of the municipalities and municipal associations. The law
specifies the sources of ImF funds: taxes and levies collected by the central government on behalf of
municipalities, as well as specified shares of custom duties, and surcharges on utility bills and insurance
policies. The criteria along which ImF funds are distributed to, and used by, municipalities are spelled out
in the law (Decree No. 1917 of April 6, 1979 amended by Decree 1783 of 10/10/91). In line with that
decree, ImF funds can be used to cover the salaries of contractual employees of the Ministry of Municipal
and Rural Affairs working on tasks related to various municipalities, as well as the costs of service and
- 3-



materials benefiting all municipalities. The remaining ImF funds are to be distributed on a yearly basis as
follows:
(A) No less than 75 percent (of available balance) should be distributed to municipalities along the
following formulae:
*   70 percent are provided as budget support out which: (i) 60 percent distributed in proportion to the
number of registered population in the municipality; and (ii) 40 percent distributed to all municipalities
in proportion to their own-source revenues over the preceding two years.
*   30 percent are "earmarked" for project finance to foster regional development, particularly in rural
areas.
(B) No more than 25 percent should be distributed to municipal associations along the following formulae:
*   25 percent are provided as budget support in proportion to the number of registered population within
the municipal association.
*   75 percent are "earmarked" for project finance within the administrative areas of the municipal
association.
Over the past several years, the distribution of ImF resources to municipalities had been all but withheld.
The few transfers that were actually made mainly benefited the largest municipalities (including the capital
city, Beirut). In withholding distribution of ImF resources to eligible municipalities, the treasury has thus
accumulated large arrears vis-a-vis the municipal sector, variously estimated at about $0.5 billion. The
amounts of these arrears ought to have been quantified in net terms as a result of the cross exposure
amongst the various parties (central government, municipalities and public utility companies) involved in
the replenishment of the Fund as well as the use of the Fund's resources. A joint committee with
representatives of the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and MOMRA has collected and vetted the figures
related to the flows of funds on the basis of which the net balance of municipal claims on the ImF has to be
derived. Final figures have yet to be determined.
The amount of the net arrears should theoretically be allocated to all municipalities taking account of
advances already made to each one. Given however the moratorium on the repayment of these advances,
the effective and practical way at this stage would be to credit these arrears back to the ImF global pool for
future distribution along the sharing formula specified by Law. The net arrears at end 1998 ( once the
figures have been agreed upon and sanctioned by government) are amounts due and payable by the
Treasury to the municipal sector. The Treasury may then seek to agree with "creditor" municipalities the
rescheduling of these payments over an appropriate period of time. Proceeds of the World Bank loan
would be counted against the ImF arrears, and the project would provide MOF with the opportunity to
establish a more predictable and transparent accounting of ImF flows.
(d) Limited institutional capacity at both central and local government levels. MOMRA and most
municipalities are in need of institutional strengthening. With the exception of a few large municipalities,
most have weak administrative capacity and many have none whatsoeve6r, relying on "voluntary"
contributions of time by skilled professionals to develop projects. The main reason for the limited capacity,
of course, is the major dislocations caused by the prolonged civil war, the hiring freeze that has been
imposed, and as significantly, the absence of locally elected authorities until June, 1998. The weaker
municipalities rely substantially on support from the central government, institutions, mostly through
MOMIRA. However, MOMRA is not technically equipped to effectively support municipalities.
-4 -



Government Strategy
Understandably Government strategy in the Post-Conflict years has focused on reconstruction and
rehabilitation of national and regional infrastructure. The emphasis of administrative reform efforts,
supported by donors and the Government, has been at the Central level. Moreover, given the fiscal
challenges at the center, little attention has been paid to reform of the local and intergovernmental fiscal
framework. This however may be changing. The issues surrounding the ImF distributions and arrears have
underscored the need for: (a) a review of the prevailing system of intergovernmental finance; (b) decisions
regarding settlement of arrears, that take into account current fiscal constraints; and (c) establishment of a
more transparent basis and accounting for the intergovernmental transfers. While there is, as yet, no
coherent strategy for dealing with municipal sector issues, the Ministry of Finance has recently indicated its
interest in establishing a Policy Agenda to deal with the intergovernmental finance system (see Policy
Agenda letter). Its efforts will be supported by grant-funded technical assistance. In general, Government
policy objectives are supportive of a gradual shift in responsibility for local infrastructure to municipal
governments. It also is extremely sensitive to ensuring that efforts for municipal development take into
account the need for balanced and equitable development of all regions. In the absence of adequate
information on population, service conditions, needs and local fiscal performance, (required to design grant
systems that address horizontal and vertical equity issues, or to encourage particular priority investments),
this has been translated into spreading limited resources among all regions. There is growing recognition
that this practice is not the most effective means to achieve either equity or efficiency objectives in the
design of intergovernmental grants. The analysis that is noted in the Policy Agenda letter should allow the
Government to eventually define an intergovernmental finance system that deals more effectively with
equity and efficiency issues.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address the inadequacy of infrastructure, and municipal resources, and the limited
institutional capacity at the Center and local level. However, the objectives in these respects remain modest
and recognize the imrnmediate need to improve living conditions through locally-defned projects, on the one
hand, and the long term nature of municipal policy development and finance reform, on the other. The
project would establish a predictability in resources available for rehabilitation needs, within which local
governments can budget for and execute local projects. This is only a modest, but necessary step. It
recognizes that major reform of the intergovernmental financing system and achievement of a more
sustainable system of local financing is a gradual process that requires careful design and consensus
building. This cannot be achieved rapidly or easily, within an initial operation. Nonetheless, the project
establishes a principle of local rather than central prioritization of projects and use of resources, to begin
addressing the backlog of municipal infrastructure rehabilitation needs. By monitoring municipal
performance, under the Project, a wealth of information on actual financial and technical constraints and
opportunities at the local level will be available, for the first time, to inform the design of more long term
reforms and of appropriate capacity building incentives, in the future. The weak capacity to collect local
taxes, and the need to rationalize and modernize the local tax system will need to be addressed in
subsequent operations, based on results of the municipal finance studies being funded through a PHRD
grant (TF025849). Essentially, the Project recognizes the need to respond to imniediate concerns and needs
for rehabilitation of local infrastructure, while on a parallel track (through grant-funded studies) undertake
the necessary analysis required to develop a coherent strategy and set of incentives for improving
performance of the municipal sector in future operations. Operationally, the project will familiarize
municipalities with technical, social, environmental and economic criteria for the prioritization of their
projects and encourage them to consider the operations and maintenance implications of their investment
choices.
-5-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
I. Upgrading and rehabilitating   Other Urban        92.81       92.8     72.81      91.0
backlog of essential municipal    Development
infrastructure
2. Capacity building at MOMRA;    Institutional        4.86       4.9      4.86        6.1
technical assistance to municipalities    Development
for project implementation and project
management, Municipal Database
3. Project Coordination Unit      Institutional        2.33       2.3      2.33        2.9
Development
Total Project Costs                  100.00      100.0     80.00     100.0
Total Financing Required                  100.00      100.0     80.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
(a) improving local investment decisions by establishing a clear set of technical and economic criteria
for local selection of priority investment projects;
(b) strengthening MOMRA's institutional capacity to support the transfer and management of
municipal functions and provide logistical support to municipalities that are too small to effectively
undertake municipal investments on their own; and
(c) empowering municipal councils through a more predictable transfer process.
At the institutional level, the municipal sector in Lebanon is expected to benefit from a substantial
technical assistance program amounting to approximately 9 million Euro, funded by the European
Union (EU) over a period of three years. The program which remains indicative in nature is expected to
start during the year 2000. It will provide support to the municipal sector in Lebanon at both central
and local levels. Support at the central level will be directed towards the MOMRA, while the
beneficiaries at the local level will include municipalities and Unions of Municipalities.
At the central level, the EU program will support the provision of appropriate tools, such as office and
information technology according to well established needs at the Ministry and the municipalities. The
program will also help MOMRA develop and implement new systems to improve the monitoring of the
fiscal performance and local financial reporting of municipalities. At the local level, the EU program
will support improving the municipal finance by improving tax collection at the local level.
The program will also support training and capacity building of municipal staff and council members
for sub-project development and implementation, municipal investment planning, finance and
management. The program will support the establishment of service oriented partnerships and unions
-6-



between the various municipalities in the country and will encourage the twinning of municipalities in
Lebanon with the ones in Europe. A select number of study tours will be organized and courses on
urban planning and municipal management will be offered by specialized institutions. Discussions
have been initiated with the EU to maximize synergies between their proposed capacity building
program and the FMIP. Similarly, USAID has already embarked on a technical assistance program
aimed at municipalities and villages. The program already covers 80 municipalities. Among its main
components is the development of automated procedures for issuing municipal permits and licenses,
and the hardware, software and staff capacity of the municipalities. The project's direct contribution to
institutional capacity will be through the technical assistance provided to MOMRA and municipalities
in project appraisal; and development of the MOMRA Municipal database (which should allow it to
monitor the sectors financial, management and physical performnance) and the Project Management
Information System. A number of PHRD-financed studies (TF025849) are expected to be completed
in 2000/2001 and would address issues of setting the ImF on a more sustainable basis, modernizing
and rationalizing local taxes, municipal budgeting and financial management. These would form the
basis of future operations in the sector. The experience gained through the physical components of the
project would help develop a methodology for addressing and prioritizing the backlog of community
infrastructure rehabilitation needs. The project would also complement regional infrastructure and
institutional capacity building at MOMRA and key municipalities, some of which are receiving
assistance through the following ongoing Bank-financed operations: Emergency Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Project (ERRP), and the Administration Rehabilitation Project (ARP). The project
would also complement the institutional reform efforts proposed for the municipal sector in a
donor-sponsored Public Administration Reform Program.
3. Benefits and target population:
The ultimate beneficiaries would be the residents of about 704 municipalities, most of which have
experienced virtually no local investment in essential infrastructure and services during, and in the ten
years after, the civil war. About 150,000 households are expected to benefit directly from the project.
The major benefits  include preservation and upgrading of existing municipal assets, improved
drainage, access roads to primary services such as health clinics and hospitals, schools and community
facilities, churches and mosques, cemeteries and commercial areas. In addition, the provision of street
lighting is expected to improve road safety and reduce the risk of accidents. Upgrading and repair of
existing water and sewer networks would also ensure greater reliability of these services.
Municipalities' nominal share of the project funds would be proportional to their registered population
size. This criteria, while not ideal, is necessitated by the absence of reliable information on resident
population and fiscal potential and capacity to determine the most resource strapped municipalities.
Allocating funds on the basis of registered population, while excluding the four largest cities, (Beirut,
Sidon, Zahle and Tripoli), will generally tend to favor areas of the country that suffered for a long time
from neglect of their municipal investment needs and which have low socio-economic indicators, than
would be possible through a simple proportional rule for all municipalities.
All participating municipalities are expected to be directly responsible for identification of sub-projects.
Where possible they would also undertaken appraisal, design, bid preparation and bid award as well as
construction supervision. However, the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will be ready to assist those
municipalities that are unable to assume responsibilities on its own. While the lack of sufficiently
reliable indicators makes a targeting strategy impractical, it is likely that the menu of services will have
an impact on the living conditions of the poor.
-7 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Executing agency. MOMRA would be responsible for project execution through a Project Coordinating
Unit (PCU). Detailed terms of reference for the PCU have been agreed upon with MOMRA during
appraisal (Annex 11). During preparation MOMRA assigned a temporary PCU Project Manager from its
own staff of Engineers. It has already held workshops introducing the project to about 150 municipalities
and rapidly field-appraised investment programs of about twenty municipalities out of 300 that had
submitted proposals by the end of March 2000. A permanent Project Manager has been identified and is
being recruited. The Project Procurement and Financial Management Director position will be handled by
internal staff who are familiar with the project, until the recruitment process can be completed. To assist
with the financial management, at the early stages a certified accountant will be recruited by Board date,
through an accounting firm, acceptable to the Bank. The full staff of the PCU will be hired by Project
Effectiveness. The PCU would be responsible for all aspects of project management. Quarterly and
annual reports, including the mid-term review and the implementation completion report, would be
prepared by the PCU for Bank and Government review in accordance with Bank requirements.
Procurement. The project would finance mainly civil works (over 90 percent of the loan amount), for
example, rehabilitation and upgrading of roads, drainage, retaining walls, sidewalks, small water and
sewerage systems, street lighting, etc. Given the small-scale characteristics of this project (average
sub-project size US$90,000), with the number of sub-projects totaling over a thousand and spread over
several municipalities (over 1000), it is expected that almost all works and goods would be contracted
through the Bank's procedures for National Competitive Bidding (NCB), International and National
Shopping (NS) or using local procedures, satisfactory to the Bank for small contracts which would not
attract large contractors, either due to remoteness of the location or the relatively small size of contracts
(contracts estimated to cost below US$40,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$25 million equivalent).
Such contracts would be procured through community participation in accordance with paragraph 3.15 of
the Guidelines for Procurement of Goods and Works, soliciting at least three bids from qualified
contractors. It is estimated that about 25 percent of works contracts will be awarded under these
procedures. Consultancy services required to assist PCU and its related sub-projects implementing agencies
in capacity building for design, implementation and monitoring of these sub-projects would be procured
using the Bank's guidelines for procuring consultants. Consultants' contracts expected to range from
$5000 to US$100,000 equivalent may be awarded on the basis of short listing local consulting firms suited
for the assignents. All contracts above US$100,000 would be awarded on the basis of short listing both
international and national firms as per Bank's guidelines (see Annex 6).
Primary responsibility for procurement would lie with the PCU, which will delegate implementation to
individual municipalities. Thus, the PCU will prepare the procurement plan and the Project Manager will
have to approve all contracts, including those under local procedures as well as those under NCB
procedures. The PCU would be strengthened, inter alia, by a Procurement Officer, to be recruited by
effectiveness, with adequate support staff. Procurement systems and procedures would be in place as per
agreed upon action plan (see PIP). Responsibility in procurement would be as follows: (i) individual
municipalities would procure civil works and equipment for their investment.projects; and (ii) the PCU
would procure consultant's services, and make arrangements for training. Planning coordination and
monitoring of the procurement process, and their linkages with the disbursement function will be the
responsibility of the PCU, staffed with a procurement specialist. This Unit will be responsible for
consolidated procurement reports included in PMRs, and quarterly project progress report.
Prior Review. All contracts under Phase One (period between appraisal and Loan effectiveness) would be
subject to prior review by the Bank. In view of the fact that all civil works contracts would be implemented
-8 -



by various municipalities, and they may require assistance in following Bank's procedures, in Phase two
(Period after Loan effectiveness to project completion), the first six contracts under NCB procedures,
irrespective of its value, and all contracts for goods and works above US$200,000 would be subject to
prior review by the Bank. All contracts above $50,000 under International and/or National Shopping (NS),
and all single-source contracts, would be subject to prior review by the Bank. For Consultants' services all
terms of Reference (TOR), irrespective of contract value, the first six contracts irrespective of contract
value, all contracts for individual consultants costing US$25,000 and above, and for consulting firms for
US$100,000 and above would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
All other contracts would be subject to post-review and procurement audit on a random basis by the Bank.
The PCU is primarily responsible for monitoring procurement, including compliance of the procedures by
the sub-project entities. In the municipalities where project management and supervision capabilities are
weak, PCU would provide technical assistance by provision of local consultants, to assist such sub-project
entities in design, and supervision of contracts implementation. The PCU would be responsible for
maintaining accurate procurement records, including all actions related to Bank-financed procurement.
This includes advertising, preparation of bids, invitation to bid, record of bid submissions, bid opening,
evaluation of bids, contract award and perfornance of the contracts. The Procurement files would be
maintained for review by the Bank's supervision missions. It is expected that about 10 percent of the
contracts would be subject to prior review The initial procurement plan is given in Annex 2. It would be
updated periodically by PCU, as part of the monitoring tasks as defined in the OM.
Retroactive Financing. The Bank has agreed with the Government to provide retroactive financing for up
to US$8 million (10 percent of the loan amount), effective March 31, 2000, for a period not exceeding 12
months from the commencement date or up to the effectiveness of the Loan, whichever is earlier. The
funds available under retroactive financing would assist MOMRA to: (i) establish the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU); (ii) procure office equipment, furniture, vehicles, computer hardware and software, including
the municipal database for the financial management information system required for PCU office; (iii)
assist PCU in hiring and remunerating the core staff of PCU, headed by an FMIP Project Manager; and
(iv) enable PCU in hiring consulting services to assist various municipalities in appraising sub-projects.
Under retroactive financing, procurement of goods and services would be made in accordance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines. All appointments for PCU core staff, consultants and all contracts under
retroactive financing, would require prior approval by the Bank.
Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements. MOMRA has certain oversight functions
of the Municipalities' budgets and accounts and is responsible for implementing part of the ImF resources
made available to municipalities. While all municipal budgets have to be approved by MOMRA, there is no
standardization of these budgets and hence no possibility of consolidating them on a national basis. Where
management of the ImF is concerned, MOMRA is responsible for distributing the part of the fund that is
allocated directly to municipalities by transferring the funds to the account of each municipality. MOMRA
also manages the amount due for inter-municipal projects, implementing the bidding process and paying the
contractors. In practice, only one distribution from the ImF has been made directly to all municipalities,
and CDR has handled the few inter-municipal projects that have been undertakeir. MOMRA does not have
responsibility for implementing projects for individual municipalities and is not equipped to do so. These
are left to the discretion of municipalities, subject to the ex-ante and ex-post controls of the Cour des
Comptes. The procurement procedures used do not follow Bank guidelines.
The PCU will take charge of the management and coordination of the project's components to be
implemented through MOMRA and the municipalities. In addition, the PCU will be responsible for
consolidating reports on the components under its direct management and those under the municipalities'
-9-



responsibility. At the moment, MOMRA lacks the professional financial staff to handle the financial
management and reporting aspects of the project. The PCU will be staffed adequately and strengthened
with appropriate systems and procedures. Detailed implementation arrangements and requirements for the
project will be set out in the implementation manual. A financial management action plan that will allow
the PCU to establish financial management system and become LACI-compliant, prior to effectiveness (as
a condition of effectiveness) is shown in Annex 6. It is expected that the project will generate PMR reports
and start disbursing on that basis no later than December 31, 2000.
The PCU would hire experienced financial staff to manage project accounts. MOMRA, through the PCU,
would establish and maintain project accounts and adequate control procedures to facilitate timely and
transparent reporting in accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank The Budgeting and accounting
system will be computerized to permit automatic production of Project management Reports. A draft
Financial Management Policies and Procedures Manual has been reviewed at negotiations. It covers the
following topics: (a) financial and accounting policies; (b) flow of funds; (c) accounting system and internal
control mechanisms; (d) Chart of Accounts; (e) financial reports, including the formnat of financial
management reports; (f) auditing arrangements; (g) budgeting; and (h) organization and staffing of
financial management functions.
Audit Arrangements. The project's annual financial statements, including summaries of the special
account activities and of SOE-based disbursements/PMR-based disbursements would be audited each fiscal
year in accordance with international auditing standards by independent private auditors acceptable to the
Bank. Auditors will be appointed on the basis of terms of reference to be agreed with the Bank, prior to
Loan effectiveness (as a condition of Loan effectiveness). The auditor will review and give an opinion on
the projecfs internal controls, prior to effectiveness. MOMRA will furnish to the Bank within six months of
the end of the fnancial year, the audited financial statements for the project, including an opinion on the
use of statements of expenditures and operation of the special account. The cost of audit may be financed
out of the loan.
Financial Management System. The Project Financial management arrangements are detailed in Annex
6. Initially the project would use the traditional disbursement system and by December 2000 would
convert to the PMR-based disbursement system under LACI. The disbursement of funds would be through
periodic advances to the Special account based on PMRs, which would link eligible expenditures with
actual physical progress made under the project. The necessary computer software will be installed to
produce reports compatible with the Bank's PMR-based disbursement system guidelines. A time-bound
action plan to permit PMR-based disbursements within a specific period of effectiveness has been
discussed and forms a substantive part of the minutes of negotiations.
Special Accounts. To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government would open
at the Central Bank of Lebanon two accounts: a Local Account in Lebanese pounds for the contribution
from the Govenmment and Special Account (SA) in US dollars for the Bank loan. Both accounts would be
operated by MOMRA, PCU under terms satisfactory to the Bank.  Details of these arrangements are
included in Annex 6.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. MOMRA's PCU would be responsible for monitoring
progress against agreed-upon monitoring and performance indicators. The PCU would submit quarterly
and annual progress reports. Monitoring indicators to evaluate development objectives and outputs, project
design, implementation progress, and project impact, as detailed in Annex I have been discussed during
appraisal and have been agreed to, at negotiations, and are included in the Project Operations Manual
(OM). These indicators would be computed and analyzed by the MOMRA databank system included in
- 10-



the project. Beneficiary assessment surveys also would be conducted for representative areas and
investments, to obtain basic qualitative and quantitative information that would enable monitoring and
evaluation of the impact of the project on benefiting communities. Consultants would also undertake
post-evaluation technical audits on a representative sample of projects to ensure that investments have been
implemented in accordance with conditions stipulated in the OM, and would obtain feedback on the
outcome or impact of the sub-projects and feed these results into refining technical and economic criteria,
as appropriate. Monitoring and evaluation reports would be reviewed at the beginning of each year to
enable steps to be taken to ensure the efficient irnplementation and completion of the project. An early
assessment would take place in the first year followed by a mid-term review in the second year of
implementation to assess progress towards meeting development objectives and identify areas where
adjustments need to be made to implementation processes, and objectives and adapt to potential changes in
conditions. The resident mission would provide supervision support focused on financial management and
procurement, supplemented by two Bank supervision missions per year to monitor and evaluate project
implementation and achievement of objectives. A project launching workshop would be undertaken initially
for MOMRA's staff with main representatives from the district offices and participating municipalities. A
workshop would also be held as part of the mid-term review to encourage beneficiary participation in the
review process. By maintaining a municipality data base, the PCU will collect fiscal, physical, and
socio-economic data, which will provide an important input into future evaluations.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
This project represents the first Bank intervention in the municipal sector in Lebanon, which has
experienced its first municipal elections, barely two years ago, after a 36-year hiatus on local
representation. Bank assistance would aim at improving the quality and coverage of essential services
which, in turn, would help improve the quality of life particularly in the smaller municipalities. The project
will expand and rehabilitate municipal infrastructure and is expected to improve the efficiency of local
investments as funding will be limited to priority projects that meet established economic and technical
cfiteria.
The alternative of an adaptable program loan (APL) was considered but rejected due to unlikely agreement
on long term key milestones, which would be required for an APL. Therefore, the only viable alternative
for revitalizing the municipal sector is through an investment program which assists municipalities to meet
the backlog of rehabilitation needs and allows them to begin assuming responsibility for local
infrastructure, while building capacity at MOMRA to provide support to municipalities that have weak
capabilities.
A municipal development pilot program component focused on improving local capacity and finances in
selected wealthier pilot municipalities had been designed earlier, but was considered inappropriate given the
vast differential in fiscal and institutional capacity between these municipalities and the rest of the sector.
It was also considered premature to embark on a more generalized municipal development program, given
the inadequacy of the framework for local management and finance, and information to undertake major
changes in municipal management, capital planning and investment, and financial management.
A Social Fund Project, which had been considered in the FY95 lending program, was abandoned because
of the difficulty in identifying an appropriate institutional framework for the program. Donors, including
the World Bank are now reconsidering such a Project, and work is being undertaken to improve knowledge
of poverty profiles to design the targeting mechanisms. There may be some overlap in areas of
intervention, that will need to be taken into account, so that the two Projects are not working at cross
- 11 -



purposes with regard to demands on common resources of municipalities.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Deficiency in basic infrastructure  Emergency Reconstruction and     S              S
damaged or neglected during the civil  Rehabilitation Project (ERRP)
war
Environmental health hazards and   Solid Waste & Environmental       U             U
pollution                          Management Project
Weak management capacity of public  Administration Rehabilitation     S             S
sector institutions                Project (ARP)
Other development agencies
EU                                 Assistance to the
Re-establishment of the
Lebanese Administration
(ARLA)
USAID                              pilot small works projects
assistance to municipalities
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 12 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The lessons learned in Lebanon are primarily from the ongoing ERRP Project and the Solid Waste Project.
The main concerms relating to these projects are the lack of institutional capacity in sectoral ministries as a
consequence of the long civil war, and the regulatory constraints built into the administrative oversight of
control agencies such as the Cour des Comptes and the Civil Service Bureau (CSB). Projects implemented
by sectoral ministries have been delayed in some instances by the existing Lebanese procurement
procedures. While changing these procedures has been addressed through Bank support in the context of
procurement reforms, the rapid implementation of the small municipal rehabilitation works under this
project would be significantly facilitated through streamlined procedures in the Operations Manual (OM),
which would: (i) be based on Bank guidelines; (ii) provide step-by-step instructions from advertising
through contract administration; and (iii) include samples of the necessary simplified procurement
documents. An additional lesson learned in Lebanon through the Solid Waste and Environmental
Management Project is the importance of clarifying rules about the use of ImF resources, and promoting an
understanding by municipalities of their choices in use of these resources for locally determined investment
priorities. Another lesson learned through municipal development projects, is the need to involve
municipalities, early on, despite weak capacity in all stages of projects, rather than rely on central
authorities to manage every aspect of simple local civil works. Similarly, there is a need to adapt and
simplify objectives taking into account both local capacity and the prevailing institutional and policy
framework so that unrealistic expectations and objectives with regard to municipal performance can be
avoided.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
In light of the long neglect of municipal investments over the past twenty five years, the Government is
anxious to embark upon an investment program that could start rapidly and to ensure distribution of ImF
resources due to municipalities. MOMRA has completed appraisal of procurement documents and is
currently appraising the engineering designs of a $8 million first year pipeline of projects in accordance
with criteria spelled out in the Operations Manual. These criteria have been tested and refined during
appraisal. Municipalities have demonstrated keen interest in the Project, and support for it. Within 3
weeks of announcement of the project, almost half of the municipalities had submitted projects for
consideration. Where changes have needed to be made to adapt projects to criteria, municipalities have
complied readily within a brief period of time. Furthermore, MOF has expressed its full support for the
project as it would provide the necessary funding to municipalities against arrears owed to municipalities
by the ImF. Addressing the short and medium term needs of municipalities will allow MOF to restructure
the ImF and the intergovernmental financing system in the long term.
-13 -



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's participation in the proposed Project would support viable options for municipal sector
investment. MOMRA which has traditionally been more interested in the distribution, and not use, of
resources, has already begun to consistently apply technical, social and economic criteria for the appraisal
of municipal project proposals. The Bank's willingness to support these investments would complement
the technical assistance support that the donor community is willing to provide for the sector. Currently,
the EU and the Government of France have expressed interest in supporting local government initiatives,
and USAID is already providing extensive technical assistance to 80 municipalities. The existence of a
Bank project may help catalyze donor assistance, by providing concrete opportunities for the design of
local capacity-building prograrns to improve management and finance. It may also encourage MOMRA
leadership to avail itself of these donor resources to build the "software" needed to improve municipal
financial and management performance, complementing its heavy emphasis on the engineering and
hardware aspects of sector development. Although the Government has taken the lead in countrywide
reconstruction and physical development, it has not been able to mobilize local resources, establish a
reliable system of transfers or to delegate responsibility and resources to local governments for addressing
their own needs. The Bank's participation in examining issues of the intergovernmental finance system, on
a parallel grant-funded track, would bring a body of worldwide experience and expertise in this area,
including in post-conflict situations, where regional and distributional issues are of paramount importance.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
3 Other (specify)
The project would finance, following a demand-driven approach, over 1,000 rehabilitation projects. The
majority of these would be small and benefiting local governments that have not made significant
investments in infrastructure rehabilitation due to the inadequacy of their resources. As noted previously,
criteria for distribution of resources are based on registered population excluding the four largest
municipalities. Screening criteria, based on the tax on rental value of property and estimates of resident
population, had been developed in earlier preparation as an indicator of low income Casas (districts). The
results of this model do not differ substantially from the much simpler distribution by registered
population on a regional basis once the four largest municipalities are excluded. Given the weakness of
data on either fiscal capacity and resident populations, the simpler distribution model has been agreed to.
A set of screening criteria was developed, and is included in the Operations Manual, to ensure that
projects would be designed to be cost effective and reach the highest number of beneficiaries. A project
application form, to be filled out by the proposing municipality, was defined to screen projects and
identify only those that have a clear economic and community development objectives and that are meeting
essential needs. Eligible sub-projects would be appraised according to agreed upon procedures and
criteria. Whenever possible, sub-projects would be designed based on the least-cost technical alternative.
The agreed allocation of project proceeds on the basis of registered population would translate into a per
capita allocation of some US$32 equivalent over the life of the project. About 56 percent of the funds
would go to municipalities with less than 6,200 registered population.
As shown by the analysis of applications so far received by MOMRA, the bulk (80 percent) of financing
requests pertain to street related projects - re-surfacing, paving, retaining walls, street lighting, and storm
water drainage. The limited menu of eligible services is partly driven by the need to ensure simplicity
- 14 -



given financing capacity of municipalities. Most of the eligible services are normally financed through
general local revenues rather than user charges and fees. In terms of sector eligibility, this has resulted in
a large concentration of financing demand in the road sector. It has been agreed that investments (e.g.,
water and sanitation) involving environment-related issues, would be considered under the World Bank
loan, provided that an environmental management plan is submitted for approval prior to procurement.
The expected broad distribution in terms of sub-project size, would have called for broadly different
criteria for project appraisal and analysis. In this regard, it is essential that the definition of a
"sub-project" be agreed upon. This is all the more critical in light of the large volume of applications
submitted which pertain to municipal streets, many of which consist of road segments sometimes scattered
across geographical areas within the administrative boundaries of the municipality. In this case, the
evaluation of the financing requests cannot be done on a stand-alone basis for each road segment, but
rather on program basis that would encompass all the sections. Such methodology may also prompt
municipalities to rationalize their planning in the road sector, and develop plans for maintaining their
assets and upgrading their transportation grid.
Only a limited number of projects have been, and are likely to be, proposed for financing under the loan
for large transport routes - usually a city's main thoroughfare or the access road to a town. For this
category of projects the cost is estimated at about US$150,000 for a one km, standard two-lane
municipal road (as derived from the sample of applications heretofore submitted by municipalities). Such
requests may, in principle, be assessed on a stand-alone basis along criteria involving standard
cosUbenefit economic analysis. Given however the insignificant length of such roads (rarely exceeding few
kms), the expected savings in terms of vehicle operating costs may not alone justify the investment. Other
factors (e.g. safety, beautification, access to vital facilities such as clinics and schools), would have to be
taken into account. Similarly, expected savings in citizens' time may justify the investment in increasing
the capacity of highly congested urban roads; however this would likely call for street widening which
would involve issues of expropriation/resettlement - ineligible for financing under the proposed loan.
These criteria, outlined in Annex 4, have been developed in the Operational Manual. In summary, the
economic justification of the projects (the bulk of which will likely be upgrading and rehabilitation of
municipal roads) would be along the following guidelines:
Street lighting: cost per beneficiary ratio for all projects
Road projects: This would be done on: (i) program basis, encompassing all the roads for small
street segments. Ratios would be calculated for direct and (where possible) indirect beneficiaries.
The analysis would also indicate the percentage of town residents served by the project; and (ii) a
stand-alone basis for main roads with a cost exceeding US$150,000.
Least cost solutions should be considered for all projects. Least-cost assessment would be done in
comparison with unit costs for which data are available atlwill be compiled by MOMRA. Justification
should be provided when non-least cost options are retained.
Water:   Cost per beneficiary ratio for projects with a total cost below US$1 million
Economic rate of return ratio for larger projects.
Sewerage: Cost per beneficiary ratio for projects with a total cost below US$1 million
Economic return of return ratio for larger projects involving treatment plants.
- 15 -



Cost per beneficiary benchmarks would be developed based on information acquired during project
implementation. It is likely that several benchmarks may have to be developed to differentiate between
densely populated urban centers and more sparsely inhabited rural areas. Arrangements for operation and
maintenance, using to the extent possible local sources of revenue, have been agreed to during
negotiations. MOMRA will require that beneficiary municipalities maintain a minimum expenditure of 5
% of total expenditures for maintenance, and will monitor their overall maintenance expenditures on an
annual basis. In the second year of project implementation, based on actual cost and benefits data, cost
per beneficiary benchmarks would be calculated and used to update the project appraisal procedures.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
The total cost of the Project is estimated at US$100 million, of which 80 percent would be supported by
the Bank loan and 20 percent would be the GOL contribution. During project pre-appraisal, the issue of
availability of counterpart funds was reviewed. MOMRA and the Ministiy of Finance (MOF) have
indicated that counterpart financing would be made available from the ImF. Thus the more than 20
percent local contribution to a sub-project (capital) cost would already constitute an element of
cost-sharing by eligible municipalities, since these are transfers due to them. A further element of
cost-sharing should be represented by the commitment of beneficiary municipalities (especially the fiscally
endowed ones) to earmark own generated revenues to the operation and maintenance of the sub-projects
for which they seek funding under the Bank loan. This further element of cost-sharing may be estimated as
the present value of O&M  costs over the sub-project lifetime.  During appraisal, Government
confirmation was obtained to ensure that the required counterpart funds would be available when needed.
Fiscal Impact:
As indicated earlier, the counterpart financing would come primarily from the Independent Municipal
Fund (ImF). By law, ImF funds are allocated to local governments according to a formula based on
registered population and fiscal contribution. (The fiscal contribution criterion, has a low weighing of less
than 20 percent in the allocation fornula, and is difficult to administer due to the poor municipal finance
data; in fact it has so far been largely overlooked when allocating ImF funds). For practical purposes
therefore, the allocation of the proceeds of the World Bank loan would mirror that of the ImF funds. As
the World Bank loan would be counted against the ImF's, that is the Treasury's, arrears to the municipal
sector - merely shifting part of the off-balance sheet liabilities into the balance sheet, the Bank project
would then be fiscally neutral.
In Lebanon, the transfers from the central government to municipal authorities are channeled through the
ImF. This is a pool of funds collected by the central government on behalf, and held by the latter for the
benefit, of municipalities. The sources of ImF funds consist of taxes and levies, including a 10 percent
share of custom duties, a 10 percent surcharge on utility (electricity, water and telephone) bills, a 25
percent surtax on automobile registration fees, and a 0.5 percent excise tax on property transfer. A quick
estimation for the ImF annual resources would yield around US$150-200 million for 1999. These are
amounts due and payable by the central government to municipalities along distribution criteria specified
by law. Whereas the ImF is to be replenished monthly - save, may be, for customs proceeds - payments to
municipalities are distributed with a lag, on an annual basis.
The government counterpart funds - totaling US$20 million, that is US$4 to 5 million/year on average over
the project lifetime - would be part of the overall annual entitlement of the municipal sector under the ImF,
and not in anyway an addition to municipal claims on ImF funds. This does not affect the government's
- 16 -



overall spending program, and therefore the fiscal impact of the World Bank project can be considered as
neutral.
Cost recovery of municipal investnents is only partially carried out in Lebanon; the main outcome is
visible lack of maintenance in most urban areas in the country. Water, electricity, and solid waste
management are, however, better regulated and beneficiaries are charged for connections and consumption
(for water and electricity). Roads, drainage, and street lighting services (the bulk of investments that are
likely to be carried out) are normally not subject to specific charges, but paid by local councils from
general revenues, hence the need to mobilize resources locally and ensure a reliable system of
intergovernmental transfers. Given the nature of the majority of investments, (roads, street lighting,
drainage), calls for financing out of general revenues, "cost-recovery" practices would essentially be
through improved payment and collection of local taxes due (and distribution of centrally collected taxes
on behalf of municipalities). This would allow municipalities to pay for and maintain these services
through their general revenues. These two indicators would be tracked throughout project implementation.
Moreover, sub-project appraisal would consider their impact on local budgets for maintenance. Because
local governments are entitled to a surtax on the electricity bill, which is managed directly by the
Electricity Authority, local government bills are generally retained and paid out of their accrued share of
collected surtax revenues. Electricity consumption bills are, therefore, generally fully paid.
In the proposed project, given the weakness of the municipal sector and the tax collection systems,
cost-recovery practices should be introduced starting in those areas that show a more solid municipal
budget and more responsive community willingness to contribute to the delivery of services. In remote
underprivileged areas, willingness and ability to pay, as confirmed by a beneficiary assessment undertaken
by the Bank during project preparation, may actually be nonexistent due to the perception of having being
denied primary support, a perception that is widespread in many of these communities. Only evidence of
action and investment may change this perception, and allow for the introduction of cost recovery practices,
demonstrated by willingness to contribute and pay local charges and taxes.
Under a PHRD grant financing from the government of Japan (Grant No. TF025849), a broad study of
the municipal finance sector will be carried out. The study seeks to strengthen municipal management with
a focus on financial, fiscal and investment planning issues with the aim to improve the capacity of the
municipal sector in delivering services and maintaining the stock of local assets, and reduce local
government dependence on central resources. The study will particularly address the main issues related
to: (i) local revenue mobilization (taxes and non-tax) and expenditure assignment to increase efficiency
and accountability; (ii) the intergovernmental fiscal system to ensure that it meets the objectives of fiscal
soundness and equity; (iii) investment planning and management at the local level; and (iv) municipal
budgeting, fnancial management and accounting. Provision would also be made in the Loan Agreement
for up to 10 percent of the Bank loan to be used for retroactive financing of eligible contracts, as agreed
upon during appraisaL
3. Technical:
Since most of the investments to be considered under the project would be small, the technical issues
would be of minor concern. Most works would consist of rehabilitation and upgrading of existing
municipal infrastructure, with arrangements made for proper maintenance. The average size of most
projects would be about US$90,000 equivalent (LL 135 million). Project design criteria have been
largely based on recommendations of studies carried out by consultants, funded by a PHRD grant from
Japan, which was administered by MOMRA.
- 17 -



Consultants working with MOMRA staff prepared a Project Operation Manual that gives a complete set
of guidelines and procedures for sub-project appraisal, design, and implementation. The OM also includes
the project implementation plan and monitoring indicators for project performance assessment, as well as
terms of reference for technical assistance, including the timeframe for execution of such services.  The
OM would also include a technical manual for the design of infrastructure, as well as references to project
documents (PAD, Loan Agreement, and side letters) and Bank guidelines, which would be used by
MOMRA and the PCU for project implementation. The main sections of the OM are being revised to
reflect changes in design, and have been reviewed at negotiations. Its finalization would be a condition of
effectiveness.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies:
MOMRA would be responsible for project execution through a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU).
b. Project management:
The PCU would be responsible for all aspects of project management. Quarterly and annual reports,
including the mid-term review and the implementation completion report, would be prepared by the
PCU for Bank and Govermment review in accordance with Bank requirement.
MOMRA is a small ministry with 54 employees, only 10 of whom are permanent staff. Since the recent
appointment of the Minister of Interior as joint Minister of MOI and MOMRA, the latter's operations,
particularly large projects funded by donors, have been managed directly by an MOI official who is the
senior advisor to the Minister. In an effort to reduce the number of central ministries, MONIRA is expected
to formally revert to being a department of the MOI. This change, by no means detracts from the need to
build capacity of the institution responsible for municipal affairs, in monitoring and assisting local
governments in the performance of their functions. Capacity within both MOI and MOMIRA is currently
limited, and it is not expected that there will be a major increase in pennanent staff. The practice has been
to hire contract staff as work demands require. For this reason responsibility for FMIP implementation
would be delegated to the PCU. The latter would utilize consultants to support municipalities in
preparation of eligible projects, procurement documentation and construction supervision. Municipalities
have varying capacities for implementation, and many have relied on local volunteers for technical design
of projects. This has resulted in great variation in the quality of projects being proposed. Some of the
more capable municipalities have been able to provide detailed analysis and documentation of their
projects, while others have submitted projects that are minimally designed. Despite this, it is important
that municipalities be allowed a key role in selection and management of projects, and understand the
eligibility requirements and analysis needed to become true partners in managing projects within their
jurisdictions. The PCU would ensure that they be given the appropriate consultant support needed to
enhance their capacity to manage the selection, design and execution of local rehabilitation projects, and to
undertake the appropriate analysis.
Project preparation has been under the direction of the senior advisor to the Minister, assisted by an
experienced external consultant and, more recently, staff of MOMRA. The MOMIRA engineering staff
have proven to be very capable of appraising sub-projects according to technical, social and economic
criteria, and have been trained in procurement procedures of the Bank. Given the other demands on both
the senior advisor and MOMIRA staff, agreement has been reached that the MOMRA Minister would
identify PCU Project Manager, agreeable to the Bank and complete hiring by Effectiveness. The procedures
for identifying and procuring services of all staff would follow Bank procedures and be subject to Bank
approval. The need to get this staff on board rapidly is critical to ensure that the Project can transition
smoothly to implementation. It has been agreed that the PCU manager would be given appropriate
- 18-



delegated authority to execute the project in accordance with the procedures and terms set out in the
Operations Manual and Loan Agreement, and with the financial management and procurement
requirements of the Bank. It has been agreed that the engineering staff of MOMRA will continue to work
on the MIP until the full PCU staff is on board, by Effectiveness.
Coordination. While thus far MOMRA has not had much experience in coordinating with other agencies,
it is expected to perform this function to ensure smooth implementation of the Project. The performance of
the authorities of two agencies will have a bearing on project implementation, namely the Department of
Urban Planning which approves all physical projects for their technical and land use conformity, and the
Cour des Comptes which authorizes expenditures ex ante for some 50 municipalities. MOMRA would
seek through a Memorandum of Understanding to get agreement for expedited reviews from the Cour des
Comptes on project procurement and expenditures that may fall under its jurisdiction, in accordance with
Bank procurement procedures. This has been done for the PCU of the Ministry of Public Works and has
minimized problems and delays. Similarly, MOMRA would also seek agreement through a Memorandum
of Understanding with the Departnent of Urban Planning on expediting the project approval process,
providing consultant assistance if needed. Both Memoranda would be conditions of Effectiveness.
While there has been a great deal of emphasis on establishing clear procedures for execution and
management of the project, and the Operations Manual has been reviewed and its full contents has been
agreed upon, ensuring effective management controls and procedures will not be an easy task. This is the
first project to be appraised and executed by. the MOMRA whose only experience with a PCU, consisting
of an expatriate firn, to manage the Solid Waste and Environmental Management Project, has not been a
positive one. However, this project will not turn over PCU functions to an expatriate firm but to contract
staff working for the Ministry. Still it will be a challenge, within the highly hierarchical decision-making
culture of the Ministry, to ensure that the PCU is delegated sufficient authority to manage the project
effectively, and in accordance with Bank procedures. Close supervision by the Bank will be necessary to
ensure timely response to resolve and clarify procedural issues that might arise through experience gained
in implementation, and minimize risks of interference in operations and appraisal procedures according to
agreed criteria for fund allocation and project selection. The resident mission will therefore need to play a
key role particularly in monitoring and supervising financial management and procurement. Technical and
procedural audits would be undertaken during the first year of execution as part of an early assessment (see
Monitoring and Evaluation) and will be continued throughout the life of the project to cover an estimated
30 percent of all sub-projects.
- 19 -



5. Social:
During early project preparation, a rapid qualitative beneficiary assessment and consultation with potential
project beneficiaries from a sample of eligible areas was carried out. The main objective of this assessment
was to obtain feedback on beneficiary willingness to contribute to investments and operation and
maintenance of projects they had proposed to MOMRA. A representative selection of sub-projects
proposed, based on geographic area, size of communities, was visited by the social assessment team. As a
result of this study, sub-project documentation and applications were improved to provide for collection of
social and economic data so that expected benefits and outcomes, and the extent and nature of community
consultation could be better assessed. The rapid assessment was followed by a field appraisal mission, in
which the World Bank and MOMRA tearns tested and further refined appraisal criteria and worked closely
with municipalities to ensure that the social and economic net benefits of the sub-projects are maximized.
Municipalities were encouraged to focus on dense areas where the rehabilitation needs are greatest and
benefits for existing residents are highest. Bigger municipalities proposed a program of works to improve
asset management. Smaller municipalities focused on addressing urgent rehabilitation needs. All proposed
sub-projects were backed by decision by the recently elected municipal councils.
The distribution formula for allocation of funds will be part of the Operations Manual. It will be monitored
to ensure that resources flow to smaller municipalities, as planned, and to identify those that are having
difficulty in submitting project proposals and making use of resources allocated.
6. Environmental assessment:              Environment Category: B (Partial Assessment)
Category. During appraisal approximately 100 sub-projects in 22 municipalities throughout Lebanon
representing approximately 10 percent of the value of the loan were screened for significant environmental
issues. The appraisal process confirmed the overall scale and significance of potential impacts for the
proposed sub-projects is limited, and confirms the classification of the project as Category B under
OD4.01.
Legal and Institutional Framework. The appraisal process reviewed the existing institutional and
regulatory framework in Lebanon relevant to the sub-projects. The Ministry of the Environment (MOE)
has prepared an environmental framework law which is being discussed by the Parliament. A draft
Environmental Assessment Decree is also ready and an EA unit was also established with Bank assistance.
Although the MOE does not now have a mandatory EA review process, it has requested the sector
ministries to prepare EA reports prior to issuing construction and operation permits. EA reports are now
being prepared by sector ministries.
The Ministry of Public Works (MOPW) and the Ministry of Hydraulic and Electric Resources (MIlIER)
both have other existing review and approval procedures for the types of sub-projects (e.g., roads, street
lights, water supply and wastewater), under the loan. This approval process assures that the engineering
design for each sub-project is adequate in terms of public health, safety and enviromnental protection.
Inspection for quality assurance during construction is usually carried out directly-by municipalities, and
by municipal water authorities for potable water works with oversight by the two Ministries.
For this loan, the municipalities will obtain the standard permit and approvals from these two ministries. A
Memorandum of Understanding on the procedures for obtaining permits will be signed between MOMRA
and MOPW, who will coordinate with MHER. The municipalities will also carry out site-specific
enviromnental assessments for sub-projects with potential significant impacts, as described below.
-20 -



Potential Impacts. The majority of the sub-projects reviewed during appraisal consist of road resurfacing
and improvements (without widening onto new rights-of-way), sidewalks (new and rehabilitation), street
lighting (new and rehabilitated), and surface water drainage (new and rehabilitation). The cost of each
sub-project is generally in the range of $100-200,000 each, with several sub-projects in different parts of a
municipality. These sub-projects generally do not contribute to increased traffic volume, and would create
some positive environmental benefits due to reduced vehicle emissions resulting from the improved traffic
flow. The street lights would contribute to road safety at night and to general safety of people and their
property. The other expected impacts of these projects are small scale in nature, and mainly related to
disturbances to local residents during the construction period. Standard detailed engineering design and
construction measures will be used to minimize potential impacts related to erosion and channel protection
for stormwater drainage, disposal of excess spoil and construction debris, and for noise, dust and traffic
disruption during works on roads.
The appraisal screening process also identified a small number of sub-projects with potential significant
impacts, such as new water sources with related piping, new water reservoirs, new roads, and new small
scale wastewater treatment plants.  Additional environmental mitigation measures with engineering
feasibility and design work were requested for these types of projects, before approval for financing would
be given by the Bank.
Environmental Review Procedures.  The future sub-projects under the loan will continue to be
environmentally screened under similar procedures as used during appraisal. Essentially there are two
screening categories: (a) sub-projects that do not require an Environmental Assessment (EA) report (i.e.,
sub-projects with sidewalks, street lighting, pavement resurfacing, stormwater drains, urgent emergency
repairs to potable and sewage pipes); and (b) sub-projects that require an EA report to mitigate site specific
impacts (i.e., sub-projets with new roads, potable water sources, potable wells, water reservoirs, potable
water treatment facilities, pumping facilities, new potable water supply distribution and pipes. In addition
the environmental procedures will screen for any type of sub-project located in the vicinity of protected
sites or similarly highly sensitive environmental resources (i.e., cultural heritage sites or natural resources
protected area), and such projects would be subject to an EA report.
All sub-projects that require an EA report will have to obtain clearance by the Bank prior to launching the
bidding documents for construction. Satisfactory completion of required EA reports will be a condition of
disbursement for those sub-projects subject to an EA report. All these environmental review procedures
will be described in the project Operations Manual.
The municipality proposing a sub-project to be financed by MOMRA will be responsible for preparing any
required EA report for a sub-project to meet Bank guidelines. This is consistent with Bank policy for
regular investment projects and with environmental assessment regulations in most countries, and those
proposed in Lebanon.
Bank supervision missions would be staffed with qualified experts to review the results of environmental
review procedures, and to clear any required EA reports for sub-projects. Similarly the Bank supervision
mission would review and clear any proposed changes to the environmental review procedures prior to
updating the project Operations Manual.
Environmental Capacity Strengthening. To build stronger environmental capacity in municipalities, at
MOMRA and in the PIU, a Guidelines booklet for the environmental review procedures for potable water
-21 -



and sewerage projects will be prepared for inclusion in the project Operations Manual. The Guidelines will
outline the key potential impacts, the institutional and permitting requirements in Lebanon, typical terms of
references for potable water and sewerage sub-projects that could require EA reports and give examples of
adequate environmental management plans (EMPs). These Guidelines will assist in building capacity to
produce consistent environmental screening results and acceptable EA reports.
7. Participatory Approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced or may
influence; if participatory approach not used, describe why not applicable):
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
The ultimate beneficiaries of the proposed project would be the people living in municipalities. Their
demands for provision of essential infrastructure would be reflected through their recently elected
municipal councils. Field visits to municipal councils have revealed a great deal of innovation and
volunteerism to address urgent needs with limited resources. The project has generated considerable
interest on the part of residents, and a willingness by many to participate in preparation of project
proposals. The municipalities would assume the prime responsibility in executing the investment
sub-projects. Municipalities that lack the capacity could make requests for technical assistance that will
be arranged through the PCU at MOMRA. Consultants would be hired to assess priority needs, prepare
tender documents, appraise, and supervise sub-projects implementation, if necessary. Although the poor
are not directly targeted in this project (due to inadequate information needed for targeting), they stand to
benefit from improvements in basic infrastructure favoring denser population areas, as well as
employment opportunities in the construction sector generated by the project.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Since proceeds of the World Bank loan would be counted against ImF arrears, the Ministry of Finance will
have the opportunity to establish a more predictable and transparent accounting of ImF flows.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
A key factor that affects sustainability is country-risk given that this project is being initiated in an election
year where there could be shifts in priorities and commitments. However, the fact that municipal elections
took place two years ago bodes well for the commitment of local representatives to improving living
conditions and addressing the backlog of infrastructure rehabilitation needs. Two key factors would affect
sustainability of the project's development objectives: the ability of municipalities to strengthen capacity
and improve administration; and the ability of MOMRA to build institutional capacity to carry on the
agenda for municipal sector development As noted, the recently elected municipal councils, despite
weakness in capacity, are committed to demonstrating results in their communities. Moreover, the project
would include components that assist in strengthening the institutional capacity at MOMIRA through the
PCU and complement donor assistance to municipalities from the EU and USAII). A more fundamental
risk is the sustainability of benefits. This requires capacity building and improved local revenues and a
more sustainable system of intergovernmental finance, to ensure adequate operations and maintenance at
the local level. These risks can only be dealt with by a sustained effort to support reform and formulation
of a coherent strategy for development of the sector, beyond the duration of this first operation.
-22 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   RiSk Rating          Risk Minimization Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Projects do not have sustained impact due  H        Monitoring of local finances and expenditures,
to weak capacity to finance maintenance             bilateral and multilateral donor assistance.
of investments
MOMRA is not able to carry out project     S        A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) will be set
management requirements for the project             up and key staff appointed for the duration of
the project. Transfer of capacity to MOMRA's
senior staff will be an integral part of the PCU
operations.
Government counterpart funds are not      H         Government has already indicated that US$20
made available on a timely basis                    million equivalent would be allocated to the
project. The Loan Agreement would make
provisions to ensure that MOMRA's Local
Account is maintained for MOMRA's
management of local contributions, which
should maintain a substantial deposit followed
by timely periodic transfers to replenish
disbursements ($5 million have already been
deposited into a newly established local
account).
From Components to Outputs
The project will be slow to implement      S        The municipalities and MOMRA have begun to
given the lack of capacity by                       prepare a pipeline of projects worth $8 million,
municipalities to prepare and implement             $2 million of which have been fully appraised.
sub-projects and by PCU to procure the              Private consultants will be retained by the PCU
numerous small contracts of sub-projects            to assist municipalities with inadequate capacity
to prepare sub-projects.
Distribution formula will be monitored to track
municipalities that are having difficulty
preparing and submitting projects and provide
them with assistance.
Project duration extended to five years to
accommodate potential of slippage.
Overall Risk Rating                        H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
-23 -



Due to significant country risk, the overall project risk is rated as high. The risks are partially reduced by
the project design features, that include providing both institutional support at the central level and
technical back-up at the local level. Starting from 1999, Government transfers from the ImF to the
municipalities have become more regular and timely (Decree establishing ImF distribution for 1998 and
1999 already issued); the establishment of an experienced PCU at MOMRA is expected to further
strengthen the Ministry's institutional capacity in both project implementation and monitoring; having
agreed to an initial deposit of US$5 million (equivalent to 25 percent of counterpart funds) in the Local
Account by Board date is also expected to mitigate any concerns about the timely transfers of counterpart
funds; finally, the commitment of the municipalities to the FMIP has been clearly confirmed during the
period leading to project appraisal. By loan negotiations, around 650 municipalities (92 percent of total)
had submitted project proposals to MOMRA.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
MOMRA is currently a separate Ministry which is headed by the same leadership as the Ministry of
Interior. It has, for the last year and a half, been fully under the guidance and control of the Ministry of
Interior. There are now plans to fold it in as a department of the Ministry. This change in itself would not
necessarily represent additional risk of change to the project content since the MOI has taken the lead in
discussions and decisions on the project. However the uncertainty about the future role of MOMRA, does
make it difficult to ensure capacity building at the Center and to count on the PCU being provided with
appropriate authority and support to carry out its functions. The Legal Agreement will need to make
provisions to accommodate this possible de jure change in status, and the appropriate delegation of
authority for the implementation of the Project by the PCU. An additional controversial aspect that may
arise is the exclusion of the four largest municipalities. This will need to be dealt with by ensuring that
they get their share of resources due through the ImF outside the project. Finally, the distribution formula,
based on registered population for ImF allocations, may itself be controversial.  This will require
transparency and clear communication by MOMRA should this issue arise.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The following have been agreed to at Negotiations:
- The contents of the Operations Manual, including procurement and financial management manuals;
- The Project Implementation Plan and Work program of the PCU;
- Arrangements to ensure operations and maintenance;
- Arrangements for counterpart fund disbursement amounts and timing;
- Action plan for procurement and financial management, TOR for audit;
- Agreement on a set of indicators to monitor the project development objectives and implementation;
- Shortlist of candidates for PCU positions and selection of candidates; and
- Evidence of progress on sub-project procurement documentation, through submission of $2 million worth
of appraised projects.
Board:
- Completion of the first year sub-project documentation with procurement plan;
- Hiring/Bank approval of Project Coordination Unit Project Manager;
- Appointment of an interim Procurement Manager and Financial Manager and appointment of a chartered
Accountant;
- Procurement of services of accounting firms acceptable to the Bank, to provide accountant assistance in
accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; and
-24 -



- Opening of local account and deposit of $5 million equivalent.
Effectiveness:
- PCU established under contractual arrangements and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank;
- The Financial Management System referred to under Section 4.01 of the Agreement established, including
appointment of independent auditors and provision of a satisfactory opinion on the adequacy of the
internal controls of the Financial Management System by the auditor;
- PMIS established under procedures and in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Bank;
- MOMRA has entered into the Memorandum of Understanding with each of the Cour des Comptes and
MOPW; and
- The Borrower shall have appointed a financial manager and a procurement manager for the Project with
qualifications and under terms of reference and contractual arrangements acceptable to the Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Dated Covenant: Generate PMR reports by December 31, 2000 and start disbursing on that basis.
Loan Agreement: Section 3.01 (b) (ii). (a) Maintain the Local Account, in accordance with terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, exclusively for the financing of expenditures under the Project; and (b)
Deposit into said Account within the first week of each quarter, the amount required to ensure that the
amount on deposit in said Account at such time shall not be less than the estimated amount of expenditures
under the project during such quarter.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods, works, and services
required for the project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the proceeds of the Project
Account shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Schedule I -Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan: (a) Payments made for expenditures prior to the date
of the Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amnount not exceeding the equivalent of $
8,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1)(a), (2), (3), and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph
I of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 31,
2000; (b) expenditures under Category 1(b) of the Project related to any Sub-project identified by the
Environmental Assessment Review Procedures as requiring an environmental assessment report, unless (i)
the Borrower shall have first submitted to the Bank an environmental assessment report, procurement
documents and contractual agreements in connection with such Sub-project, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank and in accordance with the Environmental Assessment Review Procedures; and (c)
any expenditure under the Project unless the Bank shall have received the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of
this Agreement.
H. Readiness for Implementation
r 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
O 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Cl 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
FI 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
H. I - Partially completed.
- 25 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Sonia Hammam                          Claude Villiard               Inder K. Sud
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
-26 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
LEBANON: FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Key Performancel
Hierarchy of Objectives              Indicators             Monitoring & Evaluation         Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:               Sector/ country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Enable rehabilitation and     Sustainable improvements in    Municipal database developed    Small investments in
expansion of infrastructure and   essential infrastructure in  under the project and maintained  infrastructure improvement and
concurrent improvements in    municipalities deprived of public by MOMRA                   repair has a positive impact on
service provision            investments                                                  living conditions
Project Development           Outcome I Impact               Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
1. Restore selected basic     * Evidence of sustainable     * MOMRA database               Small improvements in basic
municipal infrastructure to   rehabilitation of municipal works * Progress reports (quarterly);    infrastructure, along with
improve the living conditions    in most municipalities in the  mid-term review            technical assistance efforts
primarily in municipalities   country                        - Technical and financial audit  through project and other donors,
previously deprived of such   * Evidence of use of percentage of report.                   will lead to sustainable
investments                   local resources for maintenance   * Procurement and disbursement  improvements in quality and
* Number of direct and indirect  reports.                   management
beneficiaries by subproject type   - Municipal budget accounts
* Percentage increase in      beneficiary assessment
expenditures on maintenance
2. Set the stage for the      - Annual amount and distribution MOMRA database              * Improvements are made in
development of the municipal    of ImF resources             MOMRA and MOF data            tracking accounts, and collection
sector by providing municipalities                                                         of funds due to ImF
with their share of           - Percentage of expenditures of
intergovernmental transfers   municipalities on investment                                 * Agreement is reached on ImF
intended to promote capital                                                                settlement of arrears and their
investment                    * Percentage of revenues of                                  distribution
municipalities from ImF
* Assistance is provided to
* Percentage of tax on drainage                             municipalities through bilateral
and sidewalks to total local                                 donors
revenues collected
* Distribution of total ImF
* Ratio of area served by project                            resources is made on the basis of
to total built up area                                      transparent criteria on a timely
basis
* Studies on local and
intergovernmental finance lead to
development of a framework for
future reform
-27-



Output from each             Output Indicators:             Project reports:             (from Outputs to Objective)
component:
I. Improved basic infrastructure  1. Infrastructure improvements in 1. MOMRA database;   Sub-projects will have a
quality.                     704 communities (by type)     supervision mission reports;   measurable effect on overall
* At least 50 percent of project   evaluation reports (mid-term and  quality of infrastructure and
resources benefit smaller     final)                       living conditions and benefits will
municipalities (less than 7000)                             be maintained
Feedback from beneficiary
* Km of roads, drainage, water   assessment surveys (access to,   Resources made available on a
pipes rehabilitated, number of    use of and satisfaction with  timely basis and according to
street lights                 services)                     clear criteria
2. Improved capacity to design,   2. Cost/beneficiary by subproject 2. Consultants' reports on  Capacity of municipalities will be
appraise, and implement small  type, cost/benefit          subproject planning and        enhanced and will be reflected in
infrastructure investments                                  execution phases PCU reports   practices which go beyond the
Indicators on cost, quality, and   (periodic); Bank supervision  sub-projects
duration of the various stages of  mission reports; evaluation
design, appraisal, and        reports (mid-term and final)
implementation of sub-projects
Contract performance
Physical progress/time
Project Components /         Inputs: (budget for each       Project reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                   Outputs)
I. Upgrading backlog of priority  US$92.8 1million         * Progress reports (quarterly);   Participating municipalities are
physical infrastructure,                                    mid-term review; implementation willing and able to design,
(e.g., road upgrading, small storm                          completion report             appraise implement the
drainage schemes, sidewalks,                                * Procurement and disbursement sub-projects, or accept technical
pedestrian crossings, street                                reports (quarterly)           assistance through MOMRA
lighting, retaining walls, urgent                           * Technical and financial audit
repairs to small water supply and                           reports
wastewater systems)                                         * Studies completed
* MOMRA database operational
* Project implementation
operations manual updated
2. Capacity building at MOMRA  US$4.86 million              * Progress reports (quarterly);   Staffing of PCU on time and with
for project implementation;                                 mid-term review; implementation qualified staff who meet the
technical assistance for project                            completion report            terms of reference
implementation                                              * Procurement and disbursement
reports (quarterly)           Participating municipalities that
3. Project management                                       * Technical and financial audit  lack capacity will seek assistance
US$2.33 million               reports                     .F. from PCU for design, appraisal,
tendering, and supervision
* MOMRA database              PCU is effective at procuring
numerous small contracts for
sub-projects
-28 -



Annex 2: Project Description
LEBANON: FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
The Project would consist of the following three components:
By Component:
Project Component I - US$92.81 million
Upgrading and Rehabilitating Basic Municipal Infrastructure
Carrying out a program for the rehabilitation and upgrading of essential infrastructure in all the
municipalities of the Borrower (with the exclusion of the four largest municipalities of Beirut,
Tripoli, Sidon and Zahle), including: (i) constructing, upgrading, rehabilitating and maintaining
essential roads and sidewalks, retaining walls, pedestrian crossings, street lights, safety barriers,
road signs, urgent repairs to potable water and sewerage pipes, pavement surfacing, storm water
drains and drainage systems; and (ii) construction, rehabilitating, upgrading and repairing new
roads, potable water sources, potable wells, water reservoirs, potable water treatment facilities,
pumping facilities, small water supply and sewerage systems.
Project Component 2 - US$4.86 million
Capacity Building
1.    Developing, implementing and maintaining a program for infrastructure rehabilitation,
including feasibility studies, tender document preparation, sub-project technical design and
supervision and maintenance programming, through the provision of consultant services to the
municipalities.
2.    Strengthening the capacity of MOMRA to manage the Project and monitor the municipal
sector, through the provision of consultant services.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.33 million
Proiect Coordination Unit
Establishment and operation of the PCU, including the provision of equipment and consultant
services thereto.
Project Implementation Plan
The Project would be implemented by MOMIRA with the support of a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU).
The project implementation shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual, which
would also include Project Appraisal Document (PAD) and Loan Agreement (LA). The project comprises
2 phases: Phase one starts with project appraisal and ends by loan effectiveness date. Phase two starts
from Loan Effectiveness and ends with project completion, which would be a maximum of 5 years from
Loan Effectiveness (see attached tables).
- 29 -



REPUBLIC OF LEEBANON
Ministry of Munkpal and Rural Afairs
FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
To be                                          Actions Required                                                                   Remarks
Completed
PHASE-I1Lan 
1.  MOMRAf ilzprwectaptrasduiath eBamlnsswnard agoeupoagpr  etadis,               CGre
waanlo, strat    ise -&&gorbe, sc*4                   -nmton m   esvr4arlesn
2.  MOMRA and Bank nissionagw onset of ztonto be used to nrrorthe pn t            Conetai Side letter to agmnt m&i&d. oidisato.
3.  MOMRA utouesutbish a short-listfor the CovPCU staf andserd thsee(3) CVssfor eaoft je    MOMRA sert tho CVs uwihano euduatwon ofaidata byfasisme to de Bank. Ony
dthePCUposeits.                                                              PCU Dims-or s unmmd  Fiima Manager ad Premt Managerfixti  to be
pe,fordbyMOMRA eVeand byhirga -tfiaacst
4.  MaORA uath dhesuport  tanul u6t iflfrize theappraisa ofBank-1 subpoiecis nrtb Guplei
I                        ~~~~~~~~abotx USZ5 pmsentd by l17 mpnies,   v tisie ly theBarnkission andMOMRA erwers
dsig appraisal
5.  The wrierddoasrrts for BatdsI su.pqryezs uill bpreparedbymaditaes  uith anistsncefrern  C-*ete
MOMRA ersao a&and awtaidewiebyprornntspOakst
6.  MOMRA willsuhrfmit VdwIof the Operat sMa     ith tbhe  nprogransf thePCU
7.  7he Wod Bank tostppotMaMRA in bxDteign theFi lManagmnt Systn (ie FMS).    Cmfka.
8.  MOiRA andMOF to opena Loadl A antat the Cendral Bank oL olanddeposti US$5     Carpknd
ni0in
9.  Apponnt ofPCUDvrand ppqwgrmnt oFinarzr Dmecorand PIA otMamgr CU                    i
10. R,mt w  ndaoauant on short termbasis.                                         C-rpletd



REPUBLIC OF LEBANON
Minxy of Mun1ripaI arid Rural Affairs
FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PRojECT
7MW 2z 2000   ~y DO
11. Appoint tlseFMS sqwcihedpnm   arq*w1 MOMRA to ie* sho rtlist and selet  crnht    'ith Bank prior
12. Remit iheMIS Adhr orl/Sq'nutme doer at the PCUj MOMRA to mst ise MIS A &wasator/S*uedez peron hvvraaiie bas7
___________________________ ________________                 _ _ _ _ _   fdksing '      dx  sanri    Pssrow hm    fcr  G.ssssPCU    staff  _ _ _ _
13. Drft de TORsforthePMIS sfqtr                                                         ] PCUDireortopyeparethe TORsfor dePMIS
14. La=AgsmsandrSideLetta sig71?                                                           MOMRA toafst tosarwratatiopnorto the dcosfe  dxParhznfrntsession
15. DrmfttheEmn walRed ewseo fOperatsMarsalard rnplete remingszom  frdte
OM.
16. Cbplete x sctazrededoprvt cf the FMS, test and wtallz                                  MOMRA to antratt-oet theseaedp t cu7pany    beradsseJiba5iS.
Soomceokde to healso prnocbyMOMRA fitonhe sywur desloer.
17. Draft the Financial Managemetnt Operations Manual with both the design and user's manuals.  MOMRA to sxperise dt dezdopnt jf dx Opera    Mam al to be drafte by 
sq$ze-dopnwnt -Tany
18. App   Isthe l   zentFirialA  6toms.                                                    MOMRA toprowre tdhnekpo       tA  ditgfimr
19. Draft theMe Mrrazinjf Uraestwrdig(ie MoU) mtkb dthDiretor Gerld Uef nrnPLsnnegas    MOMRA to irde th  ats and swae the drafting adiy apprya  of the MoU
so as th Cet A A cxoys.
20. Deu4thePMlS swm  ipsmtaUandtest                                                        The MIS A drrtrator/Sqeaurec aperat dthPCU oil desp thePMIS sqncr
bwtall aid test
21. Draft the PMIS Operations Manuial that inludes both the Design and User's Manuals.     The MIS Ac &mstrator/Souwe deeoperat the PCU vil draft dx PMIS design asid
user's manual
2Z  FX rlenoiwc afdPC ardesta1bbhsrnt qfadeuawe interal sis.                               MOMRA tofdlawprsamadpted forcrePCUstaf
23. MOMRA topsepare qxear4pvndvp-g        forodf PCU
24. Obtain aaditor's satisfactoy opinion on the adeqnay of the internal controls of the Financial  FarsiaA udtor to proude eyassessmst osf n cir rals
Marrrnt System
25. MOMRA do,  dx MoF wdisubrit to the BaR  the spienm sigouss ofaoexwzed
MOMRA's representatives to wtithdraw the Bank loan proceeds and to make payment to contractors.
26. MOMRA duofoub dxMaFopens a SpedialAo        )tfr the Bawk L a



REPUBLIC OF LEBNON
Minsry of Munkipal and Rural Afairs
FRST MUNWIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PRJET
2Z  DereeptbePMRmpoqtsfivmtheFMS
PHASE-II             After Loan Effectiveness
BathI                    28. GCarrta loa inguudeshop mdia p*ari    ppraisal cfBatd-2 subp~teas
29. See pnorrapprozi f the Wold Br on Batd,1 suptb is
30. PAna  Bada1 wmg WcRa,k pB wdue s
31. SAMeruse inWamwm qBaWZdsblivxndtl  msu
32. Mator the       t qfBat,1bythePCU
Mm& 2001                 33. Idki* aoagtee  ead fp      qetqMlttzw khwks hused onin'abon estai&hediat
34. Ddewr aniyassessrnt epo?t
Jw e2001                 35. U,rknake ae6yassmsmn
Ba^di2                   36. pre miAp    apprasal qfBatd.-3 suhyrezs
3Z  Sea  pnorappro  cfte WorldBank cnBatd,h2 subpryas
38 Pnrxwe Bat&d2 tuvs Wold Bark pemdms
39. Supeise ien     r cfBatd7-2 by extemml anmums
40. Mmwr th  le wpkn d qfBaed.2 by dhPCU
BatSj3                   41. P, lreradappraisad fBatdS.4 sub prqeas
42  SrSnor approu of the WodBank m Batd,-3 suhpgaz
43. Pnre Batidb3 usT Word Bank psaiw
44. Sperzise ir    dscfBat&3 byextml ondss&
45. Mrator dx ii~    a cf BatS.3bvy dPCU
Dafirr 2002              46  Midte,mreuew
47. Reuse O    eO M   IA
Batd-4                   48  P,XleaBrais  qBatA5sub&ptaes
49  Se  porapprodf edx Wom?dBaAe cnBatdtb4 suAbprqe s
50. Paxe oBad4 ubg Wod Bar/e pmaiws
51. Supe?we in#awetain jf Batd,4by ex.tlmumm                                     __o_                                _
52. Mritordx irlaticnefBat&- 4 by hePCU
Bat4&5                   53. Se   p'*rapprou4 f'the Won'dB B    onBat5 sub pnyazs
54. PneBatd&5 wieg WonS Bars protnmae
55. Suoruse itrBat5by axt k osts
56. Mator dx in       r sqfBatd,5y dx PCU



3.    World Bank Supervision. Bank staff supervision of the project would entail two levels of
responsibility. The first, which would consist of two supervision missions per year to review progress of
implementation and follow-up for compliance with the Loan Agreement and the Bank guidelines; and the
second, which would consist of technical assistance to be provided either by Bank experts or Bank
consultants (experts on institutional and financial aspects and municipal policy and legislation). These
missions would supplement supervision by the resident mission, which would be actively involved in
supervising financial management and procurement on an ongoing basis. In the first year of project
execution, that is after Bank approval of the loan, around three Bank supervision missions would be
planned to maintain adequate momentum after project start, and to provide logistical support and guidance
during phase to ensure retroactive financing is carried out within Bank guidelines. Bank missions would
also review the PCU management of the project accounts and the financial reporting system to ensure
compliance with Bank requirements and procedures. A tentative schedule of missions is given below:
- 33 -



Fiscal Year               Activitv                      Staff Skills Required          Staff Input
(July l- June 30)                                                                       (staff weeks)
FY00       I project launching mission      Team leader, financial, engineer,           8
in June 2000                     procurement, economist,
social scientist
FYOI       2 missions:
I supervision in December 2000  Team leader, engineer, procurement,         6
financial, economist;
I early assessment in June 2001
Team leader, accounting/finance,           14
institutional, environmentalist,
engineer, procurement, social scientist,
economist
FY02       2 missions:                       Team leader, accounting/finance;
I supervision in December 2001  engineer, procurement, economist;           6
1 supervision in May 2002
Team leader; accounting/finance;           8
engineer, procurement, economist,
environmentalist, social scientist
FY03       2 missions:                      Team leader, accounting/finance;
I midterm review in December    engineer, procurement, social scientist,    14
2002                             economist, environmentalist, municipal
finance
I supervision in May 2003
Team leader, accounting/finance;           6
engineer, procurement, economist
FY04       2 missions:
I supervision mission in December  Team leader, engineer,                   6
2003                             accounting/finance, procurement,
institutional, economist
Team leader, engineer,
I supervision mission in May 2004  accounting/finance, municipal finance,   8
institutional, social scientist,
environmentalist, economist
FY05       2 missions:                       Team leader, engineer, finance,            6
1 supervision mission in December  accounting, economist, procurement
2004
Team leader, engineer, finance             12
I supervision mission in May 2005  economist, social scientist,
environmentalist
FY06        I supervision/completion mission    Team leader, engineer, finance,
in December 2005                 accounting, economist, social scientist,   12
procurement, environmentalist,
municipal finance
-34 -



4.    Borrower's Contribution to Supervision.  MOMRA would be responsible for overall project
execution. PCU Project Manager, complemented by PCU staff, would manage the project.
Consultants would be hired to undertake social assessments and technical audits of the project in
order to have independent unbiased evaluation of the social, economic, environmental and technical
aspects of the project and of compliance with procedures. It is expected that technical audits
would cover about 30 percent of total projects. Also, independent annual audits of project
accounts would be carried out by certified public accounting firms to comply with fiduciary
obligations of both the MOMRA and the Bank.
5.    MOMRA PCU would participate in the early assessment and project mid-term review and in the
preparation of the reports.  MOMRA  PCU  would take a lead part in the Borrower's
Implementation Completion Review and Report. The Bank would provide guidance on the
performance of these reviews and the preparation of the corresponding reports.
6.    MOMRA, with the assistance of the PCU, would prepare and submit for Bank review quarterly
progress and annual progress reports. MOMRA would also provide to the Bank information
required for project monitoring and evaluation within the context of these reports. MOMRA would
ensure that the PCU and its consultants maintain project information up-to-date and that technical
assistance programs for MOMRA staff are being carried out in accordance with contractual
obligations.
7.    MOMRA, through the PCU, would maintain the municipal database. It would use the database to
build up a broad fiscal, physical, and socio-economic profile on municipalities. The profile of
municipalities would be used for monitoring and evaluation activities.
8.    Finally, the Ministry of Finance (MOF), which would be responsible for the timely provision of
counterpart funds, would have fiduciary responsibility to ensure that MOMRA implements the
project in accordance with the terms of the Loan and Agreement.
- 35-



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
LEBANON: FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
0.00
1. Civil Works
(a) rehabilitation, upgrading and extension of essential municipal    41.82  41.82   83.64
infrastructure
0.00
2. Goods
(a) Goods, equipment and vehicles for the PCU              0.02          0.24         0.26
(i.e., Part 3(b)
(b) Sub-project goods                                      0.23          0.51         0.74
3. Technical Assistance                                                               0.00
(a) consultants for project feasibility, design, software  3.98          0.44         4.42
development, tender document preparation, supervision and
monitoring, and audits
(b) project management (PCU)                               0.00          1.86          1.86
Total Baseline Cost                                       46.05         44.87        90.92
Physical Contingencies                                    3.18          3.18         6.36
Price Contingencies                                       1.37          1.35         2.72
Total Project Costs              50.60        49.40        100.00
Total Financing Required               50.60        49.40        100.00
Goods                                                        0.30          0.80          1.10
Works                                                       46.00         46.00         92.00
Services                                                     4.30          2.60          6.90
Project Management                                           0.00                        0.00
Total Project Costs     50.60         49.40        100.00
Total Financing Required;     50.60         49.40        100.00
- 36 -



Annex 4
LEBANON: FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Project context
1.    The First Municipal Infrastructure Project (FMIP) was requested by the Lebanese authorities to
begin revival of the municipal sector after the war and initiate a program of municipal development. It is
envisaged as a first phase of a longer-terrn strategy to promote balanced development among the different
regions of the country and strengthen the role of municipalities in the provision of infrastructure and
services to respond more effectively to local needs. The FMIP aims at setting the stage for achieving such
objectives.
2.    The most recent CAS for Lebanon (November 1997), identifies rehabilitating and expanding
essential infrastructure, meeting the needs of the poor and strengthening weak public sector institutions as
priorities for Bank assistance. The FMIP addresses, in part, these objectives as it seeks to
provide/rehabilitate essential infrastructure at the municipal level across the country.
3.    The Government of Lebanon recognizes that uneven development and the years of war have led to
municipalities having a large backlog of needed infrastructure maintenance and extremely limited fiscal
resources. The inability of most municipalities to perform their assigned responsibilities, due largely to
the lack of administrative capacity at the local level, is further compounded by inadequate resources. It is
on these municipalities that the project would focus its rehabilitation program.
Project objectives, strategy, and design
4.    The FMIP would address the backlog of deficient infrastructure at the municipal level by providing
such services in a cost-effective manner to municipalities where services are most needed and are seen by
recently elected municipal councils as a priority. It would, as a longer term objective, seek to strengthen
the municipal sector through gradual reforms.
5.    Within the context of these objectives, the strategic consideration that had to be factored into the
project design was whether this project could effectively target the needs of the poor. The limited menu of
infrastructure responsibilities currently assigned to local governnents is not an appropriate means to
target the poor. Roads, street lighting, sidewalks, and drainage infrastructure, which are the major
services provided by municipalities in Lebanon, may in some circumstances have a large impact on the
living conditions of the poor, but most of the time they are not ranked as their first priority (the beneficiary
assessment and needs assessment performed for preparation of the Social Fund Project confirm this
statement). Furthermore, the lack of a standard living condition survey and of a poverty assessment
profoundly limit the ability to target the poor. The Bank team chose, therefore, to ensure that the project's
investments would cover low-revenue local governments, where the capacity tQ mobilize own resources is
limited and investmnents and rehabilitation have lagged behind. The FMIP was considered an appropriate
instrument to assist these municipalities because it could provide the necessary technical assistance and
support for strengthening municipal development. The underlying assumption was that by ensuring that
municipalities with low revenues get - through the loan allocation process that excludes the four largest
cities a higher share of loan proceeds than would have been available to them under a simple proportional
rule, the project would be likely to reach a high number of poor.
- 37 -



Rationale for establishing criteria for monitoring fund allocations and screening project proposals
6.    The existing statistical information and database at the country level is particularly limited on
information relating to municipalities. Because postwar reconstruction has concentrated on providing
major infrastructure at the national level with focus on the large metropolitan areas to support recovery
from the war and launch a new period of economic development, smaller towns and villages in less
accessible areas of the country are now in greater need of rehabilitation and upgrading investments.
Criteria for funds allocation at caza level
7.    The project would cover the whole national territorv (excluding the four largest cities). Investments
would be implemented in each caza on a demand driven basis, with funds nominally allocated per
municipality, proportionally to its registered population size.
8.    The allocation of funds, as defined, would be  monitored during project implementation as
investment proposals are received, appraised, and implemented. The monitoring of fund allocations will
highlight if there are areas with no or reduced proposals being submitted for funding. The allocation
criteria would be, however, assessed at project mid-term review, when more information would have been
collected on local government functioning service availability, and implementation and absorptive
capacity. At that time, an informed evaluation of the criteria set at appraisal would be carried out.
Criteria for screening at the project level
Project request
9.    The beneficiary communities , through their elected representatives, would fill out project request
applications including an organized set of questions. The project request application is designed to collect
information on service deficiency, socio-economic aspects of the area, community priorities, project
rationale, project beneficiaries, and expected project impact. Only those projects which have a clear
economic or community development objective and are meeting essential services would be eligible (i.e.,
roads leading to schools, hospitals, dispensaries, religious buildings, public buildings; main roads,
commercials roads, high traffic roads; roads used by trucks or agriculture equipment, roads that serve a
whole identified community). The project request application would allow to situate a project within the
municipal context acquiring at the same time vital detailed informnation for MOMRA's municipal
databank system on the economic structure of the area and on the level of services already provided. The
project request application would provide, therefore, informnation to be used for both technical design and
economic analysis of the project.
10.   Oni the basis of the project request application a first screening selection would be performed by the
Project Coordination Unit. At this stage, consultants would be hired to appraise the project if the applying
municipality has no capacity to do so. They would control the information contained in the application
form, check the project rationale and stated priority and fine tune the estieates of i.e., the number of
beneficiaries. Other important information would be collected at this stage. The project proposal
application would become a project appraisal sheet and it is designed to contain all information necessary
for the c analysis of the project.
- 38 -



Project assessment
11.   The project design would have to be technically sound and carried out according to the guidelines
of the Operational Manual. For all subprojects, whenever possible, least-cost solutions would be sought.
For roads upgrading and rehabilitation, the technical option would take into consideration the most
appropriate maintenance strategy considering the weaknesses in the system of maintenance provision and
the most cost-effective option is chosen.
12.   The following screening indicators would be used to assess the economic justification of the
projects. For upgrading and rehabilitation of:
Street lighting:    cost per beneficiary ratio for all projects.
Road Projects:    cost per beneficiary ratios. This would be done:
(i) on program basis, encompassing all the roads for small street segments.
Ratios would be calculated for direct and (where possible) indirect
beneficiaries. The analysis would also indicate the percentage of town residents
served by the project; and
(ii) on a stand-alone basis for main roads with a cost exceeding US$150,000.
Least cost solutions should be considered for all projects.  Least-cost
assessment would be done in comparison with unit costs for which data are
available will be compiled by MOMRA. Justification should be provided when
non-least cost options are retained.
Water: cost per beneficiary ratio for projects with a total cost below US$1
million.
Economic rate of return ratio for larger projects, where benefits would be
assessed along the methodology described in para. 15 below.
Sewerage: cost per beneficiary ratio for projects with a total cost below US$1
million.
Economic return of return ratio for larger projects involving treatment plants.
13.   These indicators would allow for screening of projects according to their economic justification, to
be interpreted as the efficient use of limited available funds.
14.  In the absence of already established average cost per beneficiary benchmarks, MOMRA would,
based on the Lebanese experience in each sector considered, have to create benchmarks based on the large
sample of projects it would be dealing with during project implementation.
15.   For  water rehabilitation projects or extension through standpipes, the investment would be
required to produce savings or additional benefits in excess of costs; for rehabilitation projects, savings
are measured as the physical amount of lost water saved. For standpipes benefits are evaluated as the
additional water provided to the connected people. Both physical quantities are then evaluated in
- 39 -



monetary terns at the average tariff paid for cubic meter of water at the national level. In the case of
larger water and sewerage projects costing above US$1 million, the number of which is expected to be
low, the cost per beneficiary ratio analysis cannot be used as a screening criteria. For these large projects
therefore, a simplified calculation of the Net Present Value of benefit-costs, as above indicated would be
computed.
16.   Small road projects would be assessed on the basis of cost per beneficiary. For larger road projects
standard practices have been modeled to evaluate benefit/cost ratios; these models would provided by the
consultants appraising the projects.
17.  In the context of the proposed project, the use of the Proposal Application Form, of the Appraisal
Sheet and of these simple indicators would allow prioritization among different project proposals coupling
indications from beneficiaries' preferences and information based on more traditional cost/benefit
indicators. It is also meant to encourage, in the future, MOMRA and its technical staff to rationalize
choices and maximize use of scarce funds even when the size of projects are very small.
A posteriori economic evaluation of small projects
18.   On the basis of the information collected through the project cycle (Project proposal application
and project appraisal sheet), an assessment of the actual impact of the financed projects per type of works
would be carried out on a sample of implemented projects. Such assessment would be completed two
years after project effectiveness. It would be carried out on 20 percent of the implemented projects with
each type of works represented proportionally to the share of financing.
19.    Such assessment would evaluate if the stated objectives of the appraisal sheet are reached, would
determine if the actual beneficiaries of the implemented projects are the ones estimated at appraisals and
would identify improvements to be integrated in the project appraisal cycle. On that occasion cost-per
beneficiary benchmarks based on incurred costs provided by bids outcomes would be defined. Terms of
reference of the study would be agreed at mid-term review.
Expected benefits
20.   The project would finance mainly rehabilitation and upgrading of urban roads and drainage, public
lighting, retaining walls, sidewalks and pedestrian crossings, traffic safety devices, small water supply
services, on-site sewage disposal, and small sewage collection and disposal systems to address emergencies.
The proposed project would have major benefits, including: (a) improved access roads to primary services
such as health clinics and hospitals, schools and community facilities, churches and mosques, cemeteries
and commercial areas; (b) improved road safety and reduced risk of accidents; (c) improved evening
access to commercial areas; and (d) improved sanitation and reduced health and environmental hazards.
Such essential infrastructure is needed to ensure acceptable quality life and working conditions.
Counter-part funding arrangements
21.   Counter-part funding arrangements for financing the rehabilitation and upgrading of infrastructures
have been agreed.  Twenty percent of project investment costs will be fnanced out of ImF
intergovernmental transfers allocated to each municipality. The ImF is a revenue-sharing fund based on
surtaxes and duties collected by the MOF to be transferred to local governments. By law, these funds are
allocated to local governments according to a formula based on population and fiscal contribution. Under
this project, MOMRA, through the ImF would provide the counterpart funds due to local governments.
-40 -



Fiscal impact and cost recovery
22.    The FMIP is estimated to cost US$100 million for four years. The World Bank would provide
US$80 million equivalent and local governments would provide US$20 million equivalent. The
counterpart financing would come from the Independent Municipal Fund. On the counterpart funds
therefore the project is fiscally neutral. Moreover, given that the central treasury has accumulated large
arrears to the municipal sector, estimated at well over US$0.5 billion. The proceeds of the Bank loan
would be counted against those arrears. As such the Bank loan would not be adding to the fiscal deficit.
The debt service obligations incurred as a result of the Bank loan can be deemed to be lower than the
marginal cost of borrowing by the Lebanese government, currently a net borrower.
23.    Cost recovery of municipal services is only partially performed in Lebanon. The main outcome is
visible lack of maintenance for most of the country's urban infrastructure. Water, electricity, and solid
waste management are, however, better regulated and beneficiaries are charged for connections (for water
and electricity) and consumption. Roads, drainage, and street lighting are paid by local councils from
general revenues, as is normal practice for these non-revenue generating services which benefit entire
communities, However at this stage general revenues are limited. Because local govemments are entitled
to a surtax on the electricity bill, which is managed directly by the Electricity Authority, local government
bills are generally retained out of their accrued share of collected surtax revenues. Consumption bills are
therefore generally fully paid.
24.   In the proposed project, given the weakness of the municipal sector and the tax collection systems,
cost-recovery practices should be introduced starting in those areas that show a tnore solid municipal
budget and more responsive community willingness to contribute to the delivery of services. In remote
underprivileged areas, willingness and ability to pay, on the basis of the outcome of the field visits, may
actually be nonexistent due to the perception of having being denied primary support, which is widespread
in some of these communities. Only the evidence of action and investnent may change this perception and
allow for the introduction of cost-recovery practices. Given the nature of the majority of investments,
(roads, street lighting, drainage), these should normally be financed through general revenues.
Cost-recovery practices would essentially be through better collection of local taxes due (and distribution
of centrally collected taxes on behalf of municipalities). These indicators would be monitored throughout
the project.
-41 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
LEBANON: FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Years Ending
Year 1    Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year5  I Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
InvestmentCosts           18.0       21.0       23.0      20.0       10.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             2.0       2.0        1.5        1.5        1.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs         20.0       23.0       24.5      21.5       11.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing             20.0       23.0       24.5      21.5       11.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  12.0       18.0      20.0       20.0       10.0       0.0       0.0
Government                 8.0        5.0       4.5        1.5        1.0       0.0       0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries    0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing    20.0       23.0       24.5       21.5      11.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
-42 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
LEBANON: FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Procurement
1.    Categories of expenditures and procurement methods have been estimated based on the activities to
be partially financed by the Bank and are summarized in Table A. Procurement of goods and works would
be carried out in accordance with the Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA credits (World
Bank, January 1995, revised and expanded January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999).
Consulting Services for the project would be procured in accordance with the Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultant by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised September 1997 and
January 1999). All bid evaluation reports for goods and works should be submitted using the Bank's
Standard Form of Bid Evaluation (April 1996).
2.    The project would finance mainly civil works (over 90 percent of the loan amount), for example,
rehabilitation and upgrading of roads, drainage, retaining walls, side walks, small water and sewerage
systems, street lighting etc. Given the small-scale characteristics of this project (average subproject size
US$90,000), with several hundred subprojects spread over 500 municipalities (contracts may range from
US$10,000 up to US$2 million per contract), it is expected that almost all works and goods would be
contracted through the Bank's procedures for National Competitive Bidding (NCB), International and
National Shopping (NS) or using local procedures, satisfactory to the Bank for small contracts which
would not attract large contractors, either due to remoteness of the location or the relatively small size of
contracts (Contracts estimated to cost below US$40,000). In order to assist the Borrower, an Operational
Manual (OM) has been prepared. Under the procurement section of OM the sample bidding documents
for National Competitive Bidding (NCB International and National Shopping (NS), Bank's standard
documents for Request for Proposals (RFP) for Consulting Services Letter of Invitation (LOI Standard
Consultants' Contracts Documents, the Guidelines for Procurement of Goods and Services and Guidelines
for procuring the Consultants have been included.
Civil Works
3.    Civil works include construction and or rehabilitation under various sub-projects. All Civil Works
Contracts for more than US$40,000 per contract would be awarded under National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) procedures, using Bank's Standard Bidding Document. These procedures would: (i) allow
participation of interested foreign contractors; and (ii) allow at least 30 days between advertising in
national newspapers and submission of bids. Civil works contracts estimated to cost US$40,000 up to an
aggregate amount of US$25 million equivalent and below would be procured through community
participation in accordance with para 3.15 of the Guidelines, and may include participation by local
contractors employing labor-intensive and other appropriate methods, particularly in smaller municipalities.
All works should be procured through open competition; i.e., accessible to all bidders and transparent
through public openings. In this case, the bid invitation could be posted at. a public place within the
municipality, along with information concerning the works to be completed. The bid opening should be
held on a specified date and time in public. The contract should be awarded to the lowest qualified bidder.
Formalities should be limited to waiving such things as bid security and using simple contracts.
-43 -



Eguipment. Furniture. Vehicles. Etc.
4.    The contracts for the provisions of office technology (OT), furniture, equipment, vehicles and other
essential items, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1,000,000 equivalent, may be awarded under
International Shopping (IS) and or National Shopping (NS) procedures, as appropriate. For International
Shopping (IS), quotations would be solicited from at least three suppliers from two different countries. In
case of NS, at least three quotations would be solicited locally. The sample letter of invitation to get
quotations from at least three qualified bidders (included in the OM) would be used for procurement under
IS and NS procedures.
Technical Assistance
5.    Consultancy Services required to assist PCU and its related sub-projects implementing agencies in
capacity building for design, implementation and monitoring of these sub-projects would be procured using
Bank's guidelines. The individual consultants would be selected in accordance with Section V (page 38) of
the above-mentioned guidelines. Consultants' contracts expected to range from $5000 to US$100,000
equivalent may be awarded on the basis of short listing local consulting firms suited for the assignments.
All contracts above US$100,000 would be awarded on the basis of short listing both international and
national firms as per Bank's guidelines.
Procurement under Retroactive Financing
6.    The Bank has agreed with the Government to provide retroactive financing for up to US$8 million
(10 percent of the loan amount), effective March 31, 2000, for a period not exceeding 12 months from the
commencement date or up to the effectiveness of the Loan, whichever is earlier. The funds available under
retroactive financing would assist MOMRA to: (i) establish the Project Coordination Unit (PCU); (ii)
procure office equipment, furniture, vehicles, computer hardware and software, including the municipal
database for the financial management information system required for PCU office; (iii) assist PCU in
hiring and remunerating the core staff of PCU, headed by a FMIP Project Manager, and (iv) enable PCU in
hiring consulting services to assist various municipalities in appraising subprojects. Under retroactive
financing, procurement of goods and services would be made in accordance with the Bank's procurement
guidelines. All appointments for PCU core staff, consultants and all contracts under retroactive financing,
would require the Bank's prior review.
B.    Procurement and Administrative Procedures
7.    The appraisal mission reviewed with MOMRA the procurement and administrative procedures
related to the municipalities, which are governed by procurement law and municipal law of the country.
The mission also reviewed the procurement law. Generally, it requires advertising, open competitive
bidding, and award of contract to the lowest priced acceptable bid from a qualified contractor. The
procurement and administrative procedures related to the municipalities, which are governed by national
and municipal procurement law, have been reviewed and found to be generally'-compatible with the Bane's
Guidelines. The Operations Manual would identify which of these procedures are acceptable under this
Project, in order to avoid any ambiguities in carrying out procurement and contract administration at the
municipal level. The levels of approval for contract award are well defned in these procedures and include
the Mayor, Qaim maqam (District Head), the Muhafiz (Governor) and the Minister. The perfonnance of
contracts by the municipalities is generally satisfactory according to the local law. The mission, therefore,
agreed to the use of local -procurement procedures for contracts not exceeding US$40,000 in value as
described in paragraph 3 above.
-44 -



8.     During appraisal, the mission explained the Bank's procurement procedures to staff members of
MOMRA. It also explained these procedures to the staff of some municipalities briefly. However, since it
would their first exposure to Bank's procurement procedures, it would be necessary for the Bank to mentor
the staff to be recruited for PCU as well as the core staff of the municipalities. It is planned to undertake
this training program during the Project Launch Workshop.
9.     The proposed loan would be disbursed over a period of five years. The project is expected to be
completed by September 30, 2005. The last date for submission of sub-projects is June 30, 2005. The
closing date of the Loan is December 31, 2005.
10.   Use of Standard Documents. All procurement under ICB, NCB would use Bank's Standard
Documents (SBDs). All consulting services (QCBS and QBS) would use Standard Forms for time based
or lump-sum contracts as appropriate for the type of assignment.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
__t L _  04C~ ;                                                            -'; _   - c.ct..
1. Works                           0.00          74.00         18.00          0.00          92.00
(0.00)        (58.00)       (14.00)        (0.00)       (72.00)
2. Goods                           0.00          0.00           1.10          0.00           1.10
(0.00)        (0.00)        (1.10)         (0.00)        (I.I0)
3. Services                        0.00          0.00           6.90          0.00          6.90
(0.00)        (0.00)        (6.90)         (0.00)        (6.90)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                           0.00          74.00         26.00          0.00          100.00
(0.00)        (58.00)       (22.00)        (0.00)        (80.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funedto local govermment
units.
-45-



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
C.    Bank Prior Review (Table B)
11.   All contracts under Phase One (period between appraisal and Loan effectiveness) would be subject
to prior review by the Bank. In view of the fact that all civil works contracts would be implemented by
various municipalities, and they may require assistance in following Bank's procedures, in Phase Two
(period after Loan effectiveness to project completion), the first six contracts under NCB procedures,
irrespective of its value, and all contracts for goods and works above US$200,000 would be subject to
prior review by the Bank. All contracts above $50,000 under International and or National Shopping (NS
and all single source contracts, would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
12.   For Consultants' services, all terms of Reference (TOR), irrespective of contract value ,the first six
contracts irrespective of contract value, all contracts for individual consultants costing US$25,000 and
above, and for consulting firms for US$100,000 and above would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
13.   All other contracts would be subject to post-review and procurement audit on a random basis by
the Bank. The PCU is primarily responsible for preparing the procurement plan and for monitoring
procurement, including compliance with procedures by the sub-project entities. In the municipalities where
project management and supervision capabilities are weak, PCU would provide technical assistance by
provision of local consultants, to assist such sub-project entities in design, and supervision of contracts
implementation. The PCU would be responsible for maintaining accurate procurement records, including
all actions related to Bank-financed procurement. This includes advertising, preparation of bids, invitation
to bid, record of bid submissions, bid opening, evaluation of bids, contract award and perfornance of the
contracts. The Procurement files would be maintained for review by the Bank's supervision missions. It is
expected that about 10 percent of the contracts would be subject to prior review. The initial procurement
plan is given in Annex 2. It would be updated periodically by PCU, as part of the monitoring tasks as
defined in the OM.
-46 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                 Contracts Subjet to
Threshold             PProurement               Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)              Mettod                (.S$ nmillions)
1. Works                       >40,000         National competitive bidding  1. All contracts prior to
effectiveness
2. first six contracts after
Small works with          effectiveness;
<40,000           community participation   3. All contracts above
US$200,000
2. Goods                       >50,000                International        1. All contracts prior to
shopping/national shopping  loan effectiveness;
2. first six contracts after
<50,000             National shopping        loan effectiveness;
3. All contracts exceeding
US$50,000;
4. All sole source
contracts.
3. Services:                 All contracts        QCBS, QBS, CQ*, and    1. All TORs, short lists,
Consultant services and                           individual consultants     LOI and contracts
training                                                                   exceeding US$25,000
(individuals) and $100,000
*CQ: Contracts not           for firms
exceeding US$100,000 may 2. all contracts prior to loan
be procured under CQ        effectiveness;
procedures (Article 3.7 of   3. first six contracts after
Guidelines: Selection and   loan effectiveness
Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers).    All SS contracts
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  $8-million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-47 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
D. Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
15.   Allocation of loan proceeds by category of expenditures is based on the assessment of investment
to be submitted for Bank financing. The resulting allocation is summarized in Table C.
E.    Documentation for Withdrawals
16.   The project is expected to become LACI compliant and disbursements will take place based on the
submission to the Bank of quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) within six months of
effectiveness. The readiness for PMR disbursements will be determined after completion of the action plan.
Following this assessment a certification on whether the financial and procurement arrangements for the
project are adequate and satisfactory to the Bank to process withdrawals based on PMRs will be issued.
Submission of contracts for the Bank's non-objection will take place as detailed above.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Civil works                                67.00                          78
Goods                                       1.00               100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory
cost); and 85% of local expenditures for
other items procured locally
Consultants' services, training &           5.00                         100%
auditors
Project management (incremental             2.00                         100%
operating costs)
Front end fee                               0.00                         100%
Unallocated                                 5.00                         100%
Total Project Costs                        80.00
Total                                      80.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Payments made by MOMRA out of the Special Account (SA) would be against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) for contracts below the prior review threshold, as well as for training.
F.    Special Account (SA)
17.   To facilitate the management of funds, the Government will establish a Special Account (SA) and
a Local Account in the Bank of Lebanon (the central bank) to be operated by the PCU/MOMRA, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. The Special Account will be in US$ for the proceeds of the
Bank loan and the Local Account will be in Lebanese Pounds (LL) for the counterpart funds. When the
project is considered LACI compliant and ready for PMR disbursements, the special account will be
-48 -



replenished based on the PMRs submitted by the PCU. At that time, the initial disbursement will be based
on the first six month expenditures forecast for the period following the certification for PMR
disbursement.
18.   Before the project is declared ready for PMR disbursements, to facilitate disbursements against
eligible expenditures, the Bank would, upon request, make authorized allocation of US$4.0 million to the
SA for civil works, related supervision services, equipment and consultancy services. Initially, allocations
would be limited to US$2.0 million to the SA and the full allocation could be claimed when disbursements
reach US$8.0 million for civil works, supervision and consultancy services and equipment. The PCU
would submit replenishment applications on a monthly basis. The replenishment applications would be
supported by the necessary documentation, a bank statement of the SA and a reconciliation bank statement
of the SA against the Bank's records. The minimum amount for applications for direct payment and for
special commitment would be 20 percent of the authorized allocation to the SA.
19.   Replenishment of the SA would follow Bank procedures. The SA would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. As specified in the action plan, the auditors need to be
selected and appointed prior to loan effectiveness. The auditors' engagement letter defining the scope of the
audit, for the first year of the audit, and every year thereafter, should be sent to the Bank for non objection,
prior to effectiveness for the first year of operation, and at the beginning of every year thereafter. The audit
report should be submitted to the Bank for review within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The
above provisions will be discussed and agreed during negotiations.
20.   A separate Local Account will be opened in the Bank of Lebanon by GOL for the counterpart
funds. The initial deposit in this account will be US$5 million equivalent to enable MOMRA/PCU to
commence project implementation prior to loan effectiveness. Part of the expenditures financed from this
account would be subject to retroactive financing out of the World Bank loan. Replenishment of the Local
Account would be made by MOF in amounts and in a timely manner to enable MOMRAIPCU to maintain
a suitable disbursement reserve
G.    Use of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)
21.   During the transition period, when the PCU is not ready for PMR-based disbursements and when
traditional methods are used, disbursements for contracts not govemed by the above paragraph would be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). The following SOE limits will apply: (a) works
contracts valued at less than $200,000; (b) goods less than $50,000; and (c) consultant firms and
individuals contracts less than $100,000 and $50,000 respectively. When using the Bank traditional
disbursement procedures, withdrawal applications would be presented with full documentation for
disbursement. During negotiations assurances would be sought that supporting documentation would be
maintained by the PCU and be made available for review by Bank supervision missions. SOEs will be
phased out when the project will be converted to PMR disbursement, as per the plan of action.
Assessment of the financial management system of the implementing institutions
MOMRA and the Municipalifies
22.   MOMRA has certain oversight functions of the Municipalities' budgets and accounts and is
responsible for implementing part of the ImF resources made available to municipalities. While all
municipal budgets have to be approved by representatives of the MOI, there is no standardization of these
budgets and hence no possibility of consolidating them on a national basis. MOMRA therefore simply
-49 -



checks that the budgets comply with existing laws and files them.
23.   Where management of the ImF is concerned, MOMRA is responsible for distributing the portion
of the fund that is allocated directly to municipalities by transferring the funds to the account of each
municipality. MOMRA also, in theory, manages the remaining amount for inter-municipal projects,
implementing the bidding process and paying the contractors. In practice, few distributions from the ImF
have been made directly to municipalities and CDR has handled the few inter-municipal projects that have
been undertaken.  MOMRA does not have responsibility for implementing projects for individual
municipalities and is not equipped to do so. These are left to the discretion of municipalities, with approval
of the Department of Physical Planning and Union of Municipalities, subject to the ex-ante and ex-post
controls of the Cour des Comptes. The procurement procedures used do not follow Bank guidelines.
The Project Coordination Unit:
24.   At the moment MOMRA lacks the professional financial staff to handle the financial management
and reporting aspects of the project. It also lacks clearly written financial policies and procedures. Prior to
project effectiveness, a fully fledged Project Coordination Unit will be established and staffed adequately
and strengthened with appropriate systems and procedures. Detailed implementation arrangements and
requirements for the project will be set out in the implementation manual. A fnancial management action
plan that will allow the PCU to establish financial management system and become LACI-compliant is
attached. The Bank will undertake an assessment of the financial management system developed thus far to
determine the project's readiness for PMR-based disbursements. It is expected that the project will
generate PMR reports and start disbursing on that basis no later than December 31, 2000.
25.   The PCU will be responsible for procurement and financial management of all the Project's
components and sub-components. It will be headed by a Project Manager who will report directly to the
Minister of MOMRA and will be responsible for the implementation of the entire Project. The PCU will
ensure that all Project-related activities are reflected in the Project accounts and financial statements and
related documentation of operation maintained in the computerized system, with proper controls over data.
26.   A Financial Accounting Management Manual ("Manual") will be prepared according to a newly
designed computerized accounting system, in order to document the various accounting systems and
procedures, including the operation of the Project Financial and Accounting Management System. This
Manual would be formally adopted by the Project as the document that would govem its financial
accounting management system. The Manual will cover the flow of funds, financial and accounting
policies, accounting system and internal control mechanisms, Chart of Accounts, financial reporting
(including formats of Project financial management reports), auditing arrangements, budgeting, and
organization and staffng for financial management functions. The Manual would be periodically updated
and improved based on implementation experience. A firm of Certified Public Accountant will audit the
system of transaction as an added internal control mechanism.
27.   Flow of Funds. The Government of Lebanon (GOL) would pass on the I1RD funds to MOMRA.
GOL will bear the foreign exchange risk. GOL would provide counterpart funds for the Project to
MOMRA from the ImF account with Bank of Lebanon. Allocations from the fund would be based on the
annual budget for Project activities prepared by the Project Manager.
28.   Financial and Accounting Policies. Financial and accounting policies for the Project will be
developed and included in the Manual to ensure transparency and uniformity, provide clarity regarding
financial aspects to the various interested parties, and to enforce accountability. These policies, inter-alia,
- 50 -



over the following aspects: (i) expenditures which would be treated as Project expenditures including their
classification; (ii) expenditures which would be eligible for reimbursement under the IBRD loan; (iii)
Project accounting policies; and (iv) provision and accounting of funds provided as advances to the PCU.
These policies would include aspects such as efficient management and deployment of funds, internal
control policies, etc.
29.    Project Accounting System. The PCU would be responsible for project financial management,
including budgeting and accounting. It would maintain separate books of accounts for the Project. It would
also prepare and disseminate financial statements and financial management reports, and ensure timely
audit of the financial statements.
30.    Project Management Reports. Although disbursements are initially to be made using traditional
disbursement procedures, the PCU will submit quarterly Project Management Reports to the Bank. In this
respect, the PCU will shortly start installation of accounting software with PMR-based disbursement
capabilities and incorporated with internal control and checks. The reports would include: (i) a comparison
of budgeted and actual expenditure and analysis of major variances, including sources and application of
funds (by components and expenditure categories), and on physical parameters and unit rates for selected
key items; (ii) expenditures by disbursement categories; (iii) forecasts for the next two quarters. Formats
of the reports will be set out in the Manual. Physical information on key perfornance indicators that can
be readily linked to financial costs would be maintained as part of the Project financial management
system.
31.   Internal Controls. Policies and procedures have been set in the system to be used by the PCU to
provide reasonable assurance of (a) a proper authorization of transactions; (b) access to and use of assets
and records; and (c) separation of custody of cash from authorization and record keeping, and separation of
authorization from record keeping. Specifically, the Project financial, accounting management system
includes the following internal control mechanisms: (i) operation of a budgeting system, and regular
monitoring of actual financial performance with budgets and targets; (ii) adoption and operation of simple,
clear and transparent financial and accounting policies which would govern financial management of and
accounting for the Project (as described earlier); (iii) at the transaction level, establishment and operation of
policies, procedures and systems for ensuring standard internal controls such as checking of expenditures,
appropriate documentation, levels of authorization, bifurcation of duties, periodic reconciliation, physical
verification, etc.; and (iv) establishment and operation of a comprehensive audit mechanism, to include
concurrent audit (as described below). These policies and procedures described in this paragraph are
provided for in the existing Manual and would be reviewed and updated periodically;
32.    Audited Project Financial Statements (PFS) would be submitted to the Bank on an annual basis.
PFS would include: (i) a statement on the sources and utilization of funds or balance sheet, indicating funds
received from various sources, Project expenditures, and assets and liabilities of the Project. This would
also include appropriate schedules classifying Project expenditures by components, and expenditure
categories; (ii) a Special Account reconciliation statement; and (iii) a statement of withdrawals from the
IBRD loan made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Audited PFS-would be submitted to
the Bank not later than 6 months after the end of the fiscal year (ie., not later than June 30 for the fiscal
year ended on December 31 of each year).
33.    Audit Arrangements.  A firm of certified public accountants would be retained to audit the
accounts and financial statements of the Project. The annual audited Project financial statements would be
submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the close of the fiscal year. The terms of reference (TOR) of the
firm of certified public accountants have been prepared. The cost of the audit would he eligible for
- 51 -



financing under the Bank loan. Bank Guidelines for selection of consultants would apply to the engagement
of the firm of certified public accountants.
34.   The audit referred to above would be comprehensive and would cover all aspects of the Project
(i.e., all sources and uses of funds). The audit would be carried out in accordance with international
standards of auditing. The terms of reference of the auditor include both the obligation to audit financial
transactions, and the obligation to carry out an assessment of the operation of the financial management
system per se, including a review of internal control mechanisms. This would strengthen internal controls,
and would also facilitate early completion of the annual audit. The auditing firn would be appointed before
the start of the Project. The auditing firm would initially be appointed for one year. Depending on
satisfactory performance, the contract would be extended for a maximum period of two (2) additional
years. To ensure rotation of auditors, a different firm may be appointed subsequently.
35.   Key Staffing. The PCU will consist initially of a Project Manager with overall responsibilities for
planning, implementation and reporting on all components of the Project; an interim Financial Manager;
and an interim Head of Project Preparation and Procurement. These key staff will be appointed by Board
date. Services of a certified accountant are being procured to assist the interim Financial Manager. After
Board presentation and before effectiveness, the remaining staff of the PCU, including a permanent
Financial Manager, and Project Procurement Manager, will be recruited. Additional recruitment would
include: an Accountant; a Management Information Systems Administrator; Head of Project Monitoring
and Evaluation and a project Monitoring and Evaluation engineer; a Project Preparation and Procurement
Engineer; two Administrative Secretaries and a Legal Adviser. All staff will be recruited according to
Bank guidelines, employed on a full-time basis and on renewable annual contracts. Competitive salaries of
the PCU staff will be paid under the Loan.
36.   Readiness for Implementation and Next Steps. The PCU financial management system is already
operational in another Bank financed project. Setting up the system in the PCU will require a matter of
weeks and is expected to be completed by May, 2000. A draft financial accounting management manual of
procedures, documenting the financial accounting management system, has been prepared and will be
finalized by May, 2000. Draft terms of reference for the Project's financial audit have been prepared. The
process of recruitment of a firm of certified public accountants will start in June, 2000. The auditors are
expected to be appointed by July 31, 2000.
37.   Risks. The main risk related to the fnancial management aspects of the Project are possible delays
in preparation of Project management reports and that the quality of the reports may be of unsatisfactory
quality. Timely preparation and use of the Project management reports, and satisfactory quality of these
reports, are essential to facilitate effective Project management. The risk-mitigation factors are the
substantial up front actions which will be taken including: (i) use of a comprehensive financial management
system; (ii) computerization of the financial management system; (iii) recruitment of key financial and
technology staff; and (iv) training of staff on the preparation of Project management reports (PMRs). This
training will begin in July 2000. Pending satisfactory generation of PMRs, disbursements from the Bank
Loan will not be made on the basis of PMRs, but will rather be made on the traditional reimbursement
basis. Disbursements will be converted to the PMR-based method, after the financial management system is
satisfactorily operated for at least six months.
-52-



Financial Management Action Plan
Phase I: The Period prior to The Presentation of the Project to the Bank's Board of
Directors:
* Identify a qualified Project Director for the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) through an
internal transfer or an external recruitment.
Phase II: Period followine Board Decision and Up Till Loan Effectiveness Date:
* The Financial officer with the assistance of a qualified consultant shall establish and
implement a computerized Financial Management Information System (FMIS). The FMIS
should meet good standards of financial management, namely an adequate chart of accounts
that meet project-reporting needs as per Bank (LACI) requirements and those of the
International Accounting Standards. It should allow for an interface with the rest of the
information system of the project to allow for the production of the PMRs and other reports as
needed. It should also further transparency for the activities of the project and leave an easy
audit trail for the review of the auditors. In order to allow the project to be compliant with
PMR-based disbursements as per the Bank's new requirement of LACI compliance, the FMIS
should include: (1) an adequate number of qualified financial management staff; (2) a sound
internal control system; (3) an acceptable accounting system based on international accounting
standards; (4) an appropriate and integrated management information system allowing for the
generation of the quarterly PMRs, hence, producing the right information (financial,
procurement, and physical progress) actual, budgeted and forecasted at the right time and
distributed to the right people; (5) an annual audit by an external independent audit firm
performed according to the international auditing standards. The system should be tested prior
to effectiveness.
* The Bank requires that an independent external audit of the external accounts be undertaken
annually. The Bank should receive the annual audit report not later than six months following
the end of each year being audited. The audit should cover the entire project accounts.
Therefore, qualified auditors acceptable to the Bank should be appointed before the project
becomes effective. The TOR for the auditor have been agreed to during negotiations.
* Opening of a Special Account at the Bank of Lebanon for the receipts of the Loan proceeds
from the Bank and a Local Account for receipt of counterpart funds from The GOL. A ceiling
of US$2 million (Two Million US dollars) would be put on transfers to the account prior to
disbursements reaching US$8.0 million. The GOL would undertake to transfer to the Local
Account for the counterpart-funds an initial deposit of US$5 million equivalent to enable
MOMRA/PCU to commence project implementation prior to loan effectiveness. Part of the
expenditure fnanced from this account would be subject to retroactive financing out of the
Bank loan. Replenishment of the Local Account would be made by MOF in amounts and in a
timely manner to enable MOMRAIPCU to maintain an appropriate disbursement reserve.
* An adequate staff structure has to be in place by loan effectiveness date. That should be
coupled with establishment of the basic principles of sound financial management ensured
through the FMIS. Two positions of fnancial management staff are needed; a Financial
Controller and an Accountant. The TOR for the Financial Controller would have been
- 53-



prepared by the PCU Director in the previous phase. The TOR for the Accountant would be
prepared by the Financial Controller and submitted to the Bank prior to Loan effectiveness
date.
*  Establishing, by loan effectiveness date, an adequate internal control at the PCU through: (a)
clear definition of the roles and responsibilities of the staff to allow for a financial control, a
separation of duties, a clear delegation of authority, a clearly defined treatment of assets used
by the PCU such as furniture and equipment, cash, bank accounts, accounting principles
adopted along with the necessary documentation, the periodic reports along with their content,
and periodicity of these reports; (b) preparation of the regulations and procedures' manual
governing the project management. The latter includes: (i) the set of accounting and financial
standards and procedures taking into consideration the Bank, GOL, and other donors'
requirements, (ii) the budget preparation and control procedures, (iii) the definition of the roles,
relationships, and reporting requirements to be established between the PCU and the other
project implementing institutions such as the Municipalities, the MOMRA, etc.; and (iv)
definition of the set of internal and external reports needed by the project's various
stakeholders.
Phase m. Period after Loan Effectiveness:
*  Organizing, with the help of the consultant, a training program for the staff to prepare them for
the use of the FMIS. This training should take place within three (3) months from loan
effectiveness date; and
*   Complete and test system for PMR disbursements by December 31, 2000.
Procurement Assessment/Action Plan for Improvement of Procurement Capacity and Management
Procurement will be undertaken and handled by municipalities, coordinated by the PCU in MOMRA. The
Borrower and the World Bank's appraisal mission have agreed on this arrangement. Mr. Uruj Kirmani,
Procurement Accredited Officer, conducted a procurement assessment of MOMRA and a sample of
municipalities during the appraisal mission. The assessment focused primarily on the capacity of these
agencies, and proposed recommendations for improvements.
Primary responsibility for procurement would lie with the PCU, which would delegate to individual
municipalities. The PCU would take full responsibility for the coordination of all activities of the project,
including procurement. The PCU would be strengthened inter alia by a Procurement officer, to be recruited
before Board presentation, with adequate support staff. Procurement systems and procedures would be in
place as per agreed upon action plan. PCU will prepare the Procurement Plan for the sub-projects to be
implemented under the first year of the agreed investment plan (about US$7.5 million) and submit it for
Bank's review by Board presentation (project implementation plan is given in PIP - Annex 2).
Responsibility in procurement would be as follows: (i) individual municipalities would procure civil works
and equipment for their investment projects; and (ii) the PCU would procure consultant's services, and
make arrangements for training. Planning coordination and monitoring of the procurement process, and
their linkages with the disbursement function will be the responsibility of the PCU, staffed with a
procurement specialist. This Unit will be responsible for consolidated procurement reports included in
PMRs, and bi-annual project progress report.
- 54 -



Action Plan
Agency         Issue                          Action                          Due Date
PCU/       Staffing         Hiring and Bank approval of PCU project manager,   By Board
MOMRA                       appointment of an interim procurement manager and   Presentation
financial manager and a chartered accountant.
PCU/       Staffing         Appointment of financial manager and a          By
MOMRA                       procurement manager for the Project with        Effectiveness
qualifications and under terms of reference and
contractual arrangements acceptable to the Bank.
PCU        Planning &       Design, installation, testing and implementation of  By
reporting (i)   software needed for the monitoring of all       Effectiveness
procurement activities and for all procurement
processes (tendering, evaluation, contract signing,
implementation period, delivery, etc.).
PCU        Planning &       The MIS will be operational and linked to the   By
reporting (ii)  computerized financial management, in order to  Effectiveness
monitor the procurement process and the
management of contracts.
Bank       Project Launch    The Bank will hold a project launch workshop to  Within three
Workshop        familiarize PCU and Municipal staff with the use of   months of
the operational manual, particularly the Bank's  Effectiveness
procurement procedures.
- 55 -



Renort on the Assessment of The Lebanon Municipal Infrastructure Proiect for PMR-Based
Disbursements
Ineligible for PMR-Based Disbursements
Part I - Financial Management System:
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the review was to
determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management system as required by the
Bank under OP/BP 10.02.
My review, which included visits to the project implementing agency, was based on the Banks guidelines
for "Review of Financial Management System," and focused on the assessment of the project's accounting
system, intemal control, planning, budgeting and financial reporting system, selection of an auditor as well
as the format and contents of the Project Management Report (PMR) to be submitted by the borrower in
support of Withdrawal Applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements. However, in
my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project financial management system that can
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project (PMR) as
required by the Bank for PMR-Based Disbursements.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an agreed action
plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Signed by:
Financial Management Specialist
(FMS-OPR)
Douglas 1. Graham, MN%D, May 1, 2000
Part II - Procurement/Contract Management System
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project. The objective of the
review was to determine whether the procurement/contract management system adopted by the project
conforms to the Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment projects.
My review was based whether the procurement/contract management system adopted by the project
conforns to the Bank's guidelines for procurement in investment projects. My review was based on the
"Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement Project Procurement, Setting of Prior Review Thresholds
and Procurement Supervision Plan Guidelines," issued by the Bank.
I certify that the project satisfies the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements. However,
in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate procurement/contract management system
that can provide the appropriate data on major procurement and contract managernent (PMR - Section 3)
as required by the Bank.
-56-



I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an agreed action
plan by the borrower to remdey the situation.
Signed by:
Procurement Specialist
Uruj Kirmani, MNSID, May 1, 2000
Part 1f.: Physical Monitorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
I have reviewed the projects system for monitoring physical implementation progress, including its
monitorable indicators for major outputs, and certify that the system can provide the appropriate data on
physical progress (PMR - Section 2) as required by the Bank.
I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found in the system together with an. agreed action
plan by the borrower to remedy the situation.
Also, based on the assessments of the FMS-OPR and PS, and/or considering my overall assessment of the
project, I am of the view that this project is not suitable for PMR-based disbursements.
Signed by:
Task Team Leader
Sonia Hammam, MNSID, May 1, 2000
Part IV. Concurrence of LOA for Eligibility of Projectfor PARM-Based Disbursements
I have conducted a reasonableness review of the process followed by the Task Team in assessing the
project, and I concur with its recommendation that this project is not eligible for PMR-Based
Disbursements.
Signed by:
FMS-LOA/DO
Andrina Ambrose-Gardiner, May 1, 2000
-57-



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
LEBANON: FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             06/15/97                     06/16/97
Appraisal mission departure                     03/13/2000                   03/20/2000
Negotiations                                    04/10/2000                   04/27/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/20/2000
Prepared by:
Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs with the assistance of consultants.
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Sonia Hammam                      Sector Manager/Team Leader
Omar Razzaz                       Principal Urban Sector Specialist
Samir El Daher                   Financial Advisor
Douglas I. Graham                 Principal Financial Analyst
Andrina Ambrose                   Financial Management Specialist
Uruj Kirmani                      Procurement Specialist
Allan Rotman                      Environmental Specialist
Hubert Nove-Josserand             Senior Transport Specialist
Fitz Ford                         Pr. Urban Sector Specialist/Peer Reviewer
Robert D. Ebel                    Principal Economist
Laveme L. Cook                    Program Assistant
*NOTE: This project was completely redesigned and reappraised.
- 58 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
LEBANON: FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan - Included in the Operations Manual.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Preparation Mission, BTO, May 19, 1998 - appraisal of 200 subprojects for retroactive
financing.
2.    Appraisal Mission BTOR, July 7, 1998 - appraisal records.
3.    Notes from Peer Reviewer - Mr. Alberto Harth, Urban Social Scientist.
4.    Beneficiary Assessment Study - Keith Rennie, Social Scientist.
5.    Preappraisal mission BTOR, March 9, 2000.
6.    Appraisal mission aide-memoire, April 10, 2000.
7.    Municipal Sector in Lebanon - Robert Ebel, Principal Economist.
8.    Internal Review of Quality at Entry Panel Report - Jean-Claude Villiard, Director.
9.    Response to Q@E -Sonia Hammam, Sector Manager.
C. Other
1.    Republic of Lebanon, Office of the Minister of State for Administrative Reform,
Technical Cooperation Unit, European Union, Summary of the Grant, November 1996
(updated June 1997) - Roula Kabbani.
2.    Institutional and Fiscal Review of the Municipal Sector Lebanon - Lebanese Center for
Policy Studies, December 1997. Project Preparation Study funded by PHRD Grant.
3.    Project Management and Procedural Manual and PMIS Design - Team International
Consulting Engineers. Project Preparation Study funded by PHRD Grant.
4.    Manual of Standard Designs for Municipal Works and Appraisal of 200 Subprojects
Consultancy Group Co. Project Preparation Study funded by PHRD Grant.
5.    Municipal Database System and Review of Targeting Criteria by ECODIT. Project
Preparation Study funded by PHRD Grant.
7.    Operations Manual (seven volumes):
Volume I - Operations Procedures
Volume II - Procurement, Administration and Finance
Volume III - Project management and Information Systems (not yet completed)
Volume IV - Technical Design Manual
Volume V - World Bank Project Documents
Volume VI - World Bank Guidelines and Procedures
Volume VII - MOMRA Database System
8.    OED Precis, No. 156, November 1997 - Best Practice in Urban Development
9.    Performance Audit Report No. 16800 Philippines, Municipal Development Project
(Ln. 2435-PH), June 12, 1997.
*Including electronic files
- 59 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
LEBANON: FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions          disbursements
Pro)ect iD    FY   Borrower                       Purpose                                       IBRD      IDA       Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P034035       1996 Lebanon                    ADMIN. REHAB.                                      20.00       0.00       0.00      13.13      13.13       597
P034037       1997 Lebanon                    AGRI.INFRA.DEVEL                                   31.00       0.00       0.00      26.47       8.97       0.00
P005336       1993 Lebanon                    EMERGENCY RECOVERY                                225.00       0.00       0.00      39.90     -10.10       0.90
P034004.      1995 Lebanon                    HEALTH PROJECT                                     35.70       0.00       0.00      30.87      28.17      13.17
P045174       200o Lebanon                    LB-GENERAL EDUCATION                               56.57       0.00       0.00      56.57       0.00       0.00
P038674       1997 Lebanon                    LB-NATIONAL ROADS                                  42.00       0.00       0.00      35.96      29.16       0.00
P036087       1997 -Lebanon                   LB-POWER SECT. RESTRUCT                            65.00       0.0o       0.00      31.09      12.09       1.09
P005344       1994 Lebanon                    LEBANON IRRIGATION                                 57.23       0.00       0.00      33.91      23.31       0.00
P005345       1995 Lebanon                    SOLID WASTE/ENVIRONM                               55.00       0.00       0.00      50.60      42.30       0.00
P005340       1994 Lebanon                    TA FOR REVENUE ENHAN                               19.94       0.00       0.o       11.93      11.79       3.52
P038687       1998 Lebanon                    VOCATIONAL & TECHED                                63.00       0.0        0.00      6282       14.50       3.82
Total:      670.44       0.00         0.00      393.25    173.32      28.47
-60-



LEBANON
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997               ADC                            5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96            BBAC                           3.75    0.00    0.00    5.05    3.75    0.00    0.00    5.05
Bank of Beirut                12.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Banque Audi                    9.81    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.81    0.00      0.00    0.00
1993/96/98         Banque Libanaise               1.50    0.00    0.00    0.30    1.50    0.00      0.00    0.30
1994               Banque Saradar                 0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1997/99            Byblos Bank                   35.00    0.00    0.00   34.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96/99         CimenterieNat'l               12.20    0.00    0.00   17.80   12.20    0.00      0.00   17.80
1995               FTML Services                 15.00    0.00   10.00   33.75   15.00    0.00    10.00   33.75
1997               Fransabank                     3.59    0.00    0.00    4.S1    3.59    0.00      0.00    4.81
1993/94/96         Idarat                        10.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    5.00    1.50    0.00    0.00
1998               Idarat SHV                     3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Lebanese Leasing               2.00    0.00    0.00    3.33    2.00    0.00      0.00    3.33
1995/99            Libano-Francaise               7.50    0.00    0.00   10.82    7.50    0.00      0.00   10.82
1994/96            SGLEB                          5.63    0.00    0.00    8.30    5.63    0.00      0.00    8.30
1994/96            Uniceramic                     0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.80    0.00
1993
Total Portfolio:       126.23   11.50   10.80   118.16   75.73   11.50    10.80   84.16
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1999              BBAC-II                        12000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
1997              BankBeirut CL4                    0.00      0.00      0.00   7500.00
1997              Banque Saradar                    0.00      0.00      0.00   7500.00
1999              Byblos Credit Ln                  0.00      0.00      0.00  50000.00
2000              IBM-Health Ctr                  2000.00   1000.00     0.00   2000.00
1999              Saradar Equity                    0.00      0.00    998.00      0.00
1997              Transorient CL4                   0.00      0.00      0.00   7500.00
Total Pending Commitment:     14000.00   1000.00    998.00  74500.00
-61-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
LEBANON: FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
MA. East   Upper
POVERTY and SOCIAL,                                            & North   middle-
Lebanon      Aflcl   income    f 5 5 0xm't                a          i  . '
Population, mid-year (Millions)                         4.2        25         8
GNP per capita  tes eashiod;SS                        3,5        2,050     4,80                   LIfx
GNP  mAtlas eile,  1U92.98) i li;                       15.0       58      .
Labor force                                                                                                                Ss .  .  20 ~ PG5
Mostrecnt stiate(laestyea aVilale,1992-98)                                   pa.nontt
~Poverty (% Pt po~datioA below  tioo8l pverty line)                                                  i
Access to sf   j      of populaon                         4         8
Illiteracyt0 (% o000X;f popuiet/oni00'   q.a8 -ge8V; 7X4  16-        ; 38
Gros  tmr  nrlmn  %ofsho-g population)                  11          9         0        
Male11                                                          10           .        -p      iW     e)
Femalete                                                          8
KEY ECNOMICRATISERM TRENDS
1977                1
GDP (l,S$ billions)                              .       33       1.          8
Gross *nestlic nvtstm        
Exports of goods and servlcesl..                          ..      53.        11
GIoss domestic                                                       8 IngsGD  8 -  
Grssnuactionalvnq sG                            ..       ..       3.4       2.8       -              w     \;
CuS'entrvicst0/2 ..                                       .        3.8       2.4       *K .,
interest oansu Go                               ..      07.        5.         2.9
Total debt/,GDP-                                       290         4.       38
Total debtsr6 e/xot
present vuoesic destment                               18 4       98.8
GOP                                 483        7.5~   4.0           .          ,
GNP prcpt
Exports of qoods and services                   ..    125          4.5           5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDP)                       ~~~~~ ~~~~1977  1987  1997      1998 
AGriculture                                     2..      .8       1.4       312.
Industry                                                          26.5      26.5         
Manufacturing173                                                            73
Services                                                          6198      61i m
Private consumonti9
General government consumpotion                  ..        .- 15.7           14.5-
Imports of goods and services                                     5.
1977-87  1988-98       1997      1998                           sa         1%
(ave rage annual growth)K
Agriculture                                     -.        .        3.8        2.8
Industry                                         .        .        3.8        2.8
Manufacturing                                  -.        .        3.8       2.8
Services                                        -.        .        3.8        2.8
Private consumption                              .       7.2       5.6        3.9
General government consumption                  ..       7.4       8.5       -0.9        ,,      ~      ,
Gross domestic investment                       ..      18.4      -5.4       10.4 
Imports of aoods and services                   ..      12.5       4.2        5.9 
Gross national product                          ..       7.8       4.4        3.0
Note: 1998 data are preliminary estimates.
Tihe diamonds show four key indic-ators in the countrv (in bold) COMpared with its income-grouD average, If data are missing, the diamondi will
be incomplete.
-62 -



Lebanon
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1977    1987       1997      1998    - bWtoi-''
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                          ..       7.8      45    j
Implicit GDP deflator                           ..      ..        7 8      4 5    j.
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                 ..      ..       16.4     18 1                          as   V6 .7
Current budget balance                         ..       ..    -18.1    -101    *
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..       ..    -27.4    -18.9
TRADE
1977     1987      1997      1998
(US$ millionsl)                                                                                            - . 
Total exports (fob)                                              649       723    ,-..
Livestock, animal, vegetable products         ..       ..        71       74    i
Fats and oils                                 ..       ..         9        9
Manufactures
Total imports (cif)                             .        ..    7,498    7,148
Food                                          ..       ..    1,572      1,606
Fuel and energy                               ..       ..       682      732
Capital goods                                 ..       ..    1,188      1,417 _
. 9  94   9    95  51
Export price index (1995=100)                .         ..        99       101
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..      ..        99       101    L    - -       t   -
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..       ..        100       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1977     1987      1997      1998                     -
(US$Smillions)-::-.:tf...',-,.,.s-  'A'S'--i
Exports of goods and services                   .1,776                   1,838      o
Imports of goods and services                   ..      ..    7,498    7,146
Resource balance                               ..       ..   -5,722    -5,308    23
Net income                                      ..      ..       287       135
Net current transfers                                           1,007      750
Current account balance                         ..      ..   -4,429    -4,424
Financing items (net)                          ..       ..    5,869    4,557
Changes in net reserves                         ..      ..   -1,440       -133
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..   4,832    11,136    11,362
Conversion rate (DEC, 1ocaKJUS$)               ..   224.6   1,539.5   1,516.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1977    1987       1997      1998      .. 
(US$ millionis)                                                                             .
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           53      955      5,107    5.957
IBRD                                         12       49       151       199
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Total debt service                             ..       ..         ..        ..                                    594
IBRD                                          3        3        17        20
IDA                                           0        0         0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                                                                          *.
Official creditors                           ..
Prvate creditors                             ..
Foreign direct investment                    ..       ..         ..
Portfolio equity                             ..       ..         ..       ..
World Bank program
Commitments                                  50        0        53        63     A3         - :
Disbursements                                 0        0        39        48     i
Principal repayments                          2        2         8         9       -  - -.
Net flows                                    -2       -2        32        38
Interest payments                             1        2        10        11
Net transfers                                -3       -3        22        28
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/17/99
-63 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
Lebanon: First Municipal Infrastructure Project
Municipal Finance Policy Agenda Note
REPUBLIC OF LEBANON
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
THE MINISTER
Municipal Finance Policy Agenda Note
Lebanon is facing important challenges in public finance and in the mobilization and use
of fiscal resources. The macroeconomic context of high fiscal deficits makes it
imperative to take concrete measures to increase revenues, to contain and rationalize
expenditures. and to solve the debt issue. Within the context, a policy agenda should
address key reformns related to municipal finance, including: the design of an
intergovernmental finance svstem that ensures efficiency in the mobilization and
allocation of fiscal resources, and accountability for service delivery; the monitoring and
strengthening of the local fiscal situation, which is an integral part of an efficient system
of fiscal management and adjustment; and the appropriate allocation of function between
central and municipal governments.
Rationalizing the system of intergovernmental finance is essential if Lebanon is to make
progress in meeting the objectives of maintaining macroeconomic stability, supporting
equitable growth and restructuring the public sector to improve the efficiency of public
service delivery.
This Policy Agenda Note is intended to present the issues that need to be examined for
achieving a transparent, predictable and sustainable system of intergovernmental finance.
There is a commitment to addressing this agenda of issues with the assistance of
resources being made available under a Japanese Grant and developing appropriate
reforms and policies that would lead to strengthening the intergovemmental finance
system.
Policv Agenda Issues
A number of key elements or building blocks need to be considered and options
evaluated, in addressing the intergovernmental finance system. These include: (i) the
institutional and legal framework for intergovemmental finance; (ii) the assignment and
monitoring of expenditures; (iii) the assignment of revenues; (iv) and the system of
transfers. (The issue of municipal sector access to credit is likely to become increasingly
relevant and important, particularly as far as larger municipalities are concerned.) Given
the inherent linkages among these areas, reform in one area inevitably has an impact on
the other areas; improvements thus are most effectively made in the context of a
comprehensive program in which each of these issues is addressed.
-64-



1.   Intergovernmental institutional and legal framework
There is a fundamental need for clarification of the roles and responsibilities between the
central and local governments in the delivery of services, and streamlining the complex
system of ex ante control and oversight by central bodies over decisions. In order to
review the role of local government, an analysis is needed to determine which services
could be effectively devolved to the local level and establish a regulatory framework that
clarifies roles and responsibilities. This is key to ensuring accountability and efficiency in
service delivery.
2.   Expenditure assignment
Related to the need for clarification of roles, responsibilities and oversight, is the
assignment of expenditures among  different levels of government. Expenditure
assignments are yet to be clearly defined, and while local governments theoretically can
provide a broad range of services, in practice most investments in services are undertaken
by central authorities. This situation reduces allocation efficiency and makes local
governments largely reliant on central expenditures for public services, in a time of heavy
deficits. The options that need to be developed for defining and monitoring
intergovernmental expenditure and service assignments should take into account a variety
of considerations including: economies of scale for different services, enclosing of
specific public services to improve efficiency, private sector provision, and large
discrepancies in local capacitv for service delivery.
3.   Revenue assignment
Currently locally raised revenues represent a large number of fees and tariffs, many of
which are not efficient to collect, and require modernization and rationalization.
Moreover, there is little autonomy in the setting of rates by local governments, as current
rate ceilings are narrowly defined. This reduces the accountability of local governments
and their ability to adapt and be responsive to local circumstances. Addition of revenues
assigned to local govemments represent charges collected on their behalf by central
governments and other public institutions.
These central transfers of funds have not been predictable leaving local governments with
little capacity to plan and program expenditures. There is recognition that the assignment
of revenues needs to be congruent with the assignment of expenditure responsibilities.
Thus if local governments are to play a meaningful role in the provision of services,
analyze are needed to develop options and policies that would lead to improved
collection of local revenues, modernization and rationalization of the system of local
revenues, increased autonomy in setting local tax rates, enhances transpareiqcy in the tax
and fee sharing revenue arrangements, and reduced dependence on central revenues for
local investments. The exarnination of these options will need to take into consideration
the diversity of revenue potentials arising from local economic capacity and conditions.
This needs to be addressed by examining options for design of a transparent system of
transfers to address issues of imbalance between revenue and expenditures assignments,
as well as inequalities that may result from different economic conditions.
-65-



4.   The system of intergovernmental transfers
The current system of intergovernmental transfers raises several issues regarding its
structure, basis, operation and sustainability. The rules governing the distribution of the
transfers as a bloc grant have been cumbersome to administer, and there has not been a
clear linkage between the objectives of this transfer and its actual distribution.
The lack of transparency in rules has created an untenable situation of claims and arrears.
Resolution of this issue is critical. This should be undertaken in a manner that ensures
establishment of a more transparent system of rules and takes into account the current
fiscal situation. Concurrent with these decisions, the analysis should focus on placing the
whole system on a sustainable basis, with clear objectives. A wide array of options for
design of the system of intergovernmental transfers needs to be examined to match the
governance and political conditions in Lebanon. Key to the selection of any option is the
predictability, transparency and incentives it creates for lower levels of government.
Georges Corrn
( MiErter of F'Tance
-66-



Additional
Annex No.: 12
Lebanon: First Municipal Infrastructure Project
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance and Studies
TOR- 1
PROJECT COORDINATING UNIT
This section describes the FMIP Project Coordination Unit (PCU) structure including the job descriptions,
roles, duties, and responsibilities of the staff.
The FMIP will be managed through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) at the Ministry, reporting to the
FMIP Team Leader. This Unit would be fully responsible for the sound technical and management aspects
of the project as provided for in the OM.
The PCU structure is designed to accommodate nine distinct positions (refer to figure overleaf). The
number of employees filling out these posts is a minimum of nine people, but can be expanded depending
on the volume of projects the FMIP will be handling. The following section depicts the job descriptions of
the staff at the PCU:
The PCU structure, however, during the phase one of project implementation, or from project appraisal to
World Bank loan effectiveness, would be limited to the provision of a Team Leader for the FMIP
Procurement Manager and Financial Management Head. The responsibilities of these experts would be to
ensure that all works implemented during phase one under retroactive financing, would comply with the
World Bank guidelines and the requirements of the Operations Manual (OM).
-67 -



REPUBLIC OF LEBANON
Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs
Project Co-ordinating Unit Structure
FMDP/PCU
Project Manager (2)
Secretariat     F    Legal Advisor (26)    [  MIS Administration
Two Executive 
SwEcrecurive (25)                          [MIS Administrator (24)
00                  Secretaries (25)
Project Preparation            Finance &                  Project
& Procurement               Accounting          Monitoring & Evaluation|
___________.________ .   . Department Head (23)  Department Head (22)
Engineer(211)              Oe                    E    e 1221r
Accountant
(231)



Job Title:  FMDP/PCU Project Manager                       |Job Number: I
Reporting to: - Minister of MOMRA - Director General of MOMRA, IBRD Headquarters
Receiving reports from:
21      Projects Preparation and Procurement (PPP) Department Head
22      Projects Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) Department Head
23      Finance and Accounting (FA) Department Head
24      Database Administrator
25      Executive Secretary
Main Function:
The FMDP/PCU Project Manager will be responsible for providing assistance to MOMRA in the management
and implementation of the FMDP. He/she will be primarily responsible for the management of the implementation
of the Municipal Infrastructure Project.
Duties and Responsibilities:
*   Hiring and supervising local consultants for the appraisal, feasibility, design, procurement of works and
supervision of construction and monitoring implementation and evaluating impact of eligible sub-projects as
defined in the Project Operations Manual;
Preparing quarterly and annual FMDP project implementation progress reports; undertaking with the help of
consultants a mid-term review and a project implementation completion report in accordance with TORs
provided in the OM; co-ordinating with government institutions for smooth execution of project activities as
described in the OM;
*   Collaborating with MOMRA's concerned department in the management of the project including providing
capacity building activities such as strategic planning and policy formulation, budgeting and programming,
support to municipalities and rural communities in those functions under MOMRA's responsibility.
Supervising the development of a municipal database system
Minimum Job Requirements:
*   Post-Graduate University Degree in Civil Engineering with at least ten (10) years of international experience
in Municipal and Environmental Planning and Management Projects.
*   Ability to deal with international lending and donor institutions is highly desirable as well as substantial work
experience on projects in developing countries.
*   Fluent in spoken and written English, French and Arabic.
-69 -



Job Title:   Projects Preparation and Procurement            Job Number: 21
(PPP) Department Head
Reporting to: FMDP/PCU Project Manager
Receiving reports from:
24      Database Administrator
211     Engineer
Main Function:
The function of the PPP Head is to supervise the activities related to the appraisal of incoming requests for work,
and to the preparation of the corresponding tendering documents and follow-upon announcement of tender,
evaluation of tenders and awards and signing of contracts. The holder of the post will be responsible for the
review and recommendation for approval of technical studies, design reports and bidding documents, and the
organization for bids.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Prepares and chairs regular co-ordination meetings of all staff within the department;
Keeps the FMDP/PCU Project Manager aware at all times of the activities within the department;
*   Ensures that eligibility checks, desk appraisal by the PPP Engineers, and field appraisal by consultants are
conducted properly;
Ensures tender procedures are being developed and maintained;
Organizes tender evaluation committees, chairs related meetings, and takes care of all the necessary
logistics;
Directs the department's staff in the following:
- Review of technical studies, design and tender documents;
- Organization of tender documents and assistance in the evaluation of bids;
- Carrying-out of any other tasks in the domain of the department.
Minimum Job Requirements:
*   Bachelor's Degree in Engineering with 7 years of experience or equivalent;
Management experience for at least three years.
Membership of the Syndicate of Engineers of Lebanon;
Proficiency in written and spoken Arabic, English and French;
*   Must be familiar with Computer Programs and Applications.
-70-



Job-Title:   Projects Monitoring and Evaluation              |Job Number: 22
(PME) Department Head
Reporting to: FMDP/PCU Project Manager
Receiving reports from:
24       Database Administrator
221      Engineer
Main Function:
The function of the PME Head is to monitor and evaluate the work of contractors and consultants.
The Department Head is also responsible for all of the activities within his/her own Departnent.
Work involves thorough follow-up of projects during the implementation phases, and constant update
with in-coming and out-going projects.
Duties and Responsibilities:
*    Prepares and chairs regular co-ordination meetings of all staff within the department;
Keeps the FMDP/PCU Project Manager aware at all times of the activities within the department;
*    Ensures monitoring & evaluation procedures are being developed and maintained;
*    Discusses with the FMDP/PCU Project Manager the nomination of engineers to supervise and
evaluate the assigned projects;
Organizes and manages the supervision of projects;
Supervises control of projects planning and payments;
Ensures that applications for payments and variation orders are processed promptly, seeking approvals
from higher levels when necessary;
*    Ensures that project and contract records are maintained and that reports are prepared on a regular basis;
Carries-out any other tasks in the domain of the department.
Minimum Job Requirements:
*    Bachelor's Degree in Engineering with 7 years of experience or equivalent;
*    Management experience for at least three years.
*    Membership of the Syndicate of Engineers of Lebanon;
*    Proficiency in written and spoken Arabic, English and French;
*    Must be familiar with Computer Programs and Applications.
- 71 -



Job Title:   Project Implementation Engineer                  Job Number: 221
Reporting to: Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Department Head
Receiving reports from:
None
Main Function:
The holder of the post will act as a supervisor for one or more projects assigned to him/her by the PME Head, and
he/she will be responsible for the successful completion of all projects on time, and according to specifications.
He/she will review the reports by the consultants hired for the implementation of projects under their contractual
responsibilities.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Keeps the PME Head aware at all times of relevant technical issues regarding projects supervision and
evaluation;
Monitors physical progress of assigned projects according to their respective contract;
Evaluates the completed work of the contractor according pre-set rules and regulations;
Comments on variation orders requests and recommends actions thereto;
*    Carries-out any other tasks set by the Department Head from time to time.
Minimum Job Requirements:
Bachelores Degree in Engineering with 3 years of experience or equivalent;
Experience should preferably be gained in project execution and monitoring.
*    Membership of the Syndicate of Engineers of Lebanon;
Proficiency in written and spoken Arabic and English, knowledge of French is deliverable;
Must be familiar with Computer Programs and Applications.
- 72 -



Job Title:   Finance and Accounting (FA) Head                Job Number: 23
Reporting to: FMDP/PCU Project Manager
Receiving reports from:
21      Projects Preparation and Procurement Department Head
22      Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Department Head
24      Database Administrator
231     Financial Analyst/ Accountant
Main Function:
The function of the Finance and Administration Head is to manage all of the activities related to financial and
personnel issues. The (FA) Head prepares yearly budgets, allocates funds, issues payments authorizations, keeps
separate project accounts and special accounts, prepares financial reports, co-ordinates efforts with the Accounting
Department of the MOMRA, and updates the FMDP/PCU Project Manager about all financial matters. He/she will
ensure that World Bank guidelines and procedures are observed at all times, and will co-operate with the
independent auditors who will be hired by MOMRA through the PCU for annual auditing of project accounts.
He/she will be responsible for the management of the special accounts held in the Central Bank of Lebanon for the
World Bank Loan proceeds as well as for Government counterpart funds.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Directs and controls the financial and administrative functions of the PCU;
Replenishes funds from donors/lenders if available;
-    Develops and implements administrative policies and procedures;
Develops and implements accounting control procedures for the sources and uses of funds from the World
Bank Loan and Government contribution.
Prepares the annual budget of the PCU on the basis of its approved work program;
Operates PCU bank accounts jointly with the FMDP/ PCU Project Manager;
Effects disbursements upon authorization by FMDP/ PCU Project Manager;
Supervises and audits the day-to-day activities of the department staff;
Consolidates and reports the financial status and performnance of the PCU on a monthly (and/or quarterly and
annual) basis;
Prepares reports for the Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development, MOMRA and other
donors/lenders on a quarterly and annual basis;
Minimum Job Requirements:
Master's in Business Administration / or Accounting with 8 years of experience
Proficiency in written and spoken Arabic and English. Knowledge of French is desirable.
*    Must be familiar with Computer Programs and Applications.
- 73 -



Job Title:  Database / System Administrator                |Job Number: 24
Reporting to: FMDP/PCU Project Manager
Receiving reports from:
21    Projects Preparation and Procurement Department Head
22    Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Department Head
23   Finance and Accounting Department Head
Main Function:
The holder of the post manages the operations and maintenance of the PCU Information System regarding
hardware, software, and networking.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Supervises and assists in the daily running of the computer installation;
-   Directs the staff assigned to operate and maintain the system, canying out activities such as,
month-end processing, batch updates, entry and validation routines;
Supervises data processing and observes error indications or any malfunction and takes remedial
action as needed;
Ensures that maintenance of hardware and software is carried out as per instructions;
Carries-out file purges, archiving and back-ups;
Writes and updates user manuals for the system(s);
-   Maintains and reviews system access logs;
Manages software configuration and change requests;
Liaises with the hardware and software suppliers to ensure smooth running and continuing
enhancement of the PMIS;
Carries-out any other task in the domain of the division.
Minimum Job Requirements:
Master's Degree in Computer Science with 5 years of experience or equivalent.
Knowledge of Database Administration and IS/IT.
Proficiency in written and spoken Arabic, French and English.
-74 -



Job Title:   Executive Secretary                             |Job Number: 25
Reporting to: FMDP/PCU Project Manager
Receiving reports from:
None
Main Function:
The holder of the post acts as the Head secretary of the FMDP Project Manager giving support to all staff. The
secretary is responsible for the efficient communication between the departments and ensures the efficient
perfornance of other secretaries.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Receives, collects and co-ordinates documents and correspondence, submits them to the appropriate
departments for decision taking, and follows-up on them until execution;
*    Keeps the agendas updated, makes appointments and travel arrangements and co-ordinates meetings with the
concerned parties;
*    Assists the PCU with all administrative matters and routine work;
*    Types confidential documents and follows-up on them with the concemed parties;
*    Supervises and implements the filing system (storage, retrieval, etc.) according to the administrative and
legal needs;
*    Types reports, documents, and correspondence;
*    Maintains and updates files according to approved procedures;
*    Undertakes other duties and responsibilities within the domain of secretarial work.
Minimum Job Requirements:
BT in secretariat with 3 years experience, or equivalent;
Computer literacy and typing of a minimum of 120 characters/min;
Proficiency in written and spoken Arabic, French and English.
-75 -



Job Title: Legal Advisor (LA)                                Job Number: 26
Reporting to: FMDP/PCU Project Manager
Receiving reports from:
21     Projects Preparation and Procurement Department Head
22     Projects Monitoring and Evaluation Department Head
23     Finance and Accounting Department Head
Main Function:
The holder of the post acts as the Legal Advisor to the FMDP Project Manager providing legal support to the
Heads of the three Departments.
The legal advisor is responsible for the legal conformity of all the operating procedures and contracts under the
FMDP Project.
Duties and Responsibilities:
Ensures that the PCU operations conforms to the regulations of the Lebanese Public Administration
Advises the PCU in all litigation cases related to the FMDP Project.
Reviews the procurement procedures adopted for services, works and goods and ensures their conformity to
the Lebanese legislation and Bank procedures.
Receives the bidding documents and contracts and reviews their legal compliance with Lebanese legislation
and Bank procedures.
Minimum Job Requirements:
University Degree in Law and sound knowledge of the Lebanese Public Administration regulations
Minimum 10 years experience, or equivalent;
Proficiency in written and spoken Arabic, French and English.
- 76 -



Additional
Annex No.: 13
LEBANON: FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Preparation of Environmental Assessment Review Procedures
for Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Background
1.    The project development objective is to address urgent municipal works while setting the stage for
the gradual assumption of responsibility for municipal services at the local level. The project is to include
all the municipalities (approximately 704) of Lebanon, except the four largest municipalities of Beirut,
Tripoli, Sidon (Saida) and Zahle. The project would: (a) in the short term, restore selected basic municipal
infrastructure to improve living conditions in virtually all the municipalities of Lebanon; and (b) in the
medium term, set the stage for the development of the municipal sector by enabling municipalities to begin
addressing local infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation needs.
2.     Urban areas in Lebanon generally have reasonable access to basic services. Sewerage coverage
rates are about 70.4 percent and access to piped water supply networks is about 89 percent. However,
these overall averages hide great disparities between districts, with the poorer districts of the North and
South having much lower rates of access. Quite apart from differential access rates, existing water and
sewer networks are in a state of disrepair due to prolonged lack of expenditure on maintenance and
upgrading in most municipalities. Only the largest and better off municipalities have been able to begin
addressing the backlog of maintenance and upgrading needs since municipal elections took place in 1998.
Improvements to the existing water supply and sewerage infrastructure are key priorities to catch up with
the backlog of maintenance and upgrading needs, and have generally been among the first set of projects
undertaken as resources become available.
3.     Except for a few large municipalities, most have weak administrative and technical capacity and
many have none whatsoever, relying on "voluntary" contributions of time by skilled professionals. The
latter rely substantially on support from the central government, mostly through MOMRA. However,
MOMRA is not equipped to effectively address such needs. The main reason for this situation, of course,
is the major dislocations caused by the prolonged civil war, and as significantly, the absence of locally
elected authorities until June 1998.
4.     There is, as yet, no coherent strategy to deal with these issues of weak capacity. In general,
Government policy objectives are to gradually shift responsibility for local infrastructure to the
municipalities. It is also committed to a municipal sector reform and development strategy that focuses on
the balanced and equitable development of all the regions of Lebanon.
5.     Municipalities' nominal share of the project funds will be proportional to their registered
population size. This criterion, while not ideal, is necessitated by the absence of reliable information on
resident population and fiscal potential and capacity to determine the most resource strapped
municipalities. The lack of sufficiently robust information on the latter is attributed to the fact that
municipal elections were only held in May and June 1998. Allocating funds on the basis of registered
- 77 -



population and elimination of the four largest cities Beirut, Sidon, Zahle and Tripoli will generally tend to
favor areas of the country that suffered for a long time from neglect of their municipal investment needs
and which have low socio-economic indicators, than would be possible through a simple proportional rule
for all municipalities.
6.     All participating municipalities (approximately 704) are expected to be directly responsible for
identification of sub-projects. Where possible they would also undertake appraisal, design, bid preparation
and contract award as well as construction supervision. However, the PCU will be ready to assist
municipalities where the municipality is unable to assume responsibilities on its own. While the lack of
sufficiently reliable indicators makes a poverty targeting strategy impractical, it is likely that the menu of
services will have an impact on the living conditions of the poor.
7.     A set of screening criteria for the selection of sub-projects has been developed, and is included in
the Operations Manual. The criteria are designed to identify the most cost effective sub-projects that also
reach the highest number of beneficiaries. There is a Project Application Form to be filled out by the
proposing municipality. Only those projects which have a clear economic or community development
objective and are meeting essential services would be eligible (i.e., roads leading to schools, hospitals,
dispensaries, religious buildings, public buildings; main roads, commercials roads, high traffic roads;
roads used by trucks or agriculture equipment, roads that serve a whole identified community). The project
request application would provide, therefore, information to be used for both technical design and economic
analysis of the project. Eligible sub-projects would then be appraised in detail in a second step according
to agreed procedures and criteria. Whenever possible, sub-projects will be designed on the basis of
least-cost technical altemative (the average size of sub-projects would be about US$90,000 equivalent).
The agreed allocation of project proceeds on the basis of registered population would translate into a per
capita allocation of some US$32.3 equivalent over the life of the project. About 56 percent of the funds
would go to municipalities with less than 6,200 registered population.
8.     On the basis of the project request application a first screening selection would be perforrned by the
Project Coordination Unit. At this stage, consultants would be hired to appraise the project if the applying
municipality has no capacity to do so. They would control the information contained in the application
forn, check the project rationale and stated priority and fine tune the estimates of i.e., the number of
beneficiaries. Other important information would be collected at this stage. The project proposal
application would become a project appraisal sheet and it is designed to contain all information necessary
for the c analysis of the project.
9.     The project design would have to be technically sound and carried out according to the guidelines
of the Operational Manual. For all subprojects, whenever possible, least-cost solutions would be sought.
For roads upgrading and rehabilitation, the technical option would take into consideration the most
appropriate maintenance strategy considering the weaknesses in the system of maintenance provision and
the most cost-effective option is chosen.
10.    The following economic screening indicators would be used to assess the eeonomic justification of
the projects.
These criteria, outlined in Annex 4-a of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) have been developed in the
Operational Manual. In summary, the economic justification of the projects (the bulk of which will likely
be upgrading and rehabilitation of municipal roads) would be along the following guidelines:
Street lighting: cost per beneficiary ratio for all projects
- 78 -



Road projects: This would be done on: (i) program basis, encompassing all the roads for small
street segments. Ratios would be calculated for direct and (where possible) indirect beneficiaries.
The analysis would also indicate the percentage of town residents served by the project; and (ii) a
stand-alone basis for main roads with a cost exceeding US$150,000.
Least cost solutions should be considered for all projects. Least-cost assessment would be done in
comparison with unit costs for which data are available at/will be compiled by MOMRA. Justification
should be provided when non-least cost options are retained.
Water:  Cost per beneficiary ratio for projects with a total cost below US$1 million
Economic rate of return ratio for larger projects
Sewerage: Cost per beneficiary ratio for projects with a total cost below US$1 million
Economic return of return ratio for larger projects involving treatment plants.
Cost per beneficiary benchmarks would be developed based on information acquired during project
implementation. It is likely that several benchmarks may have to be developed to differentiate between
densely populated urban centers and more sparsely inhabited rural areas. Arrangements for operation and
maintenance, using to the extent possible local sources of revenue, are to be agreed upon during
negotiations. In the second year of project implementation, based on actual cost and benefits data, cost per
beneficiary benchmarks would be calculated and used to update the project appraisal procedures.
11.   For economic justification of water rehabilitation projects or extension through standpipes, the
investment would be required to produce savings or additional benefits in excess of costs; for rehabilitation
projects, savings are measured as the physical amount of lost water saved. For standpipes benefits are
evaluated as the additional water provided to the connected people. Both physical quantities are then
evaluated in monetary tertns at the average tariff paid for cubic meter of water at the national level. In the
case of larger water and sewerage projects costing above US$1 million, the number of which is expected
to be low, the cost per beneficiary ratio analysis cannot be used as a screening criteria. For these large
projects therefore, a simplified calculation of the Net Present Value of benefit-costs, as above indicated
would be computed.
12.   Project Management: MOMRA has agreed to assign a temporary PCU Project Manager from
its own staff of Engineers from the beginning of the Project Appraisal until the Board Approval stages.
Upon Board Approval, four positions will be filled according to the Terms of Reference: PCU Project
Manager; Head of Project Preparation and Procurement Department; Head of Finance and Accounting
Department; and Management Information Systems Administrator. Additional staff, as specified in the
project Operations Manual, will be provided upon effectiveness of the Bank loan to ensure efficient and
effective project execution. The PCU can also be assisted by short-term consultants who would undertake
project specific tasks, such as beneficiary assessment and technical audits to monitor and evaluate project
performance.
Objectives for the Assignment
13.   The main objective of the Assignment is to prepare Environmental Review Procedures for water
supply and sewerage sub-projects, which will take the form of a simple guidelines document for inclusion
in the Operations Manual for the project. The procedures should describe: (i) environmental screening
procedures (ii) scope of work and terms of reference (TOR) for EA reports for eligible water and sewerage
- 79 -



sub-project, and (iii) typical Environmental Management Plans (EMP) that include mitigation measures,
capacity recommendations and monitoring indicators.
Scope of Work
14.   The following tasks are included in the scope of work:
(a) For each type of water and sewerage sub-project, the manual should contain a simple
enviromnental checklist which poses a series of questions designed to identify risks to the
environment, based on the identified site chosen for the sub-project. As an example for water
sources or wells; are other wells or sources in the local area contaminated? The goal of the checklist
is to identify which sub-projects require more environmental information, and which can proceed
without any special mitigation measures. Additional guidance on screening may be obtained from
Environmental Assessment Sourcebook Update No. 2: Environmental Screening
(b) Provide a brief description of how the checklist should be used by municipalities when preparing
their application forms for water supply and sewerage sub-projects. Provide a brief description of
how the PCU at MOMRA should use the checklist to screen sub-projects at the desk review stage
and at the final field appraisal stage. Give examples of cases where additional information,
enviromnental data or mitigation measures should be requested from municipalities by MOMRA.
Give examples of when an environmental assessment (EA) report would be requested.
(c) Provide an overview of the existing institutional and legal framework for environmental
protection and impact mitigation as it relates to water supply and sewerage works in municipalities.
Prepare a table to identify environmental permits and approvals required in Lebanon for water
supply and sewerage sub-projects. Identify when approvals are given e.g. on engineering design
drawings, during construction, on acceptance of completed works.
(d) For each type of water and sewerage sub-project describe the key EMP actions that must be
included with engineering designs for the detailed technical project description used in the
procurement bidding documents. This should be in a short concise format of about 1-2 pages per
type of sub-project that could be appended to construction bidding documents. The typical EMPs
should include: (i) environmental mitigation measures for inclusion with detailed engineering design,
and for supervision during construction activities. To assist municipalities and MOMRA to
supervise water supply and sewerage construction activities, describe the key field procedures that
contractors should cany out to ensure meeting the environmental mitigation measures included in
typical contracts. Also describe the criteria for acceptance of the final hand-over of a sub-project;
(ii) descriptions of the qualifications and estimate of resources (manpower and laboratory services)
to supervise implementation of the EMP; (iii) monitoring indicators to be carried during construction
and operations.
(e) Review and adapt existing Terms of Reference (TOR) for environmental assessments so as to
develop TORs appropriate for small scale municipal water and sewerage projects. Prepare concise
1-2 page TORs for environmental assessments for new water sources and wells and for new
wastewater sewers.
(f) Provide a list of key reference documents for use by municipalities in Lebanon for small water
supply and works e.g. environmental design manuals, public health regulations, safety standards,
enviromnental regulations, etc.
- 80 -



Reports
15.     The Environmental Assessment Review Procedures guidebook should be concise and limited to
main findings, conclusions and recommended actions. The guidebook, in English, will be organized
according to the outline below:
Introduction
Policy, Legal & Administrative Environmental Framework for Municipal Water and Sewerage
Works
Potential Impacts of Water Supply and Sewerage Sub-Projects
Environmental Screening Procedures
1.    Desk Review Criteria/Questions
2.     Final Field Appraisal Criteria/Questions
Terms of Reference for Environmental Assessment Reports
Environmental Management Plans
I .    Typical level of detail for environmental mitigation measures
2.     Typical level of details for resources to implement EMP
3.     Typical monitoring indicators
Appendices:
Appendix A: Typical EMPs
1-2 pages per sub-project describing environmental mitigation measures, resource for EMP
implementation and monitoring indicators:
Water Sources and Wells
Water Supply Distribution Facilities
Wastewater Sewers
Appendix B: Sample Terms of Reference (TOR) for E4 Reports
TOR for New Potable Water Facilities (i.e. sources, wells, reservoirs, treatment,
pumping and distribution pumping)
TOR for New Wastewater Sewers
Schedule and Reporting
13.    The draft report should be sent to the Bank by June 30, 2000. The report should be final within 30
days of receiving comments by the Bank.
Schedule of Payments
This is a fixed price contract, with the following schedule of payments:
25% advance payment
50 % payment upon submission of the draft report
25% payment upon acceptance of the final report
- 81 -






3'6'
LEBANON
9K2   \                  1504=       _
PMARYLfY      m                           TrpoIIWt
RE R. OACShgafla:   Z                                    2264 h     Hermel a
A 2361 EVATlE8,                                                                3083OA.I"TS IM                            1842T
eC WATERCOURSES20
N ATIOAL:CAPITAL !.l~fl                                                   r
GREATER SUNIRTr 
-  -  INTS 4ATAL OVNOARkYA
OAZABOUNOARIES
MONAPAZATrBoINOARE
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
oo                 N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o'oo'fooooooo
T b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 aa leckoo
'  49 00,4 lhoko,o:o,o>ooo-t', =  -4?' ~~.   0t   f,oooo4 -
- L '; C4tIB,S3FEJRUT ,  ,   dltrffle~  -  ~ s,  .if       4J >                  ho "  oF 000
-   -  _  ,=3 9{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOMETALr3ERS  0 -,   10  1,5i-Xt=,2*
3 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
0  00         /                                                                                                                     5 4 4  Se   a <    ;    ;\-   '; <( 23  -
A                           5'        /                                                                                                                     0O'9@ SA>f>  +Cz3u
46~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
tz~~~~~~~~~0
-                                                         >                 x   -v  
0~~~~~~~~~ MIE 10 .A .'                                                                                        .  ml' 
ZZ~                                         f          f        i38    r i
:   - : -   >  4~~~~~~~~~~ tf   . -,- . 4 _gt  /   ;  tb~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1-



