Report No. PID5794
Project Name                     Lebanon-Municipal Infrastructure Project (@+)
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Other Urban Development
Project ID                       LBPE50544
Borrower(s)                      Lebanese Republic
Implementing Agency              MOMRA
Contact Person: Colonel Nicolas Habr
Tel: 961-1-751-601
Fax: 961-1-751-622
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 8, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         March 20, 2000
Projected Board Date             May 23, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
(a) Inadequacy of infrastructure. Urban areas in Lebanon generally have
reasonable access to basic services. Sewerage coverage rates are about
70.4 percent and access to piped water network is about 89 percent.
However, these overall averages hide great disparities between districts,
with the poorer districts of the North and South having much lower rates
of access. Quite apart from differential access rates, existing
infrastructure, notably roads, drainage and water and sewer networks are
in a state of disrepair due to prolonged lack of expenditure on
maintenance and upgrading in most municipalities. Only the largest and
better off municipalities have been able to begin addressing the backlog
of maintenance and upgrading needs since municipal elections took place.
Improvements in existing infrastructure are key priorities to catch up
with the backlog of maintenance and upgrading needs, and have generally
been the first set of projects undertaken as resources become
available.(b) Inadequate municipal finance. Currently, municipal revenues
are not adequate to meet local needs. One reason is that own-source
revenues collected by municipalities are derived from 16 different fees
and taxes, which are not cost effective to administer. The most important
of these taxes is based on the lease value of all rented or occupied
residential and commercial property (the assessed value is in need of
reevaluation and the reporting of such transactions is done haphazardly).
It will take time to reform and rationalize the local tax base and
establish systems for improved valuation and collections of property
taxes. An equally compelling reason for the inadequacy of local resources
is that the central-municipal transfer, consisting of surtaxes and fees
collected by the state on behalf of all municipalities, has largely been
folded into projects of the CDR or other regional development agencies
through Decree 7425 of 1995. Most municipalities have, therefore, not
been able to count on the intergovernmental transfers that are legally
due to them as a bloc grant and for capital projects. The sustainability
of municipal governments depends largely on substantially improving the
municipal and intergovernmental finance system.     (c) The Independent
Municipal Fund (ImF) Arrears. The ImF is an account held in trust, as



part of the account of the Lebanese Treasury, at the central bank for the
benefit of the municipalities and municipal associations. The law
specifies the sources of ImF funds: taxes and levies collected by the
central government on behalf of municipalities, as well as specified
shares of custom duties, and surcharges on utility bills and insurance
policies. The criteria along which ImF funds are distributed to, and used
by, municipalities are spelled out in the law (Decree No. 1917 of April 6,
1979 amended by Decree 1783 of 10/10/91). In line with that decree, ImF
funds can be used to cover the salaries of contractual employees of the
Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs working on tasks related to
various municipalities, as well as the costs of service and materials
benefiting municipalities. The remaining ImF fund are to be distributed on
a yearly basis as follows:(A) No less than 75 percent (of available
balance) should be distributed to municipalities along the following
formulae:70 percent are provided as budget support out which: (i) 60
percent distributed in proportion to the number of registered population
in the municipality; and (ii) 40 percent distributed to all municipalities
in proportion to their own-source revenues over the preceding two years.30
percent are "earmarked" for project finance to foster regional
development, particularly in rural areas.(B) No more than 25 percent
should be distributed to municipal associations along the following
formulae:25 percent are provided as budget support in proportion to the
number of registered population within the municipal association.75
percent are "earmarked" for project finance within the administrative
areas of the municipal association.Over the past several years, the
distribution of ImF resources to municipalities had been all but
withheld. Proceeds of the World Bank loan would be counted against the
ImF arrears, and the project would provide MOF with the opportunity to
establish a more predictable and transparent accounting of ImF flows.(d)
Limited institutional capacity at both central and local government
levels. MOMRA and most municipalities are in need of institutional
strengthening. Except for few large municipalities, most have weak
administrative capacity and many have none whatsoever, relying on
"voluntary" contributions of time by skilled professionals. The latter
rely substantially on support from the central government, mostly through
MOMRA. However, MOMRA is not equipped to effectively address such needs.
The main reason for this situation, of course, is the major dislocations
caused by the prolonged civil war, and as significantly, the absence of
locally elected authorities until June, 1998. There is, as yet, no
coherent strategy to deal with these issues. In general The Government
policy objectives are to gradually shift the responsibility for local
infrastructure to municipal governments. It is also committed to a
municipal sector reform and development strategy that focuses on the
balanced and equitable development of all the regions of Lebanon.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to address urgent municipal works
while setting the stage for gradual assumption of responsibility for
municipal services at the local level. The project would: (a) in the
short term, restore selected basic municipal infrastructure to improve
living conditions in virtually all the municipalities of Lebanon; and (b)
in the medium term, set the stage for the development of the municipal
sector by enabling municipalities to begin addressing local infrastructure
maintenance and rehabilitation needs.
- 2-



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's participation in the proposed Project would be an important
catalyst for supporting viable options for municipal sector investment.
The Bank's willingness to support these investments would complement the
technical assistance support of the donor community for the sector.
Currently, the EU has expressed interest in supporting the Government in
these endeavors and USAID is already providing extensive technical
assistance to 68 municipalities. Although the Government has taken the
lead in countrywide reconstruction and development, it has not been able
to mobilize local resources, establish a reliable system of transfers or
to delegate responsibility and resources to local governments for
addressing their own needs. The proposed project would constitute a
first, if modest, step towards addressing some of these issues and
complement the Bank's efforts to assist the Government in postwar
reconstruction and development through regional projects.
4. Description
1. Upgrading and rehabilitating backlog of essential municipal
infrastructure.
2. Capacity building at MOMRA; technical assistance for project
implementation and project management.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               20
IBRD                     80
IDA
Total Project Cost       100
6. Implementation
Executing agency. MOMRA would be responsible for project execution
through a Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). Detailed terms of reference for
the PCU have been agreed upon with MOMRA (Annex 11). MOMRA has assigned a
temporary PCU Project Manager from its own staff of Engineers. It has
already held workshops introducing the project to about 150 municipalities
and rapidly surveyed investment programs of about twenty municipalities.
By Board Approval, four positions will be filled according to the terms of
reference: PCU Project Manager; Head of Project Preparation and
Procurement Department; Head of Finance and Accounting Department; and
Management Information Systems Administrator. The full staff of the PCU
will be hired upon Project Effectiveness. The PCU would be responsible
for all aspects of project management. Quarterly and annual reports,
including the mid-term review and the implementation completion report,
would be prepared by the PCU for Bank and Government review in accordance
with Bank requirements. [TO BE COMPLETED BASED ON FINANCIAL
ASSESSMENT].Accounting, financial reporting, and auditing arrangements.
The PCU would hire experienced financial staff to manage project
accounts. MOMRA, through the PCU, would establish and maintain project
accounts and adequate control procedures to facilitate timely and
transparent reporting in accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank
The Budgeting and accounting system will be computerised to permit
automatic production of Project management Reports. The Operations manual
prepared for MOMRA in September 1998 is being updated and revised for
-3 -



review during appraisal and would be finalized at negotiations. It would
fully document all operations of the project. The revised Operations
Manual will cover the following topics: (a) financial and accounting
policies; (b) flow of funds; (c) accounting system and internal control
mechanisms; (d) Chart of Accounts; (e) financial reports, including the
format of financial management reports; (f) auditing arrangements; (g)
budgeting; and (h) organization and staffing of financial management
functions.     The Project's annual financial statements, including
summaries of the special account activities and of SOE based
disbursements/PRM based disbursements would be audited each fiscal year in
accordance with international auditing standards by independent private
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Auditors will be appointed on the basis
of terms of reference to be agreed with the Bank, prior to Loan
effectiveness. MOMRA would ensure that all project accounts are furnished
to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year, in such
scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request. Loan Administration
Change Initiative (LACI) requirements will be met by date of project
effectiveness. Financial management System.    The Project Financial
management arrangements are detailed in Annex 6.    Initially the project
would use the traditional disbursement system and within a (specific
period) would convert to the PMR based disbursement system under LACI.
The disbursement of funds would be through periodic advances to the
Special account based on PMRs, which would link eligible expenditures with
actual physical progress made under the project. The necessary copmuter
software will be installed to produce reports compatible with the bank's
PMR based disbursement system guidelines. A time-bound action plan to
permit PMR based disbursements within a specific period) of effectiveness
will be agreed with Government at negotiations.Special Accounts. To
facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the Government
would open at the Central Bank of Lebanon two accounts: a Local Account in
Lebanese pounds for the contribution from the Government and Special
Account (SA) in US dollars for the Bank loan. Both accounts would be
operated by MOMRA, under terms satisfactory to the Bank. These procedures
would be finalized during project appraisal and Administrative details of
the Local Account and the Special Accounts would be included in Annex 6.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements. MOMRA's PCU would be responsible
for monitoring progress against agreed-upon monitoring and performance
indicators. The PCU would submit quarterly and annual progress reports.
Monitoring indicators to evaluate development objectives and outputs,
project design, implementation progress, and project impact, as detailed
in Annex I are to be agreed upon at appraisal and will be included in the
Project Operations Manual (OM). These indicators would be computed and
analyzed by the MOMRA databank system included in the project.
Beneficiary assessment surveys also would be conducted for representative
areas and investments, to obtain basic qualitative and quantitative
information that would enable monitoring and evaluation of the impact of
the project on benefitting communities. Consultants would also undertake
post-evaluation technical audits on a representative sample of projects to
ensure that investments have been implemented in accordance with
conditions stipulated in the OM, and would obtain feedback on the outcome
or impact of the subprojects and feed these results into refining
technical and economic criteria, as appropriate. Monitoring and
evaluation reports would be reviewed at the beginning of each year to
enable steps to be taken to ensure the efficient implementation and
completion of the project. A mid-term review would be conducted in the
- 4 -



second year of implementation to assess progress towards meeting
development objectives and identify areas where adjustments need to be
made to implementation processes and procedures to ensure achievement of
objectives and adapt to potential changes in conditions. The resident
mission would provide supervision support, supplemented by two Bank
supervision missions per year to monitor and evaluate project
implementation and achievement of objectives. A project launching workshop
would be undertaken initially for MOMRA's staff with main representatives
from the district offices and participating municipalities. A workshop
would also be held as part of the mid-term review to encourage
beneficiary participation in the review process. By maintaining a
municipality data base, the PCU will collect fiscal, physical, and
socio-economic data, which will provide an important input into future
evaluations.
7. Sustainability
Two key factors would affect sustainability of the project's development
objectives: the ability of municipalities to strengthen capacity and
improve administration; and the ability of MOMRA to build institutional
capacity to carry on the agenda for municipal sector development. As
noted, the recently elected municipal councils, despite weakness in
capacity, are committed to demonstrating results in their communities.
Moreover, the project would include components that assist in
strengthening the institutional capacity at MOMRA through the PCU and
complement donor assistance to municipalities from the EU and USAID. A
more fundamental risk is the sustainability of benefits. This requires
capacity building and improved local revenues and a more sustainable
system of intergovernmental finance, to ensure adequate operations and
maintenance at the local level. These risks can only be dealt with by a
sustained effort to support reform and formulation of a coherent strategy
for development of the sector, beyond the duration of this first
operation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The lessons learned in Lebanon are primarily from the ongoing ERRP project
and the Solid Waste Project. The main concerns relating to these projects
are the lack of institutional capacity in sectoral ministries as a
consequence of the long civil war, and the regulatory constraints built
into the administrative oversight of control agencies such as the Bureau
of Accounts (BOA) and the Civil Service Bureau (CSB). Projects
implemented by sectoral ministries have been delayed in some instances by
the existing Lebanese procurement procedures. While changing these
procedures has been addressed through Bank support in the context of
procurement reforms, the rapid implementation of the small municipal
rehabilitation works under this project would be significantly facilitated
through streamlined procedures in the Operations Manual (OM), which would
(i) be based on Bank guidelines, (ii) provide step-by-step instructions
from advertising through contract administration, and (iii) include
samples of the necessary simplified procurement documents. Corresponding
prior review thresholds would be specified in the Loan Agreement. An
additional lesson learned in Lebanon is the importance of applying and
clarifying rules about the use of ImF resources and promoting an
understanding by municipalities of their choices in use of these resources
for locally determined investment priorities. Other lessons learned
through municipal development projects, especially in the initial stages,
- 5-



is the need to adapt and simplify objectives taking into account both
local capacity and readiness.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The proposed program would not include subprojects
that would negatively impact the environment (such as wastewater networks,
slaughter houses and septic tanks cleaning); however, subprojects would be
subject to environmental reviews by qualified consultants. A sample of
about 200 subprojects consisting of road resurfacing and street light
rehabilitation have been appraised by consultants. The reviews of such
works confirmed that small subprojects would not contribute to increased
traffic volume, and that environmental benefits would be positive due to
reduced vehicle emissions resulting from the improved traffic flow. The
street lights would contribute to road safety at night and to general
safety of people and their property. A review of 2,000 subproject
applications screened by consultants also shows that such works consist of
small rehabilitation and upgrading of existing municipal roads, street
lights, and some road crossings and sidewalks, which would generally
improve safety of both pedestrian and vehicular traffic on main roads.
The mitigating measures of this group of services, such as proper
rights-of-way and prevention of erosion, would be addressed as part of the
detailed engineering design for civil works. However, there is a
possibility of including subprojects consisting of urgent repairs and
improvements to small water supply and sewage collection and disposal
facilities, which would be subject to environmental screening and analysis
acceptable to the Bank.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Sonia Hammam
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5335
Fax:   (202) 477-1993
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 24, 2000.
- 6-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-7-



