Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7026-LE
Loan Agreement
(First Municipal Infrastructure Project)
between
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 27, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7026-LE
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 27, 2000, between the LEBANESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
Page  2
(a)
“Action Plan” means the action plan of even date herewith, referred to in 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
“Eligible Categories” means the categories (1),(2), (3),(4), and (5) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(c)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
consultant services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
“Environmental Assessment Review Procedures” means the Borrower’s 
procedures, set out in the Project’s Operations Manual dated May 2000, furnished by 
the Borrower to the Bank, as the same may be updated from time to time by agreement of 
the Borrower and the Bank, for the implementation of the Project in accordance with 
appropriate environmental standards and guidelines, and including, inter alia, the 
preparation of environmental assessment reports for Sub-projects (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) under Part A(ii) of the Project;
(e)
“Cour des Comptes” means the Borrower’s court of account established 
under Legislative Decree No. 82 of the Borrower dated September 16, 1983, as the same 
may be amended from time to time;
(f)
“Independent Municipal Fund” means the account held in trust, as part of  
the account of the Borrower’s Treasury for the benefit of the municipalities and 
municipal associations, pursuant to Decree No. 1917 of April 6, 1979 as amended by 
Decree No. 1783 of October 10, 1991;
(g)
“Local Account” means the local bank account to be opened by the Borrower 
and funded out of the Borrower’s own resources to ensure the availability and timely 
provision of counterpart funds required for financing the Project;
(h)
“MOMRA” means the Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs of the Borrower 
or any successor thereof;
(i)
“MOPW” means the Ministry of Public Works of the Borrower;
(j)
“Memoranda of Understanding” means the two memoranda of understanding 
entered into between MOMRA and the Cour des Comptes, and between MOMRA and the 
Ministry of Public Works, pursuant to the first of which the Cour des Comptes shall 
carry out ex-ante review of the procurement process under the Project and pursuant to 
the second of which the Ministry of Public Works shall carry out technical review of 
the Sub-projects; each a Memorandum of Understanding;
(k)
“Operations Manual” means the Operations Manual including the annexes 
thereto, dated May 2, 2000, and agreed upon by the Borrower and the Bank, setting 
forth the procedures, eligibility, appraisal and allocation criteria and guidelines 
for identifying, planning, monitoring and controlling Sub-project implementation, as 
the same may be revised from time to time in agreement with the Bank;
(l)
“PCU” means the Project Coordinating Unit established pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 5.01 of this Agreement;
(m)
“PMIS’ means the Project Management Information System to be established 
within the PCU pursuant to Section 5.01(d) of this Agreement and thereafter maintained 
at all times until completion of the Project;
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Borrower and the Bank; and
(o)
“Sub-project” means a specific development project to be carried out 
under the Project, which the Bank shall consider eligible for financing under the 
Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to eighty 
million United States dollars (US$80,000,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges in respect of the 
Loan, the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium 
in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in 
accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to eight hundred thousand United States dollars (US$800,000), on or promptly 
after the effectiveness date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on January 15th and July 15th in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of 
the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to 
a Fixed Rate, or vice 
versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of 
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable 
Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium 
Page  4
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, economic, engineering, 
environmental, financial, municipal and technical practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other sources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the provisions of the Environmental Assessment Review 
Procedures and those of the Operations Manual.
(c)
In order to ensure the timely provision of funds required as counterpart 
funds from the Borrower’s Independent Municipal Fund, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain 
the Local Account in accordance with terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, 
exclusively for the financing of expenditures under the Project; and (ii) deposit into 
said Local Account within the first week of each quarter the amount required to ensure 
that the amount on deposit in said Local Account at such time shall not be less than 
the estimated amount of expenditures required for the Project during such quarter, 
determined in accordance with terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall, at all times, maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
Page  5
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound Action Plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than December 31, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the Action Plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the PCU has been established under contractual arrangements and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
the financial management system referred to under Section 4.01 of the 
Agreement has been established;
(c)
PMIS has been established under procedures and in accordance with 
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank;
(d)
MOMRA has entered into the Memoranda of Understanding with each of the 
Cour des Comptes and MOPW; and
(e)
the Borrower shall have appointed a financial manager and a procurement 
manager for the Project with qualifications and under terms of references and 
contractual arrangements acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Beirut, Lebanese Republic
Facsimile:
961 1 642 762
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Beirut, Lebanese Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
THE LEBANESE REPUBLIC
Page  7
By /s/ Michael El Murr 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Padmanabha Hari Prasad 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
US Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works under:
(a)
Part A(i) of
  62,000,000
78%
the Project
(b)
Part A(ii) of
   5,000,000
78%
the Project
(2)
Goods
   1,000,000
100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants'
   5,000,000
100%
services and training
(4)
Project Management
   2,000,000
100%
Costs
(5)
Premia for Interest
0
Amount due under
Rate Caps and Interest
Section 2.09(c) of
Rate Collars
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    5,000,000
TOTAL
   80,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Page  8
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “Project Management Costs” means expenditures under Part C of 
the Project incurred by the PCU in relation to maintenance of vehicles and equipment, 
fuel, utility charges, office supplies, international communications, local transport 
costs and fees of PCU staff excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $8,000,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1)(a), (2), (3), and 
(4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made 
for expenditures before that date but after March 31, 2000; (b) expenditures under 
Category 1(b) of the Project related to any Sub-project identified by the 
Environmental Assessment Review Procedures as requiring an environmental assessment 
report, unless (i) the Borrower shall have first submitted to the Bank an 
environmental assessment report, procurement documents and contractual agreements in 
connection with such Sub-project, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank and 
in accordance with the Environmental Assessment Review Procedures; and (c) any 
expenditure under the Project unless the Bank shal
l have received the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $50,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less than 
$200,000 equivalent each; (c) services under consultant firms contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each and under individual consultant contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each; (d) training; and (e) Project Management Costs, under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit 
account, in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
Page  9
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to four 
million United States dollars (US$4,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, said Authorized Allocation shall 
be limited to an amount equivalent to two million United States dollars 
(US$2,000,000), until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus 
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of eight million United States dollars (US$8,000,000).
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Page  10
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said Categories shall 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of ten million United States dollars (US$10,000,000).
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) restore selected basic municipal 
infrastructure and services at the local level to improve living conditions; and (ii) 
enhance the capacity of municipalities in addressing local infrastructure maintenance 
and rehabilitation needs.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Upgrading and Rehabilitating Basic Municipal Infrastructure
Carrying out a program for the rehabilitation and upgrading of essential 
infrastructure in all the municipalities of the Borrower (with the exclusion of the 
four largest municipalities of Beirut, Tripoli, Sidon and Zahle), including: (i) 
constructing, upgrading, rehabilitating and maintaining essential roads and sidewalks, 
retaining walls, pedestrian crossings, street lighting, safety barriers, road signs, 
Page  11
urgent repairs to potable water and sewerage pipes, pavement surfacing, storm water 
drains and drainage systems; and (ii) construction, rehabilitating, upgrading and 
repairing new roads, potable water sources, potable wells, water reservoirs, potable 
water treatment facilities, pumping facilities, small water supply and sewerage 
systems.
Part B:
Capacity Building
1.
Developing, implementing and maintaining a program for infrastructure 
rehabilitation, including feasibility studies, tender document preparation, 
Sub-project technical design and supervision and maintenance programming, through the 
provision of consultant services to the municipalities.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of MOMRA to manage the Project and monitor the 
municipal sector, through the provision of consultant services.
Part C:
Project Coordination Unit
Establishment and operation of the PCU, including the provision of equipment and 
consultant services thereto.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each January 15 and July 15
Beginning July 15, 2005 
through January 15, 2015
5%
2.
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Page  12
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $2,500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $55,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
Page  13
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works with Community Participation
Works required under Part A(i) of the Project shall be procured in accordance 
with procedures acceptable to the Bank, including simplified bidding and contract 
documents with basic description and specifications of the required small works, 
posting of Invitations to Bid in a public place within the community, transparent 
procedures for accepting sealed bids, public bid opening, bid evaluation, and contract 
award to the bidder with the lowest price who can provide the requisite skills, 
equipment and other resources to complete the contract satisfactorily. The contracts 
for small works awarded on this basis shall be for fixed prices or lump sums, with 
estimated contract values of less than $40,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $25,000,000 equivalent.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more and any contract for works under Part A(ii) of the 
Project, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of 
quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
Page  14
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services under Part C of the Project, estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Page  15
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall vest the responsibility for Project implementation in MOMRA. 
For the purpose of ensuring the proper execution of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain the PCU within MOMRA with qualified staff in adequate number whose 
qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about June 30, 2001 an early assessment report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, to assess the progress towards meeting the objectives of the 
Project, identify areas where adjustments need to be made and set out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about October 31, 2002, a mid-term report integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of 
this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date;
(d)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter; and
(e)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about January 31 of each year, a report on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report 
and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such 
date.
3.
In order to achieve the objectives of the Project, the Borrower shall cause to 
be carried out, not later than June 30, 2001, until completion of the Project, 
independent technical audits covering 30% of the Sub-projects to be carried out under 
the Project, such audit to assess the extent to which the Sub-projects are compliant 
with the design, selection and specification criteria set forth in the Operations 
Manual, the consistency of the methodology used to carry out the Project and the 
effectiveness of the services of consultants employed under the Project. 
