                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                   Report No: ICR00001141




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IBRD-70260 LE)




                                     ON A

                                     LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80.00 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                              LEBANESE REPUBLIC

                                     FOR A

                FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT




                                   June 1, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East Country Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

(Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 2009)

           Currency Unit = LP
           LP 1,500 = US$1



            FISCAL YEAR



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



     Vice President: Daniela Gressani

   Country Director: Hedi Larbi

    Sector Manager: Anna M. Bjerde

Project Team Leader: Robert Maurer

  ICR Team Leader: Robert Maurer

                                            Lebanon
                        First Municipal Infrastructure Project




                                         CONTENTS




Data Sheet

A. Basic Information ................................................................................i
B. Key Dates ..........................................................................................i
C. Ratings Summary ................................................................................i
D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................ii
E. Bank Staff .........................................................................................ii
F. Results Framework Analysis....................................................................ii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ......................................................v
H. Restructuring       ...............................................................................v
I. Disbursement Graph         ......................................................................vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design .................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.................................... 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................... .8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome             ........................................ 11
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance                    ................................. 12
6. Lessons Learned .............................................................................. 14
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing              ...................................................17
Annex 2. Outputs by Component            ............................................................ 18
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis                   ..........................................21
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes                         ...... 23
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results               .................................................. 25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results                    ................................ 37
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR                       .............. 38
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders                  .............. 48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents             .................................................. 50

MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       LB - First Municipal
Country:                Lebanon                 Project Name:
                                                                       Infrastructure Project
Project ID:             P050544                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-70260
ICR Date:               06/23/2009              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       LEBANESE
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        USD 80.0M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 75.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Interior and Municipalities
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date              Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:        11/13/1997      Effectiveness:                           11/28/2000
Appraisal:             03/20/2000      Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/22/2000      Mid-term Review:                         11/06/2003
                                       Closing:               12/31/2005        12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory            Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory            Performance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators               (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                   Quality at Entry      None


                                                i

at any time (Yes/No):                            (QEA):
Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                          No                                          None
time (Yes/No):                                   Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                               Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 6                 6
General transportation sector                                   23                23
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector           45                45
Roads and highways                                              23                23
Sub-national government administration                            3                 3


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                              67              67
Municipal governance and institution building                     33              33


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Daniela Gressani                   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:         Hedi Larbi                         Inder K. Sud
Sector Manager:           Anna M. Bjerde                     Sonia Hammam
Project Team Leader:      Robert Maurer                      Sonia Hammam
ICR Team Leader:          Robert Maurer
ICR Primary Author:       Richard James



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To: (i) address urgent municipal works while setting the stage for gradual assumption of
responsibility for municipal services at the local level. The project would: (a) in the short
term, restore selected basic municipal infrastructure to improve the living conditions; and
(b) in the medium term, set the stage for the development of the municipal sector by
enabling municipalities to begin addressing local infrastructure maintenance and
rehabilitation needs.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The Project development objectives were not revised.


                                                ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value        Values (from         Revised        Achieved at
                                               approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)          Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :   PD0-1: Repairs and upgrading of selected basic municipal infrastructure and
                services: Km of restored roads and retaining walls
                (a) Roads - 13,400 km
                (distribution: 9400 km on

Value           internal roads and        (a) Roads -                        Roads = 3,175 km
quantitative or 4000km on principal       1800km; (b)                        Retaining walls =
Qualitative)    roads)                    Retaining walls -
                                          320km                              257 km

                (b) Retaining walls -
                3,800 km;
Date achieved 11/28/2000                  06/30/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        176% achievement in roads restoration

achievement)    80% achievement in retaining walls

Indicator 2 :   PD0-1: Improving Road safety: Number of street lighting poles
                                                                             Light poles =

Value           210,300 (distribution:                                       15,083

quantitative or 136200 poles on internal  14,000                             On internal Roads =

Qualitative)    roads and 64100 poles on                                     13,990
                principal roads)                                             On principal roads
                                                                             = 1,093
Date achieved 11/28/2000                  06/30/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        108% achievement
achievement)

Indicator 3 :   Repairs and expansion of existing networks (storm water drains, potable water,
                sewerage)

                (a) Storm Drainage        (a) Drainage                       Storm drainage =

Value           network - 14,000 km; (b) network - 287.78                    290 km;

quantitative or Potable water - 10,000    km; (b) Potable                    Potable water = 28

Qualitative)    km; (c) Sewerage - 3500 water - 65km; (c)                    km;

                km.                       Sewerage - 55km                    Sewerage network
                                                                             = 36 km
Date achieved 11/28/2000                  06/30/2008                         12/31/2008
Comments        101% achievement in storm drainage network repairs and expansion
(incl. %        43% achievement in potable water repairs and expansion
achievement)    65% achievement in sewerage repairs
                PDO-1: Improved Access to Investment Funding in Municipalities with a
Indicator 4 :   population smaller than 7,000 (% ratio of the total amount in US$ disbursed for
                project implementation).
Value
quantitative or 5%                        50%                                52.33%



                                               iii

Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/28/2000                   06/30/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                PDO-2: Initiate Central Government Transfers based on well-planned priority
Indicator 5 :   needs: Total no. of municipalities that have identified priority investment
                projects.
Value
quantitative or 707                        707                                 704
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/28/2000                   06/30/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments        Almost 100% of the target was achieved (99.6%). The only three municipalities
(incl. %        that were not able to identify priority investments were (i) Butshay, (ii) Wasat Al
achievement)    Laqlouq and (iii) Kafra Rimein.

Indicator 6 :   PDO-2: Providing municipalities with their share of Government transfers:
                equivalent amount of projects implemented in municipalities.
Value
quantitative or N/A                        $97.39 million                      $86.42 million
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/28/2000                   06/30/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        89% target achieved
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                         Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised         Completion or
                                               documents)     Target Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Municipal revenues/Government transfers. A decreasing ratio will show
                improved financial sustainability.
Value
(quantitative   50%                        30%                                 36.52%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/28/2000                   06/30/2008                          12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %        122% of the target was achieved
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Capacity-building at MOMRA for project implementation; technical assistance
                for project implementation.
                                           (a) % of

Value                                      expenditures of                     (a) 42.79%

(quantitative   N/A                        municipalities on                   (b) 36.52%

or Qualitative)                            investment;                         (c) 13.92%
                                           (b) % of revenues                   (d) 17.70%
                                           of municipalities



                                                 iv

                                    from ImF;
                                    (c) % of tax on
                                    drainage and
                                    sidewalks to total
                                    local revenues
                                    collected;
                                    (d) Ratio of area
                                    served by project
                                    to built total built
                                    up area.
Date achieved 11/28/2000            06/30/2008                    12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived           DO                           IP        Disbursements
                                                                  (USD millions)
  1     06/29/2000      Satisfactory               Satisfactory              0.00
  2     12/27/2000      Satisfactory               Satisfactory              0.00
  3     06/14/2001      Satisfactory               Satisfactory              2.00
  4     06/29/2001      Satisfactory               Satisfactory              2.00
  5     12/21/2001      Satisfactory               Satisfactory              3.73
  6     02/07/2002      Satisfactory               Satisfactory              4.12
  7     03/05/2002      Satisfactory               Satisfactory              5.31
  8     09/30/2002      Satisfactory               Satisfactory             11.17
  9     03/14/2003      Satisfactory               Satisfactory             20.55
  10    08/29/2003      Satisfactory               Satisfactory             25.68
  11    12/09/2003      Satisfactory               Satisfactory             30.18
  12    06/01/2004      Satisfactory               Satisfactory             36.31
  13    09/29/2004      Satisfactory               Satisfactory             43.40
  14    04/18/2005      Satisfactory               Satisfactory             49.45
  15    11/29/2005      Satisfactory               Satisfactory             56.11
  16    06/02/2006      Satisfactory               Satisfactory             61.18
  17    01/30/2007      Satisfactory               Satisfactory             65.48
  18    12/18/2007      Satisfactory               Satisfactory             69.43
  19    06/25/2008      Satisfactory               Satisfactory             70.47
  20    12/26/2008      Satisfactory               Satisfactory             73.29



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                         v

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

Sector background: Lebanon has maintained a strong tradition of local government in the
country since receiving its independence in 1943. This tradition was however interrupted
by various internal conflicts, particularly during a lengthy civil war during 1975-1990
disrupting the entire municipal infrastructure. Lebanon has since made progress toward
rebuilding its political institutions. Under the 1989 Taif Accord (National Reconciliation
Accord), an agreement was reached to provide the basis for the ending of the civil war
and the return to political normalcy in the country. In the same accord, the concept of an
independent municipal sector was reaffirmed endorsing administrative decentralization
and strengthening of municipal powers and responsibilities.

Since the end of the civil war (in 1990), Lebanon conducted several successful elections
and established a framework for locally elected bodies. Over time, municipalities were
provided control, though very gradually, over their own fiscal and investment decisions
with their own sources of revenues to assume expenditure responsibilities for local
services.

The municipal sector nevertheless faced many challenges that included inadequate
infrastructure -- disparities between districts, with the poor districts of the North and
South having limited sewerage coverage and much lower rates of access to piped water.
Roads, drainage and water networks were in a state of disrepair due to prolonged lack of
expenditure on maintenance because of several years of civil strife.

The municipalities also faced difficulties raising their own revenues to meet local needs.
Because of the absence of reliable information on resident population, most
municipalities were unable to count on their fair share of inter-government transfers that
were legally due to them for capital projects. The central government used a complicated
formula for distribution of these transfers based on the number of registered population
rather than the actual inhabitants. In withholding these distributions, the Lebanese
Treasury had accumulated an estimated $0.5 billion at the time when this project was
being designed.

The municipal sector also had limited institutional capacity at both, central and local
government levels. The Ministry of Municipal and Rural Affairs (MOMRA) - now
renamed as the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities (MOIM) - and many of the
municipalities were in a dire need of institutional strengthening. With the exception of a
few larger municipalities, most had weak administrative competence and many had none
whatsoever. The main reason for this was the major dislocations caused by the prolonged
civil war, the hiring freeze, and the absence of locally elected authorities until June 1998.
It is against this backdrop in which the First Municipal Infrastructure Project was
conceived.




                                              1

Recent Hostilities: While the project was in full swing performing satisfactorily, the
works came to a total stop in February 2005 because of massive demonstrations in Beirut
after the assassination of former Prime Minister, Rafiq Hariri. Later, on August 14, 2006,
the UN-brokered ceasefire brought an end to the thirty-days of hostilities. An estimated
one million Lebanese, out of an estimated population of four million, fled their homes
during the height of hostilities. The affected areas experienced a total disruption of basic
services and suffered from lack of safe drinking water, running sewage disposal systems,
and functioning social services.

According to the Government's estimates the municipalities located in the conflict-
affected areas suffered wide-scale destruction.              Partial or complete destruction was
reported to around 30,000 housing units, about 140 bridges, close to 210,000 m2 of roads,
around 200 public and 80 private schools, and over 30 vital infrastructure facilities1/. The
damage to the municipal sector included, among others, urban roads, retaining walls,
street lighting, water and sanitation and municipal buildings and was estimated at around
$100 million. The reconstruction program following the 2006 Israeli invasion and later
the post conflict activities following the 2007 crisis in the Nahr El Bared Palestinian
Camp resulted both in a significantly increased work load for the project team.

Despite these conditions, the project succeeded in preserving satisfactory implementation
performance ratings. It received highly satisfactory ratings by the project team which
was endorsed by the Country Management Unit. Through most of the implementation
period, this project was regarded as the best in the Lebanon country portfolio in terms of
achieving its Project Development Objectives.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


To address urgent municipal works while setting the stage for gradual assumption of
responsibility for municipal services at the local level. The project would: (a) in the short
term, restore selected basic municipal infrastructure to improve living conditions; and (b)
in the medium term, set the stage for the development of the municipal sector by enabling
municipalities to begin addressing local infrastructure maintenance and rehabilitation
needs.    The key performance indicators, at approval, were evidence of sustainable
rehabilitation of basic municipal works, number of beneficiaries impacted, as well as
evidence of use of resources for capital investment and maintenance.

1.3     Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification

The PDO was not revised. The project team nevertheless, fine-tuned some of the existing
indicators to reflect the changed realities on the ground.                   The new indicators are
presented in more detail in paragraph 2.3 below.

1.4     Main Beneficiaries


1Airports, seaports, sewage treatment plants, water reservoirs, power plants etc.




                                                    2

The project was implemented at a national level excluding the four biggest self sustaining
municipalities of Beirut, Tripoli, Sidon and Zahle.        The local population of 704
municipalities constitutes almost 25% of Lebanon's total population that benefited from
tangible and significant improvements in their living conditions. Most had experienced
virtually no local investment in essential infrastructure for over 30 years when the civil
war ended in 1990.       Specifically, the project benefited smaller municipalities with
population of 7,000 or less. The Ministry of Interior and Municipalities (MOIM) also
benefited from the project by way of receiving capacity building support.

1.5     Original Components (as approved)

The project consists of three components: (1) upgrading and rehabilitating basic
municipal infrastructure, (2) capacity building and (3) support to project coordination
unit. The total project cost including contingencies is estimated at $100.00 million, of
which the Bank financed $80.00 million and the Government financed $20 million.

Component 1: upgrading and rehabilitating basic municipal infrastructure (estimated
cost: $72.81 million; actual cost: $68.27 million). The component objective stated:
"carrying out a program for the rehabilitation and upgrading of essential infrastructure in
all the municipalities with the exclusion of the four largest municipalities of Beirut,
Tripoli, Sidon and Zahle."

Component 2: capacity building (estimated cost: $4.86 million; actual cost: $3.22
million). The component has two activities: (i) support to municipalities, and (ii) support
to MOIM.       The objective of first activity stated: "developing, implementing and
maintaining a program for infrastructure rehabilitation, including feasibility studies,
tender document preparation, sub-project technical design and supervision and
maintenance programming through the provision of consulting services to the
municipalities".   The objective of second activity stated: "strengthening capacity of
MOIM to manage the project and to monitor municipal sector".

Component 3: support to project coordination unit (estimated cost $2.33 million; actual
cost: $3.32). The objective stated: "establishing and operating of the project coordination
unit, including provision of equipment and consultant services".

1.6     Revised Components


Although overall project components remained the same, the scope of work was
nevertheless slightly modified under capacity building component (component 2). This
modification did not warrant any change in the Loan Agreement.         Only minor change
was introduced in the capacity building component i.e.: the activity related to integration
of municipal data into MOIM's monitoring system was cancelled from under the loan
and was carried out under a separate reconstruction Grant that Lebanon received after
civil conflict ended in 2006.

1.7     Other Significant Changes


                                             3

Amendment to Loan Agreement: At the borrower's request, the Loan Agreement was
amended twice. The first amendment was made in August 2006 to reallocate Loan
proceeds from one category to another to address price escalation in contracts that were
affected by the closure of quarries in 2003 following heavy rainfall seasons which created
shortages of construction inputs. The second amendment was made in September 2008
to raise disbursement ratio from 78% to 100% to provide financing for additional
compensation cost for civil work contractors out of unallocated amount2. All other terms
and conditions of the Loan Agreement remained in full force and effect.

Extensions of Loan Closing Date: Due to circumstances beyond the control of the project
team (civil unrest, political uncertainties, hostilities and deteriorating security conditions),
the project was extended three times to facilitate completion of appraised sub-projects
and to focus more on the capacity building component which had received relatively
limited attention until that time. The first extension was for eighteen months from
January 1, 2006 to June 30, 2007; the second was for one year from June 30, 2007 to
June 30, 2008, and the third and final extension was for six months from June 30, 2008 to
December 31, 2008.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry


The Quality at Entry was not formally reviewed through QAE process by Quality
Assurance Group (QAG). However in retrospect, the project is rated fully satisfactory as
it addressed immediate municipal needs and helped develop institutional support at
MOIM level.         The project was prepared in close consultation with, and active
involvement of MOIM, the Ministry of Finance, the General Directorate of Urbanism,
and active participation of 704 municipalities that reshaped the municipal sector and
reoriented the strategic role of MOIM.

The project's development objective at appraisal was wholly consistent with and
supportive of the overall Country Assistance Strategy for Lebanon (CAS document
No.17153) which intended to strengthen municipal capacity and implement local
rehabilitation projects rather than rely on central institutions to provide needed
infrastructure.

The project preparation was supported by a PHRD grant (TF022549) which allowed for a
range of technical expertise to assist the Government with project preparation activities.
The Bank supported this process through several preparation missions with the right
blend of specialists in all relevant areas3.

2 As a background, the Government was not able to put forth its contribution to pay local contractors
because of a shift in its priorities due to 2006 hostilities.    The Bank, as an exception, raised the
disbursement ratio from 78% to 100% and allowed the use of un-allocated amount to pay the contractors.

3
  Municipal specialists, urban economists, sociologists, environment specialists, financial management and
procurement specialists



                                                    4

2.2     Implementation

The project became effective on November 28th, 2000, five months after being approved
by the World Bank Board on June 22, 2000.

Project Readiness: The project was implemented by MOIM with the support of the
project coordination unit. The project team carried out essential activities prior to Board
presentation that reflected its readiness i.e.: (i) completion of demand assessment surveys
of twenty municipalities; (ii) agreement on eligibility criteria for municipality
participation; (iii) preparation of project implementation plan; (iv) preparation of full
tender documents for the first six months of sub-projects in the pipeline; and (v)
preparation of draft operations manual.

Project Implementation: Other than the times of civil unrest during 2006, the project
implementation continued to be satisfactory. The project teams successfully overcame the
country's challenging environment, and the project maintained good operational
performance. Action plans and work programs were mostly fully implemented and
followed through within the agreed time frame after every project supervision mission,
the country portfolio performance review and the mid term review. This achievement
was repeatedly reflected in Bank's aide-memoirs and Implementation Status Reports.

Mid Term Review (MTR): The MTR was carried out in November 2003 at which time
the project was found to be one of the most successful projects in the Lebanon country
portfolio. The MTR revealed that the project was contributing measurably to local
employment opportunities and in living conditions of participating municipalities.
Because of the project's satisfactory status, even though a summary matrix of MTR
findings were prepared, with a six month action plan, nothing major was proposed that
was not already being implemented ­ most recommendations only encouraged closer
monitoring of activities.

Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR): The Country Management Unit carried
out a CPPR in Mach 2007 and confirmed project's strong focus on implementation
against country's difficult environment. The review recommended extension of project
closing date to complete institutional development component and to appraise role,
organization and future of Directorate General of Local Administration, MOIM.

Use of Loan Proceeds for Water and Wastewater sub-projects: Even though Bank
supervision missions repeatedly emphasized the need and importance of water and
wastewater sub-projects, the investment in this sub-sector was extremely modest (less
than three percent).     This was primarily because of environmental concerns and
additional regulatory steps that were needed to approve these types of sub-projects. As of
closure of this project the municipal law, still under review, had not been passed which
would have eased stringent environment requirements for water and wastewater projects.
In addition, there was also a mismatch between the high cost of these projects and the
small per capita allocation of the loan proceeds across hundreds of municipalities. The




                                                5

situation was exacerbated by the limited propensity of local authorities to undertake these
municipal investments in partnership with the neighbors.

Project at Risk Status: The project teams adequately highlighted three main risks to the
project - high to moderate - throughout its life and suggested mitigating measures. Risks
highlighted were: (i) government's weak capacity to finance maintenance of investments;
(ii) MOIM's weak capacity to carryout project management activities; and (iii)
government's inability to make timely counterpart funds available, especially during
2006 civil unrest period when the government's priorities got slightly shifted to national
security issues.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The project coordination unit recruited an M&E specialist from the beginning of the
project to head the M&E unit. The unit generated key performance indicators throughout
the life of the project. Initially, during project preparation, two sets of indicators were
designed including (i) outcome and (ii) output indicators. Within first year into the
project however, it became apparent that additional measures of M&E were required.
For example, due to the extremely small size of sub-projects, expecting significant
increase in revenues from municipal taxes was considered unrealistic and to have an
indicator measuring only this aspect was considered imprudent; similarly for sub-projects
eligibility, least cost solutions were considered more acceptable than carrying out full
blown economic cost-benefit analysis. It was also noted that only a small portion of
municipal expenditure was being spent on capital investment due to accumulating arrears
owed to municipalities from the central government. With this in mind, the project team
fine-tuned some of the existing indicators and introduced a new set to reflect the changed
realities on the ground i.e.: (i) cost per direct beneficiary indicator; (ii) municipal finance
indicator; (iii) asset management indicator; (iv) sustainability indicator; and (v)
beneficiary indicator. Seen from the results on the ground, the revised set of indicators
proved to be more relevant. As indicated in Annex 1, almost all indicators were either
fully achieved or in some cases exceeded targets.




                                               6

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance


Environment and social safeguards:

Environment safeguard: Project design took into account Bank's safeguards policies and
included procedures to ensure full consideration of environmental safeguards in
accordance with OP 4.01.         Guidance on procedures for environmental screening,
environmental assessment, consultations disclosures, and environment management plan
was clearly stated in the operation manual (chapter 7).

Social safeguard: OP 4.12 was not triggered since no land acquisition was anticipated to
result from any sub-project. The operation manual included a check list to be used as
part of the feasibility of sub-projects, thus any that was to trigger OP 4.12 would be
detected and eliminated at project preparation stage.

Financial Management: Financial Management was carried out in accordance with the
project design and the legal agreement. The project continued to maintain satisfactory
financial management arrangements in terms of human resources, computerized network
and well defined segregation of duties between different departments. The accounting
software was specifically designed for the project and was used to follow-up on project
accounts and to generate timely financial management reports, including Bank required
Financial Monitoring Reports. The Special Accounts were reconciled periodically with
timely bank statements. The project's chart of accounts was designed to provide the
required information about various Loan categories and other financial requirements
needed for the day to day activities.

Formal audits of the project were carried out on annual basis in accordance with the
International Standards on Auditing. The audits repeatedly confirmed the adequacy of
accounting system and the internal controls, and the reliability of the statements of
expenditure as the basis of Loan disbursements and compliance with the legal covenants.

Procurement: The procurement tasks were managed by the project preparation and
procurement department which consisted of the Head of the department, the preparation
and     procurement      Engineer,    and     eight    appraisal/supervision  individual
consultants/engineers.    The procurement staff received the necessary World Bank
procurement training to manage civil works contracts.

The municipalities were responsible to carryout their own procurement of civil works
contracts while the PCU procurement department was responsible for monitoring these
activities, including compliance. The levels of approval of the bidding process were
clearly set which included the Quaim Maqam (the Governor), the Minister, and the
Technical Office of the Director General Urban and Planning.

The bidding documents used for civil work was the translated version of the Bank
standard document and contained all the necessary instructions and information,



                                            7

including environmental `good practices and mitigation appendices'. The document was
applied in all participating municipalities regardless of sub-project size.

The evaluation report prepared by the municipalities followed a standard format
developed by the PCU and consisted of bid opening details, recorded minutes and a
checklist of submitted documents. The evaluation process and results were subject to the
PCU approval.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Transition arrangement to post-completion operation: The results-oriented CAS that was
submitted to the World Bank Board on December 15, 2005 (Report No. 34463-LB)
covering 2006-2009 period, clearly envisaged a municipal infrastructure supplemental
loan in its Base-Case lending program (CAS Annex B3; page 49). However, an Interim
Strategy became necessary after the 2006 hostilities which fundamentally changed the
underlying economic and political context, rendering certain CAS assumptions and
projections untenable. On July 9, 2007 therefore, an Interim Strategy for Lebanon
(Report No. 39779-LB) was presented to the Board which did not explicitly include any
plan for a follow-up operation after the completion of FMIP.

At present a Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) is being discussed internally in the Bank
to discuss future strategic focus/priority for Lebanon4. In this context, it might be useful
to consider including a new/follow up project on municipal for its forthcoming
CPS/CAS.

In parallel, the Government has also made requests to several donors, including the
World Bank, to capitalize on the experience and lessons learned from FMIP and design a
new municipal development project with a regional development approach. In this
regard, the World Bank team is already at an advance stage of discussions with the key
Government counterparts with a goal to design a national municipal development project
by 2010/11. Formal request for assistance is yet to be received by the Bank.

Since 2006, the project coordination unit has been assigned additional responsibilities by
the Government to coordinate an FMIP-Grant, in the amount of $30 million, to help
reconstruct public infrastructure of the war affected municipalities in Lebanon. Also, the
coordination unit is adequately managing US$2million for the Nahr El Bared
reconstruction financed through a PCF grant. The existing project coordination unit is
technically sound, has well trained staff, and is capable to take on additional
responsibilities if the need arises.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

Overall Rating: Satisfactory


4Chaired by the Country Director, a brainstorming CPS meeting was held on April 27, 2009 (minutes
available).




                                                  8

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The relevance of project development objectives (PDO) is rated high. The PDOs are as
relevant to the country's municipal development needs today as they were at appraisal.
The objectives focus on rehabilitating country infrastructure needs after thirty years of
civil war and sets up a stage for the development of the municipal sector. The project
design provides municipalities with the tools and financing to enhance service delivery,
encourage private investment, and promote economic growth through improved
infrastructure services.

The development objectives are also squarely aligned with the Government's own
priorities of improving municipal infrastructure needs and are clearly stated in its
National Emergency Reconstruction Program (NERP).

The objectives are also in line with the global priorities, as municipal projects of this
nature remain an important vehicle in helping municipalities around the world in
strengthening their capacity and in managing service delivery. The project design and
implementation therefore remain very relevant for the current stage of Lebanon's
development.

Monitoring project performance was relatively easy because of the simple and straight
forward design of the project.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The achievements of PDO are rated satisfactory. The project successfully contributed to
the improvement of living conditions in communities across Lebanon. This was
reconfirmed during beneficiary assessment survey, conducted by the ICR mission. Major
achievements of PDO are summarized below:

The project was successful in upgrading essential infrastructure in 704 municipalities that
included construction of about 3,175 km of roads; 257 km of retaining walls; distribution
of 15,083 streetlight poles; improvement of 290 km of storm drainage network;
improvement of 28 km of potable water; and rehabilitation of 36 km of sewerage
network.

Through workshops and hands-on training, the project familiarized municipalities with
the technical, social, environmental and economic criteria for the prioritization of their
project needs and encouraged them to consider operations and maintenance implications
of their investment choices. All participating municipalities are now fully aware of the
processes of identification and appraisal of sub-projects, preparation of bidding
documents, bid awards, as well as construction supervision. By monitoring municipal
performances, a wealth of information on actual financial and technical opportunities has
now become available for the first time in the history of Lebanon which would be helpful
in the design of future municipal projects.




                                            9

Achievement was also visible at MOIM level whose staff received specialized training on
how to monitor municipal progress. MOIM also recently completed a Local Economic
Strategy Study which is expected to help stimulate economic growth in five potential
cities.

Core staff of the Directorate of Local Administration and Local Councils also received
training in areas related to public administration and management; computerization of
accounting system for payroll; electronic information on archiving; and integration of
project management information system into the Directorate's operations.

3.3     Efficiency

The Project Appraisal Document recognized that roads, sewerage and wastewater
treatment sub-projects, in particular, would yield significant external economic benefits
but it would be difficult to quantify such benefits because of the small population size
(7,000 or less) of targeted municipalities. Therefore, as a proxy to the economic rate of
return analyses, the sub-projects were designed and appraised based on the least-cost
technical alternative which translated into a per capita allocation of about $32 equivalent
over the life of the project. No economic analysis was therefore carried out.

During 2001 through 2008, all municipalities received total transfers of US$906 million
from the central government. This translates into an average annual government support
of US$113 million to all the municipalities in the country. Taking into account the local
population of 704 municipalities that constitutes about 25% of Lebanon's total population
of four million (that benefited from the project) the sub-national transfers per capita
allocation comes out at about US$28 per year. Comparatively, the Bank financial support
provided under the FMIP loan represents slightly more than one year of government
transfers to the targeted population.

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

The overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory on the basis of high relevance
of the project, the level of achieving PDOs, efficiency of investments made, and citizens'
satisfaction, as revealed during the beneficiary survey carried out during ICR mission.

Effectiveness of municipalities in sub-project identification, planning, and preparation of
tender documents was noticeably significant.      To attract funding from the project, 704
out of 707 eligible municipalities identified their own priority needs and prepared their
own Project Appraisal Forms that were later endorsed by the Directorate of Urban
Planning and the MOIM. Additionally, although improvements are still needed, the local
budget system has become more transparent as a result of integrated system of financial
reporting established at MOIM. Building upon the achievements and the lessons learned
so far, the project has positively set the stage and standards for future municipal
infrastructure investments and municipal borrowing.




                                             10

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The direct impact of the project on lower-income urban population and other vulnerable
groups was not taken into consideration at appraisal, and no poverty analysis was
conducted at the project preparation stage. Similarly, gender issues were neither reflected
at the preparation stage, nor its impact monitored during implementation.

Through sub-project implementation, the project nevertheless did assist the general
population in municipalities to gain improved access to infrastructure and municipal
services. Road rehabilitation sub-projects undoubtedly improved the mobility of a large
number of local citizens. While sub-projects cannot improve the livelihood of the entire
citizenry of beneficiary municipalities, they were highly appreciated by local citizens, as
per the findings of the beneficiary survey and the meetings conducted with the municipal
council members during ICR mission.

(b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project's institutional development impact, which is defined in the ICR guidelines as
the extent to which the project `has improved the agency's ability to make effective use
of its human and financial resources' is rated as satisfactory at the municipality level. The
objective of the project to `increase the effectiveness of participating municipalities in
identification, planning, preparation of tender documents, and delivery of investment sub-
projects for local infrastructure' is directly linked to the institutional change and capacity
strengthening. The creation of an integrated project management information system, at
the central level, strengthened the capacity of MOIM to manage the project and to
monitor performance in the municipal sector.

(c)     Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

An unintended benefit that stands out clearly was the employment opportunities that the
project was able to generate while being implemented in different municipalities.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
A beneficiary survey was conducted by the ICR team in March 2009. The survey aimed
to identify the extent to which citizens in the participating municipalities benefited from
infrastructure improvements under the project, and their satisfaction. The survey team
also evaluated sustainability of the civil works financed under the project.

The assessment included a sample survey of ten municipalities within five Districts5: (i)
two municipalities in North Lebanon; (ii) two in South Lebanon; (iii) three in Mount
Lebanon; (iv) one in Nabatiyeh; and (v) two in Bekaa Valley. The beneficiary survey
carried out in-depth interviews and collected performance indicators including evidence
of post-project physical infrastructure (photographs) to examine before-and-after project


5
 North Lebanon; South Lebanon; Mount Lebanon; Nabatiyeh; and Bekaa Valley



                                               11

scenarios. As per survey's findings, residents were positive about the road improvements
in their municipalities and the impact they had made in improving accessibility, travel
time, environment and improving economic livelihood. Roads generally show signs of
wear and tear over time however, all roads visited during this survey showed no signs of
distress even though some had been completed for over five years. Citizens in general
did raise concerns about future maintenance of roads. The survey also noticed that street
light sub-projects were widely appreciated. People interviewed appreciated the improved
public safety, convenience and economic opportunities that they had experienced because
of outdoor lightings.

4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Low

The likelihood that changes may occur that would be detrimental to the ultimate
achievement of the project's outcome is low. Municipalities are now signaling additional
financing and technical assistance needs based on their unique socioeconomic conditions.
For example, in 1960s, Shiyeh6 city was a thriving manufacturing base operating on the
periphery of Beirut's urban center. Today, Shiyeh has completely shifted to a service
economy with the growth of Beirut.                 The project supported the upgrading and
rehabilitation of basic infrastructure in the core of this city and now the city plans for a
multi-purpose complex housing, a 1800 seat sports arena, and a 550-seat theatre for the
city residents.

Most of the elected municipal leaders have shown great interest in continuing this trend
and have signaled MOIM their willingness to request even larger amounts if a new World
Bank project were to be made available again.

5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1      Bank Performance

(a)      Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

As mentioned earlier, the Quality at Entry was not formally reviewed through the QAE
process by QAG. The project was prepared under difficult circumstances, in a country
which had emerged from long civil unrest and armed conflicts and where the municipal
infrastructure sector had essentially collapsed.

The project preparation was supported by a PHRD grant which allowed for a range of
technical expertise to assist the Government with project preparation activities. The
Bank carried out several preparation missions which were adequately staffed with
specialists needed to support project preparation in all relevant areas. The project team


6
  Shiyeh: City serves 75,000 residents and was supported by $400,000 intervention under this project.
Road resurfacing and new storm-water drainage systems helped this community recover from the past
years of civil strife



                                                   12

avoided a complex model and intentionally kept the project design simple yet responsive
to the country's needs in providing immediate municipal requirements. Planning was
brought to many smaller municipalities for the first time in their history. Potential risks
were rightly identified.

However, assessment of the central government's readiness to undertake key policy and
institutional reforms were somewhat optimistic. The MOIM, for example, was able to
implement the improved monitoring and financial reporting system only after the project
was extended. At project preparation stage, monitoring outcome and impact indicators
were set out too broadly to be measurable.          These indicators emphasized more on
counting the delivery of project components rather than the achievement of outcomes and
impacts. This meant that M&E indicators were able to provide precise information about
the number of light poles installed and the roads/sidewalks rehabilitated, as well as their
exact unit costs, but not how much of these facilities were utilized and the degree of
impact they had on the citizens. The M&E indicators had to be fine-tuned later during
implementation.

To establish baseline data, neither poverty assessment nor social impact assessments were
conducted at the time of project preparation pointing to more work in this area. Five
conditions were set for project Effectiveness hinting that project could have been
polished further before being presented for Board approval.

(b)     Quality of Supervision Rating:


Rating: Satisfactory

The quality of Bank supervision is rated as Satisfactory. The Bank supervision teams
continued their hands-on approach and remained close to the clients even during difficult
internal country situations which earned them praise inside the country and the Bank.

The supervision teams worked extensively with various municipalities during the first
years of the operation to build a solid pipeline of investments and helped assess capacities
of participating municipalities. During later years, the supervision teams helped prepare
the framework to resume sluggish disbursement rate once the country emerged from civil
unrest in 2006. The three extensions of the project were mainly attributed to the
country's political and security situation and to fine-tune the institutional strengthening
component.

The field presence of the Bank supervision team, during later years, was essential in
maintaining a continuous dialogue with the clients especially with the changing
leadership halfway through the project. This presence was also essential in maintaining
effective coordination with other partners (donors, NGOs), who looked for Bank's advice
and direction.

Safeguard and fiduciary policies were also monitored closely and were addressed on a
timely basis. Procurement for example, was constantly monitored with periodic post-



                                              13

reviews and was made part of the supervision mission activities. The Bank teams were
ever ready to provide immediate delivery of training/support to the client when needed.

The project also continued to maintain a satisfactory financial management system
capable of generating quarterly reports including the Bank required Project Management
Reports.

Aide Memoires were descriptive and well-written and two ISRs were archived annually.
Action plans/work programs were mostly fully implemented and followed through within
the agreed time frame after each supervision mission. The ISR appropriately reflected
the situation on the ground.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance


Rating: Satisfactory

The rating of overall Bank performance is Satisfactory - being moderately satisfactory at
entry and satisfactory during supervision. It has been widely acknowledged, by the
Borrower and the sectoral stake holders, that Bank's support during project supervision
has made significant contribution towards setting a stage for future development of
municipal sector.

5.2     Borrower Performance


(a)     Government Performance


Rating: Satisfactory

The Government's performance is rated as Satisfactory on the basis of its strong
supporting role during project preparation and implementation.          Because of good
dialogue maintained, the project always enjoyed support from both old and the new
governments. The only period during which the Government did not directly engage in
regular strategic support was during the conflict in 2006, this however changed soon after
the UN-brokered ceasefire brought an end to the hostilities.

Following the parliamentary elections in June 2005, the new Government reiterated its
top priorities matching perfectly those with the development objectives of the project and
reaffirmed its support to infrastructure investments, municipal sector reforms, and
increased fiscal discipline.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance


Rating: Satisfactory

The implementing agency performance is rated as Satisfactory. The project coordinating
unit located in MOIM implemented the project well and went extra mile to achieve
project development objectives. It organized several workshops to introduce project to



                                             14

over 150 municipalities and to disseminate technical information. It established a robust
database to track municipalities' progress. The PCU succeeded in establishing good
rapport with the municipalities, an element considered essential to implement over 1,000
successful sub-projects. Its institutional capacity was proven to be adequate to handle
increasing number of sub-projects and technical assistance activities.           The PCU
adequately carried out required fiduciary, legal and safeguard activities (technical audits,
financial audits, post-procurement reviews) and responded effectively and in a timely
manner when required to take over additional responsibilities to manage FMIP Grant in
parallel.

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall Borrower performance takes into consideration both the Government and
Implementing Agency's performance during preparation and implementation. On the
basis of justification provided above, the Borrower's overall performance is rated as
Satisfactory.   The Borrower complied with all covenants and agreements towards
achieving development outcomes.

6.      Lessons Learned

The design and implementation experience of the project offers following considerations
that might be useful in shaping future projects of this nature:

  (1)   The FMIP experience confirms that project design needs to be kept simple and
        within the capacity of the staff and agencies who are responsible for its
        implementation.

  (2)   In countries where political influence is difficult to avoid, the project team was
        able to successfully adopt a decentralized implementation mechanism which
        shielded the municipalities and the implementing agency from various political
        interferences in the country.

  (3)   The project lacked clearly defined monitoring indicators. For M&E to succeed it
        should focus on achieving results, particularly for the poor and should not be
        unduly burdensome to the municipalities. Strong M&E can also help reduce the
        expense of cost-benefit analysis by providing data needed to carry out economic
        analyses.

  (4)   The project did not have any cost recovery mechanism built in its design, possibly
        because it was evident that full cost recovery would almost be impossible for
        several municipal infrastructure investments. It would be prudent however, if
        consideration could be given during future project design to define realistic cost
        recovery system.

  (5)   In Lebanon, where access to finance for municipal infrastructure is limited,
        Municipal Development Fund (MDF) type of financial intermediary can play an



                                             15

      important role in providing financing (in grant and credit depending on the credit
      capacity of the municipality), and in increasing municipal capacity in the
      identification and implementation of municipal investments. With proper design
      of MDF financial and cash flow model, revolving funds can significantly
      contribute to new financing that can cover MDF's own operational cost, thus
      ensuring sustainability.

7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing

Agencies/Partners

(a)   Borrower/implementing agencies

No issues were raised by the Borrower.

(b)   Co-financiers

N/A

(c)   Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                         16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                   Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                                                   Percentage of
          Components              Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                    Appraisal
                                    millions)         millions)
1. Upgrading and rehabilitating
backlog of essential municipal           92.81            85.57      92.19%
infrastructure
2. Capacity building at
MOMRA; technical assistance to
municipalities for project
                                          4.86              3.33     68.51%
implementation and project
management, Municipal
Database
3. Project Coordination Unit              2.33              3.33     142.91%

              Total Project Costs       100.00             92.23     92.23%
       Total Financing Required         100.00             92.23     92.23%


(b) Financing

                    Type of Co-    Appraisal      Actual/ Estimate Percentage of
Source of Funds
                     financing    Estimate($M)           ($M)       Appraisal
Government                             20.00             17.52        87.60%
IBRD                                   80.00             74.71        93.38%
             Total                    100.00             92.23        92.23%




                                          17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Upgrading and Rehabilitating Basic Municipal Infrastructure

The following outputs were produced under this component:

Roads:

Repair: The bulk of the funds was allocated for backlog repairs of existing internal roads. Out of
10,857 km of internal roads, 2,913 km (poor, inaccessible, non-functional, and some with life
span less than 2 years) were repaired under FMIP. Similarly, out of 4,326 km of existing
principal roads, only 37 km were repaired. This small number represents project's focus on
smaller municipalities with less than 7,000 populations where principal roads were limited in
number.

Upgrade: Out of 10,857 km of internal roads, 166 km of internal and 58 km of principal roads
were upgraded.

Retaining Walls:

Repair: Out of 2,468 km of retaining walls (concrete and/or decorative), 38 km were repaired at
internal locations while out of 1,523 km of walls at principal locations seven km were restored.

Upgrade: 191 km were upgraded at internal locations; 22 km were upgraded at principal
locations

Drainage Network:

Repair: Out of 2,499 km of drainage network, 37 km were repaired at internal locations and out
of 1,654 km at principal location nine km were repaired.

Upgrade: 206 km of network were upgraded at internal locations while 38 km of network were
upgraded at principal locations.

Street Poles:

Repair: Out of 170,162 street light poles, 933 were repaired at internal locations while out of
75,793 street light poles, 156 were repaired at principal locations.

Upgrade: 13,057 street poles were upgraded at internal locations while 937 poles were upgraded
at principal locations.

Potable Water Network:

Repair: Out of 7,113 km of potable water network, 16.4 km were repaired at internal locations,
while out of 3,191 km of network 8 km were upgraded at principal locations.

Upgrade: Four km of network was upgraded at internal locations while none at principal
location.

Sewage Network:

Repair: Out of 2,369 km of sewage network, 15 km were repaired at internal locations while out
of 1,558 km of sewage network at principal locations, none was repaired.




                                                 18

Upgrade: No sewage network was upgraded at any internal locations while only four km of
network was upgraded at principal locations




                                            19

Output Component 1:
                                                                                                                                         Total        Total
   Details of                                                                           Repairs on      Repairs on    Repairs on
                                       Poor       Average         Good         Total                                                   Repairs     Upgrading
   Municipal     Location    Unit                                                           poor         average         good
                                     Condition    Condition    Condition     Network                                                    under         Under
 Infrastructure                                                                          condition       condition     condition
                                                                                                                                         FMIP         FMIP
                                         A            B              C          D            A'             B'              C'       E=A'+B'+C'         F

 Total length         I       Km      4,208         4,646         2,003       10,857       2,811         101.37           0.46          2,913          166
 of road
 network             P        Km        961         2,372          993        4,326         21            15.74                           37            59


 Total length         I       Km        719          606          1,143       2,468         36             1.32           0.03            37           190
 of retaining
 walls               P        Km        278          360           885        1,523          5             1.20                           7             22


 Total length         I       Km        632         1,434          432        2,498         36             1.63                           37           206
 of drainage
 network             P        Km        390          806           458        1,654          4             4.61                           9             38


 Total number         I       No.     7,028         1,639       161,495      170,162        633          300.00                          933          13,057
 of street light
 poles               P        No.     2,345          611         72,837       75,793                                    156.00           156           937

 Total length         I       Km      1,855         2,760         2,498       7,113         16                                            16             4
 of potable
 water
 network             P        Km        702         1,231         1,259       3,191          8                                            8


 Total length         I       Km        573         1,057          739        2,369         14             1.31                           15            17
 of sewerage
 network             P        Km        572          573           412        1,558                                                                      4

Poor implies inaccessible/non-functional roads, average implies life span < 2 years & good implies lifespan within 5 years; I=Internal roads; P=Principal
roads




                                                                              20

Output - Component 2: Capacity Building

At Municipal Level:

   · Technical Assistance/hands-on training and workshops provided to participating
     municipalities in analyzing feasibility of investments (sub-projects), preparation
     of project designs, and preparation of bidding documents.

At MOIM Level:

   · Rapid diagnostic and need assessment study to asses Directorate General of
     Municipal Administration's capacity - completed;
   · Project Management Information System (PMIS) - developed;
   · Financial Management Information System (FMIS) - developed;
   · Database on local government expenditures and revenues - developed;
   · Technical Audit to provide feedback to MOIM regarding efficiency of project
     implementation and its impact on various levels ­ conducted;
   · City Development Strategy Studies for ten cities ­ completed under Phase I;
   · Local Economic Development Studies for five cities ­ completed under Phase II



Output - Component 3: Support to Project Coordination Unit

   · PCU established which grew in size into 12 core staff, seven consultants
     including four field appraisal engineers and three supervision engineers.
   · PCU office furniture, equipment and vehicles put in place
   · PCU staff provided training




                                          21

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

No Economic Rate of Return (ERR), Financial Rate of Return (FRR) or Net Present
Value (NPV) was calculated at the time of appraisal. Currently available data does not
allow estimating a meaningful ERR, FRR or NPV for any of the components.

Given the demand-driven nature of the project, the type and size of sub-project
investments were unknown at the time of appraisal.            Only sub-projects with clear
community development objectives and those that met essential services criteria were
selected (i.e. street lights, sidewalks, roads leading to schools, hospitals, dispensaries,
religious buildings and roads that served the whole community).            Although project
appraisal document expected sub-projects to yield significant external economic benefits,
it also recognized that it would be difficult to quantify such benefits because of the small
population size of targeted municipalities. Therefore, instead of computing an economic
rate of return, sub-projects were designed and appraised on the least-cost solution which
translated into a per capita allocation of about $32 equivalent over the life of the project.

During 2001 through 2008, all municipalities received total transfers of US$906 million
from the central government. This translates into an average annual government support
of US$113 million to all the municipalities in the country. Taking into account the local
population of 704 municipalities that constitutes about 25% of Lebanon's total population
of four million the sub-national transfers per capita allocation comes out at about US$28
per year. In comparison, the Bank financial support provided under the FMIP loan
represents slightly more than one year of government transfers to the targeted population.

For the road rehabilitation sub-component, the largest activity under the first component,
benefits were estimated as improved road conditions that lower vehicle operating costs,
decrease maintenance costs and benefits resulting from improved road safety. As pointed
out in the PAD, reduced vehicle operating costs, time savings for passengers and savings
in road maintenance, following rehabilitation, are considered important benefits.

Following table reflects direct and indirect beneficiaries of the project.

                              % of direct            % of indirect            %of total of
                            beneficiaries to       beneficiaries to        beneficiaries to
Description
                          resident population     resident population     resident population
                                    Mount Lebanon District
Roads                           15.23%                 97.14%                  112.36%
Retaining Walls                 15.74%                 107.19%                 122.93%
Street Lighting                 24.52%                 228.60%                 253.11%
Sewerage                        12.28%                 22.27%                  34.55%
Storm Water Drains              16.62%                 116.47%                 133.09%
                                     North Lebanon District
Roads                           19.98%                 120.32%                 140.31%
Retaining Walls                 17.60%                 126.64%                 144.24%
Street Lighting                 29.94%                 233.31%                 263.26%
Sewerage                        3.71%                  10.40%                  14.11%
Storm Water Drains              21.32%                 76.83%                  98.14%



                                             22

                                           Bekaa Valley District
Roads                               14.81%                      64.10%                        78.91%
Retaining Walls                     13.27%                      69.24%                        82.51%
Street Lighting                     37.44%                      66.49%                       103.92%
Sewerage                            26.67%                      66.67%                        93.33%
Storm Water Drains                  17.48%                      57.93%                        75.41%
                                          South Lebanon District
Roads                               27.86%                      77.27%                       105.13%
Retaining Walls                     30.09%                      79.99%                       110.08%
Street Lighting                     28.07%                      32.71%                        60.78%
Storm Water Drains                  29.00%                      74.46%                       103.45%
                                             Nabatieh District
Roads                               16.21%                      90.74%                       106.95%
Retaining Walls                     17.71%                      109.33%                      127.04%
Street Lighting                     16.15%                      37.68%                        53.83%
Storm Water Drains                  18.97%                      145.04%                      164.02%

Direct beneficiaries are the registered residents of the municipalities, while indirect residents are non-
registered residents and those who pass through the municipalities using its facilities.




                                                      23

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
           Names                        Title                Unit      Responsibility

Lending
Sateh El-Arnaout         Sr. Municipal Specialist           MNSSD      Municipal Dev.
Sonia Hammam             Sr. Urban Mgmt. Specialist         MNSSD           TTL
Samir El-Daher           Financial Advisor                  MNSSD      Municipal Fin.
                         Lead Urban Specialist (now
Omar Razzaz                                                 MNCA2      Municipal Dev.
                         Country Manager Beirut)


Supervision
Mohammed Benouahi        Sr. Urban Mgmt. Specialist         MNSSD           TTL
Stephen Karam            Sr. Urban Economist                 FEU            TTL
Robert Maurer            Lead Urban Sector Specialist       MNSSD           TTL
Imad Saleh               Sr. Procurement Specialist                     Procurement
Lina Fares               Procurement Specialist             MNAPR       Procurement
Mona El-Chami            Sr. Financial Mgmt. Specialist     MNAFM Financial Mgmt.
Robert Bou Jaoude        Sr. Financial Mgmt. Specialist     MNAFM Financial Mgmt.
Diana Masri              Financial Mgmt. Concultant         MNAFM Financial Mgmt.
Sati Arnaout             Implementation Consultant          MNSSD Institutional Dev.
Randa Nemer              Environment Consultant             MNSSD       Environment
Mutasem El Fadel         Sr. Environment Consultant         MNSSD       Environment
Olivier Lavinal          Inst. & Local Administration Spec. WBI-MS Institutional Dev.
Mouna Couzi              Sr. Program Assistant              MNCLB      Project Support
Sophie Umechlian         Program Assistant                  MNCLB      Project Support


ICR
Richard James            Operations Consultant              MNSSD      Primary Author
Eileen Murray            Lead Operations Officer            MNSHD       Peer Review
Maha Armaly              Sr. Urban Finance Specialist       ECSSD       Peer Review


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                    No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                       -                         10.64
  FY98                                       -                        241.20
  FY99                                       -                         55.67
  FY00                                      61                        381.62
  FY01                                       3                         21.50

                        Total:              64                        710.73
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                      19                         66.35



                                         24

FY02               18     90.10
FY03               17     74.50
FY04               14     72.41
FY05               16     58.72
FY06               19     68.69
FY07               12     50.52
FY08                9     57.31
FY09                6      0.00

        Total:    130    538.60




                 25

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Executive Summary:

In association with the PCU engineers and procurement specialists, the ICR mission
conducted a Beneficiary Survey during March 2009 in ten municipalities, from across all
the Districts that benefited from investments under the FMIP. This Beneficiary Survey
included quantitative as well as qualitative opinion interviews that aimed to assess the
impact of investments made in roads, street lights, and retaining walls sub-projects on
households and businesses.

As a baseline, the survey team used the original photographs taken of the sites during
sub-project preparation.    The team also used photographs that were taken at the
completion of these sites, some as early as 2005.           Finally the survey team took
photographs of the same sites from exactly the same vantage point where sub-projects
were executed which permitted comparisons of sub-projects results. The Beneficiary
survey focused on all the districts as follows:

    (i)     Mount Lebanon District
    (ii)    North Lebanon District
    (iii)   South Lebanon District
    (iv)    Bekaa Valley District and
    (v)     Nabatiyeh District

The sub-projects examined samples of randomly selected retaining walls, asphalt roads,
water channels, streetlight poles, and sidewalks in ten municipalities: The samples were
broken down as follows:

    (i)     Amyoun Municipality (retaining walls, street light poles, and sidewalks);
    (ii)    Batroun Municipality (roads, street lights);
    (iii)   Bhamdoun Municipality (roads, retaining walls, street light poles);
    (iv)    Jounieh Municipality (roads, street light poles and sidewalks);
    (v)     Kab- Elias Municipality (retaining walls and asphalt roads);
    (vi)    Kefraye Municipality (street light poles and roads);
    (vii)   Majdelyoun Municipality (roads, retaining walls, sidewalks);
    (viii) RasEl-Maten Municipality (street light poles, sidewalks, retaining walls);
    (ix)    Sfarey Municipality (roads and sidewalks);
    (x)     Zibdine Municipality (retaining walls, roads)

The survey team focused on business community, general citizens (beneficiaries of the
infrastructure improvements) and Vice Mayor7 and his staff of Amyoun municipality, as
well as the Secretary General8 and his staff of Kefraya municipality.




7
 Mr. Ghassan Karam
8Mr. Nizar Rohhal



                                             26

The purpose of the meetings/interview was to evaluate the impact of several
infrastructure projects among local residents/beneficiaries.

Citizens were generally very positive about the road improvements in the municipalities
and appreciated the workmanship of the roads. Lighting projects were widely embraced.
Participants raved about improved aesthetics, public safety, convenience, and economic
opportunities they have experienced because of outdoor lighting. Participants confirmed
increased feeling of physical safety on the streets.

Overall Conclusions of the Beneficiary Survey:

    ·     Improvements to municipal infrastructure are one of the bright spots Lebanon has
          seen in a generally difficult economic and political picture;

    ·     The residents are well aware of the road, water and light improvements made in
          their areas and see tangible improvements in their lives and business as a result.
          These benefits include improved circulation of traffic, reduced maintenance costs,
          quicker access to work, and better safety and improved municipal appearance for
          the lights.

    ·     Lighting projects are unanimously praised as new lights offer immediate quality
          of life and economic benefits at a much smaller cost than water and road
          investments.

    ·     The municipality of Batroun9 stood out during the survey. The offices in this
          municipality were in disrepair and sewage flowing in streets.                           The FMIP
          financing provided injection of new investment in Batroun that soon attracted EU,
          Italian, NGO and private sector funding. Because of FMIP intervention, private
          local fertilizer company donated $100,000 to replace old wooden shop front
          doors; 25 new restaurants/cafes and other businesses were established. The
          municipality was also able to increase property values and consequently
          municipal tax revenue to improve services; up to 250 new jobs were also created
          in the city.




9 Betroun, a city of approximately 25,000 residents spanning an area of 6 km2, had renovated internal
street of the old city and installed street lighting, sidewalks, drainage canals and retaining initiated re
walls through FMIP financing of about$375,000.




                                                         27

District: North Lebanon                      Casa: Amyoun
Municipality: Amyoun                         Registered Population: 9,454
Activities: 1- Roads (Asphalt), 2- Retaining Walls
Work Start Date: May 10, 2006                Work Completed: December 27, 2006
Contract Amount Original: $102,348           Contract Amount Actual: $117,481




                                                                              Prior Situation
                                                                                May 2006




                                                                         Situation at Completion
                                                                             December 2006




                                                                         Situation as at ICR Survey
                                                                                 April 2009




                                                  28

District: North Lebanon                      Casa: Batroun
Municipality: Batroun                        Registered Population: 8,692
Activities: 1- Retaining Walls, 2- Roads (Asphalt, Stone pavement, side walk),
            4- Street Lighting, 5-Channels
Work Start Date: November 25, 2002            Work Completed: June24, 2004
Contract Amount Original: $240,479            Contract Amount Actual: $240,479




                                                                                 Prior Situation
                                                                                 November 2002




                                                                              Situation at Completion
                                                                                     June 2004




                                                                           Situation as at ICR Survey
                                                                                   April 2009




                                                   29

District: Mount Lebanon                      Casa: Aley
Municipality: Bhamdoun Al Dayaa              Registered Population: 3,972
Activities: 1- Roads (Asphalt), 2- Retaining Walls, and 3-Water channels
Work Start Date: June 5, 2006               Work Completed: December 7, 2006
Contract Amount Original: $148,357           Contract Amount Actual: $120,000




                                                                              Prior Situation
                                                                                June 2006




                                                                         Situation at Completion
                                                                             December 2006




                                                                        Situation as at ICR Survey
                                                                                April 2009




                                                    30

District: Mount Lebanon                      Casa: Keserouan
Municipality: Jounieh                        Registered Population: 22,314
Activities: 1- Retaining Walls, 2- Roads (Asphalt, side wakes), 3- Channels (Pipes, Main holes), 4- Street
Lighting, 5- Street Markers
Work Start Date: January 15, 2004           Work Completed: September20, 2004
Contract Amount Original: $172,276           Contract Amount Actual: $192,015




                                                                                    Prior Situation
                                                                                     January 2004




                                                                               Situation at Completion
                                                                                    September 2004




                                                                             Situation as at ICR Survey
                                                                                      April 2009




                                                   31

District: Bakka                            Casa: Zahle
Municipality: Kab Elias                    Registered Population: 15,198
Activities: 1- Roads (Asphalt), Retaining Walls
Work Start Date: April 2, 2002             Work Completed: August 13, 2002
Contract Amount Original: $212,856         Contract Amount Actual: $244,782




                                                                              Prior Situation
                                                                                April 2002




                                                                         Situation at Completion
                                                                               August 2002




                                                                        Situation as at ICR Survey
                                                                                April 2009




                                                 32

District: Bakka                           Casa: West Bekka
Municipality: Kifraya                     Registered Population: 1,453
Activities: 1- Roads (Asphalt), 2-Channels
Work Start Date: June11, 2003             Work Completed: January15, 2004
Contract Amount Original: $18,283         Contract Amount Actual: $19,745




                                                                             Prior Situation
                                                                               June 2003




                                                                        Situation at Completion
                                                                             January 2004




                                                                      Situation as at ICR Survey
                                                                              April 2009




                                               33

District: South Lebanon            Casa: Saida
Municipality: Majdelyoun           Registered Population: 1,103
Activities: 1- Water Channels
Work Start Date: August 19, 2003    Work Completed: January 06, 2004
Contract Amount Original: $30,543   Contract Amount Actual: $21,367




                                                                       Prior Situation
                                                                        August 2003




                                                                  Situation at Completion
                                                                       January 2004




                                                                 Situation as at ICR Survey
                                                                         April 2009




                                        34

District: Mount Lebanon                           Casa: Baabda
Municipality: Ras-El-Maten                        Registered Population: 6,420
Activities: 1- Concrete/Decorative Retaining Walls
Work Start Date: April 27, 2005                   Work Completed: August 26, 2005
Contract Amount Original: $18,527                 Contract Amount Actual: $18,527




                                                                               Prior Situation
                                                                                 April 2005




                                                                           Situation at Completion
                                                                                August 2005




                                                                         Situation as at ICR Survey
                                                                                 April 2009




                                                  35

District: South Lebanon                      Casa: Jezzine
Municipality: Sfarey                         Registered Population: 1,480
Activities: 1- Roads (Asphalt), 2- Retaining Walls
Work Start Date: November 5, 2003            Work Completed: May 13, 2004
Contract Amount Original: $42,625            Contract Amount Actual: $38,353




                                                                             Prior Situation
                                                                            November 2003




                                                                         Situation at Completion
                                                                                May 2004




                                                                         Situation as at ICR Survey
                                                                                 April 2009




                                                  36

District: Nabatieh                   Casa: Nabatieh
Municipality: Zibdine                Registered Population: 1,587
Activities: 1- Retaining Walls,
Work Start Date: March 14, 2003      Work Completed: July 5, 2003
Contract Amount Original: $86,622    Contract Amount Actual: $86,470




                                                                   Prior Situation
                                                                     March 2003




                                                                Situation at Completion
                                                                       July 2003




                                                               Situation as at ICR Survey
                                                                       April 2009




                                      37

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

As part of the Beneficiary Survey carried out during ICR mission, extensive discussions
were carried out with community beneficiaries; including interviews conducted with
several elected and executive municipal officials (see Annex 6).




                                           38

Annex 7. Borrower's ICR



             IMPLEMENTATION
          COMPLETION REPORT

                          (ICR)



             Lebanon

         First Municipal
Infrastructure Project
                         (Loan 7026-LE)




                               39

Basic Project Data
Region               Middle East                 Project Name         First Municipal
                                                                      Infrastructure Project
Country              Lebanon                     L/C Number           7026-LE
Borrower             The Lebanese Republic Sector                     Ministry of Interior
                                                                      and Municipalities
                                                                      (MOIM)
ICR Date             April 10th, 2009            Implementing         The Lebanese
                                                 Agency               Republic




Key Dates
                              Original                      Revised/Actual
Appraisal           May 26th, 2000                  May 26th, 2000
Approval            June 27th, 2000                June 27th, 2000
Effectiveness       October 27th, 2000             November 27th, 2000
MTR                 December 2002                  October 2003
Closing             December 31st, 2005            December 31st, 2008




Principal Performance Ratings
                                             Original             Revised/Actual
Outcome                              Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Sustainability                       Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Institutional Development            Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Impact
Bank Performance                     Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance                 Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Quality at entry                     Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Project at Risk at any time          (no)                      (no)




C. Assessment of Development Objective and Design and Quality at Entry

Original Objective

   The project development objective is to address urgent municipal works while
setting the stage for gradual assumption of responsibility for municipal services at
the local level. The project would: (a) in the short term, restore selected basic
municipal infrastructure to improve living conditions; and (b) in the medium term,
set the stage for the development of the municipal sector by enabling




                                          40

municipalities to begin addressing local infrastructure maintenance and
rehabilitation needs.

Revised Objective

   Objectives were not revised

Components

Original Components

Project Component I
Upgrading and Rehabilitating Basic Municipal Infrastructure
Carrying out a program for the rehabilitation and upgrading of essential
infrastructure in all the municipalities of the Borrower (with the exclusion of the
four largest municipalities of Beirut, Tripoli, Sidon and Zahle), including:
(i) constructing, upgrading, rehabilitating and maintaining essential roads and
sidewalks, retaining walls, pedestrian crossings, street lights, safety barriers,
road signs, urgent repairs to potable water and sewerage pipes, pavement
surfacing, storm water drains and drainage systems; and (ii) construction,
rehabilitating, upgrading and repairing new roads, potable water sources, potable
wells, water reservoirs, potable water treatment facilities, pumping facilities, small
water supply and sewerage systems.

Project Component II
Capacity Building
1. Developing, implementing and maintaining a program for infrastructure
rehabilitation, including feasibility studies, tender document preparation, sub-
project technical design and supervision and maintenance programming,
through the provision of consultant services to the municipalities.

2. Strengthening the capacity of MOMRA to manage the Project and monitor the
municipal sector, through the provision of consultant services.



Project Component III
Project Coordination Unit

Establishment and operation of the PCU, including the provision of equipment
and consultant services as well.

Revised Components

  Components were not revised

Quality at Entry



                                           41

  The objectives of the Loan were in consistency with the with the objectives of
the Lebanese Government priorities which was to;
1-Upgrading and rehabilitating backlog of essential municipal infrastructure.
2-Capacity building at MOIM; technical assistance to municipalities for project
implementation and project management.
3-Strengthening MOIM's institutional capacity to support the transfer and
management of municipal functions and provide logistical support to
municipalities that are too small to effectively undertake municipal investments
on their own by Establishment of a sound capable unit as the PCU to coordinate
the implementation of the loan and similar project.



  Moreover one of the indirect goals was to improve local investment decisions
by establishing a clear set of technical and economic criteria for local selection of
priority investment projects by Empowering municipal councils through a more
predictable transfer process.

D. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

Outcome/Achievement of Objective

The objectives were well achieved and the project's outcomes achieved most of
its major relevant objectives and have achieved satisfactory development results
with only a few shortcomings.

Output by Components

For Component One;
Upgrading, rehabilitating and building-up of essential municipal development
infrastructure and urban development projects.

For Component Two;
Provided Capacity building at MOMRA and technical assistance to municipalities
development for project implementation, project management and municipal
database managing.

For Component Three;
Building and strengthening the Project Coordination Unit to establish an
extensive experience in institutional development and urban development
projects implementation capabilities.

Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return

Such assessment was not conceivable for the sub-projects, which dealt with
infrastructure reconstruction after the civil war and after major reconstruction
project took place in the country for 15 years.



                                          42

Financial Rate of Return

This was not doable because of projects size.

Institutional Development Impact

Institutional Development impact is defined as the extent to which a project has
improved an agency's or a country's ability to make effective use of its human
and financial resources. This was achieved in Lebanon by establishing,
expansion and developing of the Project Coordination Unit under the First
Municipal Infrastructure Project which improved the Ministry of interior and
Municipalities and Lebanon's capabilities in managing, implementing, organizing
and developing potentials, qualifications and possibilities of any international or
local intervention in upgrading and developing the municipal sector.




E. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome


The major factors that affected achievement of the project outcome and
objectives/outputs were divided in the following categories:

     (a) Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency;

         The long term affects of the 15 years civil war were very obvious through
         the whole country in addition to the late 2006 war which caused major
         threats to the project in addition to world markets and prices increasing.

     (b) Factors generally subject to government control,

         The hiring freeze in the Lebanese Government had hindered the evolution
         and development of the human resources.

Filling the vacancies by qualified personnel in the ministry in parallel with the
establishment of a solid inter-governmental administrative system to assume the
responsibility of managing the municipal sector, is very needed since the results
of the full coordination of the PCU with the municipal bodies came out to be very
fruitful.

Costs and Financing

The Bank and the Lebanese government disbursed their dues accordingly and
no major factors to affect the implementation and the outcome of the project.

F. Sustainability



                                            43

Rationale for Sustainability Rating

The FMIP financed, following a demand driven approach, over 1000
rehabilitation projects. The majority of these are small and benefiting local
governments that have not made significant investments in infrastructure
rehabilitation due to the inadequacy of their resources. However, the viability of
the project was questioned if maintenance along its lifetime couldn't be ensured.
In the time being, cost recovery of municipal investments is only partially carried
out in Lebanon and the main outcome is visible lack of maintenance in rural
areas. The commitment of the municipality to undertake maintenance along with
their involvement in all project phases promote "cost-recovery" practices,
improved the collection of local taxes due, and endorsed better distribution of
centrally collected taxes on the behalf of the municipalities. This allowed them to
pay for and maintain the essential services through their general revenues. A
great importance is accorded to this indicator which mirrored their capacity to
maintain their locally defined projects. It showed the following:

            i)   Evidence of undertaking infra-structural municipal works.
            ii) Evidence of collection of local due taxes.
            iii) Evidence of use of percentage of local resources for maintenance.
            iv) Annual amounts and distribution of IMF resources

Indicative percentages, derived from the information afforded by the
municipalities, allowed the tracking of the increase of the expenditures on
maintenance along with the assessment of local tax collection. Initially, the
municipalities were asked to provide a detailed breakdown of revenues and
expenditures. However, due to the difficulties encountered in the itemization of
the content of the municipal budgets, modifications were introduced in the
sustainability report in order to simplify this task for the municipalities, and to get
more consistent figures. Consequently, global amounts of capital investment and
revenues were taken into consideration. Nonetheless, it is worth to note that, in
order to have more reliable figures for forecasting future projects, and despite all
the progress made in the preparation of the municipal budgets, the fiscal
information supplied by the municipalities needs a thorough posterior control by
the central authorities before any data processing. On the other hand, the
information provided served as a valuable input for the studies on the
development of a framework of local and intergovernmental finance.

Finally, we can surely say that the sustainability rating of the project is
satisfactory since the implemented projects are considered as municipal assets
which is maintained and developed by municipalities.

Transition Arrangements to Regular Operation




                                           44

No specific transitional arrangements were needed for these projects since the
municipalities are fully responsible on supervising and maintaining the projects
after final hand over by the PCU.




G. Bank and Borrower's Performance

Bank

   (a) Appraisal of commitment by government, implementing agency, and
        the project beneficiaries.

        This was satisfactory since the government, the implementing agency and
        the beneficiaries received their dues when needed and on time.

   (b) Appraisal of borrower/implementing agency capacity, including
        procurement and financial management capacity.

        As the project was managed smoothly by the bank through different
        periods and supervision teams, a satisfactory result was attained through
        project's lifespan.

   (c) Availability of participant incentives for project sustainability.

        Satisfactory rating for participants incentive's for project sustainability can
        be set due to the project types and targeted sub-projects.

   (d) Project design and complexity.

        The project design and complexity were well designed to tackle certain
        needs in the Lebanese post civil war medium range needs.

   (e) Recognition of project risks and key variables.

        The management was well aware of certain risks and variables due to the
        Lebanese delicate situation and it handled the project properly.

   (f) Appropriateness of the financial package and adequacy of its
        amount.

        Even the total amount of the loan was 80 million USD, the financial
        package was moderate due to quantity of needed projects and the number
        of municipalities in need.

   (g) Adequacy of the implementation plan and performance indicators.



                                           45

       The project implementation plan was satisfactory even if modifications and
       developments were needed and executed through the project lifespan.

   (h) Consistency with the Bank's safeguards policies.

       Through the lifespan of the project the Bank's safeguard policies were put
       into practice.

   (i) Supervision.

       The PCU is keeping a close relation with the bank team supervising the
       project, where cooperation and assistantship prevailed over project's
       duration at a very good level.

           (j) Overall Bank Performance.

       The bank fulfilled all its obligations without delays through close
      monitoring and supervision of the project in a highly satisfactory approach.

Borrower

(A) Preparation and Government Implementation Performance.

    Even though the borrower was new on preparing such projects,
    implementation showed a strong evidence of a well prepared project through
    demonstrating satisfactory results.

(B) Implementing Agency.

    The PCU under the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities was the
    implementing agency which performed very good under different kinds of
    pressures and situations.

(C) Overall Borrower Performance.

       The FMIP is the best performing Bank project in Lebanon and is well on
       track to achieve its development objectives and related outcomes.
       Implementation progress and the achievement o f the development
       objectives were rated satisfactory prior to the 2006 war where over 800
       sub-projects have been implemented in more than 700 municipalities.

       While the FMIP does not have the ambition to develop a full-fledged long-
       term strategy for the municipal sector, it has succeeded in setting the
       stage for the gradual assumption of responsibility for municipal services
       and for promoting sustainable management practices at the local level.
       The capacity building activities have helped develop, implement and



                                           46

       maintain an infrastructure rehabilitation program, including support for
       preparing feasibility studies, tender documents, sub-project technical
       designs and supervision, and maintenance programming. Moreover,
       significant progress has been shown in carrying out the complex and
       politically sensitive studies on strengthening the MOIM to better coordinate
       the municipal sector and on completing the review of the economic
       potential of ten cities to promote local development.

       The PCU concentrates a wealth of experience in project implementation
       and constitutes an invaluable asset as the country prepares to surmount
       its new challenges. Even though, the PCU has strong leadership, tested
       administrative procedures, close interaction with the municipalities, and a
       strong focus on quality control.

H. Lessons Learned

Listed below are some of the lessons learnt through the accumulated experience
of the PCU during the project lifespan.


i- Close on-site assistance: Experience showed that backing is recommended
to be provided by the Individual Consultants to the problematic municipalities
that are shown to face difficulties in the preparation of their projects proposals
and PAF(s). The technical support will certainly have a positive impact on the
pace of work and will involve all the municipalities in a practical development
process.


ii- Continuous follow-up of the Individual Consultants: Practical needs
validated that tracking coupled with direct involvement, when necessary, of the
individual consultants with the municipalities accompanied by the close
monitoring in carrying out the necessary requirements will certainly affect the
lengthy unjustifiable administrative cycle.


iii- Municipal & Central Database: One of the important lessons showed the
needs for upgrading the municipal database at both municipal & central levels
which will allow the concerned parties to track the physical conditions of the
existing infra-structural networks in order to closely monitor the needs of the rural
communities and avoid duplication of projects. It is also extremely advantageous
for setting the ground for the master plans.



iv- Municipal Master Plans: Experience showed that undertaking the necessary
coordination with all central institutions towards improvising master plans
tackling all municipal services will allow the municipal councils to have in hand a
large menu of services that need to be upgraded or implemented such as:

    1. Urban & Transportation Plans in coordination with MOIM, MOPW


                                           47

        (Ministry of Public Work), & CDR (Council of Reconstruction and
        Development).
   2. Sewage Network Master Plans in parallel with "small-scale Treatment
        Plants" in coordination with Ministry of Environment (MOE), Ministry of
        Hydraulic & Electric Resources (MHER), MOIM, & CDR.
   3. Solid Waste Master Plan in parallel with "small-scale Treatment Plants" in
        coordination with MOE, MOIM, & CDR.
   4. Potable Water Master Plan in parallel with "small-scale Treatment Plants,
        Wells, & Reservoirs" in coordination with MHER, MOIM, & CDR.

v- Simplification of the bidding procedures: A good learnt lesson in this
regard is to carry out the pre-qualification of interested bidders at central level
instead of attributing this responsibility to the bidding committees of the municipal
councils until municipalities demonstrate clear evidence for their technical
capabilities. The ongoing routine is shown to have many drawbacks affecting the
implementation of the projects due to the lack of experience of the committee
members in conducting similar tasks.



vi- Establishment of clear & defined inter-governmental financial
framework: Practical experience showed that the sustainability of municipal
investments depends largely on substantially improving the municipal &
intergovernmental finance system. The organization of the fiscal structure in
parallel with empowering the collection of local due taxes, will allow local officials
to program community investments. The predictability of transfers from the IMF
(Independent Municipal Fund), review or local tax system, and promotion of cost-
recovery practices, will have great positive impact on the living conditions in rural
areas. On the other hand, continuous control over municipal budgets to track
local expenditure on implementation & maintenance of public works is urged.




vii- Building capacity at the central level through a developmental
administrative plan:
Experience through this project showed that filling the vacancies with qualified
personnel in the MOIM in parallel with the establishment of a solid inter-
governmental administrative system through a developmental administrative plan
will allow assuming the responsibility of managing the municipal sector. The
MOIM oversight functions over the municipal records and performance through a
capable and well organised modern administrative system are of great
importance for the development of the urban and rural areas.




                                            48

              Comments made by the Implementing Agency on draft ICR

       Review of the Quality of the World Bank's Implementation Completion
                                       Report (ICR)


                                        Reviewer:

                                Eng. Walid Abou Jaoudeh
                                  FMIP Project Director



The World Bank's Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the First Municipal
Infrastructure Project (FMIP) covers explicitly all aspects of the project, and, is presented
in a fair manner. In preparing the ICR, the team has used different references/resources,
including: project Appraisal document, Operational Manual, Legal agreement, Mid-Term
Report, Bank's Aide-memoirs, Implementation Summary Reports. In addition, the team
conducted a Beneficiary Survey in March 2009 for representatives' areas and investments
which confirmed the positive impact of the project on benefiting communities.

The ICR addresses the following:


·   A review of FMIP accomplishments towards its goals and objectives. The report does
    in a fair manner document the accomplishments made by the project.


·   A review of the methods and procedures used for the projects. The report addresses
    the effectiveness of the coordination unit and the applied procedures in achieving the
    project development objectives.


·   The Lessons learned and recommendations are fairly presented and are considered
    very useful in shaping future projects of the same nature.

Finally we would like to share the Bank's team in their overall outcome rating the FMIP
as satisfactory.




                                             49

Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    50

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Project Appraisal Document, May 26, 2000
2.   Project Operational Manual, April 2000
3.   Back to Office Reports and Aide-Memoires
4.   Implementation Status Reports - Feb. 2000 through March 2009
5.   Mid Term Reviews, November 2003
6.   Technical Audit Report, December 2003
7.   Country Portfolio Performance Review, March 2007
8.   Country Assistance Strategy (Report No. 34463-LB, dated November 22, 2005)
9.   Lebanon Interim Strategy Note July 9, 2007- Report No. 39779-LB




                                        51

                LIST OF PARTICIPATING MUNICIPALITIES


                                                         Amt          Actual
No. Municipality                Muhafaze    Caza     Allocated        Cost
1   AIN                          Bekaa      Baalbak    397,000,000  249,604,000
2   AINATA                       Bekaa      Baalbak     64,000,000    63,800,000
3   BAALBEK                      Bekaa      Baalbak  1,937,000,000 1,199,874,300
4   BARKKA                       Bekaa      Baalbak     49,000,000    59,807,000
5   BECHOUAT                     Bekaa      Baalbak     47,000,000    50,017,500
6   BEDNAYEL                     Bekaa      Baalbak    325,000,000    78,386,175
7   BOUDAY                       Bekaa      Baalbak    247,000,000  260,000,000
8   BRITAL                       Bekaa      Baalbak    537,000,000  285,520,000
9   BTEDAA                       Bekaa      Baalbak     21,000,000    21,000,000
10  CHEET                        Bekaa      Baalbak    336,000,000   285,000,000
11  CHEMSTAR                     Bekaa      Baalbak  1,339,000,000   513,341,058
12  CHLIFFA                      Bekaa      Baalbak    133,000,000   133,160,000
13  DEIR EL AHMAR                Bekaa      Baalbak    443,000,000   190,525,000
14  DOURESS                      Bekaa      Baalbak    173,000,000    91,638,560
15  ERSAL                        Bekaa      Baalbak    886,000,000   886,000,000
16  FAKHA                        Bekaa      Baalbak    433,000,000   432,791,500
17  FLAOUI                       Bekaa      Baalbak    101,000,000   111,071,500
18  HADATH BAALBEK               Bekaa      Baalbak    169,000,000   174,950,000
19  HAOUCH BARADA                Bekaa      Baalbak     42,000,000    41,947,500
20  HAOUCH TELSFIEH              Bekaa      Baalbak     42,000,000    43,228,000
21  HARBETA                      Bekaa      Baalbak    271,000,000   167,854,700
22  IAAT                         Bekaa      Baalbak    227,000,000   267,745,000
23  JABBOULET                    Bekaa      Baalbak     50,000,000    49,975,000
24  KAA                          Bekaa      Baalbak    334,000,000   235,843,350
25  KHREIBBET                    Bekaa      Baalbak     71,000,000    72,930,000
26  LABOUET                      Bekaa      Baalbak    290,000,000   297,540,000
27  MAJDALOUN                    Bekaa      Baalbak     62,000,000    62,000,000
28  MAKNET                       Bekaa      Baalbak    266,000,000   120,292,000
29  NABBI AATHMAN                Bekaa      Baalbak    145,000,000   162,228,800
30  NABBY CHIT                   Bekaa      Baalbak    413,000,000   472,750,000
31  NAHLET                       Bekaa      Baalbak    233,000,000   180,227,500
32  RAS BAALBEK                  Bekaa      Baalbak    284,000,000   286,840,000
33  SAIDET                       Bekaa      Baalbak     42,000,000    43,579,500
34  SARIIN EL TAHTA              Bekaa      Baalbak     88,000,000    95,105,000
35  SARINE EL FAOUKA             Bekaa      Baalbak    202,000,000   202,470,000
36  TAIBET                       Bekaa      Baalbak     49,000,000    49,174,375
37  TALYA                        Bekaa      Baalbak     58,000,000    63,525,100
38  TAMNINE EL FAOUKA            Bekaa      Baalbak    130,000,000   131,280,000
39  TARAYA                       Bekaa      Baalbak    330,000,000   330,700,000
40  TEMNINE EL TAHTA             Bekaa      Baalbak    273,000,000   277,238,300
41  WADI FAARAT                  Bekaa      Baalbak     54,000,000    53,675,000
42  YAMMOUNEH                    Bekaa      Baalbak    139,000,000   125,540,700
43  YOUNIN                       Bekaa      Baalbak    374,000,000   374,004,300



                                  1

44 AIN ZEBDET           Bekaa    Baalbak        71,000,000  73,375,000
45 AITANIT              Bekaa    West Bekaa    100,000,000 104,365,000
46 AMICK                Bekaa    West Bekaa     56,000,000  56,250,000
47 ANA                  Bekaa    West Bekaa     55,000,000  59,935,000
48 BAALOUL              Bekaa    West Bekaa    118,000,000  95,000,665
49 BAB MAREH            Bekaa    West Bekaa     26,000,000  26,319,000
50 GHAZZET              Bekaa    West Bekaa    246,000,000 196,500,000
51 HAOUCH EL HARIMET    Bekaa    West Bekaa    131,000,000 134,995,000
52 JEB JANINE           Bekaa    West Bekaa    466,000,000 125,680,000
53 KAMED EL LAOUZ       Bekaa    West Bekaa    255,000,000 225,375,000
54 KARAOUN              Bekaa    West Bekaa    336,000,000 272,381,000
55 KEFRAYA              Bekaa    West Bekaa     67,000,000  40,818,750
56 KHORBET KANAFAR      Bekaa    West Bekaa    184,000,000 187,240,000
57 KHYARA               Bekaa    West Bekaa     48,000,000  49,460,000
58 LALA                 Bekaa    West Bekaa    194,000,000 194,000,000
59 LEBBAYA              Bekaa    West Bekaa    178,000,000 198,287,500
60 MACHGHARA            Bekaa    West Bekaa    631,000,000 557,764,920
61 MANARA               Bekaa    West Bekaa    122,000,000 125,770,000
62 MANSOURA             Bekaa    West Bekaa    105,000,000 105,550,000
63 MAREJ                Bekaa    West Bekaa    327,000,000 242,295,000
64 SAGHBBINE            Bekaa    West Bekaa    296,000,000 187,065,000
65 SEHMOUR              Bekaa    West Bekaa    189,000,000 136,990,500
66 SOUAIRI              Bekaa    West Bekaa    155,000,000 118,512,500
67 SULTAN YAACOUB       Bekaa    West Bekaa    147,000,000  95,060,400
68 YEHMOR               Bekaa    West Bekaa    131,000,000 130,737,500
69 HERMEL               Bekaa    West Bekaa  1,130,000,000 494,857,500
70 KASR WA FISSAN       Bekaa     Hermel       459,000,000 442,835,000
71 AKABBAT              Bekaa     Hermel        99,000,000 106,494,500
72 AIHA                 Bekaa     Hermel       147,000,000 147,000,000
73 AIN ARAB             Bekaa    Rachaya        48,000,000  47,955,000
74 AIN ATTA             Bekaa    Rachaya       106,000,000 110,450,000
75 AIN HERCHAT          Bekaa    Rachaya        65,000,000  37,511,000
76 AITA EL FEKHAR       Bekaa    Rachaya       147,000,000 165,449,000
77 BEIT LEHIA           Bekaa    Rachaya        62,000,000  59,720,000
78 BEKKA                Bekaa    Rachaya        51,000,000  52,551,500
79 BIRET                Bekaa    Rachaya       159,000,000 158,973,800
80 BKYFA                Bekaa    Rachaya        58,000,000  57,099,250
81 DAHR EL AHMAR        Bekaa    Rachaya        55,000,000  56,160,000
82 DEIR EL ACHAYER      Bekaa    Rachaya        31,000,000  31,520,000
83 HAOUCH               Bekaa    Rachaya        55,000,000  57,000,000
84 HELOUET              Bekaa    Rachaya        29,000,000  29,000,000
85 KAOUKABA             Bekaa    Rachaya        36,000,000  37,260,000
86 KFARDNIS             Bekaa    Rachaya        65,000,000  53,010,000
87 KFARKOUK             Bekaa    Rachaya       101,000,000 105,625,000
88 KFARMECHKY           Bekaa    Rachaya       100,000,000 100,000,000
89 KHORBET ROUHA        Bekaa    Rachaya       159,000,000 159,800,000
90 MAJDEL EL BALHYSS    Bekaa    Rachaya       102,000,000  73,290,000
91 MDOUKHA              Bekaa    Rachaya        82,000,000  82,002,000




                        2

92  MHAIDTHEH                     Bekaa        Rachaya    66,000,000  66,780,000
93  RACHAYA                       Bekaa        Rachaya   362,000,000 216,530,000
94  RFEID                         Bekaa        Rachaya   148,000,000 147,848,000
95  TANNOURA                      Bekaa        Rachaya    41,000,000  41,240,000
96  YANTTA                        Bekaa        Rachaya   107,000,000 107,330,000
97  ABBLAH                        Bekaa        Rachaya   122,000,000  64,765,000
98  ALI EL NAHRI                  Bekaa         Zahle    356,000,000 181,000,000
99  BAR ELIAS                     Bekaa         Zahle    565,000,000 215,000,000
100 CHTAURA                       Bekaa         Zahle     16,000,000  20,572,000
101 DEIR EL GHAZAL                Bekaa         Zahle     47,000,000  35,000,000
102 FERZOL                        Bekaa         Zahle    215,000,000 167,000,000
103 HAOUCH MOUSSA(ANJAR)          Bekaa         Zahle    377,000,000 217,000,000
104 HAY EL FIKKANI                Bekaa         Zahle     56,000,000  56,710,000
105 JDITA                         Bekaa         Zahle    228,000,000 208,000,000
106 KAA EL RIM                    Bekaa         Zahle    111,000,000 112,438,500
107 KAB ELIAS- WADI EL DELM       Bekaa         Zahle    576,000,000 231,712,350
108 KFARZABAD                     Bekaa         Zahle    200,000,000 141,097,925
109 KOUSSAYA                      Bekaa         Zahle     66,000,000  30,001,290
110 MAJDEL ANJAR                  Bekaa         Zahle    395,000,000 395,516,000
111 MEKSSEH                       Bekaa         Zahle     57,000,000  57,220,950
112 MREIJAT                       Bekaa         Zahle    104,000,000  70,250,000
113 NABBY AILA                    Bekaa         Zahle     62,000,000  35,000,000
114 NIHA                          Bekaa         Zahle     85,000,000  55,555,000
115 REIT                          Bekaa         Zahle     88,000,000  48,100,000
116 RYAK-HAOUCH HALA              Bekaa         Zahle    421,000,000 306,701,000
117 SADNAYAL                      Bekaa         Zahle    405,000,000 347,000,000
118 TAALABAYA                     Bekaa         Zahle    324,000,000 324,000,000
119 TAANAYEL                      Bekaa         Zahle     43,000,000  50,380,000
120 TERBOUL                       Bekaa         Zahle    194,000,000 198,096,000
121 AGHMID                        Bekaa         Zahle     78,000,000  84,974,000
122 AIN AANOUB                    Bekaa         Zahle    170,000,000 158,730,000
123 AIN DARA                   Mount Lebanon    Aley     223,000,000 182,250,000
124 AIN EL JDIDEH              Mount Lebanon    Aley      33,000,000  34,547,000
125 AIN EL ROUMANEH            Mount Lebanon    Aley      12,000,000  12,160,000
126 AIN EL SAIDET              Mount Lebanon    Aley      30,000,000  32,359,000
127 AIN KSOUR                  Mount Lebanon    Aley      29,000,000  29,575,000
128 AINAB                      Mount Lebanon    Aley      56,000,000  56,476,670
129 AITATT                     Mount Lebanon    Aley     108,000,000 105,480,000
130 ALEY                       Mount Lebanon    Aley     730,000,000 433,707,000
131 ARAMOUN EL GHAREB          Mount Lebanon    Aley     305,000,000 235,900,000
132 BASATIN                    Mount Lebanon    Aley      53,000,000  52,770,000
133 BATTLOUN                   Mount Lebanon    Aley      29,000,000  30,915,000
134 BAYSSOUR                   Mount Lebanon    Aley     297,000,000 223,858,750
135 BCHAMOUN                   Mount Lebanon    Aley     162,000,000 179,460,000
136 BDADOUN                    Mount Lebanon    Aley     115,000,000 116,000,000
137 BEDGHAN                    Mount Lebanon    Aley      54,000,000  58,180,000
138 BEMEKYN                    Mount Lebanon    Aley      25,000,000  25,000,000
139 BHAMDOUN EL DAYAAT         Mount Lebanon    Aley     180,000,000 225,707,000




                                   3

140 BHAMDOUN MHATTAT          Mount Lebanon    Aley     75,000,000  74,400,000
141 BKHECHTEIH                Mount Lebanon    Aley     39,000,000  39,099,000
142 BLEIBEL                   Mount Lebanon    Aley     39,000,000  39,000,000
143 BMEHRIEH                  Mount Lebanon    Aley     59,000,000  42,404,000
144 BOUNIET                   Mount Lebanon    Aley     67,000,000  68,240,000
145 BSOUS                     Mount Lebanon    Aley    131,000,000 136,275,000
146 BTATER                    Mount Lebanon    Aley    228,000,000 227,950,000
147 CHANAY                    Mount Lebanon    Aley     70,000,000  69,000,000
148 CHARON                    Mount Lebanon    Aley    190,000,000 151,600,000
149 CHARTOUN                  Mount Lebanon    Aley    102,000,000 101,560,000
150 CHEMLAN                   Mount Lebanon    Aley     40,000,000  40,188,000
151 CHOUEIFAT                 Mount Lebanon    Aley    730,000,000 721,927,500
152 DEIR KOUBEL               Mount Lebanon    Aley     89,000,000  92,230,000
153 DFOUN                     Mount Lebanon    Aley     63,000,000  49,800,000
154 DKOUN                     Mount Lebanon    Aley     42,000,000  42,492,500
155 GABON                     Mount Lebanon    Aley     65,000,000  70,625,000
156 HOUMAL                    Mount Lebanon    Aley     59,000,000  59,000,000
157 KEHALEH                   Mount Lebanon    Aley    191,000,000 141,490,000
158 KEYFOUN                   Mount Lebanon    Aley     58,000,000  58,000,000
159 KFARAAMEYEH               Mount Lebanon    Aley     50,000,000  41,750,000
160 KFARMATTA                 Mount Lebanon    Aley    187,000,000 187,205,000
161 KMATTIEH                  Mount Lebanon    Aley    129,000,000  34,616,000
162 MAJDEL BAANA              Mount Lebanon    Aley    131,000,000 103,475,000
163 MANSOURIEH - AIN MAREJ    Mount Lebanon    Aley     66,000,000  59,860,000
164 MECHRFEH                  Mount Lebanon    Aley     87,000,000  98,159,000
165 MJDLAYA                   Mount Lebanon    Aley    134,000,000 111,950,000
166 OBEIH-AIN DRAFEL          Mount Lebanon    Aley    173,000,000 182,516,000
167 RECHMAYA                  Mount Lebanon    Aley    200,000,000 204,506,000
168 REMHALLA                  Mount Lebanon    Aley     74,000,000  83,725,000
169 RMEILET                   Mount Lebanon    Aley     61,000,000  61,785,000
170 ROUEISSET EL NEAAMAN      Mount Lebanon    Aley     39,000,000  40,740,000
171 SAOUFAR                   Mount Lebanon    Aley    103,000,000  68,095,000
172 SOUK EL GHAREB            Mount Lebanon    Aley    101,000,000 102,850,000
173 AABADIET                  Mount Lebanon    Aley    300,000,000 302,180,000
174 AARAYA                    Mount Lebanon    Aley    106,000,000  90,400,000
175 ARBANIET-DLAYBEH          Mount Lebanon   Baabda    62,000,000  59,765,000
176 ARSOUN                    Mount Lebanon   Baabda    54,000,000  52,354,719
177 BAABDA                    Mount Lebanon   Baabda   271,000,000 204,620,000
178 BAALCHMEIH                Mount Lebanon   Baabda   100,000,000  84,984,000
179 BETCHAY-MERDACHET         Mount Lebanon   Baabda    24,000,000  24,000,000
180 BMARYAM                   Mount Lebanon   Baabda    57,000,000  58,324,000
181 BOURJ EL BARAJNET         Mount Lebanon   Baabda   928,000,000 708,918,000
182 BSABA                     Mount Lebanon   Baabda    30,000,000  29,250,000
183 BTEKHNEIH                 Mount Lebanon   Baabda    73,000,000  38,518,000
184 BZEBDDINE                 Mount Lebanon   Baabda   133,000,000 113,263,750
185 CHBANYET                  Mount Lebanon   Baabda   104,000,000 113,985,000
186 CHIAH                     Mount Lebanon   Baabda   777,000,000 662,545,000
187 CHOUIT                    Mount Lebanon   Baabda    78,000,000  87,547,500




                                  4

188 DEIR EL HARREF               Mount Lebanon   Baabda      30,000,000  30,000,000
189 FALOUGHA                     Mount Lebanon   Baabda     128,000,000  75,940,000
190 FURN EL CHEBBAK              Mount Lebanon   Baabda     641,000,000 369,092,000
191 GHBAIRY                      Mount Lebanon   Baabda   1,185,000,000 505,610,000
192 HADATH                       Mount Lebanon   Baabda     547,000,000 251,590,000
193 HAMMANA                      Mount Lebanon   Baabda     489,000,000 432,390,000
194 HARET HREYK                  Mount Lebanon   Baabda     626,000,000 665,029,000
195 HASBAYA (METN)               Mount Lebanon   Baabda      39,000,000  38,716,000
196 HAZMIEH                      Mount Lebanon   Baabda     141,000,000 115,400,000
197 JOUAR EL HAOUZ               Mount Lebanon   Baabda      44,000,000  37,150,000
198 JOURET ARSOUN                Mount Lebanon   Baabda      11,000,000  11,000,000
199 KALAA                        Mount Lebanon   Baabda      26,000,000  26,100,000
200 KERAYEH                      Mount Lebanon   Baabda      51,000,000  39,750,000
201 KFAR SELOUAN                 Mount Lebanon   Baabda     156,000,000 124,160,000
202 KFARCHIMA                    Mount Lebanon   Baabda     248,000,000 216,270,000
203 KHRAYBET                     Mount Lebanon   Baabda      32,000,000  42,030,000
204 KNEISSET                     Mount Lebanon   Baabda      15,000,000  15,030,000
205 KOBBAY                       Mount Lebanon   Baabda     101,000,000  98,946,350
206 KORNAYEL                     Mount Lebanon   Baabda     159,000,000 157,416,050
207 KORTADDA                     Mount Lebanon   Baabda      17,000,000  17,010,000
208 KSAYBET                      Mount Lebanon   Baabda      44,000,000  44,320,000
209 RAS EL HAREF                 Mount Lebanon   Baabda      58,000,000  58,350,000
210 RAS EL METN                  Mount Lebanon   Baabda     264,000,000 236,218,000
211 ROUAISSET EL BALLOUT         Mount Lebanon   Baabda      60,000,000  63,918,000
212 SLIMA                        Mount Lebanon   Baabda     176,000,000 177,690,000
    TAHOUITAT GHADIR-LAYLAKET-
213 MRAI                         Mount Lebanon   Baabda     282,000,000 183,220,000
214 TARCHICH                     Mount Lebanon   Baabda      96,000,000  96,420,000
215 WADI CHAHROUR EL OULYA       Mount Lebanon   Baabda     148,000,000 160,856,000
216 WADI CHAHROUR EL SOUFLA      Mount Lebanon   Baabda     121,000,000 147,060,500
217 AAINBAL                      Mount Lebanon   Baabda      91,000,000  97,402,000
218 AAMICK                       Mount Lebanon    Chouf      26,000,000  26,415,000
219 AANOUT                       Mount Lebanon    Chouf     154,000,000 181,359,000
220 AATRIN                       Mount Lebanon    Chouf      60,000,000  60,000,000
221 AIN KONNY                    Mount Lebanon    Chouf      65,000,000  66,620,000
222 AIN WA ZEIN                  Mount Lebanon    Chouf      59,000,000  63,555,000
223 AIN ZHALTA                   Mount Lebanon    Chouf     184,000,000 189,483,000
224 AMATOUR                      Mount Lebanon    Chouf     142,000,000 141,985,000
225 BAAKLINE                     Mount Lebanon    Chouf     447,000,000 499,626,400
226 BAASSIR                      Mount Lebanon    Chouf      96,000,000  83,390,000
227 BAATHARAN                    Mount Lebanon    Chouf     111,000,000 115,200,000
228 BARJA                        Mount Lebanon    Chouf     793,000,000 798,178,000
229 BAROUK EL FREYDYSS           Mount Lebanon    Chouf     298,000,000 299,920,000
230 BATER                        Mount Lebanon    Chouf     103,000,000 104,200,000
231 BATLOUN                      Mount Lebanon    Chouf      95,000,000  97,169,000
232 BATMEH                       Mount Lebanon    Chouf      67,000,000  66,700,000
233 BECHTEFFINE                  Mount Lebanon    Chouf      87,000,000  92,553,980
234 BEIT EL DIN                  Mount Lebanon    Chouf      93,000,000 115,690,000
235 BIRET                        Mount Lebanon    Chouf      84,000,000  83,922,000



                                     5

236 BRIH                   Mount Lebanon    Chouf    145,000,000 152,650,000
237 BSABA (CHOUF)          Mount Lebanon    Chouf     86,000,000  86,160,000
238 CHEHIM                 Mount Lebanon    Chouf    650,000,000 229,520,000
239 DAHR EL MGHARAT        Mount Lebanon    Chouf     23,000,000  26,410,000
240 DALHOUN                Mount Lebanon    Chouf     83,000,000  90,567,000
241 DAMOUR                 Mount Lebanon    Chouf    515,000,000 571,015,000
242 DARAYA (CHOUF)         Mount Lebanon    Chouf    151,000,000 169,120,000
243 DEBBIEH                Mount Lebanon    Chouf     84,000,000  76,657,000
244 DEIR DOURIT            Mount Lebanon    Chouf     93,000,000  67,050,000
245 DEIR EL QUAMAR         Mount Lebanon    Chouf    614,000,000 665,855,590
246 DEIR KOUCHET           Mount Lebanon    Chouf     29,000,000  30,850,000
247 DMIT                   Mount Lebanon    Chouf     64,000,000  63,910,000
248 EL JYEH                Mount Lebanon    Chouf    237,000,000 207,750,000
249 FAOURAT                Mount Lebanon    Chouf     49,000,000  49,845,000
250 GHRIFFEH               Mount Lebanon    Chouf    220,000,000 243,782,700
251 HARET JENDEL           Mount Lebanon    Chouf     26,000,000  26,250,000
252 HASSROUT               Mount Lebanon    Chouf     61,000,000  64,737,500
253 JADRA                  Mount Lebanon    Chouf     19,000,000  20,940,000
254 JAHLIEH                Mount Lebanon    Chouf    148,000,000 149,261,250
255 JBAA (CHOUF)           Mount Lebanon    Chouf     60,000,000  64,705,000
256 JDEIDET EL CHOUF       Mount Lebanon    Chouf     37,000,000  38,438,500
257 JOUN                   Mount Lebanon    Chouf    151,000,000 154,336,500
258 KAHLOUNIEH             Mount Lebanon    Chouf     57,000,000  54,409,000
259 KETERMAYA              Mount Lebanon    Chouf    321,000,000 358,771,000
260 KFAR NABRAKH           Mount Lebanon    Chouf    218,000,000 202,400,000
261 KFARHYM                Mount Lebanon    Chouf    128,000,000 151,475,000
262 KFARKATRA              Mount Lebanon    Chouf    122,000,000 135,282,000
263 KFARNICE               Mount Lebanon    Chouf     53,000,000  53,455,500
264 KHRAYBEH               Mount Lebanon    Chouf     93,000,000  92,756,000
265 KNEISSEH               Mount Lebanon    Chouf     35,000,000  33,183,000
266 MAASSER BEIT EL DIN    Mount Lebanon    Chouf     52,000,000  55,714,500
267 MAASSER EL CHOUF       Mount Lebanon    Chouf    167,000,000 166,302,000
268 MAZBOUD                Mount Lebanon    Chouf    142,000,000 140,560,000
269 MAZRAAT EL DAHR        Mount Lebanon    Chouf     73,000,000  64,120,000
270 MAZRAET EL CHOUF       Mount Lebanon    Chouf    257,000,000 205,141,000
271 MECHREFF               Mount Lebanon    Chouf     23,000,000  24,000,000
272 MEJDEL MEOUCH          Mount Lebanon    Chouf    112,000,000 112,605,000
273 MEROSTY                Mount Lebanon    Chouf     85,000,000  88,540,000
274 MGHAYRIEH              Mount Lebanon    Chouf    124,000,000  87,255,000
275 MOUKHTARA              Mount Lebanon    Chouf    113,000,000 111,795,000
276 MTELLET                Mount Lebanon    Chouf     72,000,000  71,825,000
277 NAAMEH                 Mount Lebanon    Chouf    112,000,000  70,543,000
278 NIHA                   Mount Lebanon    Chouf    196,000,000 196,001,507
279 RMEILET                Mount Lebanon    Chouf    113,000,000 143,439,225
280 SEBLIN                 Mount Lebanon    Chouf     49,000,000  53,480,000
281 SEMKANIEH              Mount Lebanon    Chouf     49,000,000  51,905,000
282 SERJBAL                Mount Lebanon    Chouf     47,000,000  50,995,000
283 WADI EL SITT           Mount Lebanon    Chouf     63,000,000  69,415,500




                               6

284 WARDANIEH                   Mount Lebanon    Chouf     124,000,000 134,700,000
285 WARHANIEH                   Mount Lebanon    Chouf      68,000,000  68,197,500
286 ZAAROURIEH                  Mount Lebanon    Chouf     114,000,000 141,525,000
287 AAKOURAT                    Mount Lebanon    Chouf     216,000,000 226,240,000
288 AANNAYA WA KFARBAAL         Mount Lebanon    Chouf      16,000,000  18,030,000
289 AMCHIT                      Mount Lebanon    Chouf     263,000,000 234,670,000
290 BEJJEH                      Mount Lebanon    Jbeil      64,000,000  70,000,000
291 BLATT                       Mount Lebanon    Jbeil      95,000,000  95,000,000
292 EDDEH                       Mount Lebanon    Jbeil      23,000,000  12,173,000
293 EHMEJ                       Mount Lebanon    Jbeil     143,000,000  27,562,500
294 FETRY                       Mount Lebanon    Jbeil      37,000,000  36,987,500
295 FIDDAR                      Mount Lebanon    Jbeil      42,000,000  41,900,000
296 HALAT                       Mount Lebanon    Jbeil     151,000,000 162,600,000
297 JAJJ                        Mount Lebanon    Jbeil     137,000,000 148,542,000
298 JBEIL                       Mount Lebanon    Jbeil     492,000,000 540,756,250
299 KARTABA                     Mount Lebanon    Jbeil     362,000,000 301,544,500
300 LAKLOUK                     Mount Lebanon    Jbeil      52,000,000  52,505,000
301 LASSA WA AIN GHOUEIBET      Mount Lebanon    Jbeil     212,000,000 197,200,000
302 MAYFOUK-KETTARA             Mount Lebanon    Jbeil     126,000,000  96,997,000
303 MEGHAIREH                   Mount Lebanon    Jbeil      62,000,000  63,950,000
304 MOUNSSEF                    Mount Lebanon    Jbeil      48,000,000  52,740,000
305 NAHR IBRAHIM                Mount Lebanon    Jbeil      94,000,000 100,092,500
306 TERTEJ                      Mount Lebanon    Jbeil     118,000,000 127,600,000
307 ACHKOUT                     Mount Lebanon    Jbeil     138,000,000 123,380,000
308 ADDRA WA AADER              Mount Lebanon    Jbeil      33,000,000  32,160,000
309 AIN EL RIHANEH              Mount Lebanon    Jbeil      27,000,000  26,995,000
310 AINTOURA                    Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    79,000,000  78,651,500
311 AJALTOUN                    Mount Lebanon   Keserwan   142,000,000  27,360,000
312 AKKAYBEH                    Mount Lebanon   Keserwan   117,000,000  88,562,500
313 ARAMOUN                     Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    43,000,000  30,200,000
314 BALLOUNEH                   Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    63,000,000  64,288,000
315 BOUAR                       Mount Lebanon   Keserwan   108,000,000 100,595,000
316 CHNANIR                     Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    45,000,000  46,950,000
317 DAROUN-HARISSA              Mount Lebanon   Keserwan   156,000,000 101,375,000
318 DARRAYA                     Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    55,000,000  55,685,500
319 DLEBTA                      Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    77,000,000  76,998,000
320 FARAYA                      Mount Lebanon   Keserwan   115,000,000 122,432,500
321 FEYTROUN                    Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    74,000,000  72,740,000
322 GHAZIR                      Mount Lebanon   Keserwan   311,000,000 310,619,500
323 GHBALEH                     Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    80,000,000  81,695,000
324 GHINIEH                     Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    42,000,000  41,998,000
325 GHOSTA                      Mount Lebanon   Keserwan   173,000,000 176,575,000
326 HIATTA                      Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    26,000,000  28,195,000
327 HRAJEL                      Mount Lebanon   Keserwan   268,000,000 276,470,500
328 HSSAYN                      Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    20,000,000  19,878,600
329 JDEIDET HARHARAYA-QUATINE   Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    45,000,000  35,540,000
330 JEITA                       Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    64,000,000  66,925,000
331 JOUNIEH - HARET SAKHR       Mount Lebanon   Keserwan   886,000,000 324,252,500




                                    7

332 JOURET BEDRAN                 Mount Lebanon   Keserwan     20,000,000    19,990,000
333 JOURET EL TOURMOSS            Mount Lebanon   Keserwan     28,000,000    26,860,000
334 KFARZEBIAN                    Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    250,000,000   197,495,000
335 KFOUR                         Mount Lebanon   Keserwan     73,000,000    77,265,500
336 KLEIAAT                       Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    107,000,000    73,135,500
337 MAYROUBA                      Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    101,000,000   100,412,500
338 RAACHYN                       Mount Lebanon   Keserwan     74,000,000    43,180,000
339 REYFOUN                       Mount Lebanon   Keserwan     66,000,000    68,250,000
340 SAFRA                         Mount Lebanon   Keserwan     71,000,000    71,416,500
341 SHAILEH                       Mount Lebanon   Keserwan     39,000,000    11,199,910
342 TABARJA-ADMA -KFARYASSYN      Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    115,000,000   120,732,500
343 YAHCHOUCH                     Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    127,000,000   127,488,500
344 ZOUK MIKAEL                   Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    401,000,000   402,612,500
345 ZOUK MOSBEH                   Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    241,000,000   193,683,625
    AIN EL SAFSAF-MAR MIKHAEL-
346 BNAB                          Mount Lebanon   Keserwan     47,000,000    47,105,000
347 AINTOURAH                     Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    190,000,000   193,645,000
348 AIROUN                        Mount Lebanon   Keserwan     51,000,000    50,517,500
349 ANTELIAS-NACCACHE             Mount Lebanon   Keserwan    383,000,000   333,000,000
350 BAABDAT                       Mount Lebanon    Maten      181,000,000   200,095,000
351 BEIT CHEBAB                   Mount Lebanon    Maten      354,000,000   354,672,750
    BEIT EL CHEAAR-MAZRAAT EL
352 HADIRA                        Mount Lebanon    Maten       50,000,000    49,500,000
353 BEIT MERY-AIN SAADE           Mount Lebanon    Maten      362,000,000   372,365,000
354 BESKENTA                      Mount Lebanon    Maten      389,000,000   279,960,000
355 BIAKOUT                       Mount Lebanon    Maten       65,000,000    66,200,000
356 BIKFAYA-MHAIDTHEH             Mount Lebanon    Maten      343,000,000   346,110,000
357 BOLONIA-WATA EL MROUJ         Mount Lebanon    Maten       49,000,000    49,000,000
358 BOURJ HAMMOUD                 Mount Lebanon    Maten    2,201,000,000 2,249,420,000
359 BROUMANA                      Mount Lebanon    Maten      237,000,000   185,561,500
360 BSALIM-MEZHER-MAJZOUB         Mount Lebanon    Maten      121,000,000   120,420,000
361 BTEGHRINE                     Mount Lebanon    Maten      182,000,000   182,590,000
362 CHOUEIR-AIN EL SINDIANEH      Mount Lebanon    Maten      281,000,000   287,503,000
363 DAHR EL SOUAN                 Mount Lebanon    Maten       63,000,000    63,282,500
    DBAYEH-ZOUK EL KHARRAB-
364 AOUKAR                        Mount Lebanon    Maten      299,000,000  278,750,000
365 DEKOUANEH                     Mount Lebanon    Maten      320,000,000   270,000,000
366 DOUAR                         Mount Lebanon    Maten       54,000,000    54,790,000
367 FANAR                         Mount Lebanon    Maten      166,000,000   182,365,000
368 JAL EL DIB-BEKENNAYA          Mount Lebanon    Maten      348,000,000   352,282,500
369 JDEIDEH-BAOUCHRIEH-EL SID     Mount Lebanon    Maten      962,000,000   972,930,500
370 KAAKOUR                       Mount Lebanon    Maten       69,000,000    59,000,000
371 KFARAAKAB                     Mount Lebanon    Maten       69,000,000    69,000,000
372 KFERTAY                       Mount Lebanon    Maten       45,000,000    45,062,500
373 KHENCHARA-JOUAR               Mount Lebanon    Maten      182,000,000   164,720,000
    KORNET CHEHWANE-BEIT EL
374 KIKKO-                        Mount Lebanon    Maten      133,000,000    98,850,000
375 MAJDAL TARCHICH               Mount Lebanon    Maten       22,000,000    21,949,500
    MANSOURIEH-MKALLES-
376 DEYCHOUNIEH                   Mount Lebanon    Maten      393,000,000  392,998,500



                                      8

377 MAR CHAAYA-MAZKE          Mount Lebanon    Maten         27,000,000    27,000,000
378 MAR MOUSSA-DOUAR          Mount Lebanon    Maten         45,000,000    48,020,000
379 MARJABA                   Mount Lebanon    Maten         36,000,000    36,000,000
380 MAZRAAT YACHOUH           Mount Lebanon    Maten        150,000,000   118,080,000
381 MROUJ                     Mount Lebanon    Maten         82,000,000    68,980,000
382 MTEIN-MCHIKHA             Mount Lebanon    Maten        221,000,000   222,727,500
383 NABEIH                    Mount Lebanon    Maten        157,000,000   136,221,000
384 RABIEH                    Mount Lebanon    Maten        156,000,000   155,688,750
385 ROUMIEH                   Mount Lebanon    Maten        120,000,000   139,920,000
386 SAKIET EL MISK-BHERSAF    Mount Lebanon    Maten        133,000,000   133,260,000
387 SIN EL FIL                Mount Lebanon    Maten        630,000,000   537,080,000
388 ZALKA-AMARET CHALHOUB     Mount Lebanon    Maten        474,000,000   246,026,900
389 ZARAAOUN                  Mount Lebanon    Maten         63,000,000    62,850,000
390 ZEKRIT                    Mount Lebanon    Maten         63,000,000    63,000,000
391 AIN EBBEL                 Mount Lebanon    Maten        273,000,000   298,427,500
392 AINATA (BINT JBEIL)       Mount Lebanon    Maten        316,000,000   318,081,250
393 AITA EL CHAAB             Mount Lebanon    Maten        320,000,000   257,000,000
394 AITAROUN                    Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    528,000,000   378,781,250
395 BEIT LIFF                   Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    211,000,000   130,350,000
396 BERAACHIT                   Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    306,000,000   224,075,000
397 BINT JBEIL                  Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil  1,091,000,000 1,293,895,650
398 CHAKRA WA DOUBIEH           Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    374,000,000   257,000,000
399 DEBBEL                      Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    153,000,000   168,600,000
400 DEIR ENTTAR                 Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    171,000,000   142,860,000
401 HARYSS                      Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    213,000,000   214,988,600
402 HEDATHA                     Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    102,000,000   102,679,120
403 KAFRA                       Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    243,000,000   145,331,000
404 KFAR DOUNINE                Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    170,000,000   187,507,500
405 KHORBET SELEM               Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    268,000,000   272,500,000
406 RMEICH                      Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    239,000,000   216,495,000
407 SAFFAD EL BATTIKH           Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil     60,000,000    66,430,000
408 SOULTANIET                  Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    132,000,000   146,087,500
409 TAIRRY                      Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    146,000,000   158,662,500
410 TEBNINE                     Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    364,000,000   278,810,000
411 YARON                       Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    232,000,000   251,555,000
412 YATTER                      Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    236,000,000   192,025,000
413 AIN KANNYA                  Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil     95,000,000    75,262,500
414 CHEBAA                      Nabatieh      Bint Jbeil    664,000,000   474,178,000
415 CHOUAYA                     Nabatieh      Hasbaya        89,000,000    30,670,000
416 FERDISS                     Nabatieh      Hasbaya        33,000,000    32,898,475
417 HASBAYA                     Nabatieh      Hasbaya       481,000,000   177,561,000
418 HBARIET                     Nabatieh      Hasbaya       160,000,000   159,992,000
419 KAOUKABA(HASBAYA)           Nabatieh      Hasbaya        85,000,000    49,440,000
420 KFAR HEMAM                  Nabatieh      Hasbaya        79,000,000    79,551,900
421 KFARCHOUBA                  Nabatieh      Hasbaya       279,000,000   281,707,500
422 KFIR                        Nabatieh      Hasbaya       141,000,000   142,600,000
423 MARI                        Nabatieh      Hasbaya        55,000,000    50,847,535
424 MARJ EL ZHOUR               Nabatieh      Hasbaya        53,000,000    58,000,000




                                  9

425 MYMESS                 Nabatieh    Hasbaya        91,000,000  66,750,000
426 RACHAYA EL FEKHAR      Nabatieh    Hasbaya       124,000,000 124,438,035
427 ADAISSET               Nabatieh    Hasbaya       237,000,000 262,097,000
428 BOURJ EL MOULOUK       Nabatieh    Hasbaya        69,000,000  72,110,000
429 DEBBINE                Nabatieh    Hasbaya       118,000,000  87,400,000
430 DEIR MIMASS            Nabatieh    Marjeiyoun    160,000,000 111,350,000
431 EBBEL EL SEKI          Nabatieh    Marjeiyoun    160,000,000 121,560,000
432 HAOULA                 Nabatieh    Marjeiyoun    337,000,000 207,974,000
433 JDEIDET MARJEYOUN      Nabatieh    Marjeiyoun    410,000,000 423,155,000
434 KABRIKHA               Nabatieh    Marjeiyoun    164,000,000 157,155,000
435 KFARKELA               Nabatieh    Marjeiyoun    334,000,000 257,850,000
436 KHYAM                  Nabatieh    Marjeiyoun    878,000,000 144,586,000
437 KLAIAAT                Nabatieh    Marjeiyoun    215,000,000 234,455,500
438 MAIS EL JABAL          Nabatieh    Marjeiyoun    640,000,000 422,450,000
439 TAIBET                 Nabatieh    Marjeiyoun    482,000,000 392,042,500
440 WAZZANI                Nabatieh    Marjeiyoun     23,000,000  22,978,500
441 AIN KANA               Nabatieh    Marjeiyoun    199,000,000 199,025,000
442 ANSSAR                 Nabatieh    Marjeiyoun    319,000,000 338,739,000
443 ARAB SALIM             Nabatieh    Marjeiyoun    268,000,000 222,370,000
444 CHARKIET               Nabatieh    Nabatieh      138,000,000 104,560,000
445 DEIR EL ZAHRANI        Nabatieh    Nabatieh      213,000,000 240,871,000
446 DOUAIR                 Nabatieh    Nabatieh      290,000,000 295,230,000
447 HABBOUCH               Nabatieh    Nabatieh      338,000,000 339,000,000
448 HAROUF                 Nabatieh    Nabatieh      294,000,000 298,711,650
449 HOUMYN EL FAOUKA       Nabatieh    Nabatieh      159,000,000 136,950,000
450 HOUMYN EL TAHTA        Nabatieh    Nabatieh      141,000,000 140,341,137
451 JARJOUH                Nabatieh    Nabatieh      146,000,000 104,600,000
452 JBAA(NABATIIEH)        Nabatieh    Nabatieh      252,000,000 252,000,000
453 JEBCHIT                Nabatieh    Nabatieh      349,000,000 276,100,000
454 KAAKAEIT AL JISR       Nabatieh    Nabatieh      189,000,000  78,095,000
455 KFAR SYR               Nabatieh    Nabatieh      205,000,000 149,270,000
456 KFAR TEBNIT            Nabatieh    Nabatieh      277,000,000 278,163,302
457 KFARFILA               Nabatieh    Nabatieh       81,000,000  80,984,000
458 KFOUR                  Nabatieh    Nabatieh      164,000,000 155,503,375
459 KSSAIBET               Nabatieh    Nabatieh      170,000,000 129,250,000
460 MAIFDOUN               Nabatieh    Nabatieh      189,000,000 131,544,000
461 NABATIEH FAOUKA        Nabatieh    Nabatieh      303,000,000 216,204,000
462 NABATIEH TAHTA         Nabatieh    Nabatieh    1,232,000,000 863,661,500
463 NMEIRIEH               Nabatieh    Nabatieh      176,000,000 119,076,000
464 ROUMINE                Nabatieh    Nabatieh       83,000,000  64,294,400
465 SARBA(NABATIEH)        Nabatieh    Nabatieh       94,000,000  95,675,500
466 SIR EL GHARBIET        Nabatieh    Nabatieh      163,000,000 100,540,000
467 ZAOUTAR EL CHARKIET    Nabatieh    Nabatieh      121,000,000 122,119,000
468 ZAOUTAR EL GHARBIET    Nabatieh    Nabatieh       83,000,000  53,000,000
469 ZEBDINE                Nabatieh    Nabatieh      130,000,000 134,508,000
470 ZEFTA                  Nabatieh    Nabatieh      106,000,000  79,425,000
471 AABOUDIET              Nabatieh    Nabatieh      103,000,000 113,662,500
472 AAIDAMOUN-CHYKHLAR     Nabatieh    Nabatieh      141,000,000 115,975,000




                           10

473 AANDKIT                   Nabatieh      Nabatieh   219,000,000 238,819,000
474 AKKAR EL ATTIKA         North Lebanon    Akkar     408,000,000 407,124,000
475 AYAT                    North Lebanon    Akkar      96,000,000  95,247,000
476 BEBNINE                 North Lebanon    Akkar     707,000,000 327,974,000
477 BEIT MLAT               North Lebanon    Akkar     154,000,000 153,833,500
478 BERKAYEL                North Lebanon    Akkar     453,000,000 285,292,500
479 BEZBINA                 North Lebanon    Akkar     130,000,000 105,888,680
480 BINNO-KBOULA            North Lebanon    Akkar     244,000,000 280,321,000
481 BIREH                   North Lebanon    Akkar     296,000,000 211,271,000
482 BKORZOLLA               North Lebanon    Akkar     183,000,000 182,995,769
483 BOURJ                   North Lebanon    Akkar      84,000,000  83,565,000
484 BOURJ EL ARAB           North Lebanon    Akkar      41,000,000  41,000,000
485 BZAL                    North Lebanon    Akkar      63,000,000  59,857,000
486 CHARBELLA               North Lebanon    Akkar      46,000,000  45,421,000
487 CHEDDRA                 North Lebanon    Akkar     198,000,000 179,130,000
488 CHEIKH MOHAMMED         North Lebanon    Akkar     114,000,000  81,615,000
489 CHEIKH TABA             North Lebanon    Akkar     114,000,000 117,701,250
490 DEIR JANINE             North Lebanon    Akkar      46,000,000  46,000,000
491 FNAIDEK                 North Lebanon    Akkar     406,000,000 366,025,000
492 GEBRAYEL                North Lebanon    Akkar     117,000,000  94,350,000
493 HAKKOUR                 North Lebanon    Akkar      97,000,000  75,400,000
494 HALBA                   North Lebanon    Akkar     418,000,000 392,552,000
495 HAYSSAT                 North Lebanon    Akkar      89,000,000 102,600,000
496 HMAIRAT                 North Lebanon    Akkar      35,000,000  25,389,500
497 JDEIDDET (EL JOUMET)    North Lebanon    Akkar     139,000,000 138,990,600
498 JDEIDET EL KATIH        North Lebanon    Akkar     101,000,000 102,045,000
    KARM ASSFOUR-MAZRAAT
499 NEHRIET-BEIT GHATTAS    North Lebanon    Akkar      69,000,000  47,840,000
500 KOBBAYAT                North Lebanon    Akkar     539,000,000 495,757,250
501 KOUCHA                  North Lebanon    Akkar      54,000,000  54,774,000
502 MACHHA                  North Lebanon    Akkar     154,000,000 120,101,000
503 MAZRAAT BALDET          North Lebanon    Akkar      60,000,000  60,000,000
504 MECHMECH                North Lebanon    Akkar     448,000,000 413,912,500
505 MECHTY HOSN             North Lebanon    Akkar     154,000,000 150,028,400
506 MEJDLA                  North Lebanon    Akkar      84,000,000  84,210,000
507 MENIARAT                North Lebanon    Akkar     282,000,000 170,304,500
508 NFAISSEH                North Lebanon    Akkar      38,000,000  38,877,000
509 RAHBET                  North Lebanon    Akkar     382,000,000 359,400,000
510 SAFINAT DRAIB           North Lebanon    Akkar      23,000,000  23,250,000
511 SAISSOUK                North Lebanon    Akkar      41,000,000  41,442,000
512 TALAABBAS EL GHARBY     North Lebanon    Akkar     127,000,000  78,170,000
513 TAL MEAAYAN             North Lebanon    Akkar      71,000,000  70,300,000
514 TEKRIT                  North Lebanon    Akkar     234,000,000 233,669,000
515 TELBIRET                North Lebanon    Akkar      92,000,000  91,541,000
516 TLEIL                   North Lebanon    Akkar      72,000,000  61,455,000
517 ZAOUARIB                North Lebanon    Akkar      45,000,000  46,185,000
518 ZOUK EL HOUSSAYNAT      North Lebanon    Akkar      87,000,000  86,876,500
519 ABBRINE                 North Lebanon    Akkar     107,000,000 110,835,000
520 BATROUN                 North Lebanon    Akkar     563,000,000 159,960,000



                                11

521 BCHEAALET             North Lebanon   Batroun     85,000,000  85,000,000
522 BKESMAYA              North Lebanon   Batroun     49,000,000  54,810,000
523 CHEKKA                North Lebanon   Batroun    266,000,000 247,842,000
524 DOUMA                 North Lebanon   Batroun    192,000,000 191,875,000
525 EDDEH                 North Lebanon   Batroun     36,000,000  46,345,000
526 EJDEBBRA              North Lebanon   Batroun     19,000,000  19,066,000
527 HAMAT                 North Lebanon   Batroun    131,000,000 119,285,000
528 HARDIN-BEIT KASSAB    North Lebanon   Batroun    139,000,000  92,150,000
529 HERRY                 North Lebanon   Batroun     43,000,000  43,090,000
530 KEBA                  North Lebanon   Batroun     50,000,000  19,088,000
531 KFAR ABIDA            North Lebanon   Batroun     74,000,000  46,752,000
532 KFAR HALDA            North Lebanon   Batroun     60,000,000  39,120,000
533 KFOUR EL ARABY        North Lebanon   Batroun     97,000,000 101,265,000
534 RAS NEHACH            North Lebanon   Batroun     81,000,000  66,760,000
535 SELAATA               North Lebanon   Batroun     19,000,000  26,400,000
536 TANNOURINE            North Lebanon   Batroun    617,000,000 420,060,000
537 ZAN                   North Lebanon   Batroun     43,000,000  43,255,000
538 BARHALYOUN            North Lebanon   Batroun     75,000,000  44,225,000
539 BAZAAOUN              North Lebanon   Batroun    163,000,000 100,750,000
540 BECHARE               North Lebanon   Batroun    826,000,000 823,221,000
541 BKAAKAFRA             North Lebanon    Bchari    186,000,000 127,870,000
542 BKARKACHA             North Lebanon    Bchari    150,000,000   7,450,362
543 HADATH EL JEBBET      North Lebanon    Bchari    140,000,000 141,114,500
544 HADCHIT               North Lebanon    Bchari    281,000,000 286,719,500
545 HASROUN               North Lebanon    Bchari    245,000,000 188,270,000
546 KANAT                 North Lebanon    Bchari     90,000,000  91,617,000
547 TORZA                 North Lebanon    Bchari    112,000,000 120,355,000
548 AAFSADIK              North Lebanon    Bchari     53,000,000  54,347,500
549 AIN AAKRINE           North Lebanon    Bchari     57,000,000  56,100,000
550 AMIOUN                North Lebanon    Bchari    404,000,000 191,315,000
551 ANFEH                 North Lebanon    Koura     273,000,000 220,980,000
552 BARSSA                North Lebanon    Koura      70,000,000  49,487,500
553 BECHMEZZINE           North Lebanon    Koura     121,000,000  97,455,000
554 BEDNAYEL              North Lebanon    Koura      24,000,000  25,155,000
555 BETRAM                North Lebanon    Koura     113,000,000  94,550,000
556 BKEFTINE              North Lebanon    Koura      24,000,000  23,813,000
557 BSORMA                North Lebanon    Koura      79,000,000  83,645,000
558 BTOURATEJ             North Lebanon    Koura      48,000,000  21,440,000
559 BZIZA                 North Lebanon    Koura      58,000,000  36,400,000
560 DAR BAACHTAR          North Lebanon    Koura     132,000,000  88,787,500
561 DARCHMEZINE           North Lebanon    Koura      21,000,000  20,989,000
562 DEDDEH                North Lebanon    Koura     223,000,000 173,915,000
563 EJD AABRINE           North Lebanon    Koura      47,000,000  48,009,000
564 FYAA                  North Lebanon    Koura      86,000,000  87,709,500
565 KAFTOUN               North Lebanon    Koura      25,000,000  25,011,500
566 KFAR SARROUNE         North Lebanon    Koura      43,000,000  43,335,000
567 KFARAAKA              North Lebanon    Koura     209,000,000 161,562,500
568 KFARHATA              North Lebanon    Koura      58,000,000  56,844,000




                              12

569 KFARHAZIR                   North Lebanon     Koura        138,000,000   118,335,000
570 KFARKAHEL                   North Lebanon     Koura         40,000,000    26,715,000
571 KEFRAYA                     North Lebanon     Koura         72,000,000    72,000,000
572 KOLHAT                      North Lebanon     Koura         66,000,000    66,000,000
573 KOUSBA                      North Lebanon     Koura        266,000,000   266,000,000
574 MEJDEL-ZAKROUK-WATA FARES   North Lebanon     Koura         38,000,000    38,000,000
575 PETROMINE                   North Lebanon     Koura         70,000,000    70,000,000
576 RAS MESKA                   North Lebanon     Koura         61,000,000    43,025,000
577 RECHDEBBINE                 North Lebanon     Koura         49,000,000    49,000,000
578 AASSOUN                     North Lebanon     Koura        117,000,000   117,000,000
579 BADDAOUI                    North Lebanon     Koura        419,000,000   311,975,000
580 BAKHOUN                     North Lebanon     Koura        415,000,000   415,000,000
581 BEIT EL FAKSS               North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh   105,000,000    78,645,000
    BHANIN-RIHANET-MAZRAAT
582 ARTOUSA                     North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh   271,000,000  192,865,000
583 BKAASAFRINE                 North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh   194,000,000   194,000,000
584 BKARSOUNET-QUATTINE         North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh   258,000,000   258,000,000
585 DEIR AAMMAR                 North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh   313,000,000   313,000,000
586 DEIR NBOUH                  North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh    54,000,000    54,000,000
587 KARAM EL MEHR               North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh    79,000,000    78,457,500
588 KFARCHELLAN                 North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh    37,000,000    37,000,000
589 KFARHABOU                   North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh   165,000,000   165,000,000
590 MOUNIEH                     North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh 1,582,000,000 1,582,000,000
591 MRAH SRAJ                   North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh    57,000,000    57,000,000
592 NEMREIN -BAKKOUZA           North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh   115,000,000   115,000,000
593 SFAIRET                     North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh   321,000,000   321,000,000
594 SIR                         North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh   391,000,000   391,000,000
595 TARAN                       North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh   116,000,000   116,000,000
596 KALAMOUN                    North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh   247,000,000   223,670,000
597 MINA                        North Lebanon  Monieh Donieh 2,056,000,000 1,862,800,000
598 AALMA                       North Lebanon     Tripoli      123,000,000    85,250,000
599 AARABAT KOSHAYA             North Lebanon     Tripoli       44,000,000    44,000,000
600 AARJESS                     North Lebanon     Tripoli       41,000,000    41,000,000
601 AINTOURINE                  North Lebanon    Zgharta        59,000,000    58,950,200
602 AITO                        North Lebanon    Zgharta        58,000,000    58,000,000
603 BASLOUKIT                   North Lebanon    Zgharta        37,000,000    36,884,750
604 BNECHAAY                    North Lebanon    Zgharta        65,000,000    65,000,000
605 BOUHAIRA                    North Lebanon    Zgharta        49,000,000    49,000,000
606 DARAYA-BECHNINE             North Lebanon    Zgharta        75,000,000    52,840,000
607 ERDEH                       North Lebanon    Zgharta       198,000,000   157,520,000
608 KAFARD LAKOUS               North Lebanon    Zgharta        63,000,000    60,000,000
609 KARM SEDDET                 North Lebanon    Zgharta        57,000,000    56,500,000
610 KFARFOU                     North Lebanon    Zgharta        30,000,000    30,000,000
611 KFARHATA                    North Lebanon    Zgharta        61,000,000    60,975,000
612 KFARSGHAB-EL MERH           North Lebanon    Zgharta       172,000,000   148,125,000
613 KFARYACHIT-BESBAAL          North Lebanon    Zgharta        39,000,000    39,000,000
614 KFARZINA                    North Lebanon    Zgharta        52,000,000    52,000,000
615 KOREH BACH                  North Lebanon    Zgharta        45,000,000    45,000,000
616 MAZRAAT EL TOUFFAH          North Lebanon    Zgharta        76,000,000    71,050,000



                                    13

617 MEJDLAYA              North Lebanon   Zgharta      62,000,000  36,700,000
618 MERYATTA              North Lebanon   Zgharta     110,000,000 110,000,000
619 MEZIARAT              North Lebanon   Zgharta     195,000,000 195,000,000
620 RACHAAIN              North Lebanon   Zgharta     173,000,000 173,000,000
621 RASKYFA               North Lebanon   Zgharta      40,000,000  40,000,000
622 SEBAAL                North Lebanon   Zgharta     182,000,000 131,940,000
623 SERAAL                North Lebanon   Zgharta      79,000,000  64,425,000
624 TOULA-ASLOUT          North Lebanon   Zgharta      68,000,000  46,835,000
625 YAAL                  North Lebanon   Zgharta      50,000,000  49,688,000
626 ZGHORTA-EHDEN         North Lebanon   Zgharta   1,249,000,000 757,830,500
627 AICHIET               North Lebanon   Zgharta     126,000,000 126,000,000
628 ARAMTA                North Lebanon   Zgharta     139,000,000 139,000,000
629 ARAY (JEZZINE)        North Lebanon   Zgharta      49,000,000  49,000,000
630 AZOUR                 North Lebanon   Zgharta      56,000,000  55,523,500
631 BENOUATI              South Lebanon   Jezzine      42,000,000  42,000,000
632 BKASSINE              South Lebanon   Jezzine     184,000,000 184,000,000
633 BTEDDINE ALLOKOUCH    South Lebanon   Jezzine      45,000,000  45,000,000
634 HAYTTOURAT            South Lebanon   Jezzine      50,000,000  50,000,000
635 HOMSIET               South Lebanon   Jezzine      16,000,000  14,922,000
636 JERNAYA               South Lebanon   Jezzine      82,000,000  82,000,000
637 JEZZINE               South Lebanon   Jezzine     555,000,000 555,000,000
638 KAYTOULI              South Lebanon   Jezzine     183,000,000 183,000,000
639 KERKHA                South Lebanon   Jezzine      29,000,000  29,000,000
640 KFARFALOUSS           South Lebanon   Jezzine      30,000,000  30,000,000
641 KFARHOUNAT            South Lebanon   Jezzine     224,000,000 164,875,000
642 LEBAA                 South Lebanon   Jezzine      57,000,000  57,000,000
643 LOUAIZET              South Lebanon   Jezzine      59,000,000  58,916,500
644 MACHMOUCHET           South Lebanon   Jezzine      24,000,000  24,000,000
645 MAKNOUNIET            South Lebanon   Jezzine      44,000,000  44,000,000
646 MLYKH                 South Lebanon   Jezzine     102,000,000 102,000,000
647 RIHAN                 South Lebanon   Jezzine     180,000,000 130,020,000
648 ROUM                  South Lebanon   Jezzine     111,000,000 111,000,000
649 SABAH                 South Lebanon   Jezzine      34,000,000  34,000,000
650 SAIDOUN               South Lebanon   Jezzine      36,000,000  36,000,000
651 SEJOUD                South Lebanon   Jezzine      49,000,000  49,000,000
652 SFARIEH               South Lebanon   Jezzine      51,000,000  51,000,000
653 SNIEH                 South Lebanon   Jezzine      36,000,000  29,120,000
654 WADI JEZZINE          South Lebanon   Jezzine      48,000,000  48,000,000
655 ZHALTAT               South Lebanon   Jezzine      33,000,000  32,716,000
656 ABBRA                 South Lebanon   Jezzine      75,000,000  75,000,000
657 ADLOUN                South Lebanon   Jezzine     300,000,000  61,900,000
658 ADOUSSIET             South Lebanon    Saida       42,000,000  42,000,000
659 AIN DELB              South Lebanon    Saida       85,000,000  85,000,000
660 ANKOUN                South Lebanon    Saida      148,000,000 140,000,000
661 ARZI                  South Lebanon    Saida      108,000,000  90,642,500
662 BABLIET               South Lebanon    Saida      176,000,000 159,000,250
663 BERTY                 South Lebanon    Saida       64,000,000  60,000,000
664 BKASTTA               South Lebanon    Saida       20,000,000  19,800,000




                              14

665 BRAMIET                South Lebanon    Saida         56,000,000    56,000,000
666 DARB SYM               South Lebanon    Saida        126,000,000   125,990,920
667 GHAZIEH                South Lebanon    Saida        423,000,000   423,000,000
668 GHESSANIET             South Lebanon    Saida         95,000,000    78,900,000
669 HARET SAIDA            South Lebanon    Saida        144,000,000   107,780,000
670 HLALIEH                South Lebanon    Saida         60,000,000    59,149,000
671 KERAYET                South Lebanon    Saida         97,000,000    61,000,000
672 KFARHETTI              South Lebanon    Saida        153,000,000   150,793,000
673 KFARMELKI              South Lebanon    Saida        173,000,000   172,010,000
674 KHRAYEB                South Lebanon    Saida        227,000,000   221,757,000
675 MAGHDOUCHE             South Lebanon    Saida        281,000,000   270,870,000
676 MAROUNIET              South Lebanon    Saida        189,000,000    61,150,000
677 MEAAMRIEH              South Lebanon    Saida         66,000,000    66,000,000
678 MEJDALIOUN             South Lebanon    Saida         41,000,000    35,050,000
679 MIEH MIEH              South Lebanon    Saida        146,000,000   146,000,000
680 SAKSAKIEH              South Lebanon    Saida        241,000,000   219,000,000
681 SALHIEH                South Lebanon    Saida         47,000,000    47,000,000
682 SARAFAND               South Lebanon    Saida        394,000,000   326,304,500
683 TEFAHTA                South Lebanon    Saida        189,000,000   188,308,450
684 ZRARIEH                South Lebanon    Saida        318,000,000   266,925,000
685 ABBASSIET              South Lebanon    Saida        249,000,000   185,035,000
686 AIN BAAL               South Lebanon    Saida        180,000,000   180,000,000
687 AITIT                  South Lebanon    Saida        135,000,000    86,783,750
688 ALMA EL CHAAB          South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    117,000,000   117,000,000
689 BATOULIEH              South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr     77,000,000    77,000,000
690 BAZOURIET              South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    252,000,000   232,500,000
691 BOURJ CHMALY           South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    248,000,000   248,000,000
692 CHAHOUR                South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    304,000,000   230,014,000
693 CHHABIET               South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    283,000,000   183,073,750
694 DEIR KANOUN EL NAHR    South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    191,000,000    95,085,000
695 JOUAYA                 South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    609,000,000   609,000,000
696 KANA                   South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    394,000,000   344,000,000
697 KLAILET                South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    174,000,000   174,000,000
698 MAARAKET               South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    356,000,000   356,000,000
699 MAAROUB                South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    135,000,000   135,000,000
700 NAKKOURA               South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    141,000,000   141,000,000
701 SOUR                   South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr  1,823,000,000 1,448,841,000
702 SRYFA                  South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    306,000,000   289,360,000
703 TAIR FELSSIEH          South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    136,000,000   136,000,000
704 YARINE                 South Lebanon   Sour - Tyr    130,000,000   130,000,000




                               15

16

