                                      Documentof
                                   The World Bank

                             FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                 Report No: 37808-LE




                                   PROJECTPAPER

                                         ONA

                                 PROPOSEDGRANT

                      INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$30MILLION

                    FROMTHE TRUST FUNDFOR LEBANON

                                        TO THE

                               LEBANESEREPUBLIC

                                       FOR THE

               FIRST MUNICIPAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT


                                   October 27,2006




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
Middle East Country Department
MiddleEast andNorthAfrica Region


This document hasrestricteddistribution and maybeusedby recipientsonly inthe
performanceo ftheir officialduties. Its contents maynot otherwisebe disclosedwithout
World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY    EQUIVALENT

                (Exchange Rate Effective September2006)

                            Currency Unit = LP
                             LP1,500 =US$1




                               FISCAL  YEAR
                         January 1-December 31




                    ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
DGLA    Directorate General of Local Administration
FMP     FirstMunicipalInfrastructureProject
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
GOL     Government o f Lebanon
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICT     Information and Communications Technology
M O M   MinistryofInterior andMunicipalities
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
SOE     Statement o f Expenses

uxo
TFL     Trust Fundfor Lebanon
        UnexplodedOrdnance
WA      Withdrawal Application




                      Vice President: Daniela Gressani
                      Country Director: Joseph Saba
                      Sector Director: IngerAndersen
                        Task Leader: Robert Maurer

                              PROJECTPAPERDATA        SHEET


Date: October 27,2006                               Team Leader: Robert Maurer
Country: Lebanese Republic                          Sector Director: Inger Andersen
Project Name: First MunicipalInfrastructure         Sector Manager: HediLarbi
Project                                             Country Director: Joseph Saba
Project ID:P103875                                  Environmental Category: B




FY                         07                 08               09                10
Annual                    2.0                12.0             14.0               2.0
Cumulative                2.0                14.0             28.0              30.0



Does the scaled-up project require any exceptions from Bank policies?      o Yes
Have these beenapprovedby Bank management?                                 o Yes o No
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?               o Yes o N o



Does the scaled-up project trigger any new safeguard policies?
No.
                                  For AdditionalFinancing
[ 3 Loan [ 3 Credit [XI Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
        Total Bank financing (US$ million): 30.0
        Proposedterms: 100percent grant
                                   FinancingPlan (US$m.)


                               CONTENT


1      INTRODUCTION                                        1

2.      BACKGROUND RATIONALE
                     AND                                  2

3.      PROPOSED CHANGES                                   5

4.      CONSISTENCY WITH THE CAS                           5

5.      APPRAISAL OF THE PROJECTACTIVITIES                 5

6.      EXPECTED OUTCOMES                                 11

7.      BENEFITS RISKS
                AND                                       12

8.      FINANCIALTERMSAND CONDITIONS                      13

ANNEX 1 PROCUREMENT  SUMMARY TABLES                       14

ANNEX 2 DISBURSEMENT  SUMMARY TABLE                       15

ANNEX 3 FINANCIALMANAGEMENT    AND DISBURSEMENT
                                            ARRANGEMENTS  16

ANNEX 4 CAPACITY BUILDINGCOMPONENT                        18

ANNEX 5 ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                                 20

ANNEX 6 PROJECTPROCESSINGSCHEDULE AND TEAMCOMPOSITION     25

MAP     IBRD35148


                       FIRSTMUNICIPAL     INFRASTRUCTURE      PROJECT

                PROPOSEDGRANT       FROMTHETRUST         FUNDFORLEBANON


1.      INTRODUCTION

1.      The proposed grant to be provided under the Trust Fund for Lebanon established
by the Board o f Directors on September 7, 2006 (Resolution IDNR2006-017612) (see
below) would help finance the costs associated with the implementation o f activities that
scale up the impact and development effectiveness o f the ongoing First Municipal
Infrastructure Project (FMP) (LN-70260). The grant would finance emergency works,
goods and service contracts aimed at restoring key municipal infrastructure in the
conflict-affected municipalities and villages o f Lebanon. The proposed grant would also
provide capacity buildingto the Government o f Lebanon (GOL) to mitigate the impact o f
the hostilities on the country's municipal finances.

2.      FMIP implementation progress and the achievement o f the development
objectives were rated satisfactory prior to the hostilities. The performance o f the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) in the Ministry o f Interior and Municipalities (MOIM) is rated
highly satisfactory with staff fully familiar with the Bank's fiduciary and safeguards
requirements. FMIP funds uncommitted before the recent hostilities have been quickly
allocated to a pipeline o f sub-projects to address immediate rehabilitation needs which
are the result o f heavy damage to municipal infrastructure. A new pipeline for financing
under the proposed grant is being developed and the PCU capacities are being
strengthened to handle the additional work load. Against this background, the grant i s
economicallyjustified.

3.       The grant would not entail a change in the FMP's development objectives.
Rather, the objectives would be adapted to today's circumstances by adjusting the
allocation criteria o f the grant proceeds according to the level o f recorded destruction
(instead o f the registered population) and expanding (i) the project's geographic coverage
to municipalities and villages affected by the recent hostilities, and (ii)    the range o f
activities, to include the reconstruction, repair or replacement o f municipal infrastructure
and assets as well as development activities to facilitate the revival o f the regional
economy. The expected outcomes from the activities supported by the grant would be
consistent with those o f the FMIP and would include (i)the improvement in the living
conditions o f the affected population (through the sustainable rehabilitation o f priority
municipal infrastructure), and (ii)  the improvement in municipal service delivery in the
conflict-affected localities (through regular maintenance practices and the progressive
returnto more sustainable financing schemes).

4.      Various donors have so far agreed to finance the rehabilitation o f almost 100
villages. The Bank's grant provides parallel financing,            covering most o f the
municipalities and villages not supported by other donors. The GOL and the Bank are in
contact with potential donors to finance the remaining infrastructure rehabilitation needs
inthe affectedlocalities.



                                             - 1 -

2.      BACKGROUND RATIONALE
                        AND

Country Context

5.      On August 14,2006, a UN-brokered ceasefire brought an end to intense hostilities
that took place in Lebanon for 33 days. The GOL estimates that almost one million
Lebanese (out o f an estimated population o f four million) fled their homes during the
height o fthe hostilities. The affected areas experienced a total disruption o f basic services
and continue to suffer from a lack o f safe drinking water, running sewage disposal
systems, and functioning social services.

6.      A preliminary assessmentcarried out by the GOL indicates that the municipalities
located in the conflict-affected areas suffered wide-scale destruction. The housing sector
accounts for almost 50 percent o f the total damage particularly inthe southern suburbs o f
Beirut as well as in southern Lebanon. Partial or complete destruction was reported to
approximately 30,000 housing units, almost 140bridges, close to 210,000 m2o f damaged
roads, around 200 public and 80 private schools, and over 30 vital infrastructure facilities
(airports, ports, sewage treatment plants, water reservoirs, power plants, etc.). The
damage to the municipal sector (which includes, among others, urban roads, retaining
walls, street lighting, water and sanitation, municipal buildings, and equipment) is
provisionally estimated at around US$80 million.

First Municipal Infrastructure Project

7.      An US$80 million IBRD loan for the First Municipal Infrastructure Project
(FMIP) was approved on June 22, 2000 and became effective on November 28, 2000.
The project development objectives consist o f (i)restoring selected basic municipal
infrastructure to improve the living conditions, primarily in municipalities previously
deprived o f such investments, and (ii)setting the stage for the development o f the
municipal sector by enabling municipalities to address local infrastructure needs and by
providing municipalities with their share o f intergovernmental transfers intended to
promote capital investment. There have been no changes to the original objectives,
design, or scope.

8.      The FMIP finances the rehabilitation o f municipal infrastructure, including
potable water and sanitation networks, as well as improved access roads, retaining walls
and street lighting to primary services such as health clinics and hospitals, schools and
community facilities, churches and mosques, cemeteries and commercial areas. In
addition to the rehabilitation o f the physical municipal assets the FMIP also focuses on
strengthening the management capacities o f local governments. By being directly
responsible for project identification, appraisal, design, bid preparation and construction
supervision, municipalities in Lebanon have considerably improved their capacity to
discharge their financial, planningand implementation responsibilities.

9.      The FMIP i s the best performing Bank project inLebanon and is well on track to
achieve its development objectives and related outcomes. Implementation progress and
the achievement o f the development objectives were rated satisfactory prior to the



                                             - 2 -

hostilities. Almost 800 sub-projects have been implemented so far in more than 700
municipalities. For instance, by June 2006, over 1,500 km o f roads and 260 km o f
retaining walls had been repaired and upgraded, over 12,000 street lighting poles had
been installed, and almost 350 km o f drainage, water and sewerage networks had been
repaired. By September 30, 2006, disbursements have reached US$63 million (Le.,
almost 80 percent o f the loan amount) with the uses o f all the remaining funds already
identified.

1.0.     While the FMIP does not have the ambition to develop a full-fledged long-term
strategy for the municipal sector, it has succeeded in setting the stage for the gradual
assumption o f responsibility for municipal services and for promoting sustainable
management practices at the local level. The ratio o f government transfers to municipal
revenues dropped from one-half to almost one-third, indicating improved financial
sustainability. The capacity building activities have helped develop, implement and
maintain an infrastructure rehabilitation program, including support for preparing
feasibility studies, tender documents, sub-project technical designs and supervision, and
maintenance programming. Moreover, significant progress has been shown in carrying
out the complex and politically sensitive studies on strengthening the M O M to better
coordinate the municipal sector and on completing the review o f the economic potential
o f ten cities to promote local development.

11.      The PCU concentrates a wealth o f experience in project implementation and
constitutes an invaluable asset as the country prepares to surmount its new challenges.
The PCU has strong leadership, tested administrative procedures, close interaction with
the municipalities, and a strong focus on quality control. By way o f example, the work
program agreed between the GOL and the Bank during the 2005 Country Portfolio
Performance Reviewwas fully implemented within the agreed time frame; this represents
a significant achievement in the Lebanese context. Consequently, project management
was upgraded to highly satisfactory prior to the hostilities.

12.      The FMIP is in full compliance with the loan covenants including the fiduciary,
environmental and social safeguards. All audit requirements are met and reports have
been received on time. The auditors have continuously issued reports without
qualifications. The mid-term review o f December 2005 confirmed that the FMIP
succeeded in establishing a clear set o f technical and economic criteria for the selection
o f priority investment sub-projects at the local level. Both the borrower and the
implementingentities are committed to the project, which is also widely perceived by
municipal councils as an essential partner to address their priorities needs.

Impact of the Hostilities

13.      The recent hostilities have negatively affected implementation progress. About
150 civil works contracts will not be completed before the current closing date o f June
30, 2007. The contractors face major challenges, including shortage o f construction
materials and limited access to the work sites because o f unexploded ordnance (UXO).
Moreover, the resumption o f the works will be compounded by the onset o f the winter
season and the heavy rains as experienced over the recent years. The aggregate impact on

the completion o f the physical work may require a second loan extension o f nine months
which would beprocessed indue time'.

14.      The capacity building component will suffer fkom delays as the urgent realities
distract central government officials and the local authorities from focusing on longer-
term sector reforms. Activities are being reprioritized toward immediate reconstruction
needs. In response, the PCU is being strengthened to better adapt to the increased work
load and the emergency conditions.

15.      The municipal sector at-large has been significantly affected by the hostilities.
Because o f the combination o f growing municipal expenditures and scarce resources the
capacity o f the municipalities to deliver basic services to the vulnerable population has
been seriously compromised. The impact on the lower tier o f government i s being
assessedto fully understand the negative implications on localmanagement performance,
notably: (i)the damage to physical infrastructure and direct destruction o f municipal
assets, (ii)  the effect o f contracting municipal revenues in the context o f rising poverty
levels and deteriorating economic conditions, (iii)the effect o f growing municipal
expenditures rendered necessary by the hostilities, (iv) the reduced capacity o f local
governments to deliver basic municipal services in a post-conflict environment, and (v)
the already inadequate capacity to ensure proper operation and maintenance o f municipal
assets.

16.      The Bank is assisting the project counterparts to undertake the necessary analysis
to ensure adequate coverage o f emerging sector issues. However, the focus on promoting
longer term sector reforms in areas such as intergovernmental transfers and
decentralization is likely to be postponed. As a result, implementation o f the reform
agenda will be slow inthe aftermath o f the hostilities.

Proposed Grant

17.      Considering the project's demonstrated implementation effectiveness and quality
o f assistance to the municipalities, the MOIM expressed its intention to submit a
supplemental financing request to the Bank inearly 2006 to expand the geographic scope
o f the project and cover the 267 municipalities that were newly established after the
approval o f the FMIP. The recent hostilities necessitated a reorientation o f the envisaged
operation, focusing on replacing lost municipal assets and restoring basic services in the
270 most affected municipalities and villages. The GOL and the Bank concur that the
FMIP's tested mechanisms, procedures and capacities are the most suitable operational
vehicle to rapidly address these unforeseen needs.




1Implementation was similarly delayed after the assassination in February 2005 o f the outgoing Prime
Minister, the late Rafic Hariri. While the project recovered quickly thereafter, the closing date of the loan
had to be extended by 18 months.


                                                    - 4 -

3.       PROPOSED   CHANGES

 18.     The FMIP's development objectives are adapted to respond to the emergency
situation, allowing for the reconstruction o f damaged infrastructure on a prioritized basis,
and assisting the economic recovery in the worst-affected localities. The grant
incorporates an adjustment to the allocation criteria which would be based on the level o f
recorded destruction (instead o f the registered population). Another change is the
expansion o f both the project's geographic coverage to municipalities and villages
affected by the recent hostilities (instead o f inmunicipalities previously deprived o f such
investments) and the range o f activities, to include (i)  the reconstruction and repair o f
municipal infrastructure, (ii)   the repair and replacement o f municipal assets, (iii)   the
provision o f Information and Communications Technology (ICT) equipment, and (iv) the
support to development activities which will facilitate economic activities. Except for the
abovementioned adjustments, the proposed grant would not include any substantive
changes to the FMIP.

 19.     The closing date o f the grant would be December 31,2009.


4.       CONSISTENCYWITH THE CAS

20.      The Board discussed the Lebanon CAS in December 2005. The CAS base case
foresees a supplement to the FMIP. However, all indications are that, as a result o f the
hostilities, Lebanon has fallen into the CAS low case which pre-empts new IBRD
lending. Considering the magnitude o f the physical damages and the increasingly
precarious fiscal situation and public debt dynamics that are expected to prevail over the
next 1-2 years, the Bank's Board o f Governors approved a transfer o f US$70 million in
grants from IBRD surplus to a Trust Fund for Lebanon (TFL) to support the
Government's reconstruction efforts following the recent hostilities. The Trust Fund
document (R2006-0173/2) envisages the use o f TFL resources to support the municipal
sector via the FMIP. Like all TFL-financed projects, this grant uses simplified
documentation, follows emergency procedures, and is approved by the Regional Vice
President.


5.       APPRAISALOFTHE PROJECTACTIVITIES

21.      Following the cessation o f hostilities, the Bank reviewed on a sample basis the
damage reports provided by the municipalities to the MOIM as well as the damage
assessment carried out by a consulting firm on behalf o f the GOL. The team undertook
field visits to municipalities in the Governorates o f Mount Lebanon, Bekaa, South
Lebanon and Nabatiyeh and inspected both the damage to the physical infrastructure and
the level o f destruction o f municipal assets. The detailed analysis o f the cost estimates
collected from a representative sample o f 150 municipalities shows that the Nabatiyeh
Governorate concentrates almost three quarters o f the total losses. In this severely
impacted region Bent Jbeil district alone represents about 40 percent o f the total
municipal damage reported so far. Sector-wise, the urban primary and secondary roads



                                             - 5 -

and retaining walls represent 36 percent and 24 percent o f the total municipal losses,
respectively.

22.      The Bank has been working closely with a team from the European Commission
that has undertaken an in-depth validation o f the damages to the country's public
infrastructure. The team has also consulted closely with the relevant GOL agencies
involved in the reconstruction process as well as the donors supporting the municipal
sector in order to fold the proposed recovery activities into the GOL's priorities and the
wider response o f the international community.

Objectives, Description, and Cost

23.      The objectives o f the grant would be to (i)restore basic services and rebuild
priority public infrastructure inthe affected municipalities and villages2, (ii)       support local
economic recovery and development in the municipalities that have suffered the heaviest
damage, and (iii)     provide technical assistance to and build the capacity o f municipalities
to mitigate the impact o f the hostilities on municipal finances (within the broader context
o f developing the municipal sector). In pursuit o f these objectives, the grant would
finance three components.

24.      Component 1: Reconstruction of Public Infrastructure (US$l8.0 million).
This component would finance the reconstruction o f priority public infrastructure
destroyed or damaged duringthe hostilities in about 185 municipalities not supported by
other donors. Sub-projects would consist of, but are not limited to, urban roads,
sidewalks, retaining walls, street lighting, water and sewerage networks, municipal
buildings and ICT equipment. The selected sub-projects would comply with the
emergency reconstruction criteria as well as the environmental and social safeguards
adopted under the FMIP, with an added emphasis on simplicity and speed.

25.      Component 2: Municipal Recovery and Development (USS9.0 million). This
component would provide assistance to build new municipal infrastructure in order to
help revive the local economy. Among others, it would finance market places, access to
public facilities, site and services schemes, and the upgrading o f service delivery systems
and related equipment. The grant would support development-oriented sub-projects in
about 10 to 15 municipalities that (i)      receive reconstruction assistance from other donors
and (ii) the highest potential to become growth centers for the regional economy.
          show
The selected sub-projects would also comply with the economic and financial eligibility
criteria as well as the environmental and social safeguards adopted under the FMIP.

26.      Component3: Project Managementand Capacity Building(US$3.0 million).
This component would support the following activities: (i)               project management and
technical assistance for implementingthe grant, and (ii)         capacity building for increasing
local revenues and improving transparency in the management o f intergovernmental
transfers and financial flows between the central government and the municipalities. Both

  The municipalities located in Beirut's southern suburbs would be excluded from this grant as they are
expected to benefit from a comprehensive and integrated urban development program to be financed under
an alternative scheme.


                                                  - 6 -

activities are critical to the sustainable recovery o f the affected municipalities in
particular, and the municipal sector ingeneral.

27.        The grant o f US$30 million would complement other donors' reconstruction
programs by covering most o f the estimated damages to municipal infrastructure in the
municipalities. Moreover, it would foster economic recovery in select conflict-affected
cities. The duration o f the grant would be about three years. The following table provides
an overview o f the funds allocated to the individual components.

Activitv                                                         Procurement           TFL           GOL     TOTAL
                                                                   Category
                                                                                 Amount      YO    Amount YO Amount
                                                                                 (US$m)            (US$m)    (US%m)
COMPONENT 1:RECONSTRUCTIONOF PUBLIC
INFRASTRUCTURE
    (a) Rebuild and repair damaged public infrastructure            Works          15.0     50%      0    0   150
        including municipal buildings
    (b) Replace damaged ICT equipment                               Goods          0 3       1%      0    0    0 3
COMPONENT2: MUNICIPAL         RECOVERY& DEVELOPMENT
SUPPORT
    (a) Provision o f public infrastructure to facilitate social    Works          7.0      23%      0    0    7.0
        and economic recovery
    (b) Provision o f equipment to facilitate social and            Goods          0.3       1%      0    0    0.3
        economic recovery
COMPONENT3: PROJECTMANAGEMENTCAPACITY        AND
BUILDING
    (a) Capacity building to mitigate impact of the conflict       Services        1 8       6%      0    0    1 8
        on municipal finances and technical assistance
    (b) Preparationof the environment managementplans              Services        0 2       1%      0    0    0 2
        for sup-projects screened as category B and Penodic
        Social Assessments
    (c) Project Management                                         Services        1 0       3%      0    0    1 0
CONTINGENCIES(Physical and Financial) *                                            4 4      15%      0    0    4 4
*TOTAL                                                                               0      100%     0    0   30.0
 Note. Contingencies are allocated on a pro rata basis for works and goods under Components 1and 2


Implementation Arrangements

28.       The implementation arrangements for the grant would be aligned with the
provisions established under the FMIP. The core principles include: (i)demand-driven                 a
construction program based on well identified needs by the municipalities and villages;
(ii)simplified approval andefficient implementationprocedures; and (iii)                                 compliance
with FMIP eligibility criteria as well as its fiduciary, environmental and social
safeguards. The activities would not involve any exceptions to Bank policies.

29.       The allocation o f the grant proceeds would vary between Components 1 and 2.
Under Component 1,the funds would be apportioned among the affected municipalities
and villages according to the level o f recorded destruction. The full extent o f the local
damages is yet to be assessed, a process that may take several more months. In order to
allow for a quick start-up of activities, an initial amount o f US$5 million would be
allocated by providing up to US$130,000 to each municipality and villagefor damage
repairs; this amount has been established as the average damage in a sample o f
municipalities. Once detailed information on the actual damage to public infrastructure
has been compiled by the PCU, a new indicator-the                                     ratio of actual damage in a
municipality/village to the total damage to infrastructure in all conflict-affected



                                                                 - 7 -

municipalities/villages-would         be introduced. Both indicators capture accurately the
level o f destruction in a given municipality or village, with the latter considering the
proportion o f the damages between the affected areas. The greater the damages, the
higher would be the allocation to the municipalities and villages under either indicator.
Underthis component the allocation formula would be monitoredto ensure that resources
flow as planned, and to identify those municipalities/villages that are having difficulty in
submitting proposals and making use o f the allocated resources.

30.     UnderComponent 2, funds would beprovided primarily to the medium-size cities
with the highest potential to become growth centers for the regional economy. The
selection o f the sub-projects among the eligible municipalities would be made according
to the projected overall economic growth impact, approximated by the number o f
beneficiaries. The sub-projects would be identified through a participatory process and
endorsed by a decision o f the municipal councils. This component is expected to start
once the housing and municipal infrastructure reconstruction work is well advanced. The
required feasibility studies and community consultative processes would be funded under
the project.

31.     The MOIMwould be responsible for project execution through the existingPCU.
The PCU would be reinforced andbe responsible for all aspects o f project management.
Quarterly and annual reports, including a mid-term review and an implementation
completion report, would be prepared by the PCU for Bank and GOL review in
accordance with Bank requirements.

32.     In order to meet the unexpected and significant needs in the conflict-affected
localities effectively, the implementation capacity o f the PCU and o f the Directorate
General o f Municipal Administration (DGMA) in the MOIM would require
strengthening, the latter with specific emphasis on coordination and monitoring o f the
reconstruction effort. Staffing requirements at the PCU have been identified and
additional personnel are being selected using the Bank's procedures for the recruitment o f
consultants.

Procurement

33.     The grant would finance civil works, goods, consultant services, and training. The
standardprocurement method for civil works and goods would be National Competitive
Bidding using simplified procedures. However, during the first 6-12 months after
effectiveness, the exclusive use o f Shopping, satisfactory to the Bank, would be allowed
for two reasons: (i)   the emergency nature o f the sub-project investments and the need for
speedy delivery; and (ii)     the small size o f the contracts3 and the remoteness o f many
locations, which are unlikely to attract large contractors. In accordance with the Bank's
guidelines for shopping, the invitation to submit quotations would include a detailed
description o f the works or goods, including basic specifications, the required completion
date, a basis form o f agreement, and relevant drawings, when necessary. Price quotations

3 The average sub-project size is estimated to be around US$150,000. Following FMIP procedures, the
individual municipalities would be responsible for the procurement o f works; a bundling of contracts
would, thus, not be feasible.


                                                 - 8 -

would be submitted in sealed envelopes and opened in the presence o f the contractors
who choose to attend. The award would be made to the contractor who offers the lowest
price quotation for the required work and who has the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully. The PCU would update the procurement section o f
FMIP Operations Manual to reflect the different standard bidding documents to be used
in each case, as well as the thresholds pertaining to procurement methods and to the
Bank's prior review. The following contracts would be subject to the Bank's prior
review: the first contract under each procurement method regardless o f its estimated
value, as well as all contracts for works estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or
more, and for goods estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or more. (The procurement
table is provided inAnnex 1.

34.     Consultancy services to assist the PMU inmonitoring the implementation o f sub-
projects would be procured using the Bank's guidelines for recruiting consultants. Three
consultancy contracts for the preparation o f the initial pipeline o f priority sub-projects in
the Governorates o f South Lebanon, Nabatiyeh and Bekaa would be initiated using sole
sourcing, given the urgency to prepare the technical feasibility studies needed to start the
reconstruction work. Inthose newly established municipalities and villages where project
management and supervision capabilities are weak, the PCU would recruit local
consultants to assist the authorities in designing sub-projects and supervising contract
implementation.

35.     The selection methods for consultants that would be used under the grant are
Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS),                Selection Based on Consultants'
Qualifications (CQS) for contracts below US$lOO,OOO equivalent, Individual Consultant,
and Single Source Selection for firms and individual consultants. Short lists for
consulting services estimated not to exceed US$200,000 equivalent may be composed
exclusively o f local consulting firms suited for the assignment. Contracts o f consulting
firms estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more and o f individual consultants
estimated to cost US$50,000 equivalent or more would be subject to the Bank's prior
review.

36.     The PCU would develop a procurement plan for the grant for the Bank's prior
review and would update it on a quarterly basis. The P C U would submit the first
procurement plan for the initial amount o f US$2.5 million under Component 1 prior to
grant effectiveness and the complete procurement plan for Component 1 by February
2007, by which time an accurate assessment o f the needed repairs is expected to be
available. An initial procurement plan for Component 2 would also be submitted by
February 2007, identifying in broad terms the expected timing, value and procurement
methods to be used. The PCU would finalize the plan for Component 2 once the local
consultation processes have been completed and details about the sub-projects and
contracts are known.

37.      The PCU would also be responsible for maintaining accurate procurement
records, including all actions related to Bank-financed procurement. This includes
advertising, preparation o f bids, invitation to bid, record o f bid submissions, bid opening,
and evaluation o f bids, contract award and performance o f the contracts. The


                                             - 9 -

procurement files and the updated procurement plans would be maintained for review by
the Bank's supervisionmissions.

Financial Management and Disbursement

38.    The financial management system applicable for the FMIP loan would also be
used for the proposed grant. The PCU would maintain the grant's records and accounts
and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the grant. The PCU's financial staff
has been performing adequately under the FMIP and would also handle the financial
management and reporting aspects o f the grant. The PCU would prepare and disseminate
financial monitoring reports for the grant. These reports would follow the same format as
for the IBRD loan and would `be submitted to the Bank within 45 days after the end o f
each quarter.

39.    To facilitate project implementation and make timely payments, the PCU would
open a separate special account in US dollars at the Central Bank o f Lebanon. This
account would keep the transactions related to the TFL grant separate from those o f the
IBRD loan. There would be no combined loadgrant payments to sub-projects; the grant
would finance an entirely separate set o f contracts related to the (re-) reconstruction o f
municipal infrastructure. The proceeds o f the grant would be disbursed in accordance
with the Bank's disbursements guidelines. (Annexes 2 and 3 present the detailed financial
management and disbursement arrangements applicable to the proposed grant.)

Environmental and Social Safeguards

40.    While preparing the grant, a small number o f sub-projects were screened for
environmental impact. The screening confirmed that the overall scale and significance o f
the potential environmental impact o f the sub-projects are limited. The grant has, thus,
been classified as Category B in accordance with Operational Policy 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment). The grant would not trigger Operational Policy 4.12 (Involuntary
Resettlement).

41.    Duringimplementation, all sub-projects wouldbe screened for environmental and
social impact consistent with the Operations Manual for environmental and social
safeguards. Category A sub-projects would not be eligible for financing under the grant.
Similarly, sub-projects requiring land acquisition or resettlement would not be funded.
To ensure that all sub-projects are located on public land, the municipalities would
provide a land title for each site prior to the commencement o f the works. Based on the
past PCU experience, the unit would develop a check list (including the land status
screening) that the municipalities would fill infor each sub-project prior to approval. The
municipalities would also carry out site-specific environmental assessments for sub-
projects with potential significant impacts (Category B) and would submit such
assessment to the PCU for approval.

42.    At the implementation level, FMIP supervision missions have confirmed the
PCU's satisfactory compliance with the project's environmental safeguards. Also, and



                                            - 10-

similarly to the FMIP, both the Ministry o f Public Works and the Ministry o f Water and
Energywould provide the relevant oversight and would be responsible for the review and
approval o f non-municipal infrastructure sub-projects to be financed under the grant.
These include mainly water and sewerage networks, secondary roads as well as
electricity distribution lines and small transformers inthe affected municipalities/villages.
This process ensures that the engineering design for each sub-project is adequate interms
o f technical specifications, public health, safety and environmental protection. To this
end, municipalities would obtain the standard permit and approvals from the relevant line
ministries.

43.     From a social development perspective, and given the magnitude o f the physical
damage in the project area and the extensive social costs involved, the proposed
emergency measures are likely to have a positive impact. The grant would focus on (i)
improvements in living conditions, (ii) restoration o f key municipal infrastructure,
                                            the
and (iii)investments and support measures to revive the local economy in the areas
hardest hit during the hostilities. The swift implementation o f the GOL's reconstruction
program, to which this grant would contribute, would be a key factor in addressing the
broader social needs o f the conflict-affected population. In order to closely monitor the
social impact o f the grant, a beneficiary assessment would be carried out every six
months. This regular and participatory feedback from the beneficiaries would compensate
for the limitedmonitoring indicators imposed by the emergency nature o f the project and
would allow to take timely adjustments indesign and/or implementation, ifneed be.

Readinessfor Implementation

44.     The rapid implementation o f the GOL's reconstruction program is a critical factor
to address the needs o f the population in the affected areas and to maintain stability.
Consequently, the MOIM is already appraising the engineering designs o f the initial
pipeline o f sub-projects in accordance with the criteria spelled out in the FMIP's
Operations Manual. These criteria have been tested and refined during the
implementation o fthe FMIP.FMIPresources have been allocatedto finance the technical
studies necessary to develop this pipeline.

45.     PCU staff i s fully familiar with project management, financial management,
procurement and safeguards procedures. Furthermore, the PCU is being strengthened to
handle the additional, urgent work load. The grant is, therefore, considered ready for
implementation upon approval.


6.      EXPECTED     OUTCOMES

46.     The grant would use a simplified set o f indicators compared to the FMIP,
focusing mainly on physical investments. The financial indicators would be maintained
for the municipalities benefiting from grant assistance under Component 2, which would
allow monitoring the impact o f the investments on local economic development
approximated by the increase in municipal resources. There would be no changes to the
expected outcomes, which include: (i)the improvement in the living conditions o f the



                                             - 11-

affected population, and (ii) implementation o f regular maintenance practices and the
                                the
progressive return to more sustainable financing schemes regarding both transparent and
predictable transfers from the central government to the municipalities and own revenue
collection at the local level.


7.       BENEFITS   AND R I S K S

47.      The benefits o f the grant would be multiple. It would create temporary
employment at a time when unemployment has significantly increased. It would rebuild
public infrastructure which i s a critical ingredientto the construction o f houses and other
damaged infrastructure. The grant would aim to build growth centers to revive and
develop local economic activity. It would also restore services and enhance safety. Not
least, the grant would provide a weary population with a sense o f normalcy.
Consequently, municipalities have demonstrated a keen interest inthe proposed grant.

48.      The risks are equally manifold. Project implementation could slow down for a
number o f factors, notably a lack o f focus among central and local authorities given
multiple urgent demands, leading to possible delays in the preparation o f technical
feasibility studies, and the need to clear UXO in several municipalities and villages
before it is safe to commence work in a locality. These risks would be mitigated in part
by the recruitment o f consulting services for the preparation o f the priority pipeline of
sub-projects and by targeting, inthe initial phase, UXO-free villages and municipalities.

49.      Other major risks are the uncertainty regarding the condition o f the underground
utilities, which may require extensive earth works and may delay the final determination
o f damages and cost, and the availability and volatility o f the cost o f construction
materials. To compensate for these uncertainties, an amount equivalent to 15 percent of
the grant proceeds has been kept unallocated and would be used to cover the potential
cost o f change orders. Another main concern relates to the lack o f institutional capacity at
the MOIM, a lesson learned during FMIP implementation. The grant would, therefore,
provide targeted technical assistance to the DGLA and would foster closer coordination
between the PCU andthe DGLA.

50.      Inorder not to overlap with the reconstruction efforts funded by other donors, the
GOL and the Bank agreed that the proposed grant would not finance the rehabilitation o f
damaged infrastructure inthe most conflict-affected municipalities. This may represent a
riskinterms o fbothtiming and reputation, if-as      expected-the   grant disburses faster in
the less affected municipalities it covers. To reduce this risk, the GOL and the Bank are
in contact with the key donors to ensure that the respective programs are planned and
implemented in the most expedient manner. The use o f FMIP implementation structures
andprocedures may also be considered.

51.      In case there was a shortage of funds, the remaining municipal infrastructure
rehabilitation needs would be included in the GOL's reconstruction and reform program
that it i s preparingin advance o f a donors conference in early 2007. Lastly, the political
context remains unstable and may disrupt implementation o f the grant locally or



                                             - 12-

generally. In this case, the pace and/or scope of implementation would be adjusted
accordingly.


8.     FINANCIAL   TERMS   AND CONDITIONS

52.    TFL resources, including the proposed grant, would be provided on a grant basis.
The grant would also finance 100percent of eligible expenditures as indicated inthe TFL
Board document.




                                        - 13 -

                                                    ANNEX1

                                 PROCUREMENT             SUMMARY TABLES

                                    TableA: Procurement Summary
                             (Bank FiscalYear, EstimatedUS$ million)




                                    TableB: Procurement Categories

Activity                                                               ProcurementTFLAmount
                                                                        Category    (USSm)    Yo

WORKS                                                                                26.30  88%

Component-I: Reconstruction of Public Infrastructure
(a) Rebuildand repair damagedpublic infrastructureincludingmunicipal     Works       17.60
buildings
Component-2: Municipal Recovery and Development

(a) Provisionofpublic infrastructureto facilitate social and economic    Works       8.70
recnverv
._ _ _
GOO%                                                                                 0.70    2%

Component-I: Reconstruction of Public Infrastructure
(b) ReplacedamagedICT equipment                                          Goods       0.35

Component-2: Municipal Recovery and Development
(b) Provisionof equipment to facilitateeconomic recovery                 Goods       0.35

CONSULTANTS                                                                          3.00   10Yo

Component-3: Project Management and CapacityBuilding

(a) Capacity buildingto mitigateimpactofthe conflict on municipal        Services    1.80
finances andtechnicalassistance
(b) Preparationof the environment managementplans for sup-projects       Services    0.20
screened as categoryB andPeriodicSocialAssessments
(c) ProjectManagement                                                    Services    1.oo

                                 Total                                               30.00




                                                        - 14-

                             ANNEX2

                 DISBURSEMENT    SUMMARY TABLE
              (Bank Fiscal Year, EstimatedUS$ million)


FY             07                08             09        10

Annual         2.0              12.0           14.0       2.0

Cumulative     2.0              14.0          28.0        30.0




                                -15-

                                        ANNEX3

            FINANCIALMANAGEMENT         AND DISBURSEMENT    ARRANGEMENTS

Financia1Management

1.      The PCU would be required to maintain the grant's records and accounts, and
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the
operations, resources and expenditures related to the grant.

2.      A financial management risk assessmenthas beenconducted for this grant and the
riskwas ratedas low, based on the fact that the same financial management arrangements
applicable for FMIP IBRD loan would be replicated for this grant, including the staffing,
accounting, reporting and auditing arrangements as well as the applied internal controls.

3.      The PCU's financial staff has been performing adequately under the FMIP and
would also handle the financial management andreporting aspects o f the grant.

4.       The software provider o f the FMIP accounting system has already been contacted
and work is underway for a new copy o f this accounting system that fits the grant's
activities. There would be no change to the system's main features and modules.

5.       The PCU would prepare and disseminate financial monitoring reports for the
grant. These reports would follow the format as the IBRDloan and would be submitted to
the Bank within 45 days after the end o f each quarter.

6.       The PCU would have the grant's records, accounts and financial statements for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank,
consistently applied, by independent external auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit
report would be hrnished to the Bank by no later than six (6) months after the end of
each year. The external audit report would encompass all activities financed by the grant
andwould be inaccordance with internationally accepted auditing standards. The annual
audit report o f the Grant's accounts would include an opinion on the financial statements
and the special account transactions as well as a separate opinion as to whether the
Statement o f Expenses (SOEs) submitted during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures of internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support related withdrawals.

7.       The auditor can issue a combined management letter for the grant and the loan
identifying any observations, comments and deficiencies in the system and controls that
the auditor considers pertinent, and would provide recommendations for their
improvements.




                                           - 16-

Disbursements

8.     To facilitate project implementation and make timely payments, the PCU would
open a separate special account inUnited States dollars at the Central Bank o f Lebanon.
This account would keep the transactions related to the TFL grant separate from those o f
the IBRD loan. The proceeds of the grant would be disbursed in accordance with the
Bank's disbursements guidelines.

9.     The transaction-based disbursement method would be used for this grant.
Accordingly, requests for payments from the grant would be initiated through the use o f
withdrawal applications (WAS) either for Direct Payments, Reimbursements and
Replenishments to the Special Account. All WASwould include appropriate supporting
documentation including detailed SOEs for reimbursements and replenishments to the
Special Account.

10.    During implementation SOEs would be used for all expenditures relating to: (i)
works under contracts costing less than US$200,000, (ii) under contracts costing
                                                           goods
less than US$50,000, and (iii)consulting services under consultants firms contracts
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent each and under individual consultant contracts
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each. The supporting documentation would be
maintained at the PCU and would be made available for review by Bank supervision
missions upon request. Documentation relating to SOEs would be retained for up to one
year from the date the Bank receives the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal application from the grant account was made.

11.    Eligible expenditures would be financed 100percent from the grant.




                                         - 17-

                                          ANNEX4

                             CAPACITYBUILDING COMPONENT

1.     Capacity building, primarily through the use o f consultant services, i s a central
element o f the grant. Its objectives are three-fold: (i)
                                                        to provide technical assistance to
develop and implement a program o f infrastructure (re-) construction, including the
preparation o f feasibility studies and tender documents, sub-project technical design, and
support for the preparation o f development-oriented sub-projects to revive the local
economy; (ii)   to maintain M O M capacity to manage the grant; and (iii) assess the
                                                                             to
direct and indirect effects o f the hostilities on municipal finances and to improve the
overall performance o f the municipal sector. Activities under the first two objectives are
largely identical to those carried out under the ongoing FMIP, with implementation
arrangements described in the Operations Manual. The analytical work under the third
objective comprises two main activities.

Setting up and operating a Municipal Observatory

2.     Municipalities are required to submit year-end financial accounts and next year
budgets on an annual basis. However, inthe past, these data have not been systematically
collected or analyzed. No reliable and comprehensive mechanism is, therefore, available
to track the financial situation o f local governments. Consequently, a Municipal
Observatory would be established and would be tasked with collecting and monitoring
municipal data on revenues, recurrent and capital expenditures, debt, and bilateral and
multilateral assistance programs provided to the municipalities. Such data would enable
local governments to improve the maintenance o f municipal assets ,andthe delivery o f
municipal services and to help the central government to closely monitor the financial
flows to the municipal sector. Overall, the Municipal Observatory would provide an
important input into policy formulation and planningat the national level.

3.      The Municipal Observatory would consolidate the PCU's Project Management
Information System and the Financial Management Information System maintained by
the DGLA. These two systems have not yet been fully exploited to properly monitor the
municipalities' performance in terms o f revenue mobilization and services provision.
Once the Municipal Observatory i s fully functional, service delivery performance
indicators and benchmarks would be developed based on global and regional best
practice. Inparallel, training modules for data collection and analysis would be prepared
to help institutionalize this function inthe MOM.

Setting up and operating a Municipal Finance Cell

4.      The grant would support the establishment o f a Municipal Finance Cell in the
Ministry of Finance the main objective o f which would be to support the design,
implementation and monitoring o f the municipal finance reform agenda. The cell would
design the scope o f the analytical work and develop the corresponding terms ofreference
for three planned municipal finance studies (Strengthening the Municipal Finance



                                             - 18-

Framework, Independent Municipal FundAssessment, and Property Tax Modernization).
The terms o f reference o f these important studies would be submitted to the Ministry o f
Finance and the M O M for approval. Once approved, the PCU would select and appoint
the consultants and supervise the execution o f the contracts assisted by the cell. The cell
would also help shape the ongoingpolicy dialogue and would propose concrete actions to
support the necessary reforms in the sector once the analytical work i s completed. The
PCUwould assist indisseminating the Government's revisedmunicipal finance policies.

                                                         Cost Table

                          COMPONENT3: CapacityBuildingand Project ManagementComponent


 Activity                                                               TFL              GOL   TOTAL
                                                                   Amount    %     Amount   %   Amount
                                                                   (US%m)           ( U S W     ( U S W

 (a) Capacitybuilding to mitigatethe impactof the hostilitieson
 municipalfinances                                                   1.8               0     0    1.8


 Technical assistanceto the reconstruction/development program       0.6    20%        0     0    0.5


 Set up and operate the Municipal Observatory                        0.2     7%        0     0    0.2


 Set up and operate the Municipal FinanceCell                        0.5     17%       0     0    0.5


 Strengtheningthe Municipal FinanceFramework Study                   0.2     7%        0     0    0.2


 IndependentMunicipal Fund Study                                     0.1     3%        0     0    0.1


 PropertyTax ModernizationStudy.                                     0.2     7%        0     0    0.2

 (b) Preparation of the environment managementplansfor sup-
 projects screenedas category B and periodicsocialassessments       '0.2     7Yo       0     0    0.2


 (c) Project Management                                              1.o    33%        0     0    1.0



                                                                     3.0    100%




                                                           - 19-

                                            ANNEX5

                                     ECONOMIC     ANALYSIS

Contextand Objectives

1.       The reconstruction efforts after previous conflicts concentrated on major
infrastructure at the national level to support economic recovery. By contrast, smaller
towns and villages inless accessible areas did not receive adequate assistance. Thus, even
before the recent hostilities, the lower tiers o f government were in need o f rehabilitation
and upgrading o f municipal investments. Today, this need is even more acute after the
large-scale destruction o f municipal infrastructure inthe already disadvantaged regions.

2.       The proposed grant was requested by the Lebanese authorities to assist in (i)      the
reconstruction o f the heavily damaged municipal infrastructure after the recent hostilities,
(ii) developmentofmunicipalinfrastructuretosupportlocaleconomicrecoveryinthe
    the
areas most affected by the hostilities, and (iii)   the strengthening o f the financial capacity
o f local governments to mitigate the impact o f the hostilities. These activities are
consistent with the long-term municipal development program initiated under the FMIP.
The proposed grant also allows for the continuation o f the ongoing policy dialogue and
the advance o f the reform agenda for the municipal sector. In line with the FMIP
objectives, the grant aims to balance support between the different regions based on the
severity o f the destruction and to promote the role o f municipalities in responding
effectively to local needs.

Strategy andDesignConsiderations

3.       Various strategic considerations were factored into the project's design. Because
the purpose o f this emergency operation is to help the communities affected by the
hostilities to recover rapidly, it i s not designed to target the needs o f the poor. The major
infrastructure provided by the municipalities (in particular, roads and retaining walls,
street lighting, sidewalks, and drainage infrastructure), which the grant supports, may in
some circumstances have a noticeable impact on the living conditions o f the poor, but is
normally not ranked as their first priority. However, the regions affected by the hostilities
are considered the poorer parts o f the country, hence the grant would help alleviate
poverty at a general level.

4.       Close to 100 municipalities have been "adopted" by donors who cover the
housing and infrastructure rehabilitation priorities in these localities. Consequently, the
grant focuses selectively on investments not supported by other donors: (i)the
reconstruction o f municipal infrastructure in municipalities and villages that do not
otherwise benefit from external financial support (about two-thirds o f project funds) and
(ii)the construction of development-oriented infrastructure in selected "adopted"
municipalities with the highest potential to become regional growth centers (about one-
third o f project funds). The grant would cover the entire area affected by the hostilities
and aim to restore the infrastructure in the supported municipalities to at least the pre-
conflict conditions.


                                               - 20 -

5.       The proposed grant i s       considered an appropriate instrument to target
municipalities because it uses procedures and systems tested under the FMIP, i s ready to
implement a large number o f small and diverse infrastructure projects across the country,
and i s the most suitable vehicle to provide the necessary technical assistance to local
governments.

Criteriafor AllocatingandMonitoringProjectFunds

6.       The statistical information available at the national level is especially limitedwith
regard to municipalities and villages. Allocation criteria and monitoring indicators have,
therefore, been designed to ensure the efficient use o f the grant resources and maximize
the number o f beneficiaries. These provide the M O M with a management tool that
facilitates the achievement o fthe project objectives.

7.       The monitoring indicators are simplifiedas many o f the municipalities are not ina
position to provide financial data at this stage. Therefore, contrary to the FMP (and with
the exception o f development-focused sub-projects funded under Component 2), the PCU
would monitor mostly physical indicators and would not collect data on fiscal resources
available to local governments. The absence o f fiscal data would be compensated for by
an assessment o f the fiscal and financial impact o f the hostilities on local governments.
This study i s part o fthe capacity buildingeffort to strengthen the municipal revenue base.

8.       Contrary to the FMIP, the allocation criteria under the grant would be based on
the level o f recorded destruction (instead o f the registered population) and the potential
impact on regional economic recovery. The allocation o f the grant proceeds would vary
between the reconstructionand the development components.

Reconstruction of public infrastructure

9.       The funds would be apportioned among about 185 affected municipalities and
villages not sponsored by other donors according to the level o f recorded destruction. The
full extent o f the local damages is yet to be assessed, a process that may take several
more months. In order to allow for a quick start-up o f activities, an initial amount o f
US$5 million would be allocated by providing up to US$130,000 to each locality for
damage repairs; this amount has been established as the average damage in a sample o f
municipalities. Once detailed information about the actual damage to public
infiastructure has been compiled by the PCU, a new indicator-the              ratio of actual
damage in a municipality/village to the total damage to infrastructure in all conjlict-
affected municipalities/villages-would     be introduced. Both indicators capture accurately
the level o f destruction in a given municipality or village, with the latter considering the
proportion o f the damages between the affected areas. The greater the damages, the
higher would be the allocation to the municipalities and villages under either indicator.
The allocation formula would be monitored to ensure that resources flow as planned, and
to identify those municipalities/villages that are having difficulty in submitting proposals
andmakinguse o fthe allocated resources.




                                            - 21 -

Construction of development-oriented infrastructure

10.      This component would help build new infrastructure to revive the local economy
(among others, market places, access to public facilities, site and services schemes, and
upgrading service delivery systems.) in the 87 municipalities that are already sponsored
underbilateral reconstructionprograms. The funds would be allocated inthree phases:

  -    First, the registeredpopulation would be usedto apportion the funds per caza; nine
       caza have been identified as eligible at this stage. This ratio defines the financial
       envelope for each caza, with the cazas having a higher density receiving a higher
       allocation.
  -    Second, the medium-size municipalities identified as having a strong potential to
       promote economic growth would be invited to present their development projects to
       the Local Development Committee, comprising the MOIM, the Ministry o f
       Finance, and the FMIP Director. The Committee would evaluate the proposals.
  -    Third, the Committee would select the development projects based on the following
       criteria: (i)
                   the size o f the municipality, with preference given to cities with a higher
       potential to become growth centers for the regional economy; (ii)         the number o f
       beneficiaries expected to gain direct and indirect social and/or economic benefits
       from the investment; and (iii)  the internal rate o f return o f the specific sub-project,
       ifit canbe determined. The Minister of Interior would make the final decisionand
       inform the Bank accordingly.

11.      These criteria would help optimize the allocation o f the grant proceeds between
sub-projects with a developmental impact inthe eligible municipalities. The selected sub-
projects would be endorsed by a decision o f the municipal councils and would comply
with the environmental and social safeguards adopted under the FMIP. Whilst this
component i s expected to start once the housing and infrastructure reconstruction work
financed by other donors i s well advanced, the required feasibility studies and community
consultative processes could be initiated at an earlier stage. If donors chose to adopt
FMIP implementation arrangements, their funds would be allocated using the same
criteria.

12.      The allocation criteria would be assessed during the grant's mid-term review
against progress toward achieving the development objectives and regarding the
municipalities' implementation capacity. At that time, the criteria would be adjusted, if
needed.

Sub-project Cycle

Application

13.      An elected representative, recognized leader, or central government representative
would fill in a sub-project application for a beneficiary community (municipality or
village) using a project application form. The form is designed to collect information on
the nature o f the damage, the community's priorities, the expected socio-economic


                                              - 22 -

impact, and the estimated cost. This information would be used for both technical design
and economic impact analysis o f the proposed sub-project. Only those sub-projects that
address conflict damages and foster economy recovery would be eligible (for instance,
roads leading to a school, hospital or other public building, hightraffic roads, and roads
usedby trucks or agricultural equipment).

AppraisaI

14.      The PCU would screen each application form. If a sub-project meets the basic
criteria, the PCU would recruit a consultant to appraise it. The consultant would verify
the information contained in the application form, review the justification and stated
objective o f the sub-project, refine the estimated number o f direct and indirect
beneficiaries, and collect other information required to complete the appraisal. A sub-
project appraisal sheet has been designed and contains the information necessary for the
economic analysis o f the sub-project.

15.      The sub-project would need to be designed in technically sound manner and be
prepared according to the guidelines o f the Operations Manual. Whenever possible, least-
cost solutions would be sought. For instance, the repair design for a road would need to
take into consideration the most appropriate maintenance strategy considering the
weaknesses o f local governments in this area. Different options would be modeled and
the most cost-effective chosen.

16.      For reconstruction sub-proiect the following screening indicators would be used
to assess the economic justification o f a proposal: street lightening: cost per beneficiary
ratio, roads: cost per beneficiary ratio and benefit/cost ratio, water: cost per beneficiary
ratio and economic rate o f return, sewerage: cost per beneficiary ratio and economic rate
o freturn.

17.      For economic development sub-proiects, indicators developed for sub-projects
under the FMIPwould be used, focusing on the established average cost per beneficiary,
allowing for cost variations between different areas and different climatic conditions (for
roads inparticular). Sub-projects with cost per beneficiary ratios significantly higher than
the average would be rejected unless a specific explanation were available. During the
first year o f implementation as well as in select cases, a second validation o f project
feasibility would be carried out. Whenever possible, a simplified net present value o f
benefits to costs would be computed over the life o f the sub-project; it would be approved
if its value is greater than zero. By coupling traditional costhenefit indicators with
beneficiary preferences would allow the MOIM and its technical staff to rationalize
choices and maximize the use o f scarce resources.

Evaluation

18.      On the basis o f the information collected throughout the sub-project cycle
(application form, appraisal sheet and technical assessments), the actual economic return
o f the sub-projects by type o f works would be determined on a sample basis two years
after project effectiveness.



                                           - 23 -

ExpectedBenefits

19.     The grant would have significant benefits, including: (a) restored access roads to
primary services such as health clinics and hospitals, schools and community facilities,
churches and mosques, cemeteries and commercial areas; (b) improved safety and
evening access to commercial areas; and (c) improved sanitation and reduced health and
environmental hazards. These investments would increase the quality life and working
conditions. Similarly, development-oriented sub-projects would aim to facilitate economy
recovery, reduce unemployment, and generate local incomes.

Cost-sharingArrangements

20.     Eligible expenditureswould be financed to 100percent out o f the grant proceeds.
As a result no counterpart funds would be required either from the central or the local
governments. However, agreements would be reached with the relevant authorities to
ensure proper maintenance. Although most local governments are facing an acute
shortage o f resources, the municipal councils would be required to properly budget for
the maintenance o f the financed municipal assets. For villages, options would be
explored with the relevant ministries (MOM and Public Works) to organize adequate
maintenance with the direct support of the central government. The PCU would monitor
the annual maintenance budget and spendinginthe supported communities.

Fiscal ImpactandCost Recovery

21.     The grant would be disbursed over three years. With no counterpart funds
required, the GOL would not incur debt service obligations from this project. The fiscal
impact, however, would bepositive as the grant would translate into an additional annual
capital investmentprogram o f about US$lO million.

22.     Given the disarray in the municipal sector and the weaknesses in the tax
collection systems, the project would initiate cost-recovery practices only in those
localities that possess a more solid municipal budget and show a greater community
willingness to contribute to the delivery o f services. Inmost remote and underprivileged
areas, the willingness and ability to pay are considered very low due to the perception o f
having suffered unfair damage. Evidence o f investments that benefit the community may
progressively change this perception and allow for the introduction o f cost-recovery
practices in the medium-term. This possibility would be evaluated during the mid-term
review.




                                           - 24 -

                                        ANNEX6

              PROJECTPROCESSINGSCHEDULE AND TEAMCOMPOSITION



                               Project Processing Schedule

Project Schedule                                        Planned            Actual
First Bank mission (identification)                     09/11/06           09/11/06
Time taken to prepare the project (months)              1months           1.5 months
Appraisal                                                10/10/06          10/20/06
Negotiations                                             10/26/06          10/27/06
Approval                                                 11/07/06
PlannedDate of Effectiveness                             11/21/06




Name                                          Specialty
Robert Maurer                                 Task Team Leader
Sateh Chafic El-Arnaout                       Senior Municipal Development Specialist
Sophie Urnechlian                             Project Assistant
Sara Gonzalez Flavell                         Senior Counsel
Ghada Youness                                 Senior Counsel
Diana Masri                                   Financial Management Specialist
Lina Fares                                    Procurement Specialist
Tiguist Fisseha                               Social Development Specialist
Mutasem ElFade1                               Senior Environment SDecialist




                                          - 25 -


MAP SECTION


                                                       3530'                                                     3600'                                                                      3630'



                                                                                                                To Tartus

                                            LEBANON                                                                                                                            To Hims


                                  FIRST MUNICIPAL
                      INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
                                                                                                                                Halba    A K K A R
                                                                                                                                                      Akkar



             3430'                                                                                                                                                                                            3430'

                                                                                                                                                                                                      To Hims

                                                                                                    Tripoli

                                                                                                         Zhgarta                                                    Hermel
                                                                                                                            T R I P O L I              EL HERMEL
                                                                                                 NORTH LEBANON                                                         S

                                                                              Chekka    EL KOURA     ZGHARTA                                                     I N
                                                                                                                                                              A
                                                                                                                                                           T
                                                                                                                                                        N
                                                                                                        BCHARRI
                                                                     Batroun                                            Bcharri                      U
                           M e d i t e r r a n e a n                                                                                              O                                               N
                                                                                          EL BATROUN                                            M                                              O
                                                                                                                                                                                            N     S
                                                                                                                                                                                               N
                                                                                                                                         N                                               A    I
                                     S e a                                                  JBEIL                                    O                                                     A
                                                                                                                                                                         E  Y          B
                                                                                                                                                                                   E    T
                                                                     Jbeil                                                         N                                   L         L
                                                                   (Byblos)             M O U N T                               A                                    L        -     N
                                                                                                                              B               BAALBECK         VA          I      U
                                                                                                                                                                         T   O
                                                                                                        Afqa                E
                                                                                                                          L                                           N
                                                                 Tabarja               KESROUANE                                                                   A      M

                                                                                      L E B A N O N                                                  Baalbeck
             3400'                                                                                                                                                                                            3400'
                                                                   Jounieh
                                                                                                                             B E K A A
                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                       EL MATN
                                                      BEIRUT                                                                            A
                                                                                                                                    K
                                                     BEIRUT

                                                                            Dahr-El-Bachek                                     B  E

                                                                                                        Zahleh           Rayak
                                                                                  BAABDA
                                                                                Ras
                                                              Baabda           El-Metn       Shtaura       ZAHLEH
                                                                        Aley

                                                         Khalde      ALEY
                                                                  Chwaifat
                                                       Damour



                                                                      Beit ed Dine
                                                    Jieh     EL CHOUF                 BEKAA GHARBI

                                                                                                                             To Dimashq
                                                                                                                             (Damascus)



                                       Saida                  Jezzine                                  RACHAIYA
                                                                                                   Deir El Ahmar
                                             S O U T H L E B A N O N
                                                          Sarba                                    Rachaiya                                            INTERNATIONAL HIGHWAYS
             3330'                        Zahrani                                                                                                                                                             3330'
                                                                 JEZZINE                                                                               PRIMARY HIGHWAYS

                                       SAIDA                                                                                                           RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                       PORTS

                                                                                                                                                       AIRPORT
                                                                                    HASBAYA
                                             NABATIYEH                 Marjayoun                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                               Nabatiyeh
                                                                                                                                                       GOVERNORATE (MOHAFAZAT) CAPITALS
                                                          N A B A T I Y E H                                                                            SELECTED CITIES

                                                                                                                                                       GREATER BEIRUT

                       Tyre                                                                                                                            CAZA BOUNDARIES
                     (Sour)
                                                    MARJAYOUN                                                                                          GOVERNORATE (MOHAFAZAT) BOUNDARIES
                                  SOUR                                                                                                                 INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
                                           Tibnin

                               SOUTH LEBANON                                 0      5    10   15 KILOMETERS                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
NOVEMBER                                  BINT JBEIL                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                                             0         5        10         15 MILES                     on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any            IBRD
                                                                                                                                        judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                        acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          35148
        2006
                  To Hefa (Haifa)
                                                         3530'                                                       3600'                                                                    3630'

