£    LES     C     Pgj                 Document of
The World Bank
IFOIR OIFFC1AL USE ONLY
Report No. P1977-KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF
THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR
THE YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT STAGE II
January 10, 1977
TDDIS d nimmenmt has a resatjted lsbdumoon ad mty be used by redplents only li the perfornmnce Of
theAir o1eld uIdes. lts contents may nor o1berwwse be disdeased withont World aBnh anthorwintion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit          =             Won
Won 485                =             US$1O00
Won 1,000              =             US$2.06
Won 1,000,000          =             US$2,061.86
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC    - Agricultural Development Corporation
NACF   - National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
FLIA   - Farm Land Improvement Association
MAF    - Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
NACF   - National Agricultural Cooperative Federation
ORD    - Office of Rural Development
OSROK  - Office of Supply, Republic of Korea
GOVERNMENT OF KOREA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
FOR THE YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT STAGE II
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), with the guarantee of the
Republic of Korea, for the equivalent of $95.0 million to help finance the
Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II in the southwest part of Korea.
The loan would have a tertm of 17 years, including three and one-half years of
grace, with interest at 8.5 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report ("Current Economic Position and Prospects
of the Republic of Korea") was distributed under cover of SecM75-437 dated
June 9, 1975. A Basic Economic Mission visited Korea in June/July 1976; its
report is being prepared. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments and the Adjustment Process
3.        In the 1970s, the Korean economic situation has been subject to
sudden and sharp changes (see Economic Reports distributed under cover of
R74-42 dated March 4, 1974 and SecM75-437 dated June 9, 1975). Following a
period of rapid growth the Government undertook a stabilization program during
1970-72 as a result of which real investment did not increase and the growth
of real GNP slowed to about 8 percent per year. In 1973, international demand
grew rapidly and Korea took full advantage of its opportunities. As a result,
there was an unprecedented boom: real GNP grew by 16.5 percent and export
volume by 57 percent; national savings rose to 22 percent of GNP, and foreign
savings financed only about 15 percent of total investment.
4.        The transition from the boom of 1973 to the difficulties encoun-
tered in 1974 and 1975 reflects the impact of the twin shocks of the
rise in food, oil,and other import prices and the recession in the industrial
countries. The Korean economy was 'particularly vulnerable to both of these
because of its heavy dependence on imported energy, raw materials, and food-
stuffs, and on exports to the developed countries.
Paragraphs 3-23 are identical to those contained in the corresponding section
of the President's Report (No. P-1931-KO) on the Second Loan to the Korea
Development Bank (Loan 1338-KO) which was approved on November 16, 1976.
This document has a restricted distUibution anI may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not Gtherwism be disciosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
5.        From the last quarter of 1973 to the middle of 1974, the prices
of imports rose very rapidly. The immediate impact of the oil price
increase alone was to raise the import bill by more than twice the entire
current account deficit in 1973 ($309 million). The higher prices of food-
grains added another $300 million to the import bill. Further, during 1974,
the average unit value of other imports rose by-45 percent while the unit
value of Korea's exports rose by only 27 percent. The adverse shift in the
terms of trade was aggravated by the sudden recession in industrialized
countries. The United States and Japan, which took 70 percent of Korea's
exports in 1973, suffered a decline of about 2 percent in real GNP in 1974.
As a result, Korea's merchandise export volume, which had grown by 57 percent
in 1973 (and by over 29 percent in each of the preceding five years), rose
only 9 percent in 1974 and 23 percent in 1975. The volume of exports to
Japan actually declined by about 12 percent in 1974 and increased by only
1 percent in 1975.
6.        These developments had a variety of effects on the economy.    First,
as a consequence of the 18 percent deterioration in the terms of trade, Korea
suffered a real income loss of 4 percent of GNP in 1974./i Adjusting for
this, real gross national income rose by only 4.2 percent in 1974, following
increases of 6.7 percent and 15.2 percent in the previous two years. Second,
the higher import prices accelerated domestic inflation. The rate of increase
of wholesale prices rose to 42 percent in 1974 from an average of 7 percent
in the previous four years. Two-thirds of the increase in prices was attri-
butable to increases in the cost of imported commodities. In an effort to
prevent the emergence of untoward distortions, the Government allowed import
price increases to be fully reflected in domestic prices (with the exception
of basic foodstuffs and fertilizers). Domestic prices of petroleum products
rose nearly 300 percent from August 1973 to December 1974. In general, the
burden of the adjustment was borne directly by consumers as evidenced by the
increase in the prices of electric power and transportation. Consequently,
wholesale prices rose by 42 percent in 1974 and at an annual rate of nearly
30 percent in the first half of 1975. In the second half of 1975, however,
the index increased by only about 5 percent as domestic prices completed the
process of adjustment to international inflation, and the program of monetary
restraint instituted by the Government began to take effect; during 1975, the
increase in the wholesale price index was 20.2 percent. Third, the current
account deficit on the balance of payments grew from $309 million in 1973 to
$2.02 billion iti 1974 and net foreign exchange reserves dropped from $1.1
billion to $0.3 billion. About half of this deficit was due to the terms of
trade loss, the balance being primarily due to the recession in the economies
of Korea's trading partners. Finally, part of the adjustment was made by a
slackening in the pace of domestic economic activity.    The annual GNP growth
rate slowed from 16.5 percent in 1973 to 13.8 percent in the first half of
1974 and 4.3 percent in the second half. Import volume grew by only 4 per-
cent in 1974, compared with an average increase of 16 percent per year in
/1 At 1970 prices and exchange rates.



-3-
the previous five years. Industrial production fluctuated sharply from month
to month but showed little gain after the first quarter of 1974. Employment
rose by only 3.4 percent and was able to absorb only three-quarters of the
increase in the labor force in the year.
7.        The slowdown in domestic production would have been greater but
for various government measures to sustain employment. In December 1974 the
currency was devalued by 17.5 percent. Special credits were extended through
the banking system to enable industry to accumulate inventories, and the
Government purchased excess inventories of finished goods from industries
particularly hard hit by the fall in export demand. Subsidized credit was
extended to small firms and exporters to ease their financial situation.
The purpose of these policies was two-fold:   (a) to sustain employment levels,
thereby easing the adjustment of the economy to the permanent and sizeable
loss of real incomes resulting from the terms of trade movement; and (b) to
prevent too precipitate a decline in investment and production levels of
export industries in response to a temporary recession in export markets.
In support of Korea's long-term goals, it was held desirable to maintain a
minimal economic momentum and to remain poised to take rapid advantage of the
anticipated recovery in export demand. This policy was predicated on the
belief, then shared by many economists and policy makers throughout the
world, that the world recession would be relatively shallow and shortlived.
8.        Contrary to expectations, the recession in industrialized countries
continued well into 1975, with the GNP of OECD countries falling by about
2 percent. Despite the unfavorable demand conditions, Korea's export volume
expanded by about 23 percent in 1975. However, as a result of reduced demand
and increased international competition, particularly for iron and steel and
clothing exports, Korea's export prices declined by about 7 percent and its
terms of trade deteriorated by about 10 percent. This, together with rising
payments on freight and interest obligations, has been principally responsible
for a continued large deficit in the balance of payments of $1.9 billion in
1975 compared with $2.02 billion in 1974.
9.        Korea suffered heavy balance of payments losses in 1974 and 1975
due to an exceptional combination of adverse events. The average loss in the
two years on account of terms of trade movements alone was about 7 percent of
GNP (at 1970 prices and-exchange rates). The alternative to incurring size-
able balance of payments deficits would undoubtedly have led to large-scale
unemployment and a loss of growth momentum, which would have had severe
consequences for Korea's long-term -development. The essence of Governmental
policy has been to smooth the process of adjustment, while making steady
progress toward effecting a long term improvement in the balance of payments.
To this end, the Government intensified measures adopted earlier in the
decade to tackle longer term structural problems in its balance of payments
and to increase the availability of investment resources.
10.       The severity of Korea's balance of payments problems in 1974 drew
attention to the sensitivity of a trade-oriented economy to the economic
fluctuations of its trading partners. Because Korea is poorly endowed with
natural resources and its principal comparative advantage is a skilled and
energetic labor force, a relatively high degree of trade orientation is
unavoidable; however, the Government has embarked on strenuous efforts to



- 4 -
reduce the vulnerability to international fluctuations by diversifying the
commodity composition of, and markets for, exports as well as reducing
import dependence.
11.       In 1971 and 1972, 75 percent of Korea's exports went to the
United States and Japan. This proportion dropped to 56 percent in 1975.
In the same period, the share of exports to Europe more than doubled from
9 percent to 18 percent, and the share of other countries (excluding the
United States, Europe and Japan) increased from 16 percent to 26 percent.
Commodity exports to Middle Eastern countries have increased very rapidly
from a small base, and amounted to $319 million in 1975. Similarly, the
commodity -concentration of exports has declined significantly; four major
categories of exports (textiles, clothing, plywood and miscellaneous manu-
factures) accounted for 60 percent of exports in 1970 but only 47 percent
in 1975. During this period there was a particularly rapid growth of
exports of iron and steel, electronics, electrical machinery and appliances
and ships. During the last year, Korea has also been highly successful in
winning construction contracts in the Mfiddle East. The development of new
exports and the upgrading of the quality and design of traditional exports
are the major means by which Korea hopes to diversify its exports and to
further reduce its dependence on the Japanese and United States markets.
12.       These developments suggest that Korea will be able to sustain a
rate of growth of exports that is rapid compared to other countries,
although not as high as it was prior to 1974. Global projections indicate
that the volume of manufactured exports by developing countries is likely
to grow about 12-15 percent per year for the rest of this decade. Con-
sidering that 90 percent of Korea's exports now consist of manufactured
goods, that its links with the Japanese and U.S. economies remain strong,
that successful efforts are being made to penetrate new markets and that
some progress has already been made in diversifying the industrial structure,
the long-term prospects for Korea's exports are markedly better than for
developing countries as a whole. Provided measures continue to be taken to
maintain price competitiveness, Korean exports may be expected to grow at
20-25 percent per year in terms of current prices (allowing for inter-
national price inflation of 5-6 percent per year).
13.       The potential for reducing imports significantly is limited.    Of
total imports in 1975, 30 percent consisted of raw materials for exports
and a further 27 percent was capital goods, categories in which substantial
import savings are unlikely to be compatible with maintaining international
competitiveness of export industries. More than half of the remaining
43 percent of imports consisted of petroleum and foodgrains. The scope for
restraining petroleum imports (18 percent of the total) is very limited;
because domestic energy sources are limited to low quality coal, firewood
and limited hydroelectric power, petroleum supplies about half of Korea's
energy needs and is utilized almost entirely for essential industrial and
transportation purposes. The number of private automobiles is relatively
small and home heating needs are met by coal and wood. Despite these
factors, the rate of growth of petroleum consumption has been severely
curtailed - from 1.8 times GNP growth in 1968-73 to about the same rate as
GNP growth in the following two years.



14.       In order to reduce dependence on imported foodgrains, there has
been an energetic effort to increase agricultural productivity. In 1972-73
imports of grain accounted for about 30 percent of consumption and about
11 percent of total imports. Since then, the rate of growth of value added
in agriculture has nearly doubled (from about 3.5 percent to about 6 percent
per year). This was partly the result of good weather, but also reflects
the use of improved inputs and the assurance of high grain prices. The pro-
portion of land under high yielding varieties of rice has increased from
16 percent in 1972 to an estimated 48 percent in 1976. Despite the very
severe topographical limitations (only a quarter of the land area is culti-
vable), there is a growing promise that Korea will be able to achieve self-
sufficiency in its staple foodgrains - rice and barley. It is anticipated
that imports of foodgrains (mainly wheat) will amount to only about 6 percent
of total imports.
15.       The Government set itself two major economic goals for 1976:
restraining inflation to a rate of 10 percent and reducing the balance of
payments deficit on current account to $1.4 billion (from $2.0 billion in
1975). Present indications are that these objectives will be met. The
current deficit for 1976 is now forecast at about $1.1 billion as a result
of buoyant exports and strong measures to restrain domestic demand. Export
earnings are expected to rise to about $7.2 billion, 45 percent ahead of
1975, primarily because of the economic recovery in the industrialized coun-
tries; and GNP is expected to rise by about 11 percent. Despite this, the
rate of increase in wholesale prices is being held at around 10 percent.
In part, this is the result of reduced Government deficits and a slowdown
in investment due to the severe restriction of banking credit to the private
sector. The significant improvement in Korea's economic performance in 1976
will provide a strong base for the Fourth Development Plan for the period
1977-81.
Longer-Term Prospects and Program
16.       The preparation of the Fourth Five Year Plan for the period
1977-81 has afforded an opportunity for a comprehensive review of Korea's
economic problems, prospects and priorities. Its longer-term goals are
"growth with enhanced self-sufficiency" and greater "equity and social
development". Self-sufficiency is interpreted principally in terms of a
strengthened balance of payments rather than autarky. It is the firm inten-
tion of the Korean Government to achieve a maximum rate of growth consistent
with a sound balance of payments and also with the maintenance of internal
financial stability. Although investment is expected to continue at about
26 percent of GNP over the Plan period which will enable the achievement of
a rate of growth of GNP of about 9 percent (slightly lower than the average
of 10 percent attained during the last-decade), the current account deficit,
which is now about 6 percent of GNP, is to be eliminated by 1981. National
savings are expected to finance a h4gher proportion of total investment than
the 72 percent figure during the Third Plan period.



-6-
17.       Growth and stability are not the only objectives.    Enhanced equity
and greater social development are of equal importance in the Korean scheme
of things. The main emphasis is on providing adequate employment opportuni-
ties for the rapidly growing labor force to prevent aggravating the unemploy-
ment problem /1 and on achieving a wider distribution of the benefits of
growth. Productivity and earnings will be increased by the provision of
increased facilities for vocational and in-plant training. Health outlays
will increase as a proportion of total investment with special stress on pre-
ventive care and an innovative health delivery system to service low income
families. The family planning program will be strengthened.
18.       The achievement of these goals would not require a change in the
basic development strategy of export-led growth, which Korea has followed so
successfully. The ratio of total exports to GNP is expected to rise from the
current level of about 27 percent to about 42 percent in 1981, with the
manufacturing sector continuing to provide about 90 percent of total exports.
This demands the achievement of further gains in efficiency and productivity.
Korea's comparative advantage lies in manufactures, such as machinery, elec-
tronics and shipbuilding, which require relatively more skilled labor. It is
also necessary to achieve some import substitution in steel and chemicals to
ensure an adequate supply of the intermediate inputs for the export industries.
These changes in the industrial structure will require intensive efforts to
improve the mechanisms for the transfer of foreign technology and the develop-
ment of appropriate indigenous technology.
19.       The successful implementation of the Plan will depend largely on
Korea's ability to marshall the required resources. Strong policy measures
are envisioned in the Plan to increase the mobilization of domestic resources.
Success in restraining inflation is, as already noted, expected to have a
favorable effect on increasing private savings. In the past, private savings
have fluctuated with the movement of the terms of trade and the rate of
inflation. No further adverse movement in the terms of trade is expected in
1976 and the rate of inflation is estimated at 10 percent. This situation is
expected to continue through the Fourth Plan period. The Government is taking
measures designed to channel the higher private savings likely to be generated
by these developments to an increasing extent into the financial system, and
thereby, into more effective use for productive investments. In addition to
restoring a positive real rate of return on financial forms of savings, the
Government is taking steps to increase the supply of government and corporate
securities to the public and to provide more attractive schemes for savings
mobilization by commercial banks.
20.       These measures are being supported by fiscal action to increase
public savings. The defense tax surcharge imposed in 1975 is to be continued
and a value-added tax introduced. The extent of the subsidization of farmers
/1 Although the rate of population growth has declined to below 2 percent,
the rate of growth of the labor force will continue to be around 3 per-
cent a year over the next decade because of the baby boom following the
Korean War in the early 1950s.



-7 -
and urban consumers through the Grain Management Fund and the Fertilizer
Fund is to be reduced so as to eliminate the operating deficits on these
accounts. This will remove the substantial burden which these Funds had
imposed on Government finances (in 1975, the borrowing from the Central
Bank on the two accounts was W 350 billion, or nearly 4 percent of GNP).
The.increased resource mobilization and the strong restraint on current
expenditures will result in substantial budgetary current surpluses which
could be used to finance capital expenditures.
21.       The fruits of growth are to be spread more equitably among all
segments of the population. The continued adoption of a high-growth stra-
tegy and emphasis on labor intensive production is expected to generate
adequate employment opportunities to absorb the increment in the labor
force during the Plan period. Rural incomes are expected to increase as
a result of a further improvement in the agricultural terms of trade and
increased opportunities for non-farm employment (primarily through the
Saemaeul Movement). The quality of life in the rural areas is to be fur-
ther improved by the provision of infrastructure facilities.
22.       The Plan's priorities, strategy and programs are sound.     The con-
tinued emphasis on relatively rapid growth is essential in the light of the
employment objective and the predominant role the export sector is expected
to play is appropriate in view of Korea's limited natural resources. More-
over, Korea has the manpower and the entrepreneurial capacity to implement
the proposed investment program.
23.       However, the main impediment to the successful implementation of
the Plan is likely to be the difficulty Korea may encounter in raising the
necessary resources. The domestic savings targets are somewhat ambitious
while the projected import requirements may turn out to be too low. The
ability to obtain foreign capital in adequate amounts and on reasonable
terms will continue to be a challenge. The servicing of the sizeable
foreign borrowing required should not pose serious difficulties given the
present debt service ratio /1 and the prospects for continued export growth,
provided, however, that the proportion of external debt incurred on shorter-
term and at high interest rates is not excessive. Assuming the capital
inflows will be forthcoming on reasonable terms, the debt service ratio
is expected to peak below 15 percent by the end of the decade and subse-
quently decline steadily as exports continue to expand.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
24.       As of November 30, 1976, Korea had received 29 Bank Loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and 8 IDA Credits, amounting in total to $1,172.8
million in loans and $106.9 million in credits (taking into account cancel-
lations and the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan).
/1 Around 12 percent on an cutstanding medium and long-term debt of
$5.7 billion at the end of 1975.



-8-
25.       A substantial part of Bank financing has been for the transport
sector - $219.7 million for railways, $191.5 million for highways and $80
million for ports. $194.5 million has been lent for agriculture projects.
The Korea Development Finance Corporation (KDFC) has received $150 million,
the Korea Development Bank (KDB) $60 million /1, and the Medium Industry Bank
(MIB) $30 million in Bank loans for relending to private industry. A total
of $80.3 million has been provided for three education projects; $25.0 mil-
lion for a tourism project; $15.0 million for a secondary cities project; and
$60.0 million for a rural infrastructure project. In addition, two Program
Loans amounting to $175.0 million have also been granted to Korea.
26.       As of November 30, 1976, $524.2 million of the total Bank lending
remained undisbursed on effective Loans and Credits, mostly from commit-
ments in the past eighteen months. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC Investments as of that date and Notes
on the execution of ongoing projects. As indicated in the Notes, progress
on project implementation is generally satisfactory.
27.       Excluding one project that was subsequently cancelled, IFC had
by November 30,1976, entered into sixteen commitments totalling $69.3 million
(net of participations and cancellations). Under advanced consideration is
a further investment in electrical and electronic products; under preliminary
consideration are projects in cement distribution, special steels, petro-
chemicals, construction materials and in leasing.
28.       Korea's ambitious industrial development programs require large
capital expenditures and further loans to the three major development banks
are planned to meet this need. This will enable the continuation of assist-
ance to a wide spectrum of industries, including small- and medium-sized
enterprises. With the closer relationship established as a result of recent
promotional efforts, we expect IFC's activities also to continue expanding
rapidly. IFC would seek projects that would: (a) result in foreign exchange
revenues or savings; (b) contribute to modernize or deepen the industrial
structure; and (c) increase value added in manufacturing.
29.      The emphasis which the Government places on agricultural and rural
development is reflected in the program for FY77. The proposed project was
preceded by the Miho Watershed Area Development Project and the Second
Agricultural Credit Project which were approved by the Executive Directors
in July and September 1976, respectively.
30.       The further development of the industrial and agricultural sectors
and the anticipated growth of exports will require concurrent infrastructural
development. Although the transport sector will be given relatively less
emphasis than in the past, the investments required are large, and thus there
is considerable support for this sector in the proposed program.
31.       The share of the Bank Group in Korea's total external debt (dis-
bursed) outstanding at the end of 1975 was about 8.7 percent, and the share
/1 A second Loan of US$82.5 million to the Korea Development Bank was
approved by the Executive Directors on November 16, 1976, and was
signed on December 23, 1976.



- 9 -
of debt service was of the order of 4.6 percent at that time. These ratios
are expected to increase to around 18 percent and 11 percent by the end of
the present decade.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
32.       The extraordinary expansion of Korea's export-oriented manufactur-
ing sector in recent years has, to a certain extent, obscured the tangible
and impressive, albeit less spectacular, gains made by the country's agri-
cultural sector; over the 1962-74 period its output increased by about 3.5
percent per annum (a rate comparable with that attained by Thailand, Indo-
nesia and the Philippines). Korea's agricultural exports rose from about
$70 million equivalent in 1967 to approximately $423 million in 1974 and
were over $600 million in 1975. These achievements are all the more commend-
able in view of the fact that only about a quarter of Korea's total land area
of about 10 million hectares is cultivable.
33.       The average farm size in Korea is 0.9 ha, of which 0.5 ha is paddy
land, while upland crops, such as barley, maize, soybeans, fruit, vegetables,
tobacco, mulberries and other cash crops are cultivated on the remainder.
Nearly two-thirds of farm households have less than 1 ha of cropland but only
4 percent of farm households are landless largely as a result of the Farmland
Reform Law of 1950 which imposed a ceiling of 3 ha of cultivated land per
household.
34.       About 84 percent of all paddy land is irrigated and the average
use of fertilizer reached 272 kg per ha of the cropped area in 1975. The
use of agricultural chemicals is also widespread. The extensive use of
modern farming techniques and the development of local adaptations of high
yielding varieties of rice have enabled a steady increase in yields. In
1975, average rice yields exceeded 3.6 tons per ha and yields up to 6.0
tons per ha were not uncommon. These yields are amongst the highest in
Asia (exceeded only in Japan). However, the growth of agricultural output,
in recent years, has not kept pace with domestic requirements. This has
caused the Government to be increasingly concerned with the need to raise
productivity in the agricultural sector and to devote additional resources
for its development. More than three times the funds budgeted for agricul-
ture in the Second Five-Year Plan (1967-71) were included in the Third
Plan (1972-76) and the proposed investment in agriculture in the Fourth
Plan (1977-81) is about 50 percent higher than in the previous Plan.
35.       The Government accords high priority to expanding foodgrain output
with the objective of minimizing the propcrtion of domestic requirements met
from imports. The provision cf irrigation facilities, improved water control
and the wider use of high yiJelding varieties of rice and barley, wlhich cover
two-thirds of the total crop area, will be crucial in meeting this aim.
Another major strand of the Goverunment's agricultural development strategy
is the expansion of the output of fruits, vegetables, tobacco, mutlberry and
livestock to incretase farm incomes and utilize labor more fullv.



- 10 -
36.       The Bank Group's lending for the agricultural sector in Korea has
been aimed at assisting in the achievement of these objectives. Of the
$194.5 million lent, to date, for agricultural projects, $122 million was
provided for the Pyongtaek Kumgang Irrigation Project (Loan 600-KO), the
Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage I (Loan 795-KO, Credit 283-KO) and
the Miho Watershed Area Development Project (Loan 1319-KO); $30.5 million
has been made available for two Agricultural Credit Projects (Credit 335-KO
and Loan 1328-KO); a $7 million Loan (942-KO) has been made for a Seeds
Project; $13 million has been lent for the Integrated Agricultural Products
Processing Project (Loan 994-KO); and a $7 million Credit (234-KO) and a
$15 million loan (1193-KO) for two livestock projects. In addition, a $20
million Bank Loan and a $40 million Third Window Loan (1216-KO & 1218T-KO)
are helping finance a Rural Infrastructure Project. A short description of
these Projects and their current status is given in Annex II.
37.       The proposed project is the second stage of a plan for irrigation,
drainage and land reclamation in the lower reaches of the Yong San Gang in
the southwestern part of Korea (see attached map). A first-stage development,
to benefit 33,000 ha is being financed under Loan/Credit 795/283-KO.     It
will be completed in 1978, about 18 months later than anticipated at appraisal.
The delay was caused by difficulties in maintaining the required level of
budget allocations in a period of rapid inflation. Apart from this problem,
which has now been overcome, ADC's engineering and administration of project
implementation have been of a high standard.The proposed project is located
in a predominantly agricultural area (the Gwangju region) which in the past
has not shared in the benefits of Korea's industrial growth. Income levels
were among the lowest in the country which led to a high out-migration of its
population in the late sixties and early seventies.    The region's economic
backwardness was partly attributable to its lack of accessibility to the
Seoul-Daejeon-Daegu-Busan corridor, along which economic activity was concen-
trated after the end of the Korean War. This changed with the opening of the
Chonju-Busan Highway (financed under the First Highway Project) in August
1973, which has dramatically lowered travel time between the region and major
market centers as well as the ports of Masan and Busan. Communications
within the region are also being improved, partly under the Bank's Second and
Third Highway Projects. To accelerate the economic growth of the region the
Government has planned the development of an industrial belt in the urban
areas along its southwestern coast. The Secondary Cities Regional Project
(Loan 1070-KO) is assisting with the provision of an organizational framework
for regional investment planning and development which could be used as
a model to further similar development in other areas in support of Government
programs to disperse industry and to reduce migration to the already
overcrowded cities of Seoul and Busan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       A report entitled "Yong San Gang Irrigation Project Stage II"
(No. 1247-KO, dated January 3, 1977) is being distributed separately. A Loan
and Project Summary is attached as Annex III. Supplementary Project data is



given in Annex IV. Negotiations were held in Washington from November 11-17,
1976 with a Korean delegation led by Mr. Heung Koo Kang, Counselor at the
Korean Embassy in Washington, D.C.
39.       The proposed project would benefit 20,700 ha through irrigation,
reclamation of 5,500 ha of uncultivated tidal flats and land development on
11,900 ha (land consolidation has already been carried out on 3,300 ha to be
irrigated by the project). Rice would be the main crop in the summer,
followed by a winter crop of barley on about 70 percent of the area. The
principal features of the project are summarized below:
(a) construction of an estuary dam across the mouth of the Yong San
Gang, consisting of a 4,500 m long embankment, a 240 m wide concrete
sluice and a navigation lock;
(b) construction of a 4,000 m long sea dike;
(c) construction of 16 pumping stations to serve a total area of 20,700 ha,
including the land to be reclaimed and developed;
(d) construction of about 315 km of main and secondary canals to serve
an area of about 15,200 ha;
(e) reclamation of about 5,500 ha of tidal land through land leveling
and construction of canals, drains and farm roads;
(f) land development comprising land consolidation on 3,200 ha of
existing paddy, conversion of 3,250 ha of upland to irrigated
paddy, development of 1,050 ha of upland for irrigation,
and tertiary canals and drains on 4,400 ha of existing paddyland;
(g) construction in the project area of office buildings, warehouses,
access roads and a temporary pier required for the construction of
the estuary dam; and
(h) provision of the services of consultants to assist in project
implementation and in preparation of feasibility studies for future
development stages of the Yong San Gang Basin.
The Project Area
40.       The project area lies 300 km south of Seoul.    It encompasses parts
of four counties in the Jeonla Nam Province. The largest town in the project
area is Mok Po with a population of over 200,000. The provincial capital of
Gwangju, with a population of over 500,000, lies about 50 km to the northwest
of the project area. The southern location of the project moderates the
extremes of climate found further north in Korea.    The sumner extends from
May to September with temperatures reaching 300C.    December ard January are
the coldest montlhs with temperatures often below freezing.   The project area
has about 240 frost-free days.   Annual precipitation averages aboutl 1,240 mm



- 12 -
with two-thirds occurring during the rainy season (May through September).
Even in the summer, rainfall is unreliable, especially during the critical
rice transplanting period (June). In addition, droughts occur sometimes in
August and September. Irrigation is therefore required to obtain optimum
yields from high-yielding varieties of rice.
Detailed Features of the Project
Estuary Dam
41.       The estuary dam, which would be located about 10 km upstream of the
river mouth, would exclude tides from the lower reaches of the Yong San Gang
and thereby create a fresh-water reservoir to serve as a source of irrigation
water for the project area. For most of the year, when river flows are low,
the pool level upstream of the dam would be held at +1.0 m in contrast to the
present situation in which the high tide levels are between +3 and +4 m. The
lower water levels would permit reclamation of about 5,500 ha of tidal flats
and allow better drainage of about 800 ha of cultivated land in low-lying
areas. During floods, the level would rise above +1.0 m for short periods
because flood waters would be stored during the upper part of the tidal cycle
when tide levels downstream of the dam are higher than the pool level. The
main embankment closing the river channel would be about 2,000 m long with a
maximum height of 20 m above the river bed. The downstream portion of the
dam would consist of dumped rock and the upstream portion would consist of
sand protected with a layer of rock. An 8 m wide road would be located on
a 20 m wide berm on the upstream side of the dam.
Sea Dike
42.       A sea dike, extending downstream of the estuary dam along the
left bank of the river, would be constructed to reclaim 830 ha of tidal
flats. The dike would be 4,000 m long and about 6 m high. A sluice would
be constructed at the downstream end of the dike to permit drainage of the
reclaimed area at low tides.
Irrigation Facilities
43.  (a)  Pumping Stations.   Each of the 16 irrigation units forming
the project area would be served by its own pumping station.
The total installed capacity of the pumping stations would
be about 15,000 HP. Facilities to supply power to the pumps
would include 95 km of 22 kV distribution lines, and four
substations containing 12,500 KVA of transformer capacity.
(b) Main and Secondary Canals. The 16 irrigation units would
each be served by a system of main and secondary canals.
Altogether there would be 165 km of main canals and 150 km
of secondary canals.
Tidal Reclamation
44.       The estuary dam and sea dike would eliminate tidal inundation of a
large area of uncultivated tidal flats. The net area proposed for reclama-
tion is 5,500 ha (including 830 ha protected by the sea dike), after allow-
ing for 15 percent of the land to be taken up by ditches, drains, and roads.



- 13 -
Development of the tidal lands would be similar to that provided in the land
consolidation areas and would involve land leveling and construction of a
rectangular grid of irrigation ditches, drains, and farm roads. Temporary
drains about 1.0 m deep and at spacings of about 20 m would be provided to
permit the salts in the soil to be leached out by flooding and draining.
It would take about a year for the soils to be desalinized sufficiently to
plant the first rice crop. Assurances were obtained that before inviting
bids for reclamation of tidal lands below elevation +3 m, ADC would submit to
the Bank for review an economic and technical analysis of the reclamation of
such lands (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Land Development
45.       This component of the proposed project would consist of the follow-
ing elements:
(a) Land Consolidation. Land consolidation has already been
carried out on 3,300 ha and would be provided by the
project on 3,200 ha of existing paddy land where slopes
are less than 2 percent. On steeper land, consolidation
cannot generally be justified because earth moving costs
become prohibitive. The advantages of land consolidation
are that (i) it facilitates mechanical land preparation,
(ii) it allows easier access to the fields and improved
standards of farm management, and (iii) it allows more effi-
cient control of irrigation and drainage. The improvements
in crop and water management should result in higher rice
yields. Also, more timely land preparation combined with
effective drainage at the end of the rice growing season
would facilitate the planting of a winter barley crop.
(b) Conversion of Uplands to Paddy. In areas to be irrigated
by the project works, 3,000 ha of cultivated uplands and
250 ha of forest would be converted to paddy cultivation.
The areas to be deyeloped have slopes up to 10 percent and
they would be converted into a series of horizontal benches
with widths ranging from 5 to 10 m depending on the slopes.
(c) Upland Irrigation. An area of 1,050 ha of upland, of which
700 ha are presently cultivated and 350 ha are forest, would
be developed for irrigation of upland crops. In these areas
the soils are too shallow to be benched for paddy cultivation.
Development would include some land clearing and grading. The
area consists of small plots close to the main and secondary
canals, and water conveyance and distribution would be left to
the farmers.
(d) Tertiary Canals and Drains. On 4,400 ha of existing paddy
land where slopes are too steep for land consolidation, the
existing tertiary canals and drains would be improved on



- 14 -
1,900 ha and new systems would be constructed on 2,500 ha.
The main and secondary drainage systems would also be repaired
and realigned in a block of 850 ha within the area served by
existing tertiaries. Construction and improvement of quater-
nary canals would be carried out by the farmers. In Korea, it is
common practice for farmers to join together to construct on-farm
distribution systems.
Provision of Consultants and Feasibility Study for Future Development
46.       The Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), the project
implementing agency, would employ consultants to assist in project implemen-
tation and in carrying out feasibility studies for future development of the
Yong San Gang Basin. The estimated consultant input is 120 man-months for
project implementation and 80 man-months for the feasibility studies. The
consultants would be supplementing ADC's own senior technical staff due to the
considerable work load in connection with the on-going and planned projects.
It is estimated that the cost of the consultants services would average
$6,600 per man-month.
Project Cost and Financing
47.       The total project cost is estimated at $167 million, with a foreign
exchange component of $87 million (52 percent). Physical contingencies of
20 percent have been applied to the base cost estimates for the estuary dam
to reflect uncertainties inherent in underwater work under tidal conditions.
Similarly, a physical contingency of 20 percent has been applied to tidal
reclamation where field conditions cannot be adequately assessed before the
estuary dam is closed. Physical contingencies of 15 percent have been applied
to civil works, materials and equipment for all other features of the project.
About 33 percent of total project costs consist of provisions to cover
expected price increases over the eight-year project implementation period.
The proposed Bank loan of $95 million would finance the foreign exchange cost
plus $8 million of interest and other charges on the loan. Local expenditures,
representing the estimated balance of project costs, would be met through
annual Government budgetary allocations to ADC. Detailed cost estimates are
given in Annex III.
Procurement
48.       Contracts for civil works construction and the supply of equip-
ment and materials, except for some contracts estimated to cost $3.4 million
as explained below, would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. The total value of
all civil works contracts (exclusive of price contingencies) would be about
$74 million. The estuary dam, sluice, navigation lock and sea dike would be
awarded as a single contract with an approximate value of $22 million. Other
civil works would be packaged by areas to form about ten contracts with an
average value of about $5 million. Major equipment contracts would be for
the manufacture and installation of sluice gates ($12 million) and pumping



- 15 -
station equipment ($5 million). Contracts for cement ($2.4 million) and
reinforcing steel ($2.2 million) would be divided into contracts of about
$0.5 million in order to keep the supply of materials in line with require-
ments. ADC's policy is to supply contractors with the cement and steel to
be incorporated in the works. These materials would be procured on behalf
of ADC by the Office of Supply, Republic of Korea (OSROK). A preference
limited to 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the customs
duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the
evaluation of bids. Contracts for the construction of the access road
together with the left embankment of the estuary dam ($2.5 million), and
for the buildings and other site facilities ($0.8 million) would be awarded
after local competitive bidding. Miscellaneous equipment ($100,000)
would be purchased through normal government procurement procedures.
Disbursements
49.       Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100 percent against
the foreign exchange cost of directly imported equipment and materials, or
at the rate of 100 percent of ex-factory cost for equipment and materials
manufactured locally. For consultant's services, disbursements would equal
100 percent of total expenditures. Disbursements for civil works carried
out by contractors would be at 50 percent of total expenditures, to be
disbursed against certified monthly contractor's progress payments. The
disbursement schedule is given in Annex III.
Organization and Management
50.       The Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), a semi-autonomous
agency operating under the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAF),
would be responsible for project implementation. Responsibility for designs,
procurement and construction supervision would rest with ADC's Yong San Gang
Project Office, which is presently engaged in implementation of the first-
stage project and was primarily responsible for the Stage II feasibility
study. Most of the staff now engaged on Stage I will be employed on Stage II,
and additional staff will be assigned to the project as necessary.
51.       Agricultural services in the project area are well organized and
would adequately support the farmers in realizing the benefits of improved
irrigation and land development. The Office of Rural Development (ORD) is
the agency in MiAF responsible for research and extension. ORD's extension
work is carried oult through provincial, county and district offices. Each
of the four county ORDs serving the project area has sufficient extension
workers and specialists-in crops, livestock, soils, plant protection and farm
management, for the presently cultivated land. To serve 5,500 ha of tidal
land to be reclaimed, ORD would establish new branch offices and employ
additional staff (Section 3.02 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
52.       Responsibility for operation and maintenance (O&M) of existing
irrigation projects in Korea rests with the Farm Land Improvement Associa-
tions (FLIA). Three FLIAs, presently operating 5,200 ha in the project



- 16 -
area, would be expanded to cover the additional areas to be developed by
the project. The FLIAs would operate and maintain the irrigation systems,
schedule water deliveries, allocate and collect project charges, and enter
into cooperative arrangements with other agencies, such as the National Agri-
cultural Cooperative Federation (NACF) and ORD, for various kinds of assist-
ance to the farmers. The estuary dam, sluice, navigation lock and pumping
stations would be operated and maintained by ADC, but the costs would be
borne by the FLIAs. The cost of O&M in January 1977 prices for the project
is estimated at Won 35,000/ha ($72/ha). An assurance was obtained that ADC
would prepare by December 1980, and submit to the Bank for review and
comment, a detailed plan for the operation and maintenance of the project,
including proposals for turning over the irrigation service area works to the
FLIAs (Section 3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement).
53.       Almost all supplies of inputs and credit originating from Govern-
ment sources are supplied through the cooperative system, which also handles
marketing of a number of crops. Some 90 percent of farmers in the project
area are members of cooperatives serving one or more villages. These village
cooperatives are successively grouped into county cooperative federations,
and ultimately the NACF. NACF anticipates no difficulties in providing the
farmers participating in the proposed project with the additional quantities
of seed and fertilizer needed. At full development, about 26,000 farmers
would require an estimated Won 3,200 million ($6.6 million) production credit
annually. An additional $3.7 million of longer term credit would be required
for farm machinery purchases. Because of the necessity for production credit
to finance the larger volume of farm inputs under the project, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government would make the necessary
arrangements to finance the farmers' requirements of farm equipment, inputs
and hired labor. (Section 3.03 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Cost Recovery
54.       Korea has a well established system of charges applying to govern-
ment planned land development projects. These charges are split into re-
current or O&M costs, and capital repayments. While farmers must pay full
annual O&M costs, the capital repayment terms vary according to the type of
land development. For irrigation works farmers repay 30 percent of capital
costs over 35 years,including 5 years of grace, at 3.5 percent interest per
year. For tidal reclamation, farmers buy the developed land by repaying 100
percent of capital costs over not more than 13 years,including 3 years of
grace, at 7 percent interest per year. In addition, farmers also pay produc-
tion taxes of 6 percent of the gross value of all foodgrain production above
1.4 ton/farm, and 6 percent of the gross value of upland crop production
above Won 85,000/ha (Section 3.05 of the draft Guarantee Agreement and
Section 3.09(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Incremental project charges,
discounted at 10 percent and assuming no inflation over the project's life,
would be sufficient to recover 41 percent of total costs. At annual infla-
tion rates of 5 percent and 10 percent, the corresponding cost recovery
indices are 34 percent and 30 percent.



- 17 -
55.       The reclaimed tidal land would be sold in plots of 1.0 ha and
2.0 ha to persons with farming experience. A majority of the purchasers
would be farmers, mostly from other parts of Korea, whose land has been
purchased for public works projects or for industrial development. Before
disposal of reclaimed tidal lands, ADC would submit to the Bank for review a
disposal plan including (a) eligibility criteria for selection of purchasers
and (b) terms and conditions for sale of the lands (Section 3.09 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Environmental Effects
56.       The project would have no adverse effects on the environment.    The
impact of the project on fisheries in the estuary of the Yong San Gang and on
sedimentation in Mok Po harbor have been studied by ADC and its consultants.
A survey by ADC showed that about 800 households in the vicinity of the
project engage in fishing to supplement farm income, but nearly all of the
fishing is in shallow coastal waters. Therefore, construction of the estuary
dam will have no significant effect on fisheries. As regards effects on Mok Po
harbor, a study by an expert in sedimentation concluded that the estuary dam
would not increase, and might in fact reduce, the annual dredging requirement
in the harbor. On the benefit side, the project would improve water quality
in the lower reaches of the Yong San Gang through elimination of sea water
intrusion. This would create a large source of irrigation water for use in
the proposed project area and potential developments to the south and west of
the project area.
Project Benefits and Risks
57.       The project would support the Government's policies to increase
foodgrain production through irrigation and land development, and consequently
rural incomes. Implementation of the project would lead to changes in land
use, reclamation of uncultivated land, and more intensive cropping and
higher yields on presently cultivated land. The cultivable area would
increase from 14,600 ha to 20,700 ha through reclamation of 600 ha of forest
and 5,500 ha of tidal land. It would increase rice production to 87,600 tons
compared to 32,000 tons at present and barley production to 43,600 tons from
14,100 tons. At full agricultural development, the project would result in
rice import savings of Won 10,600 million ($22 million) annually at the
projected world market price c.i.f. Incheon/Busan. After deducting the
incremental cost of imported fertilizers, chemicals, fuel and other. farm
inputs, annual net foreign exchange savings would amouint to about Won 7,300
million ($15 million).
58.       The project would provide, through the estuary dam and reservoir, a
road link between Mok Po and the eastern river side and, if the reservoir
salinity level falls sufficiently, a possible source of industrial and
municipal water for Mok Po City.



- 18 -
59.       The proposed project would directly benefit some 29,000 farm
families or approximately 174,000 people. It has been estimated that about
45 percent of the farm families in the project area with a farm of 0.6 ha or
less have per capita income below the poverty level of around $175. At full
agricultural development the project would increase this group's income on
average by 40 percent.   Income on a 0.3 ha rainfed farm benefiting from the
project would increase from $610 to $850 while on a 2.0 ha partially irrigated
farm the increase in income would be from $2,960 to $4,300. The project
would enable farmers in the area to roughly maintain the relative position
Qf their incomes with regard to the national average per capita income.
Without the project the income gap would widen.
60.       The project's overall economic rate of return would be 13 percent,
using a fifty-year evaluation period, full project benefits being attained
by 1989.  The project's economic rate of return showed little sensitivity to
variations in the cost estimate or assumptions made concerning the timing of
agricultural benefits. It was moderately sensitive to a reduction in the
level of benefits, but in none of the cases tested did the rate of return
for the entire project fall below 10 percent.
61.       Project risks are no greater than can normally be expected with
qperations of this type.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Agricultural
Development Corporation, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic
of Korea and the Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article
III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text
of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately. The Loan and Guarantee Agreements
follow the pattern of Bank agreements for loans of this kind. Special con-
ditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex IV of this report.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments,
January 10, 1977
Washington,, D. C.



ANNEX I
PAP 1 or 4 page4
TABLE 3A
KOREA, REPUBLIC Of - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KK2I               -   -   --     -----
---------------                              KOREA, REPUBLIC OF                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       98.5                                   MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      24.1                     1960      1910  ESTIMATE         THAILANO      TURKEY        JAPAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USSI                   110.0      270.0      550.0            220.0      480.0     2650.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION IMID-YR, MILLION)          25.0       31.4       34.0             36.3       35.7       104.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                     250.0      319.0      3l,5.o             71.0      4S6.0     282.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      1217.0    1320.0     1368.0                ..      67.0      1575.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND       39.7       35.0       2.7              44.3        40.6       17.5
CRUDE CEATH RATE PER THOUSAND       22.9       11.1,       8.8              13.7       14.4        7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)        ..         ..          ..             80.0       145.0       13.1
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRSI      52.6       57.7       60.6                .        54.4       71.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATF              3.1 /j     2.6        2.4               3.2        2.6 /a.b   1.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE IS)
TOTAL                                2.8        2.3        1.6              3.1        2.5         1.0
URBAN                                5.9 2      6.14       1,.8              3.7        4.2        4.0
URBAN POPULATION It OF TOTAL)         28.0       41.2      4k7.3              13.0       31.2       84.4
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                      44.0       42.1       39.9 /a           45.0      41.8        24.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                      53.0       54.6       so.77i           52.0       53.9       68.9
65 YEARS AND OVER                    3.0        3.3        3.4 7E           3.0        4.3         7.1
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.9        0.8        0.8/a            0.9        0.9        0.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5 La     1.4        1.2 &             1.2        1.1 /c     0.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOUI          ..         ..         ..            460.0
USERS (S OF MARRIED WOMEN)            ..       42.0       34.0              10.0       8.2
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        7500.0    10400.0    12100.0           16700.0    14500.0 /d 53300.0
LABOR FORCF IN AGRICULTURE (IS        66.0       so.5 /a    50.6 /a.b         79.0      67.3        19.0
UNEPLfnYEO (S OF LABOR FORCE)          9.0        5.0 7      4.1               ..         4.0 /e     1.2
INCCME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST 5S OF HOUSEHOLDS            17.0 /d    17.1       18.1 /o             *-      32.8 /f     14.2
HIGHEST 20T OF HOUSEHOLDS           42.0 7d    44.5       43.4 7c             *-       60.6 7j7   37.6
LOWEST  202 OF HOUSEHOLDS            7.0 7T     7.1        7-2 7c             *.       2.9 77      8.8
LOWEST  40S OF HOUSEHOLDS           20.07d     17.7       18.7 75             ..       9.4 77    22.3
DISTKIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
I OWNED BY TOP 10 OF OWNERS          27.0       28.0         ..                ..      53.0
I OWNED BY SMALLEST 102 OWNERS         3.0        2.0         ..                ..        0.9
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATICN PER PHYSICIAN            3000.0 /Of 2210.0 /c   1990.0 /aXd      7970.0     2220.0      880.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       3220.0 1LA 1760.0 7c  1700.0   d        6650.0     1880.0 ,j  240.0
POPULATION PER FOSPITAL BED         2600.0 C   1920.0     1990.0 Zj          850.0     490.0        80.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)        85.0      103.0      107.0             105.0      110.0      106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAYI             53.0       65.0       68.0  ae 52.0                18.0       76.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.0/s     19.0         ..              17.0/a     22.0 /h    45.0
DEATH RATE IfTHOUI AGES 1-4             ..         ..         ..                ..       15.0b       1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      96.0      104.0      104.0              82.0 h    I.0o /     101.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                    27.0       41.0      147.0 /a           16.0 h    28.0        91.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED                                                                 0
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)            12.0       12.0       12.0              12.0       11.0       12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT                      I
(T OF SECONDARY)                    14.0       16.0       16.0 /a           14.0 /I    1..0       20.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE Il                  ..       87.0       92.0 73           79.0       S.Oiu      99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)             2.8k       2.7         ..                ..        1.9        1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOLT
PIPED WATER (IS                     88.0 /g.h  80.0 /d     ..                         64.0         5.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
IS OF ALL OWELLINGS)                28.0      50.0       80.0 /a              ,.      41.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (I)                  12.0       30.0       40.0 /a             ..       18.0
CONSUMPTION
RAnIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)        32.0      126.0      127.0 /a           78.0       89.0      551.0
PASSENGER CARS IPER THOU POPI          0.4        2.0        2.0               5.0        4.0       84.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          71.0      307.0      535.0             124.0  ,   247.0     3391.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              1.8        3.4        3.3               1.0   3    0.7       18.9
------------------------------------------------  -       -   ------ -_--- - -__ _ _ _ _ ___ _ __ _ ___ ____ ______ _ __ _ _ __-- -  -   ---
SEE NOTES ANO DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Peg. 2 of pages
Unless othereise noted, dat. for 1960 rater to easy year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 sod 1970, sod for Meat Recent. Estimate between
1973 an 1975.
-sa Sp., has heen Selected as an objectise ceentry due to the .1iw.1arity of the present Koraneonomc     tructure to that of Japan, in, the mid-fifti.e
(wth the same principle resource base, i.e., efficisot, industrious, cheap labor and heany reiaceo     iported roo materiale). "aereoer agricul-
tore, transport, end other ..eotero of the eConoy have etilar characteristics. Korea flee has a pattern of industrial d-evip .ent which to net
very different from the one Japan, pursed with great nooses. in the eltte..
0M .O       196     /a 1950-55;     A  1955-60;    A4   ettlo of population under 15 and 65 and ove  to total labor force;    d  Mage end eslary
ioco,*e of urban, houeeholds, 196.;  /e 1962;     £4  Registered, net all practicing in the country;   £4  Roseholdo;
/h Water piped inside.
1970    /.  As percetage of employ .sni;    a   Registered;    ac  Regietrod, not all practicing in the country;    £d  Water piped
inside.
HOST gERT_ifESTmAE I     A   1972;    a   Ae perce-ntage of soployment;  £4  1971, rural and urban;    £d Registered, not eli
practieing in the country;    L. 1969-71 'arerge;     If  10 years old and over;    £4  Reti of pup.ls-
tln under 15 and 65 sod evr to total labor forc..
THArL&N      1970    ALi196L-66;     £4  7-13 end 1i;-l8 yeere of age respectiumly;   a. Public schoels, which include technical education at the
peeat-sencoudary leve...
TBKEY        ~1970    AExcoludes 17 eastern prnvin..eo;    A   1965-67;    /- Retlo of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 15
ILyears old and over;    /d  15 years sod over, -ctlude  unemployed;    Is  Registered only;   £4   Diepooble income.;
Including assistant curses end sldwives      /b  1964-66;    A1  7-11 Yearse of oge;   a4  Perono et year. old and ove r
who tell the censust takers that they cam rend and write.
09, Auguot L, 1976
DV'DhITiONS OP SO¶_lIND1CAr)RS
teed Ares (thou le2)                                                               Popuaten ow9 mureneprson - Population divided by       bouer of pracotie-
Tt1Total- 1ee  ouwfsca aces cmprtisg land ares end inladte   tr.lgse and                           atltgdutonuross, etraiosd' nr -'certified" Murso.,
arc-Mos t rece.nt estimate of arietue    ea   coed tenperardy or                and auxiliary personnel with training ur esprinoce.
peseansetly icc -rPe, pee taran, macbt 6 kitchen gardes or to Ie. fell1w.                    er hoe a ~..itlbeda- Population divided by, number of hospital
.d:a&_       ce    an     djwivte general an-d upecielloed hospital
GNP per caPita (LISl) - GNP pan capita eteaste- at curret sarhet prices,             and rehabilitation centers;  ~ludes nursing hmorn end etbinhfloento
caleulated by -m convreton method as World Reek ARton (1973-75 heals)              for ctstodisl and preventive care.
1960, 1970 end 1975 dat..                                                        Par caPita suppl otaree(of renirenete) - Ceoputed free -oergy
equivalet efne-ood eupioc1        vliable in country per capita per
Posuletien and ctai ocatistios                                                       day; available eupplise cemprios d-setic production, isperto leoss
peou1atl on (mid-yr  itllion) - A. of July firet:  if not -coilble,                  esports, and changes in etoch; pet eupplien excit  ocinal feed, ceedo,
-evergs of two end-year estinatee; 1960, 1970 end 1975 data.                       quantitiee used in fend procesin  nod lessee in dietribution; r-
quireumnts were estiated by FAO booed on phyiotlogical needs fur
Peculation density-per noner he - Mid-yeer population per aqusce hilo-               nernal activity end health consoidering crvireonmental teeleprature,
oner(10 -ecae) uf rual4y weights, agehan,d son distributions of population, ond s11iuig
Pepuloticdeonitv.-pe e     rie heok  ei.lnd-Cnue           s ho     e              0   for netsat.household level.
agri-ucursi land onlY.                                                           Pecapita ou2ppl of p- rtin (ams per day) - Pruten      -octeut uf per
ospta net eupp Y of food par day; net supply of feed is defined as
Vital tatiotic                                                                      shove; requfeanto for all coutri.rt    estblihehd by USDAn F.onuotl
Crude birth rete par thousad - ennol lice bioths per thousand of mid-                Research Servine  provide for a nicnu  allowance of 60 graon of total
ye-opuplation; iso-pose r -ithsec ic evecacc  ending 1. 1960 end 1970,            Protei  per dOy, .ud 20 gras  of unial and pulsee Protei 1n, -c attc?-
sod fin -year average ecdng in 1971 lop moor recent estimate.                      gram= hould be cace p21    bo  thece  tondards are lopr time thwne
Crude death rate perthousand - Anoo-I dasthe per thousad of eid-yscc                 of 75 grau  of total protein and 23 gren,a of nodal protein 00 en over
pepultetic; te-yea   aritheetic -verage  eding Em 1960 sad 1970, end               age for the  senld, propo..ed by PAO in the Third World Food Surey.
five-year, coerga ending in 1175 fec ont recent astimetc.                        Pe  sla     oei    upyfe       nimal and pules - Protei   supply or food
icccacaity rate (ichen) - anneal deatha ofincfanta uinder one yeor of         derivedfreesnrtl anfd%puse      in grat per day.
age pe tbcua sod live births.                                      ~Annual deaths par thouseud in ugc group
lifeeopoiooc  etbirth_(veal - Average nnber of yearn of life re-cing            -hyers tocildren In this age. group;          sageted as 00 indicator
at birth, us ually (ice-year --erges ending En 1960, i970 and 1973 for            of onic-tritton.
developiui coutric.,
Grees -pe-r.eci_ ree- A--rge ounbec of live da.Shtece a wonos will                 Ed,scntlep                                   R
hsarie her .cr-I1 rerductive periud if she aprecepr-see           age-             'Kt::fl wnrolle   ato_-orta,'shool - Kroint of eli uge            a
ePecific fertility este;   eosly five-yea   avrages ending in 1960,                .e~naeo        rsyene-g popnaton;Iniluden children aged
1970 and i975 for d-ve1eping countries.                                           6-11 years but adjusted fer different lengtho of prinery education;
Pepuliia3m         as() -tori-        opead enu-l Breath rates of mid-               for ouriswith umiversal education, enrlollet may exced IOC%
p5cc  opulaion  or l _i-60                                                   sinr.  9010  tce so-5 puplils are, bel-ow  r above th  official school uge.
Pou;lation elr2Zwo  int  (R  - rba  - CaMprted like growth rate of tebal          gloted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Cos,utsd au above;en
popultion;dMferrt daititona of urban areas cay arffet neapra-               ondar  education requires at least four years of approvd priary
biltty of data amog countries,                                                     instruction; providee general, vocational or teacher training inetoc--
Urban noetlation (S of itatl) - Kotio of orben to total population; dif-             tions for pupils of 12 to 17 yersr of age; correspondence course. ore
f..t  'nn ... f .bnsaeas may affect comparability of date                   generally excluded.
enog   ountma                                  lairs                                    fsheoolag provided (fi-rst and eacond laela) - Tntel yeare of
- ' "    n-0   ~- chldroe, (0-14 yeare), working-age (i5-A  years),       sch_8ooling; at secondary level, vocatina  intnttio. nay be partially
A:nrt re    (65   em  andovrasPer-netaga       of eid-yecr popuietion.             or completely excluded.
Ag,   enpcv rti.-  eti ofppltion under 15 end 65 and over to                 VPoostIunlene     lo t S of secondas)    Vo..tional institutions include
haf      15 through 61.                                                       tehice1, inutra      or othr prg     ewhich operate independently
REonenic dependency rntio - Ratio of po0ule.io.n under 15 end 65 and over            ortes departbnete ef secondary institutio..
to the labor force in age group of 15-66 years.                                   du      ieeTrate 'L- Liteamte adults (able to readi and write) to
Family pia-ine - acceptors (o4ua4tive. thee) - Cumulative number of                  percetagetor total adult population aged 15 years and veer.
-accptors ef birth-cotrol devimes under auspices of national fecily
planning program since inceptIo..
Fitl.yplnig-ues( or         f earnied w,eeon) - Percetagee of s.rrled              M   One mr moan (alo    e) - Average cember of par-ono per rums~ in on-
V-e6   fcid-ern         g   1011yas in        uebrhcnrld-cupia                            conventiona edel    ing   ur ban -ara; dwellings exclude non-
vie  t  limried mume in a-  age grup.                                        permanent strictturensd unoccupied parts.
Qtouiedhelng      without pipad ete.r () - Occupied ounvention.l
dwelIns i uran  ndrural reas wtot inside or outside piped
a furoe     thousad) - Ecnnomicnlly active parsons, including                 wtrfacilitlee as percetage e       l   cuiddelns
anefresan nu       yd but excluding houseive, students, sic.;               ACcess to electricity (I of all dwellinges) - Ceeventional dwellings
definitions in various countries are net conperable.                               with electricitty In living quarters as percet of total dwellings
Labor force in encilus(%) - AgricUltural labor force (in frmairg                     in urbae and rural artea.
frsr, inting and fishing) as,pevet,sge of total lAbor farce.               brldelnscoonected to eloctricity (8) - Coeputed as above for
a.M  d' S of lbr force    - Onemployed ene usual1y defined an pereoerua                 wet-e     ny
ah rea ban     w       totakea.Job, out ofa.job on .gicen day,
realsined cut of a Job, and seeking enrk for a specified minimum',,ar
period nottexceeding one week; may not be Comeparable between                    V        w                 5   - kl-l      oye.f receivers for radio broad-
trie  du  to diffeleut definittion of unemployed and source of date,              .sata to general pbflFl     thounand ef population; sorludee onli-
e..,awyloyent. office ettietico, .-cPI. surveys, oncauory esee                    ctted receivers io couuntries and in years cdhe  registrati-on  radio
plOpsavnt inaurance.                                                               sets one in effect; data for recet years may not be couparable oinee
_t, countries abolishsd lic-anc-isg.
b.Min.A1tfloi- Pee--taga of private isoc" (both in .ish -d kind)              ~     jPoapgOw arajnperthotu93     -P Passenger oars copiemotor tersm eat-
_asvdhcIes        It, richane 201, psowest RU, end pse,sac st  ci fin                  w     ha   i  parsons; excludeesiuacs       hearsees and emi-
hooaeholds                                                                         tory vehiclee.
ML-r  ic2teIZJWVYr P    tr-g) - Annual consumption of industrial, cue-
Naln~~l;o~is  - Perrenteges of lad easedial, puth-              merepvets electricityin, kilowatt houre per capita;
set 1415--d oocm    leWi eera.                                              generelly baeed on prod.titoo date, without allowanc  for loosen in
grids but elUssing for imqports an  wyorts of electricity.
Nei= ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Per capianul cosmtinnklors
-  ouaindivided by nmsr of practicing                 a.tsmt       a   as     prodtia nitnplus net imports of niweprint.
p  5 c  s qua  e a meIcal chedi at university level.



AMUII I
Page 3 of 4 Pages
Actual                        Po1972-                        1974-     197s -              1974 ~   2.U     2I1J
NATIOMPL AOM                                                    (Prelim.)
1213                              ~~~~~~~~A;~erage Anual Growth Rates  As Percent of COY
ic Produc                                         23, Wl-    ~~         ~       ~~~~~~~12. 7.  8.3  105.2   109.5     116.6
Gains from Terms of Trade (4)        116        -       -664     -1,254    -1,422   .3,324       -       -         -                 -5.2     -9.5     -16.6
Gross DmesticIncomeiff7r           rTYTi   y1"TO     -IT7!7     tl4,641  1T9,977     9.1      3.2       7.1              100.0    100.0      0.
Import (intl. IITS)                3,435     4,367    4,634       4,573     4,996  10,450      16.2     -1.3      14.8               36.2     34.6      52.3
Exports(                           L.ZZ       3.961    LM         L-A      6j001    1,626       9.2      4.1      14.6               Il1.i   .ZLJQ      68
Resource Gap                        -664       -406  -1,328      -1,133    -1.003   -3,176     41.1    -14.7       -                -10.4     -8.6     -15.9
Consumption Expeaditur,sa          9.017      9.598  10,780      11,434    11,028   14,839      9.3      6.1       4.5                34.2    86.5      74.3
Investment    ' (intl. stocks)     2.212      3.230   4,185       4,113     4,030   5,286      37.8     -1.7       4.3               32.7     31.1      26.5
Domestic Savings]!I                1,629      2.817   2,694       3.037     5,035   8,462      28.8     12.7      18.6               21 0     23.0      42.4
National Savings;~21               1.772      2,914   2,721       2,970     5,027    8,437     23.6      9.2      18.7                21.2    22.5      42.2
AMERCHANDISE TRADE                           Annual Data at Current Pricen;                                                          As Percent of Total-
tmports
Grains                             283        444      613        689       540      774     47.5     12.4       1.9                 9,0     9.5       3 7
Capital Goods                      762      1,157    1,849      1,909     2,105    3,241     57.0      3.2      18.3                27 0    26.2      24 9
Petroleum Fuel and Mineorals       219        313    1,055      1,387     1,249    3,436    125.0     31.5      16.3                15.4    19.1      16.4
Other (Including Raw Material
fo  orLa)             1,258      2,326   3,335       3,289     5,043  11,561      65.0     -1.4      23.4               48.6     45.2    ~,,
Wd~alMer~)i7~~orts (c~.f) 2,522    4,240    6,852       7,274    8,9-37  iTI 02      63.0      62      1.                  0.       0.        0.
EXports
Manufactured Goods               1,485      2.921   4,005       4,307     6.145   18,708      65.0     7.5      27.8                89.8    84.8      91 9
Other Goode                         139       304      455         774      890i   1,653      82.4    70.1      13.4                10.2     15.2      8.1
Total Merch. xot        fb       1,624      3,225   4.460       5,081     7,035   20,361     67.5     13.9      26.010.                    100       100
Merchandise Trade Indices                     Average 1973    -100
Export Price Index                78.0      100.0   126.8       117.4     123.2   157.3      26.7     -7.4       5.0
Import Price Index                74.9     100.0    155.5       160.0     168.0   214.4      44. 5     2.9      5.0
Terms of Trade Index             104.1      100.0    81.5        73.4      73.4    73.3     -11.5    -10.0       0.0
Exports Volume Index              63 8      100.0   109.1       134.2     177.0   401.4      30.8     23.0     20.0
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR              Annual DaLta at 1973-    Prices and Exchange Rates             Averege Annual Growth Rates         As Percent of Total
Agriculture                      3.201     3,500    3,620       3,837    3,373    4,103       6        6        4                  29       29        18
Manufacturing and Mining         2,140      2,883   3,311       3,708     5,783   9,908      24       12        11                 27       28       42
Other Services                   4.368     4.975    5.549       5.1       6.907   9.290      13        3        11                 AA       43        4
Total.                          9,709     11,358   12,480      13,260   16.063   23,301      13        7        9                 100      10        1
PUBLIC FINIANCE                                                                                                                         As Percent of GOP
(Central Go;vernment)
Current Receipts                1,701      1,530    1,862      21l99A'   2 5515' 3 870        5       i18      12                  15       17        19
Curr...tnt    .tues1.359                   1.193    1.406      1 7044/     06Wi~  2'0         2      21         8                  11       13       13
~~ .9  Ings       342        337     456 ~~~~~~~~~~ 495    489    1,367     15                 3                  -4        4        -7
Other Public Sector                -         -        --                   -        -                  -        -
Public Sector Investment  522       443      593         728       746   1,888       7       23       21                   5        6        10
CUJRREN1T EXPENDITURE DETAILS 6                Actual        Prelim.    Est.     Proj   ~     DETAIL OR
As % Total Current Exen.                 1972    197        194       197SW    19762/       PUBLIC SECTOR                  US$5 Million At 1973 P and ER
Education                                18.6    19.3       17.8      17.5     18.0         INfVESTNMT PROGRAJd.I          1974     1975   1976    1   fTtli7-6
Other Social Services                     9.1    10.4        9.6       8.8      5.0         Social Sectors                   67       73      84     10.9
Agriculture                               2.4     2.4        2.0       1.8      1.9        Agriculture                      121      187     209     24.6
Other Economic Services                   3.6     3.5        2.3       2.1      2.0         Industry and M4ining             41       82      73      9.3
Defense                                 33.9     35.2      41.2      43.0     47.0         Power                             55      44      33       6.6
Administration                          13.9     13.8       12.1      11.5     9.8         Transport and commmnicatione     138      416    172      22.2
Transfers to Local Governments          15.1     14.2       14.2      14.6    16.1         Other                            171      197    175      26.4
Othe _..j3.4                                    .LZ          0.8      0.7      0 2         Total Expenditures               593      71[    746     1h0.0
Tota  Current Expenditures            100.0    100.0      10.       0.       00.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                                 1960-     1965-     1970-    1973-        FINANCING3
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)             196        1970      4j7J     1978
Average ICOR                                        7?T       TrT        TU0     -78             Public Se.ctor Savings       456      495     489      70.3
Import Elasticity                                   0.8        2.6       1.1     1.8             Program aid counter-part      58       38     41       6.8
?brginal DOmestic Savings Rate                     11.3       21.3      16.6    27.2             ForeCign Project Aid      ~            ~     26       2.
Marginal National Savin.gs Rate                    17.9       21 7-88           2.6_tlFnacna9                                          728     746     22o.9
IADDR FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                  Value Added Per Worker (19    3 -i    Prices & Ext. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKERR                in Millions          I  fTtl             17- 74             In U.S.DD11ars        erent ofAeige             17-7
~~  19 7~~   19 72 ~    19 74    Growth R&te          1972       1974        1972       197A       Growth Rate
Agriculture                       5.3         5.6    50.6       48.2         2.8                604        646         66          60           3.4
Manfacturing end Mining           1.5         2.1    14.2       17.8        18.3              1,189      1,577        130         147          15 1
Qkh.r Sectore                     3.7         3.9    35.2       34.0         2.7              1 181      1,423        129         132           9 8
Total                              7         T       1                                                   1,710108.
1/Includes govverment, corporate and private non-corporate savings.4                                       eie      ugt
11Includes dmsisaings, net factor incomes from abroad and tranafers rmara.                       ~         ugt
3/  Excludes exports not cldared through customs, such as sales of goode to                             A/  General Budget and Economic Development Special Account.
military forces overseas.
916/76



PaS. 4 of 4 P.ge.
862JM   01             vo-,8 AB8U!62 AND
(Mots In 0m221;m* 0nq V.I. a18mv at im%mlt pno.el
A's. An-ea
Aetwi                           bntlt.d                                       PrhJated                               GrOth Reto
1972  IflA      i2!k        iflI197                                   ONIl.i ~ !  izzi          me60        uLL             1975-1981   t
SU2P04AI1! BAIA11C  OF PATIWTS
~~orte  (j~~~~* 975) ~2 075                3.962        5.123       51647          0,100        10,241      12.986        16.106       19.603      23.451                     26.5
non-ta ~~~1ne1. 898) ~2 577              438          7,210        7.437         9.000        .I03        1   6          672         20_189       23,j48                     21.5
Interest (,t)                  ~~~~   ~~-108  -123       -141         -158         -372           .457        -340          -622         -690        -767                     19.8
Otb.0 FsetA,f 1neGf  (not                   67           30         -19          -70           -30             s9         60            90           89           99 
170          190         222          224           160            170        I80        2...L        ..J.Q5....~                             -5.5
Pri,te Dir.nt mwastmt                       74          137          104          42            8,            200         220          240          260          280                     37.0
OffIcIA   Capital or-tote                    -           -            -            -
mobweinont.                              736          707       1.136        1.686         1.764          2,068      2,240         2.325        2.287        2,242                     4.8
-A-rtia.atln                              299         336          391          360          381            688         809           860          904       .i~.16.9
Net ms b,.   -~ta`                       -Ur         --nT         -7w         TIMT          T.T!           *T  rrz73!                  U          1.383        1,203                     -1.5
OIher IM.LT loso
M.bus5   mta                              99            4          174          85            93            ill         134          134          172          180                     14.1
-A-tia.alOn                                10           15          23           28            39)           63          76            93          110          132                    29.5
'let Dl~~~b,foe5eOtO  ~ ~      *w             Y9          T!           !             5              48          38            39          62           56                     -0.4
Capital Iron ontlone   .e                  -30          -12       1.018          990           -69                               I/        Igo.       1971        92        173          19 74
-159  -340  -13      -49S           -100         M    .PApO1 DebtrMnt &L flan-ed  1.786    2.226      2.770     3.314        4.031
??ffi      0~t &4Cl.e                                                                                        nterfet on Public Debt          64         93        104        140          196
Rap,aneota on 10bli. Debt       211        230        247       276          360
P.bllc MIT. Loa-                                                                                             Total Pablic Debt Seolce        273        362       351        415          556
mORD                                      85           73     !   6 83      63                             Other Debt Servica (ont)        11         22         23365
rDA                                        7           26          -          -                            Total Debt Serv)oe (ut)         26        364        374        446          610
AnB                                       a1           68         89          2
OtherMltltoO                                           -                      ..T.-rde                          on ftort      osog, (9
Ovrent.                              305         305         25                                          olcDetSrIe225                          2.56 005                          1 
SoPplie-n                                242           86         61        '1                             TPtali Debt.ServIce            23.4       24 1      1690       1  3         1.0
rinancwa   l-ntitutiono                   12           80        181                                        o-    et      ,.               34       2   6      10          131.
9ends                                     -            -           .9         -TDS0Di-rctlIlvt, In..                                     24.2       25 6      200        127          137
Poblic L0000 n.e.i.                                  -                                                   Ae9      es    fPlioDb
arrmtRAL Dayr                                                      weuelebtIttae1eson.3 2194       I.a      PIonrW          D      4 3        5 2        47         51           59
~~TND8AI. tEN?              Oteb,rsedOn3~~~~~~~~~~y         ncut                          0onrt. an % Prior Year MU&      14.3      14 0       1II        10 0         10 9
W'orld Bonk,
MDA                                                780.3                       1.9                         7080 Debt OWt. & Djebno-ed        9 6       40 2       94 7      239 8       223 8
ADB                                             1223 0                         2.01                             as9    blic Debt Oo,         0 6        1 8        3 4       4.2          5 6
Soe-nete                                        1697.3                         62.1                             Ce    Publiio Debt Seritn    0 3        0 7        1 9        3C0          3 5
6o-nli...                                       1.250 6                       31.0
FInancial Iotitutione                             648.5                        16.1                        MDA Debt Out. & Dib      ,        26.7      39 8       47 1       50 5         78 3
Bond.                                              19.0                         0.3                            -as   Poblic Debt 00,D         1 5       1 a        1 7        1.0          1 9
Public Debts n.e.i                                                                                             O% Pebli.c Dbt Seric          0 1        0 1        51         01I          01
Total Poblic 941T Debt                          4,030O. 6-                    100.0
Other M00,T Debts 4                               396 0
Short_-t.-  Debt I/                               971 0
1/  SOURCE,   1810. L.an. of Mat-ity oeye-       and abov, i..l.di.g coarc.1 beak horrlg
2/  1-clode   0 580  illlion b -roed b7 the banking cyst
1/  Inaldee ehort tern ntpital Infloer    of 0760 aillon
4/  SOURCE-   Korea  ..thoritle
S.vt,aab 6, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10 pages
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of November 30, 1976)
Loan or                                                            US$ Million
Credit                                                     Amount (less cancellations)
Number  Year        Borrower            Purpose             Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Eleven loans and credits fully disbursed                   153.8    72.1
600    1969   ADC                   Irrigation             45.0              .3
151    1969   Republic of Korea     Education                      14.8      .5
669    1970   Republic of Korea     Railways               40.0               .5
769    1971   Republic of Korea     Highways               54.5             1.2
795    1972   ADC                   Irrigation             33.0            11.7
863    1972   Republic of Korea     Railways               40.0              1.7
905    1973   KDFC                  Dev. Fin. Co.          40.0              .5
906 &  1973   Republic of Korea     Education II           23.0    20.0    35.3
394
917    1973   Republic of Korea     Ports                  80.0            57.9
942    1973   Republic of Korea     Seeds Production        7.0             5.8
953    1974   Republic of Korea     Tourism                25.0            18.8
956    1974   Republic of Korea     Highways II            47.0             1.4
994    1974   AFDC                  Agriculture            13.0            12.2
1070    1975   Republic of Korea     Secondary Cities       15.0            13.2
1095    1975   KDB                   Dev. Fin. Co.          60.0            19.7
1096    1975   Republic of Korea     Third Education        22.5            22.5
1101    1975   Republic of Korea     Fifth Railway         100.0            51.6
1145    1975   KDFC                  Dev. Fin. Co.          55.0            23.2
1175    1975   MIB                   Dev. Fin. Co.          30.0            18.2
1193    1976   Republic of Korea     Second Integrated      15.0            15.0
Dairy Development
1203    1976   Republic of Korea     Third Highway          90.0            89.9
1216 &  1976   Republic of Korea     Rural Infra-           60.0            53.6
1218-T                                 structure
1219    1976   Republic of Korea     Program Loan II        75.0            40.5
1319    1976   ADC                   Irrigation             29.0            29.0
1328 /a 1976   Republic of Korea     Agricultural Credit    20.0            20.0
Total                                            1,172.8   106.9   544.2
of which has been repaid                          31.7      .7
Total now outstanding                            1.141.1   106.2
Amount sold                   2.0
of which has been repaid    1.0                    1.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   1,140.1   106.2
(prior to exchange adjustment)
Total undisbursed                                  531.4    12.8   544.2
/a Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10 pages
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of November 30, 1976)
Fiscal                                                   Amount in US$ Million
Year   Obligor               Type of Business              Loan  Equity  Total
1968   KDFC                  Development Financing          -      0.7    0.7
1969   Honan Silk Co.        Textiles                       i.4    0.3    1.7
1970   Atias Paper           Pulp and Paper                4.5     0.5    5.0 /a
1971   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development     -      0.7    0.7
1974   KDFC                  Development Financing          -      0.4    0.4
1974   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Deveioment      -      0.3    0.3
1975   Gold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products           16.0    1.3   17.3
1975   Korea Securities
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Development     5.0    0.6    5.6
1975   Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.         Synthetic Fibers              6.9     2.1    9.0
1975   Hlae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company, Ltd.    Tourism                       2.7     0.7    3.4
i976   Korea Investment
Finance Corp.         Capital Market Deveiopment     -      0.4    0.4
i976   Chongju Paper
Mlfg. Co.             Paper                          5.0    0.5    5.5
1976   Korea Zinc Co., Ltd. Zinc                           15.0    4.0   19.0
1976   KDFC                  Development Financing         17.8     -    17.8
1976   Cold Star & Co.,
Ltd.                  Electronic Products           10.0    0.4   10.4
1977   Gold Star & Co.,      Electronic Products                   0.2    0.2
Ltd.
1977   KDFC                  Development Financing                 0.3    0.3
Total gross commitment                              84.3   13.4   97.7
less cancellations, terminatibns,
repayments and sales                             27.5     0.9   28.4
Total commitments now held by IFC                   56.8   12.5   69.3
Total undisbursed                                   20.1    3.0   23.1
/a Cancelled at the request of the Company.



ANNEX II'
Page 3 of 10 pages
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan- o. -600 -  -Pyongtaek--KumgangI-riatfon Pr6jo'et_; US$45.0 Million
-L-oan-of May 23; 1969; Eff-ectiVe Df   'M   25,y 1970;
Closing Date: _December-31, 1976
The Project includes irrigation for-about 31,000 ha, improVemenit
of drainage and roads, consolidation of paddy fields; benching- of--upland,-
and tidal -land reclamation.  Construction was delayed by a reorganization
of the executing agency and-a delay in hiring--consult-ants. The major
project components, -(two sea.dikes, the main distribution system and pumping
plants) were largely completed by the end of 1974, and the remaining work
was completed in- 1976. Costs rose from US$90.0 million at appraisal to
about US$130.0 million largely because of inflation and the increased costs
of right-of-way, engineering, administration and land consolidation.
Increases in the price of rice, however, compensate for the higher costs;
and, the economic rate of return is now estimated to be about the same as
the appraisal estimate of 14 percent.
Credit No. 151    First Education Project; US$14.8 Million Credit of
June 4, 1969; Effective Date: May 25, 1970;
Closing Date- September 30, 1976
The Project comprises: (a) the expansion and equipping of 27
technical, commerc7ial'auid'agricultural schools, 5 post-secondary higher
schools and 4 university teacher training departments; and (b) 26 man-
'years of technical assistance and 20 man-years of overseas fellowships
to support the development of agricultural and technical.education.    All
civil works, equipment and furniture procurement, technical assistance
and fellowships--ibcTld&dd-ii& the' Project have been completed.  The total
project cost is estimated to remain about 3 percent below.the appraisal
estimate. Execution of the project was satisfactory.
Loan No. 669      Third Railway Prolect; US$40.0 Million Loan, US$15.0
Credit No. 183    Million Credit of May 14, 1970; Effective Date:
September II,''1970; Closing Date:  December 31, 1977
The bulk of the Loan and Credit was earmarked for the purchase
of freight 'cars, diesel locomotives, and telecommunications and track
/1- These-notes- are- designed to inforu- the-ExecU'tive Directors iegarding
the progress of projects in execution,-and in particular to report
any problems-which are being enicountered, and the action being taken
to remedy.them.  They should-b.e read in this sense, and withi Lhe
understanding that. th-ey. do not pursport, to present a balanced evalua--
tion of strengths and weaknesasr in project execution.



AINEX II
Page 4 of 10 pages
maintenance equipment. Progress is generally satisfactory except for delays
in the procurement of some micro-wave equipment which had to be retendered.
The Closing Date has been extended by a year to December 31, 1977 to provide
adequate time for the completion of procurement.
Loan N4o. 769    First Highway Project; US$54.5 Million Loan of June 29,
1971; Effective Date: December 7,-1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The construction of approximately 370 km of national highways
between Jeonju and Busan was satisfactorily completed in December 1973,
at a final cost of about five percent above the appraisal estimate. Feasi-
bility studies and detailed engineering have been completed for 1,400 km
and 900 km of national highways, respectively. A study of road maintenance
and the establishment of a pilot maintenance organization formed the basis
of the creation of a country-wide Highway MSaintenance Organization which
is being carried out under the Second Highway Project. The Closing Date
has been extended by 13 months to permit completion of procurement of
highway maintenance equipment, and staff training.
Loan NIo. 795    Yong San Gang Irrigation Project; US$33.0 Million Loan
Credit No. 283    and US$15.0 Million Credit of February 2, 1972; Effective
Date: September 15, 1972; Closing Date: September 30, 1977
The Project aims at transforming an area with the highest drought
frequency in Korea into one with reliable irrigation and crop diversifica-
tion. Also, there will be increased production of high value crops such as
fruits and winter vegetables. The construction of the four dams has been
completed, but the award of the contracts for the construction of canals and
land consolidation was delayed, and completion of all projects works will
take about 18 months. The delay was caused mainly by increased costs due
largely to price escalation and design modification. The cost increases will
be partially compensated for by benefits attributable to the enlargement of
the area to be irrigated by about 1,400 ha and by the increase in the price
of rice and barley; and the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) plans
to reduce costs by constructing canals, roads and drainage systems for
contour furrow irrigation on all lands exceeding 2 percent slope only. Also
the Bank has begun monitoring construction costs on the civil works contracts
on a monthly basis.
Loan No. 863      Fourth Railway Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
November 22, 1972; Effective Date:   February 26, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
The main elements of the Project are: electrification of lines
in the Seoul suburban area; purchase of electric railcars and locomotives;
the completion of electrification of 350 km of line running from Seoul to
the northeastern part of Korea; track and bridge renewal; provision of yard
facilities; acquisition of passenger and freight cars; and improvement of
facilities for the maintenance and repair of motive power and rolling stock.
No major problems have been encountered; most of the loan proceeds have
been committed, and nearly 95 percent already disbursed.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10 pages
Loan No. 905      Fourth KDFC Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of June 13,
1973; Effective Date: September 10, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 906      Second Education Project; US$23.0 Million Loan and
Credit No. 394   US$20.0 million Credit of June 13, 1973; Effective Date:
September 10, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project provides equipment for and extensions to 85 educa-
tional institutions at secondary, post secondary and university levels. It
also includes preinvestment studies on health and management education.
After three and a half years of implementation, project execution is now
about 12 months behind schedule. The Government is taking steps to overcome
the source of delay. All equipment lists have been approved; tenders have
been made for US$35 million, contracts have been awarded for US$22 million.
Total project cost remains at $75.8 million, about 8 percent above the
appraisal estimates. Disbursements are expected to reach US$20 million by
the end of FY77. Covenant requirements under the Development Credit Agree-
ment are being met. The project is now expected to be completed by mid-1978,
which requires an extension of the Closing Date.
Loan No. 917      Ports Project; US$80.0 Million Loan of June 27, 1973;
Effective Date: September 18, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The Project includes the provision of container and bulk cargo
facilities and equipment at Busan and coal piers and handling equipment at
Busan and Mukho. The Project is progressing satisfactorily. Preparation
of contract documents for all nine civil works contracts has been completed
and five have been awarded. Four of the five equipment contracts have also
been awiarded. Three of the civil works contracts are on schedule while two
are slightly behind schedule; all are expected to be completed on time.
The Government signed a Loan Agreement, on Miarch 8, 1976, with the Saudi
Fund for Development, which will provide US$35 million equivalent for this
Project. The Government established on March 13, 1976 the Korea Port
Authority, and key management appointments have already been made. Dis-
bursement is at present around 24 percent of the total loan.
Loan No. 942      Seeds Project; US$7.0 Million Loan of November 16, 1973;
Effective Date: April 24, 1974; Closing Date: December
31, 1978
The Project consists of: (a) the installation of five field crop
seed processing and storage facilities; (b) farm machinery for seed pro-
duction; (c) procurement of seasonal seed inventories through the operation
of a revolving fund; (d) seed testing laboratories and equipment; (e) crop
research (financed in part by USAID); (f) feasibility studies for irr4ga-
tion and area development; and (g) technical assistance. The necessary



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10 pages
legislative and administrative action for revising the Seed Law and estab-
lishing an "Office for Seed Production and Distribution" has been taken.
Projec.t implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Preliminary esti-
mates suggest that Project costs would be considerably higher than envis-
aged at appraisal. Disbursement has been somewhat slower than expected at
appraisal but is expected to improve soon.
Loan No. 953
Kyonglu Tourism Project; US$25.0 Million Loan of
January 4, 1974; Effective Date: May 6, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The Project forms part of the first phase of the planned develop-
ment of the Bomun Lake resort near Kyongju. It provides for a multi-purpose
dam; an irrigation system for about 1,200 ha; improvement and expansion of
the water supply and sewerage and solid waste disposal systems for the city
of Kyongju and the resort area; installation of electrical supply and tele-
communication facilities for the resort area; the construction and/or realign-
ment of about 57 km of roads, infrastructure including storm water drainage,
environmental sanitation, community facilities, and a golf course; a school
for training hotel personnel; and a feasibility study for the development
of tourism on Cheju Island. Final design for almost all Project components
is complete and several contracts have been awarded. Considerable efforts
are being made by the newly established Kyongju Tourism Agency to promote
hotel investors interest in the resort area. About 30 percent of the loan
has been disbursed and disbursements are expected to accelerate in the
months ahead.
Loan No. 956      Second Highway Project; US$47.0 Million Loan of January
25, 1974; Effective Date: April 4, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The Project, which forms part of the Government's 1972-76 road
construction and paving program, consists of the construction (chiefly
on new alignments) of about 130 km and paving (largely on existing align-
ments) of approximately 634 km of national highways were completed on
schedule and the highways opened to traffic in October 1975. Feasibility
studies for future projects of about 1,000 km of road were started in
August 1975 and will be followed by detailed engineering, which is expected
to be completed early in 1977. Delay occurred in setting up a new nation-
wide highway maintenance organization but the organization has now been
established in accordance with decrees published in June 1975. Most of the
maintenance offices have been constructed and staffed and procurement of
the necessary equipment is in progress. Disbursement is around 95 percent
of the Loan.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10 pages
Loan No. 994      Integrated Agricultural Products Processing Project;
US$13.0 Million Loan of June 7, 1974; Effective Date:
March 19, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project aims at integrating the on-farm production of commer-
cial crops for export with efficient hygienic processing facilities using
land that is presently idle or under-utilized. It comprises: (a) on-farm
development of asparagus, oak mushrooms and mushrooms; (b) construction
of and improvements to facilities to process asparagus, oak mushrooms,
mushrooms and fruits; and (c) technical assistance including training of
staff, services of consultants, etc. As the current investor demand for
the project processing facilities is less than projected, implementation
of the Project as a whole is likely to be delayed.
Loan No. 1070     Secondary Cities Regional Project; US$15.0 Million
Loan of January 15, 1975; Effective Date: August 18,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The principal aims of the Project are the establishment of an
organizational framework for regional investment, planning and develop-
ment and the improvement of working and living conditions in the secondary
cities of the less developed Gwangju region. The main elements of the
Project are: (a) housing sites and services in the cities of Yeosu, Mogpo
and Gwangju (370,384 sq m); (b) a fishery harbor complex with industrial
processing zone (215,385 sq m) in Yeosu; (c) a city market in Suncheon
City (33,160 sq m); and (d) access roads in Yeosu and Mogpo (6.61 km).
It also provides technical assistance to strengthen regional planning and
development, to improve the utilization of existing water supply systems
in the four cities, to assist the management and operation of the fishery
complex and to carry out feasibility studies of project proposals identi-
fied under the UNDP-financed Phase II Regional Study. Project implementa-
tion is roughly a year behind the appraisal schedule largely because of
delays in establishing the Gwangju Regional Development Unit. However,
progress has been improving and is considered satisfactory.
Loan No. 1095     Korea Development Bank Project; US$60.0 Million Loan
of March 31, 1975; Effective Date: June 17, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project provided funds to KDB to make subloans to finance
direct imports for subprojects principally in the manufacturing and trans-
portation sectors. Almost the full amount has already been committed to
finance 31 subprojects, ahead of the time estimated at appraisal. Dis-
bursements now amount to about two thirds of the loan amount, also ahead
of the original estimate. KDB's performance in using the loan has been
highly satisfactory.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10 pages
Loan No. 1096     Third Education Project; US$22.5 Million Loan of March 31,
1975; Effective Date: June 6, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The project includes assistance for extensions and equipping of
nine institutions (technical, agricultural and fisheries) under the Ministry
of Education (MOE) and seven vocational training institutes under the Office
of Labor Affairs (OLA). After 18 months of execution, project implementa-
tion is about six months behind schedule but considerable progress has
been made. Site layouts and sketch plans have been approved. Construction
will begin in 1977. Progress in equipment procurement is satisfactory. Both
MOE and OLA project units are functioning satisfactorily and disbursements
are expected to be made on schedule.
Loan No. 1101     Fifth Railway Project; US$100.0 Million Loan of April 10,
1975; Effective Date: July 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The Project will help the Korean National Railroad (KNR) continue
as a major carrier of freight and passengers by helping in: the upgrading,
modernization and expansion of track, rolling stock, motive power, and other
equipment; the improvement of the efficiency of operation; and its financial
recovery. The main components of the Project are: an increase in station
and line capacity and improvements in signalling; acquisition of rolling
stock, diesel and electric locomotives, spare parts and repair facilities;
track renewal and improvement; bridge strengthening; completion of electri-
fication of 71 km of industrial lines; and other miscellaneous items. Con-
tracts, financed by the Loan, have been signed for procurement of passenger
and freight cars, wheel sets, rail, bridge girders and spares for coaches
and track maintenance machinery, amounting to about US$57.6 million equiv-
alent. Electrification of industrial lines and the Seoul Suburban system
has been virtually completed. Forty-two percent of the loan proceeds have
already been disbursed. In connection with this loan, the Government under-
took to formulate a financial recovery plan for KNR and to discuss it with
the Bank. A mission which visited Korea in October discussed this matter
with the authorities concerned.
Loan No. 1145     Fifth Korea Development Finance Corporation Project;
US$55.0 Million Loan of July 23, 1975; Effective Date:
September 5, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Loan will cover about half the KDFC's foreign exchange
requirements through the end of 1977. It will be used to finance direct
imports of machinery and equipment, and the foreign exchange component of
domestically produced capital goods and of civil works. Disbursements are
proceeding on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10 pages
Loan No. 1175     Medium Industry Bank (MIB); US$30.0 Million Loan of
November 26, 1975; Effective Date: January 28, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The Project provides funds to MIB to make sub-loans to small
and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises over the next two years. The
Project is progressing satisfactorily. Disbursements are at present over
20 percent of the total loan.
Loan No. 1193     Second Integrated Dairy Development Project;
US$15.0 Million Loan of June 4, 1976; Effective Date:
November 11, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project consists of: (a) the establishment of about 450
new dairy farms; (b) the continuation of the development begun as part of
the First Integrated Dairy Beef Project on about 400 dairy farms; (c) the
expansion of existing processing plants, the diversification of their
production, the establishment of two milk collection centers and fifty small
milk cooling units and the construction of a frozen milk products plant at
Yeongnam; and (d) the expansion of technical services for both farm develop-
ment and milk processing.
Loan No. 1203     Third Highway Project; US$90.0 Million Loan of
February 3, 1976; Effective Date: May 17, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The Loan provides funds to help finance: (a) the construction,
chiefly on new alignment, including paving, of about 195 km of four
national highways, including supervision of the work by consultants;
(b) paving and improvement chiefly on present alignments, of nine national
highways totalling about 600 km, including supervision of the work by
consultants; and (c) feasibility studies by consultants of about 1,200 km
of national and provincial roads, to be followed by detailed engineering.
Bids have been called for all construction and paving contracts, in accord-
ance with the Bank's procedures of-international competitive bidding.
Loan No. 1216     Rural Infrastructure Project; US$60.0 Million Loan
Loan No. 1218T    df which US$40.0 Million Third Window;
Effective Date: June 4, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The Project includes about 62 minor irrigation, 29 upland reclama-
tion, 11,000 fuelwood, 900 roads and bridges, 4,200 water supply, and 2,700
rural electrification subprojects. Technical assistance is provided for
upland reclamation and improvements to hydrologic services. Special evalua-
tion studies are also included. Project implementation is on schedule,
costs and disbursements are all close to appraisal estimates. The monitoring
and reporting systems have also been established and are functioning well.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10 pages
Loan No. 1219     Second Program Loan; US$75.0 Million Loan of
March 3, 1976; Effective Date: June 9, 1976;
Closing Date: May 1, 1977
The principal aim of the Loan is to help meet the foreign exchange
requirements for the import into the Republic of Korea, by the private
sector, of essential capital and intermediate goods. Over 50 percent of the
Loan has already been disbursed.
Loan No. 1319    Miho Watershed Area Development Project; US$29.0 Million
Loan of July 17, 1976; Effective Date: October 21, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The aim of the project is to increase agricultural production and
farm incomes on about 12,665 ha, and to benefit directly some 10,400 farm
families. The project consists of: (a) the construction of dams and canals
to irrigate 8,315 ha; (b) the conversion of 2,045 ha of cultivated upland to
irrigate paddy fields; (c) land consolidation on 4,600 ha of irrigated and
non-irrigated land; (d) the development of 495 ha for irrigation of upland
crops and 550 ha for orchards; (e) upland reclamation and bench-terracing of
1,200 ha of presently uncultivated land; (f) the improvement of about 80 km
of river channels; (g) the construction of about 150 km of village access
roads; (h) aerial photography, surveys and mapping; and (i) provision for
technical assistance, procurement of vehicles and a feasibility study for
a second-stage project of the Miho Watershed.
Loan No. 1328     Second Agricultural Credit Project; A
US$20.0 Million Loan of September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project provides medium and long-term loans through the
National Agricultural Cooperative Federation (NACF) to about 7,900 farmers
for (a) the establishment of about 2,100 ha of apple orchards; (b) the
construction and equipping of improved silkworm rearing houses including
improvement of existing mulberry plantings; (c) sprinkler irrigation to
producing orchards of 2 ha or more; (d) the construction and equipping of
greenhouses for vegetable production; and (e) the construction of on-farm
fruit storage facilities.
/1 Loan signed October 12, 1976, not yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4 pages
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Agricultural Development Corporation
Guarantor:      The Republic of Korea
Amount:          $95.0 million equivalent
Terms:           17 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace, with
interest at 8.5 percent per annum
Project
Description:  The proposed project would benefit 20,700 ha through
irrigation, reclamation of 5,500 ha of uncultivable tidal
flats and land development on 11,900 ha (land consolidation
has already been carried out on 3,300 ha to be irrigated
by the project). Rice would be the main crop in the
summer, followed by a winter crop of barley on about 70
percent of the area. The principal features of the
project are:
(a)  construction of an estuary dam across the mouth of
the Yong San Gang, consisting of 4,500 m long embankment,
a 240 m wide concrete sluice and a navigation lock;
(b)  construction of a 4,000 m long sea dike;
(c)  construction of 16 pumping stations to serve a total area
of 20,700 ha, including the land to be reclaimed and developed;
(d)  construction of about 315 km of main and secondary canals
to serve an area of about 15,200 ha;
(e)  reclamation of about 5,500 ha of tidal land through land
leveling and construction of canals, drains and farm
roads;
(f)  land development comprising land consolidation on 3,200 ha
of existing paddy, conversion of 3,250 ha of upland to
irrigated paddy, development of 1,050 ha of upland for
irrigation, and tertiary canals and drains on 4,400 ha of
existing paddy;
(g)  construction in the project area of office buildings, ware-
houses, access roads and a temporary pier required for
the construction of the estuary dam; and
(h)  provision of the services of consultants to assist in pro-
ject implementation and in preparation of feasibility
studies for future development stages on the Yong San
Gang Basin.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4 pages
Estimated Cost:
Foreign % Base
Local  Foreign   Total  Local   Foreign  Total   Exchange  Cost
---    (Won B)-------  -------(US$ M)-------      (%)       (%)
Civil Works
Access road          0.2     0.1    0.3       0.3    0.3     0.6       45         1
Estuary dam          2.2     3.4    5.6       4.6    6.9    11.5       60       12
Sluice & lock        1.1     1.6    2.7       2.2    3.3     5.5       60        5
Sea dike             0.3     0.6    0.9       0.8    1.2     2.0       60        2
Pump stations        0.6     0.5    1.1       1.3    1.0     2.3       45        2
Canals               3.7     3.0    6.7       7.5    6.2     13.7      45       14
Land development     3.2     2.6    5.8       6.6    5.4     12.0      45       12
Tidal reclamation    3.9     3.2    7.1       8.1    6.6     14.7      45       15
Buildings            0.2     0.1    0.3       0.4    0.3     0.7       45         1
Subtotal        15.4   15.1    30.5     31.8    31.2    63.0       50       64
Equipment &
Materials
Sluice gates         0.5     4.7    5.2       1.1    9.6    10.7       90       11
Pump stat. equip.    0.2     2.0    2.2       0.4    4.0      4.4      90         4
Furnished material   0.6     1.3    1.9       1.2    2.8     4.0       70         4
Misc. equipment      -       0.2    0.2       0.1    0.3      0.4      85         1
Subtotal         1.3    8.2     9.5      2.8    16.7    19.5       86       20
Right-of-Way          1.6    -      1.6       3.3      0      3.3       0         3
Consulting Service   0.2     0.5    0.6       0.2    1.1      1.3      85         2
Engin. & Admin.      4.5     0.7    5.2       9.1    1.6     10.7      15       11
Base cost
estimate          22.9    24.5   47.4     47.2    50.6    97.8       52      100
Physical
contingencies      2.8     4.0    6.8      5.8     8.2    14.0       59       14
Expected price
increases         13.1    13.7   26.8     27.0    28.2    55.2       52       56
Total Project
Cost             38.8    42.2   81.0      80.0   87.0   167.0       52      170



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4 pages
Financing Plan:      The proposed Bank loan of $95.0 million would
finance the full foreign exchange requirements
of the project ($87 million, or 52% of the
project cost) and $8 million of interest and other
charges on the Bank loan. Local expenditures,
representing the estimated balance of the project
costs, would be met through annual government
budgetary allocations to ADC.
Estimated-
Disbursement:      Bank Fiscal Year       Annual        Cumulative
--in $'000 equivalent--
1977                 200            200
1978              4,000           4,200
1979             10,600          14,800
1980             19,400          34,200
1981             24,800          59,000
1982             18,300          77,300
1983              10,900         88,200
1984               6,800         95,000
Procurement:         Contracts for civil works construction and the supply of
equipment and materials would be awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank
Group Guidelines. The materials - cement and reinforcing
steel - would be procured in bulk on behalf of ADC by the
Office of Supply, Republic of Korea. A preference limited
to 15 percent of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or
the customs duty, whichever is lower, would be extended
to-local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. The
estuary dam, sluice, navigation lock and sea dike would
be awarded as a single contract with an approximate value
of $22 million. Other civil works would be packaged
together by areas to form about ten contracts with an
average value of about $5 million.   Major equipment con-
tracts would be for the manufacture and installation of
sluice gates ($12 million) and pumping station equipment
($5 million). Contracts for cement ($2.4 million) and
reinforcing steel ($2.2 million) would be divided into
contracts of about $0.5 million in order to keep the
supply of materials in line with requirements. Contracts
for the construction of the access road together with the
left embankment of the estuary dam ($2.5 million), and
for buildings and other site facilities ($0.8 million)
would be awarded after local competitive bidding.
Miscellaneous equipment ($100,000) would be purchased
through normal government procurement procedures.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4 pages
Consultants:               ADC would employ consultants to assist in project
implementation and in carrying out feasibility
studies for future development of the Yong San
Gang Basin. The estimated consultant input is
120 man-months for project implementation and 80
man-months for the feasibility studies. It is
estimated that the cost of the consultants services
would average $6,600 per man-month.
Rate of Return:            The project's overall economic rate of return is
13 percent.
Appraisal Report:          No. 1247-KO, dated January 3, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2 pages
KOREA
YONG SAN GANG IRRIGATION PROJECT - STAGE II
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I      Timetable of Key Events
-(a) Time taken to prepare the project:   The project was prepared
during 1973-1975 with
financing under Loan
795-KO - Yong San Gang
Stage I.
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:   The Agricultural Development
Corporation and consultants.
(c)  Date of the first Bank mission to    Project preparation was
consider the project:                subject to continuous Bank
review as part of the
supervision of the implemen-
tation of Stage I.
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:      November 17, 1975
(e)  Negotiations completed:              November 17, 1976
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:       April 25, 1977
Section II     Special Bank Implementation
Action:                            No specific action is
considered necessary.
Section III    Special Conditions
The following special conditions are incorporated in the Loan
and Guarantee Agreements:
(a) Before inviting bids for reclamation of tidal lands below
elevation +3 m, ADC would submit to the Bank for review an
economic and technical analysis of the reclamation of such
lands (para. 44);
(b) ADC would employ consultants to assist in project implementa-
tion and a feasibility study for future development on terms
and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 46);



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2 pages
(c) ORD would employ additional staff to provide agricultural
extension service for the tidal lands reclaimed under the
project (para. 51);
(d) ADC would prepare by December 1980 and submit to the Bank for
review a detailed plan for the operation and maintenance of
the project, including proposals for turning over the irrigation
service area works to the FLIAs (para. 52);
(e) The Government would make the necessary arrangements to
finance the farmers' requirements of farm equipment, inputs
and hired labor (para. 53);
(f) Project farmers would contribute to the capital and annual
costs of the project facilities at the levels described in
para. 54; and
(g) ADC would prepare a disposal plan for reclaimed tidal lands
and submit it to the Bank for review before disposal of such
lands (para. 55).



IBRD-12066
-  %?3035'1273035MARCH 1976
KORE A
YONG    SAN    GANG    IRRIGATION     PROJECT                            rO WANCJ
STAGE 11 PROJECT MAP
IRRIGATED AREAS                               p-O'G
EXISTING LAND
RECLAIMED TIDAL FLATS     HAM    PY    |                                          NA JU
MAIN CANALS
SECONDARY CANALS
@   PUMPING STATIONS
DAM AND SLUICE
EXISTINGSROADS
RAILWAYS
35   0   05 RIVERS AND RESERVOIRS
COUNTYIGUN) BOUNDARIES    /\
0  1  2  3  4
KILOMETERS
EOM B.nk.nd 2, .fN ~ EONG
22R02S                                              HAF NAM GUN ct9
RY 0-~ ~~~~'<';i,
/            (_e    1~~~SblltodInS113S"t  ^   /:                x:~~~N
cl ~ ~ OK°5          t1t>3                               7Q5'    IA  A  V 



