CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1364 KO
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Yong San Gang Irrigation
Project - Stage II)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated February 11, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 11, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a public corporation established and operating pursuant
to the Rural Modernization Promotion Law of 1969, as amended, of
the Republic of Korea (hereinafter called the Guarantor).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "OSROK"
means the Office of Supply of the Republic of Korea, the Guaran-
tor's central procurement agency, or any successor thereto.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety-
five million dollars ($95,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
(b) On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, inter-
est and other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on the
date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿- 4 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07 Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on June 15 *nd December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with t- amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ engineering and agri-
cultural consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. For the purpose of carrying out the civil
works required under the Project, the Borrower shall employ con-
tractors acceptable to the Bank upon terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. In carrying out Part E of the Project, the
Borrower shall, before inviting bids for the reclamation of tidal
lands below elevation + 3m, submit to the Bank, for its review, an
economic and technical analysis of the proposed reclamation of
such lands.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.


﻿- 6 -
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents.


﻿-7-
Section 3.37. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than December 31,
1980, or such other date as shall be agreed with the Bank, submit
to the Bank for its review, a detailed plan for the operation and
maintenance of the facilities included in Part A of the Project
and the pumping stations referred to in Part C of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall prepare and submit to the
Bank for review its plans for the disposal of tidal lands reclaimed
under Part E of the Project before disposing of such lands, such
plans to include (a) eligibility criteria for the selection of
beneficiaries and (b) terms and conditions of the sale of such
lands, including repayment of the equivalent of 100% of the
capital costs of the tidal land reclamation over a period not
exceeding 13 years, including a grace period of 3 years, at an
interest rate of 7% per annum, as such terms and conditions may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and
the Borrower.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appro-
priate administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering
practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all works, facilities and
equipment related to the Project to be adequately maintained and
shall from time to time make or cause to be made all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof including periodic inspections of
the dam, in accordance with sound agricultural and engineering
practices.
(c) Except as the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not sell, lease, transfer or
otherwise dispose of any of its property or assets which shall be
required for the efficient operation of its business and undertak-
ing including the Project.


﻿-9
Section 4.03. The Borrover shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently ap-
plied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) fur-
nish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Beak such other informatioi. concerning
the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower and the
audit therecf as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.


﻿- 11 -
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will ipso
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect,
at no cost to the Bank; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (i) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property;
or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof, namely that a change has been made in
the Guarantor's Rural Modernization Promotion Law of 1969, as
amended, which materially and adversely affects the carrying out
or operation of the Project by the Borrower.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely that the event specified in Sec-
tion 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 7.01. The date May 11, 1977 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 114 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Agricultural Development Corporation
P.O. Box 12
Anyang, Gyeonggi Do
Republic of Korea
Cable address:
AGRIDEVELOCORP
Anyang


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Husain
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By Is! Yoonsae Yang
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                52,000,000         50%
(2) Equipment and mate-        23,000,000
rials
(a) directly im-                            100% of foreign
ported                                  expenditures
(b) locally manu-                            100% of local
factured                                expenditures
ex-factory
(c) other                                   65% of local
expenditures
(3) Consultants' services       1,400,000        100%
(4) Interest and other          8,000,000         amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
June 15, 1981
(5) Unallocated                1o,600,000
TOTAL      95,000,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditure,s" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on tl,e
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out 6f the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 18 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the second stage of the Guarantor's plan for
irrigation, drainage and land development in the lower reaches
of the Yong San Gang, in the Jeonla Nam Province. The Project
consists of the following parts:
Part A.   Construction of an estuary dam across the mouth of the
Yong San Gang consisting of an embankment about 4,500
m long, a concrete sluice about 240 m wide and a navi-
gation lock.
Part B.   Construction of a sea dike about 4,000 m long.
Part C.   Construction of 16 pumping stations to serve a total
area of about 20,700 ha, including the land to be re-
claimed and developed under Parts E and F of the Project,
respectively, and about 3,300 ha which have been already
consolidated.
Part D.   Construction of about 315 km of main and secondary
canals to serve a total area of about 15,200 ha, in-
cluding the land to be developed under Part F of the
Project and about 3,300 ha which have been already
consolidated.


﻿- 20 -
Part E.   Reclamation of about 5,500 ha of tidal land through
land levelling and construction of canals, drains
and farm roads.
Part F.   Land development comprising land consolidation (through
land levelling and construction of tertiary canals,
drains and farm roads) on about 3,200 ha of existing
paddy fields, conversion of about 3,250 ha of upland to
irrigated paddy, development of about 1,050 ha of upland
for irrigation of upland crops and construction and
improvement of tertiary canals and drains on about
4,400 ha of existing paddy fields.
Part G.   Construction in the Project area of office buildings,
warehouses, access roads and a temporary pier required
for the construction of the estuary dam.
Part H.   Feasibility study for further stages in the development
of the Yong San Gang Basin.
*         *         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1983.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1980                  3,520,000
through June 15, 1993
On December 15, 1993                              3,480,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of PrepayMent                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.50%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                             3.00%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             5.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                             7.50%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                             8.50%


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   International Competitive Bidding
(a) Except as provided in Part A.2 of this Schedule, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works shall be pro-
cured in accordance with procedures consistent with those set
forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975
(hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
(b) Civil works under Parts A and B of the Project shall
be grouped under a single contract. Other civil works shall be
grouped geographically on the basis of about ten contracts.
(c) The requirements for cement and steel shall be grouped
and procured in bulk by OSROK on behalf of the Borrower.
2.   Other Procedures
(a) Contracts for the construction of access roads to the
estuary dam referred to in Part A of the Project and for civil
works under Part G of the Project may be let on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally under procedures accept-
able to the Bank.


﻿- 24
(b) Small equipment items may be purchased under the Guaran-
tor's normal procurement procedures, provided that the aggregate
of all items so procured shall not exceed $100,000 equivalent.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or i-stallation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Republic of Korea may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any pieference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 25 -
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Republic of Korea if the bidder shall have estab-
lished to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Republic of Korea
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Republic of Korea.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from


﻿- 26 -
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
With respect to all contracts for civil works and goods
(other than those referred to in Part A.2 (b) of this Schedule):
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award


﻿- 27 -
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
of the said consultants and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.


