Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  15170
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT No. 1675-RE)
DECEMBER 8, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya Shilling
1985  US$1        =      16.432             SDR1         =     16.459
1986              =      16.2261/                        =     19.035
1987              =      16.455                          =     21.269
1988              -      17.747                          =     23.824
1989              =      20.573                          =     26.281
1990              =      22.915                          =     31.070
1991              =      27.508                          =     37.509
1992              =      32.217                          =     45.135
1993              =      58.001                          =     76.611
1994              =      56.051                          =     78.236
Exchange rates used for project appraisal were US$I .00=KSh 16.50 and US$L 00=SDR 1.09842.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
ESIP        Energy Sector Investment Project
GOK         Government of Kenya
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IOC         International Oil Company
LICB        Limited International Competitive Bidding
MOE         Ministry of Energy
NOCK        National Oil Corporation of Kenya Ltd.
PEPP        Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project
PETAP       Petroleum Exploration Technical Assistance Project
PR          President's Report



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ----------------------------------------------------------------------iH
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ----------------------------- 1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives--            -        -----------------------------1
1. Project Objectives---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- I
2. Evaluation of Objectives-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 2
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ------------ -                    -          -          ------3
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project and Implementation Record------                 ------4--------------- 4
D. Project Sustainability----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 6
E.. Bank Performance--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 6
F. Borrower's Performance------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 8
G. Assessment of Outcome ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 8
H. Future Operation------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 9
1. Key Lessons Learned --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 9
PART  11 - STATISTICAL TABLES ---------------------------------------------------------- 10
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS --------------------------------------------------------------…10
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ------ ---- -- ------------12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE--                         --------------------13
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS --------------------------------------13
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION -----------------------------14
TABLE 6:  KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION---------------------------------------15
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT -------------------------------                     ----------- …   15
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ----------------------------------------------------------------------------15
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING--                         ------------------------16
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS- -----…-------------------------------------16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiihout World Bank authorization.



TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS------------------------------------------------------17
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS--              -------18
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS------------------------------------------------------18
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS------------------------------------------------------------19
Appendix A          Aide-Memoire of ICR Mission
Appendix B          Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
Appendix C          Borrower's Comments to Bank's Draft ICR
Appendix D          Map



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
PROJECT
(Credit 1675-KE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Petroleum
Exploration Technical Assistance Project in Kenya, for which Credit 1 675-KE in the
amount of SDR 5.5 million equivalent was approved on March 27, 1986 and made
effective on November 25, 1986.
The credit was closed on December 31, 1993, compared with the original closing
date of December 31, 1991. It was fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place
on January 3, 1994. There was no cofinancing for the project.
The ICR was prepared by Ms. L. Keta Ruiz, Task Manager, Energy and
Infrastructure Operations Division of the Eastern Africa Department, with the initial
contribution of the late Mr. Guy Chamot, Consultant, and reviewed by Mr. Stephen
Weissman, Division Chief, and Mr. S. K. Agarwal, Project Advisor, Eastern Africa
Department. The Borrower provided comments which are included in Appendix C to
this ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final
supervision/completion mission on August 1993. It is based on material in the project
file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation
of the project's execution and initial preparation including the attached Summary
(Appendix B). The full Government's evaluation report is in the project file.






ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
The energy sector plays an important role in Kenya's economy, in terms of its
impact on the balance of payments, contribution to central Government revenues, and
share of investment and employment. Kenya has modest domestic energy resources,
which include wood, hydropower, geothermal and solar energy. In 1986, at the time of
appraisal of the Petroleum Exploration Technical Assistance Project (PETAP), wood was
by far the most important energy source, supplying close to 70 percent of total energy
requirements. Petroleum demand was satisfied entirely through imports which totaled
US$ 424 million in 1984. Transport was the main consumer of oil products at 42
percent, followed by industry at 25 percent, power at 15 percent, agriculture at 11
percent and residential/commercial at 7 percent. At that time, no commercial petroleum
resources had yet been discovered, although inland and offshore sedimentary basins
existed and warranted further exploration. Oil exploration in Kenya began in 1954 when
Shell and BP obtained the first exploration license. By appraisal, a total of 17
exploration wells, as well as a number of shallow core holes, had been drilled, most of
them with minor oil or gas shows. There was only one concession at that time.
Responsibility for petroleum exploration rested with the National Oil Corporation
of Kenya Ltd. (NOCK) which was established on April 30, 1981. Before appraisal,
NOCK had also been delegated the responsibility for negotiating, concluding and
supervising production sharing agreements. NOCK's active role in petroleum
exploration promotion was much appreciated by the oil companies involved who credited
NOCK with ending a stalemate of several years (in 1984-1985) and with rapidly
concluding agreements for five exploration blocks involving six major oil companies.
IDA's involvement in petroleum exploration in Kenya started with the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project (PEPP), Loan 2065-KE. This project, approved in 1981,
was to stimulate exploration in Kenya. PEPP included gathering, interpreting and
reprocessing of data, promotion rounds, drafting of legislation and technical assistance
and training. PEPP was successful in attracting six international oil companies (IOCs) in
taking up acreage in Kenya. To continue the momentum of exploration started with
PEPP, PETAP was first discussed in 1984 and later appraised in 1985. At the time of
appraisal, the other operation in the petroleum subsector was Loan 1133-KE of 1975
which financed the Mombasa-Nairobi pipeline. Other Bank lending to the energy sector
consisted of three loans for reforestation, six power loans, and one credit to finance
geothermal exploration.



iii
Project Objectives
The objectives of the project were to: (i) continue to support the Government of
Kenya's efforts to increase the level of petroleum exploration interest and activity within
its territory; and (ii) improve the efficiency of petroleum supply and distribution. The
project was also intended to strengthen NOCK to effectively handle the anticipated
increase in the level of exploration activity. These objectives were to be accomplished
through two project components: (a) Technical Assistance to NOCK, and (b) Exploration
Promotion.
The project objectives were clear. The first objective, to continue to support the
Government to increase the level of petroleum exploration interest and activity within
Kenya was consistent with the Government's strategy in the sector of not undertaking
work which could be carried out by petroleum companies and limiting its role in the
sector to a promotion and supervisory function. The decision to develop Kenya's
indigenous energy sources also made sense at the time, since Kenya relied heavily on
imported energy and oil, if found, would reduce its reliance on energy imports. The
previous operation in the sector, PEPP, was successful in attracting six international oil
companies in taking up acreage in Kenya. Therefore, a follow-up project, to continue
efforts started in PEPP was justified. The second objective, to improve the efficiency of
petroleum supply and distribution was in line with the need to address significant sector
issues such as the operation of the refinery, the use of the strategic storage facilities in
Mombasa, improvements in cost of crude imports and plans for modifying the product
distribution system in Kenya.
The objective of strengthening NOCK to effectively handle the anticipated
increase in the level of exploration activity was necessary. The successful
implementation of GOK's exploration promotion and monitoring strategy depended on
the availability of qualified technical staff to compile and interpret available information,
negotiate with oil companies, and monitor their activities. The Ministry of Energy
(MOE) was aware that until more Kenyan personnel were adequately trained it would
have to rely on foreign expertise. Therefore, a technical assistance and training
component was included in the project.
The main risk associated with PETAP, which did materialize, was that tracts
offered might not prove attractive enough to foreign companies. It was felt, however,
that the project was justified, given the expense to Kenya of importing oil, the knowledge
of the country's geology, oil companies' interest, and the low cost of the project relative
to potential investments in petroleum exploration it could attract.
Implementation Experience and Results
The achievement of project objectives has been modest, so far. The project has
continued to support the GOK's efforts to increase the level of petroleum interest and
activity within its territory, but the increase of interest and activity of IOCs themselves,



iv
as a result of the project, has been minimal. The third promotion round of June 1990 was
not able to attract new oil companies to take up concessions in Kenya. The drilling
activity in Kenya of 12 wells drilled during 1986-93 resulted from the second round of
promotion held before the approval of Credit 1675-KE. The only prospect of increased
interest by IOCs will be after the Lamu Basin study is promoted. This study, which was
started in 1991 after the fruitless promotion efforts of 1990, was conducted using new
geological concepts (see paras 3 and 15 of Part I). The second objective to improve the
efficiency of petroleum supply and distribution was not achieved at all through the
project. Not enough resources were allocated to achieve this objective since the project
only included a study to evaluate and recommend the least cost solution to the supply and
distribution of petroleum products, and, finally this study was not carried out under the
project (see para 8 of Part I).
The project has been successful in strengthening NOCK to handle the increase in
the level of exploration activity. NOCK has received technical assistance and training,
which have increased its ability to negotiate and monitor oil companies. IOCs invested
substantial amounts in both drilling and exploration between 1987 and 1993 (see para 9
of Part I). This, of course, has had a considerable economic impact in Kenya; however,
these activities were due to the previous operation (PEPP) and not PETAP. All the skills
will count for little, however, if IOCs are not interested in taking new concessions.
Furthermore, Shell surrendered its concession in February 1994, which raised questions
about the attractiveness of Kenya for other oil companies.
Project identification took place at the end of June 1985. The Project was
approved by the Board in March 1986 and signed in July 1986. There were various
delays until the Project was declared effective in November 1986. There were also
delays recruiting consultants (see para. 13 of Part I). One of the important first steps for
the project implementation, the acquisition of the aeromagnetic survey was also delayed
by six months due to differences between the implementing agency and the Bank in
evaluating the bids and later on, a change of ownership of the lowest bidder. The most
important milestone in the project, the Third Petroleum Exploration Promotion round
had to be postponed for one year as well. The main reason for this was that an oil
company requested and was granted by MOE the extension of relinquishment of blocks,
which if not included in the promotion, would have reduced the attractiveness of the
areas being offered. The third promotion exploration round was carried out in London
and Houston in June 1990. These meetings, though well-attended, failed to attract new
exploration interest in Kenya, as pointed out in para 10 of Part I.
After these disappointing results, NOCK then adopted a new approach. To carry
out the activities under this new approach, especially a geological study and evaluation of
the Lamu offshore basin, GOK requested that the project be extended for one year, to
December 31, 1992. Later, in view of the promising results of the Lamu Basin study,
GOK requested another one-year extension to December 31, 1993, for category 2
(consultant services) since all other categories were completed and were to close as
scheduled on December 31, 1992.



v
IDA's performance was satisfactory in identification and preparation, but less
than satisfactory in appraisal and supervision. It responded positively to GOK's first
proposal of the project while supervising PEPP. It then fielded an identification mission
which received the first project proposal. IDA's team adequately assessed the project's
consistency with the Government's development strategy and with the Bank's strategy
for the country. It provided adequate assistance for project preparation. IDA also
carried out a mission to hold talks with key oil companies so as to seek their views
regarding steps that could enhance the operation at this early stage of the project cycle.
Had the IOCs' opinions been fully taken into account, the design, components and timing
of the project might have been modified. The Bank felt that there was sufficient interest
on the part of the oil industry to warrant additional data gathering and promotion, it
discounted the contrary views of some of the companies consulted since they had vested
interests given that they had concessions in Kenya at that time. The fielding of
supervision missions was adequate at the beginning, but it was limited to only one per
year at the end and most of the supervision missions had only one team member, which
might have negatively affected the close monitoring of the various components. Follow-
up and responses to requests were expeditious. Project implementation did not involve
important deviations from Bank policies and procedures.
The implementing agency's performance was satisfactory in project preparation
and implementation, but not in compliance with covenants. There were some delays in
procurement that slowed down the project implementation (para 13 of Part I). There
were also significant delays in submission of audited reports and invoice payments.
The project was rated well throughout its implementation, since it did seem that
the institution building effort, which was the key issue, was going well. Although the
project has failed, to date, to attract new IOCs to carry out exploration in Kenya, it was
not apparent during project execution that this would be the outcome. There is still a
possibility of some success in the promotion of the Lamu Basin. In any event, the
reaction of the IOCs to a promotion effort is beyond the control of such projects no
matter how well designed and executed. The project failed to make any contribution to
the improvement of petroleum supply and distribution, since the only activity directed
toward this objective was a study which was ultimately dropped because of lack of
government interest. On the whole, the project outcome is marginally successful. It did
build institutional capacity to undertaken future promotion programs and has given
NOCK the know-how to negotiate contracts with IOCs. The likelihood of sustainability
would be enhanced under the exploration promotion component to be included in the
proposed follow-up Energy Sector Project.
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned
Closer supervision and the fielding of more missions with the required skills,
might have contributed to the better achievement of the project objectives, especially in
training (para. 21 of Part I). Closer follow-up of all project components might have also
contributed to achievement of project objectives.



vi
If the Bank was seriously interested in pursuing the objective of improving
petroleum supply and distribution, this should have been reflected in the design of, and
allocation of resources for the project. With only a study included, there was little
inventive to give due attention to the matter.
Another lesson may relate in the importance of listening to the ultimate end-users,
in this case the IOCs. The preparation mission of August 1985 did consult the oil
companies (see paras 3 and 19 of Part 1), who thought that is might be better to wait at
least two years until ongoing exploration efforts were completed, before new data was
gathered. As explained above, it was the Bank's judgment that these companies had
vested interested and that further data gathering and promotion efforts were justified.
Although it is difficult to second guess, more investigation of this issue might have
changed the design or timing of the project and improved the possibilities of the
achievement of objectives.






1
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    Project Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project were to: (i) continue to support the Government of
Kenya's efforts to increase the level of petroleum exploration interest and activity within
its territory; and (ii) improve the efficiency of petroleum supply and distribution. The
project also had the objective of strengthening NOCK to effectively handle the
anticipated increase in the level of exploration activity. These objectives were to be
accomplished through two project components:
(a)   Technical Assistance to NOCK
* strengthening of NOCK's capabilities in monitoring ongoing oil company
activities by the provision of technical assistance in the area of exploration
consulting;
* training NOCK professionals abroad and in-house, including short overseas
courses;
* upgrading NOCK's technical capabilities by the provision of laboratory and
storage facilities, and computer laboratory, drafting and office equipment; and
* carrying out a study to evaluate and recommend the least cost solution to the
supply and distribution of petroleum products.
(b)   Exploration Promotion
* provision of survey engineering to assist in the preparation and planning of
data acquisition reiated to the third promotion round, to assist in monitoring
geophysical surveys carried out by oil companies and to provide on-the-job
training to NOCK staff;
* carrying out geophysical surveys and geological surveys in the Rift Valley
and other areas of interest, including any geochemical or other analysis which
may be required;
* promotion of areas identified by geophysical or other surveys, as well as
unallocated and relinquished areas;



2
* gas exploration promotion of areas perceived to be gas prone, including
assistance in preparing attractive contractual terms; and
* provision of transportation and communication facilities to allow NOCK
officials to communicate with and visit oil companies.
2.    Evaluation of Objectives
2.    The project objectives were clear. The objective of continuing to support the
Government to increase the level of petroleum exploration interest and activity within
Kenya was consistent with the Government's strategy in the sector of not undertaking
work which could be carried out by petroleum companies and limiting its role in the
sector to a promotion and supervisory function. The decision to develop Kenya's
indigenous energy sources, also made sense at the time, since Kenya, relied heavily on
imported energy and oil, if found, reduced the reliance on energy imports, while
improving its balance of payments.
3.    The previous operation in the sector, PEPP, was successful in attracting six
international oil companies in taking up acreage in Kenya. Based on the evidence
available from drilling in Kenya and neighboring countries, the country's petroleum
prospects were rated as modest, but in view of the sparse data coverage the petroleum
potential of Kenya remained to be evaluated. Therefore, a follow-up project to continue
efforts started in PEPP was justified. There were some oil companies which felt that
additional data gathering was not justified. However, contrary to the IOCs' opinion, the
GOK and the Bank felt that there was sufficient interest on the part of the oil industry to
warrant additional promotion, since the companies which had negative opinions about
further data gathering, had vested interests given that they had concessions in Kenya at
that time. The IOCs' negative opinion about the project was to become a self-fulfilling
prophecy, except for the Lamu Basin study. This study was started in June 1991 after the
fruitless promotion efforts of 1990. It was conducted with the new concept of focus on
basins/structures. In this concept each basin constitutes a mini project which makes it
attractive to medium and small oil companies.
4.   In the upstream areas of petroleum exploration, the Bank had been instrumental
in assisting Government in launching a promotion campaign and in advising Government
to successfully implement this promotion effort with PEPP. The Bank Group maintained
close contact with Government during this time in preparing appropriate petroleum
legislation and a contract framework commensurate with Kenya's perceived petroleum
potential, and balancing the interests of Government with those of the oil companies.
The Bank Group continued to help Government open new areas to exploration, intensify
efforts in placing unallocated blocks and strengthening the Government's sector
institutions. The project objectives were also consistent with continuing all these efforts
and with the principal objective of the Bank Group in petroleum exploration promotion



3
in Kenya which was to attract foreign capital and expertise and to strengthen and develop
the necessary institutional skills to deal with the oil companies in an effective manner.
5.    The second objective, to improve the efficiency of petroleum supply and
distribution recognized the need to begin addressing significant sector issues such as the
operation of the refinery, the use of the strategic storage facilities in Mombasa,
improvements in cost of crude imports and plans for modifying the product distribution
system in Kenya.
6.    The main risk associated with the proposed project was that tracts offered might
not prove attractive enough to foreign companies. It was felt, however, that the project
was justified, given the expense to Kenya of importing oil, the knowledge of the
country's geology, oil companies' interest, and the low cost of the project relative to
potential investments in petroleum exploration it could attract.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    The achievement of project objectives has been modest, so far. The project has
continued to support the GOK's efforts to increase the level of petroleum interest and
activity within its territory, but the increase of interest and activity of IOCs themselves,
as a result of the project, has been minimal. The third round of exploration promotion
meetings of June 1990 was not able to attract new oil companies to take up concessions
in Kenya. Only one contract was negotiated during the life of the Credit. This was a
contract with Amoco, Texaco, Total and Marathon for Block No. l-Mandera Basin, in
1989. The drilling activity in Kenya of 12 wells drilled during 1986-93 resulted from the
second round of promotion held before the approval of Credit 1 675-KE. The only
prospect of increased interest by IOCs will be after the results of the Lamu Basin study
are promoted. Some oil companies have recently shown interest in this study. The
project preparation facility for the Energy Sector Investment project will provide
US$60,000 for promotional activities Given increased opportunities in other areas of the
world, e.g., Eastern Europe, however, the attractiveness of Kenya remains small.
8.    The second objective of improving the efficiency of petroleum supply and
distribution was not achieved at all through the project. It was considered by the Bank a
very important matter and that is why it was included in the project. Sufficient resources
and attention were not provided to achieve this objective, only a study to evaluate and
recommend the least cost solution to the supply and distribution of petroleum products
was included, and, at the request of the Government, the funds earmarked for this
component were reallocated to pay for further training and the study was not carried out.
Petroleum deregulation has, however, been successfully taken up in the macroeconomic
dialogue and the proposed Energy Sector Investment Project (ESIP), would support this
initiative. ESIP includes a component for petroleum supply to facilitate the GOK's
deregulation of the petroleum subsector and to improve the efficiency of the petroleum
supply and distribution.



4
9.    The project has been successful in strengthening NOCK to handle the increase in
the level of exploration activity. NOCK has received technical assistance and training
which have increased its ability to negotiate and monitor oil companies and has acquired
and processed new data. The acquired skills have been useful to monitor the IOCs'
activities. IOCs invested US$148 million in both drilling and exploration between 1987
and 1993. This, of course, has had a considerable economic impact in Kenya; however,
these activities were due to the previous operation, PEPP and not PETAP. All the
required skills will count for little, however, if IOCs are not interested in taking new
concessions. Furthermore, Shell surrendered its concession in February 1994, which
raised questions about the attractiveness of Kenya for other oil companies. The training
program has been successful in strengthening NOCK's capabilities in monitoring
ongoing oil company activities, management and technical skills. The program
implemented through the technical assistance consultancy firm has trained 17 NOCK
personnel in training institutions in the USA, Canada and Europe in post graduate
program, diploma course programs and short course programs. As a result of the
technical assistance and training, NOCK is now able to undertake studies with only
occasional assistance from expatriates. Laboratory equipment, computers and other
equipment were purchased through the project as well.
10.   Promotion activities were not successful under the exploration promotion
component. The aeromagnetic survey was carried out and after interpretations and
production of reports, the third round of promotions was held in June 1990 in London
and Houston. A total of about 50 companies attended the promotion meetings in London
and about 75 attended the Houston meeting. Some companies expressed initial interest
and requested for additional data; however, no company acquired acreage. The feedback
from participants indicated that NOCK presentations provided little interesting
information and were seen as a repetition of the report which had already been presented
in 1982 and 1984 in the earlier rounds. This was a result of several factors: (i) the Rift
Valley data was disappointing; (ii) the Lamu Basin data included only a little new
information; and (iii) the data in the Anza Graben and Mandera Basin occupied by two
companies, were relinquished only in early 1990; therefore, data were still confidential at
time of third round. Given these facts, another postponement of the third round,
although it would have delayed implementation, might have been worthwhile.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
AND IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
11.   The Project was first mentioned in files in November 1984 when MOE, NOCK
and a Bank mission discussed the possibility to continue Bank assistance in the petroleum
sector beyond the closing date of the PEPP. In February 1985, GOK handed in the first
project proposal which it had prepared with the help of the consultants which were
providing technical assistance under PEPP. Project identification took place at the end of
June. The Bank's reconnaissance mission raised broad policy issues and institutional
questions, such as the extent of GOK's role in the petroleum sector. It was later discussed
during appraisal, but these issues were apparently not pursued thereafter, since they were



5
probably deemed too broad to be addressed in the context of a single technical assistance
project. The only major policy issue to be addressed by the project was petroleum supply
and distribution, but it was only included to be undertaken through a study. In addition
to this, the Bank did not follow it up actively. The result was that this second project
objective, was not achieved (see para 8).
12.  It took nine months to prepare the project and one year from identification for the
project to reach the Board. During identification, it was agreed to extend the previous
project, PEPP, for one more year, to the end of August 1986, since it was not yet fully
disbursed and to bridge the time gap until expected effectiveness of PETAP. The project
had a slow start. Although the Project was approved by the Board in March 1986, it was
not signed until July 1986. The Credit became effective in November 1986 (eight
months after approval by the Board), because of delays in the issuance of the legal
opinion. There were also delays in recruiting consultants and in the signing of their
contracts. The contracts were finally signed in May 1987.
13.   The project implementation was slowed by various factors. To take advantage of
adequate weather conditions to commence the aeromagnetic survey, NOCK requested
LICB rather than ICB, so that the survey flights could be done in January 1987.
However, due to differences between the implementing agency and the Bank in the
evaluation of bids and the change of ownership of the lowest bidder. The selection of
the contractor was delayed. The survey was finally carried out in July 1987. Later, there
were also some delays in payments caused by miscommunications between the
Government ministries and the implementing agency. If the implementing agency had
had signature authority for payments, these delays would have not happened.
14.   The most important milestone in the project, the Third Petroleum Exploration
Promotion round had to be postponed for one year. The main reason for this was that an
oil company requested and was granted by MOE the extension of relinquishment of
blocks, which if not included in the promotion, would have reduced the attractiveness of
the areas being offered. This would have repeated a situation similar to one in the 1985
Promotion, when a block was withdrawn and given to an IOC without competition,
creating ill-feelings in the international industry. ' The postponement was also to allow
time for reconnaissance seismic data to be available. Finally, the third promotion
exploration round was carried out in London and Houston in June 1990. These meetings,
though well-attended, failed to attract new exploration interest in Kenya, as pointed out
in para 10 above.
15.  In an attempt to generate greater interest in petroleum exploration in Kenya,
NOCK then adopted a new approach. Using known available data, but incorporating
innovative geological concepts and techniques, NOCK started studies to evaluate
individual sedimental basins separately. The first one of these studies, the Lamu Basin
However, it should be recognized that the extension resulted in further exploration work and drilling
of wells as GOK has pointed out in its comments on this ICR (see Appendix C).



6
Study, sought to generate smaller exploration blocks to attract small independent oil
companies which typically could not afford to undertake the expensive work programs
required by the large exploration acreage. To complete these activities under way,
especially the Lamu Basin Study, GOK requested that the project be extended for one
year, to December 31, 1992. Later, in view of the promising results of the Lamu Basin
study, GOK requested another one-year extension to December 31, 1993, for category 2
(consultant services) since all other categories were completed and were to close as
scheduled on December 31, 1992.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
16.   Project sustainability is possible since technical assistance and training have
improved the skills of staff in NOCK, increasing the performance of NOCK in
monitoring of IOCs activities. There seems to be borrower commitment to pursuing
exploration promotion and continued support to NOCK. There was an instance, as noted
in the last supervision mission, in which MOE took negotiations of a contract directly.
This might have threatened project sustainability, given all the know-how necessary and
already acquired by NOCK. GOK has now stated clearly that production sharing
contract negotiations are conducted by an inter-ministerial committee of which NOCK is
the secretariat.
17.   Exploration activity might recommence if the results of the Lamu Basin study are
materialized through promotion efforts, which might finally attract new IOCs. This can
be achieved through the follow-up project, the proposed ESIP, which would have an oil
exploration promotion component. This component includes studies, equipment and
laboratories, technical assistance and training.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
18.   The performance in identification and preparation was generally satisfactory
although it appears that insufficient attention was given to support for the improvement
of petroleum distribution and supply. Appraisal and supervision, however, were less
than satisfactory. The Bank responded positively to GOK's first proposal of the project
while supervising PEPP. It then fielded an identification mission which received the first
project proposal. The Bank's team adequately assessed the project's consistency with
the Government's development strategy and with the Bank's assistance strategy for the
country.
19.   The Bank provided adequate assistance for project preparation. Bank staff7s
skills were well matched with those required for project preparation. For example, the
Government requested IDA's assistance in determining a training program, A consultant
for petroleum training was included in the appraisal mission, which was instrumental in
assessing training needs. Training implementation, however, was not as successful (see
para 21 below). Given that it was a follow-up operation and that the same task manager



7
helped prepare this project, in depth knowledge and continuity were ensured. IDA also,
before appraisal, carried out a mission to hold talks with key oil companies so as to seek
their views regarding steps that could enhance the operation at this early stage of the
project cycle. Of the three oil companies visited, only one thought that some additional
data gathering in the next two years would be useful. Had this matter been explored
further and taken into account at appraisal, the design, components and timing of the
project might have been modified. The Bank felt, however, that the IOCs consulted had
vested interests and that further data gathering and promotion efforts were justified.
20.   Supervision was less than satisfactory as well. The Bank did not allocate enough
resources for supervision. There were too few missions with too few staff. There were
10 supervision missions during the approximately seven years between loan effectiveness
and project closing (November 1986 to December 1993). An average of 11 staff weeks
per implementation year were spent. Supervision was important in the consultant
selection process to ensure that procurement guidelines were adhered to and qualified
consultants were chosen. The bulk of supervision effort was focused on the technical
aspects of the exploration promotion process, and other areas, such as training, received
less support.
21.   The fielding of supervision missions was adequate at the beginning of the project
(two missions per year), but it was limited to only one per year at the end. Most of the
supervision missions had only one team member, however, which might have negatively
affected the close monitoring of the various components. Training had a specially slow
start. This might have been because there were some donor-supported activities for
training taking place. There were some project components which were not supervised
closely (training, supply and distribution study) and, therefore, were not well
implemented or not implemented at all. Follow-up and responses to requests were
expeditious. Covenant compliance was not followed closely either. Covenants,
especially audits and reporting requirements were complied with only after delay.
NOCK submitted audited reports for the first fiscal year of operation of the project in
April 1990, although they were due on March 1988. This issue was raised for the first
time in May 1988, but was not followed up closely.2
22.   There were five task managers and four division chiefs during implementation,
but there was some continuity since one of the task managers was a member of the
original team and then took over the project and participated in subsequent missions.
Project implementation progress reporting was adequate and the performance rating
given in Forms 590 appropriate. When assessing development objectives, especially
towards the end of the project, task managers rated the achievement of development
objectives favorably based on the contribution of the project to the institution building
effort and information at that time, given that there was still the possibility of some
success in the promotion of the Lamu Basin study. Project implementation did not
2  GOK maintains that the delay in submission of audited reports was caused by the delay in engaging
the external auditor; however, there were still delays after that.



8
involve important deviations from Bank policies and procedures. There was only one
contract which, to take advantage of weather conditions, was offered through LICB
rather than ICB. Another contract (for the Rift Valley Seismic and gravity contract) was
awarded through sole source, since it was a small contract and there was a company in
the zone which did not need mobilization. There was also the use of some funds
(US$120,000) which were reallocated to undertake a geothermal survey, which was not
part of the project. This reallocation was requested by GOK and approved by Bank since
it did not jeopardize the achievement of project objectives.
F. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
23.   The implementing agency's performance was satisfactory in project preparation
and implementation, although there were some delays in procurement that slowed down
the project implementation (paras 12-13). Compliance with covenants was less
satisfactory. There were also significant delays in submission of audited reports and
invoice payments. Overall, the performance of consultants was generally satisfactory.
Delays in payments to consultants were the result of some miscommunications between
government agencies. GOK backed the project financially. Provision of counterpart
funds was adequate and timely. It also provided good counterparts and gave the
consultants all the facilities and logistic support required.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
24.   The project was rated well throughout its implementation, since it did seem that
the institution building effort, which was the key issue, was going well. Although the
project has failed, to date, to attract new IOCs to carry out exploration in Kenya, it was
not apparent during project execution that this would be the outcome. There is still a
possibility of some success in the promotion of the Lamu Basin. In any event, the
reaction of the IOCs to a promotion effort is beyond the control of such projects no
matter how well designed and executed. The project failed to make any contribution to
the improvement of petroleum supply and distribution, since the only activity directed
toward this objective was a study which was ultimately dropped because of lack of
government interest. On the whole, the project outcome is marginally successful. It did
build institutional capacity to undertaken future promotion programs and has given
NOCK the know-how to negotiate contracts with IOCs. The likelihood of sustainability
would be enhanced under the exploration promotion component to be included in the
proposed follow-up Energy Sector Project.
GOK feels, however, that the performance of the aeromagnetic survey consultant and that of the
project consultants should have come under review. GOK feels that the continued use of the same
company as the main consultant for the project adversely affected the project's performance.



9
H. FUTURE OPERATION
25.   The management and staffing of NOCK have been strengthened through the
project. Lab equipment, computers and other equipment acquired during the project
would also facilitate future operations of NOCK. Given GOK's commitment to pursuing
exploration promotion, the monitoring promotion and negotiation activities from NOCK
could appropriately be carried out in the future. The follow-up project will also
contribute to improve these activities.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
26.   Closer supervision and the fielding of more missions with the required skills,
might have contributed to the better achievement of the project objectives, especially in
training (para. 21 of Part I). Closer follow-up of all project components might have also
contributed to achievement of project objectives.
27.   If the Bank was seriously interested in pursuing the objective of improving
petroleum supply and distribution, this should have been reflected in the design of, and
allocation of resources for the project. With only a study included, there was little
inventive to give due attention to the matter.
28.   Another lesson may relate in the importance of listening to the ultimate end-users,
in this case the IOCs. The preparation mission of August 1985 did consult the oil
companies (see paras 3 and 19 of Part I), who thought that is might be better to wait at
least two years until ongoing exploration efforts were completed, before new data was
gathered. As explained above, it was the Bank's judgment that these companies had
vested interested and that further data gathering and promotion efforts were justified.
Although it is difficult to second guess, more investigation of this issue might have
changed the design or timing of the project and improved the possibilities of the
achievement of objectives.



10
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial   Partial    Negligible   Not applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                      X
Sector policies                                                             X
Financial objectives                                                        X
Institutional development           X
Physical objectives                                                         X
Poverty reduction                                                           X
Gender issues                                                               X
Other social objectives                                                     X
Environmental objectives                                                    X
Public sector management                                                    X
Private sector development                                                  X
Others (specify)
Increased IOC's activities in                               X
Kenya
Improve supply and distribution
efficiency of petroleum                                   X
Strengthened NOCK                 X
B. Project Sustainability               Likely           Unlikely         Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance             Highly satisfactory   Satisfactory        Deficient
Identification                                          X
Preparation assistance                                  X
Appraisal                                                                  X
Supervision                                                                X



I1
D. Borrower Performance          High satisfactory   Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                            X
Implementation                                         X
Covenant compliance                                                      X
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of            Highly                                        Highly
outcome                satisfactory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
x



12
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year 6f
Loan/Credit Title                  Pwipose                   Approval          Status
Preceding operations
1. LN 1133-KE           Construction of pipeline, storage         1975       PPAR completed
Nairobi-Mombasa Oil   facilities, buildings and staff training                   in 1981
Products Pipeline
2. LN 1147-KE           Dam, power plant, transmission lines      1975       PPAR completed
Gitaru Hydroelectric   and management review and tariff study                    in 1981
3. LN 1132-KE/          Pine plantations, roads, technical                   PPAR completed
CR 0565-KE           assistance and EIA                        1975           in 1982
Second Forestry
Plantation
4. LN S012-KE           Consulting engineering, training and      1978        PCR completed
Oklaria Geothermal      studies                                                   in 1990
Engineering
5. LN 1799-KE           Drilling, generating station,             1980        PCR completed
Oklaria Geothermal      transmission lines and technical                          in 1990
assistance
6. LN 2065-KE           Data collection, promotion rounds,        1982        PCR completed
Petroleum Exploration    drafting of legislation, TA and training                 1991
Promotion
7. LN 2098-KE           Plantations, roads and TA                 1982        PCR completed
Third Forestry                                                                 in 1991
8. LN 2237-KE           Expansion to First Oklaria Project        1983        PCR completed
Power IV, Third Oklaria                                                            1990
9. LN 2359-KE           Dam, power plant, transmission lines      1984        PCR completed
Power V (Kiambere)    and TA                                                      1993
10. CR 1486-KE          Exploration drilling and TA                1984        PCR completed
Geothermal Exploration                                                              1992
Project
Following operations
1, CR 1973-KE            Drilling equipment, TA and engineering    1989            Under
Geothermal Development  studies, energy pricing, LPG supply,                     supervision
rural electrification
2. CR 2198-KE            Tree farming, forest conservation,        1991            Under
Forestry Development     institution building, studies                           supervision
3. Energy Sector         Includes component for Petroleum          1996        To be presented
Investment Project    Exploration Promotion                                to the Board June
I                                    I               1      1996.



13
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Prpject Cycle             Date Planned                   Date Actual
Identification                 January 1985                  January 1985
Preparation                    June 1985                     August 1985
Appraisal                   September 1985                September 1985
Negotiations               Dec. 1985-Jan. 1986             January 17, 1986
Board Presentation                March 1986                   March 27, 1986
Signing                       May 1986                    July 11, 1986
Effectiveness                   July 1986                 November 25, 1986
Project completion                 June 1992                     June 1995
Credit closing              December 31, 1991              December 31, 1993
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ MILLION)
.__ _ . FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91   FY92   FY93    FY94    FY95
Appr-aisal
estimate          0.5       1.8      3.5      4.8     6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0      6.0
Actual              0      0.6       1.9      4.3     4.9     5.6      7.1      7.4      7.4
Actual as %
of estimate         0     34.8      54.4     89.4    81.8    93.9   117.6    123.1   122.9
Date of final
disbursement                                  January 3, 1994



14
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated               Actual
Key Implementation Indicators
in SAR/President's Report and Development
Credit Agreement
1. Shortlist of airmag consultants submitted
by NOCK to IDA                                      March 1986          Changed to LICD
2. NOCK to provide computer specifications             April 1986             March 1987
3. TOR for supply and distribution study                May 1986               May 1986
4. Supply and distribution study started                July 1986              Dropped
5. Employment of Exploration Consultants                July 1986              May 1987
6. Geological Advisor in place                          July 1986              June 1987
7. Geophysical Advisor in place                         July 1986              June 1987
8. Training program commences                           July 1986              June 1989
9. Purchase of lab equipment                          October 1986           August 1990
10. Bidding documents for aeromagnetic survey          January 1987             July 1987
11. Completion of supply and distribution study          June 1987              Dropped
12. Purchase of computer                                 July 1987              July 1987
13. Engineering Advisor in place                         July 1987              Dropped
14. Construction of core and data storage                July 1987                1992
15. Initiation of aeromagnetic survey                    July 1987              July 1987
16. Completion of aeromagnetic survey                 September 1987          August 1987
17. Gas promotion                                       June 1987               Dropped
18. GOK furnished the recommendations of supply
and distribution study                             December 1987             Dropped
19. Initiation of other geophysical surveys              May 1988            September 1989
20. Completion of interpretation of                   December 1988           January 1988
aeromagnetic survey
21. Agreement between IDA and GOK on the aerial
coverage of third promotion round                 December 1988            May 1988
22. Third round of acreage bidding                      March 1989           November 1990
23. Promotion Meeting                                    June 1989              June 1990
24. Signature of third round agreements
with oil companies                                   May 1990        No companies attracted
yet.
25. Final exploration report                           October 1990           Not prepared
26. Closing date                                      December 1991          December 1993



15
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
No indicators to report.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Puipose as DJfined at
Study                   AppraisailRedifined             Status          Impact Gf Study
2. Supply and               Evaluate/recommend least cost        dropped
distribution             solution
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Estimate          Revised Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                   (USS million)               (USS million)              (USS million)
December 1992                                  l
Local   Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign    Total
1. Equipment                0.76       0.60    1.36     n.a.      0.77    n.a.   0.32       0.71      1.03
2. Consultants' services    0.09       2.63    2.72      n.a       5.40    n.a       0       5.10     5.10
3. Technical services       0.05       0.68    0.73      n.a       1.04    n.a       0       0.95     0.95
4. Training                 0.03       0.40    0.43      n.a       0.46    n.a   0.01        0.62     0.63
5. Project                  1.67       0.00    1.67      n.a               n.a   0.90          0      0.90
Administration
6. Unallocated              0.98       1.69    2.67      n.a         0     n.a       0         0         0
Total                    3.57       6.00    9.57     n.a       7.67    n.a   1.23        7.38      8.61
n.a.: not available.



16
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ MILLION)
Source        Appraisal Estimate          Revised Estimate         ActualLatest Estimate
December 1992
l____________  Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
IDA               0       6.0      6.0              7.7                        7.4      7.4
Domestic
contribution     3.6       0       3.6                                1.2                1.2
Total            3.6      6.0      9.6                                1.2      7.4      8.6
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
A. Quantifiable Benefits:             Economic rate of return was not calculated for the
project
| B. Costs:                           Project objectives were achieved through
consultancies, technical assistance, training and
purchase of lab and equipment. Standard
procurement procedures were used and contracts
were awarded to lowest qualified bidder.
C. Non-Quantifiable Benefits          (i) Project continued to support the GOK's efforts to
increase the level of petroleum interest and activity in
Kenya started with LN 2065-KE.
(ii) Strengthening of NOCK to handle the increase in
exploration activity. NOCK personnel received
training. NOCK has new lab and equipment.
(iii) Lamu Basin Study was carried out with project,
which might attract new exploration.



17
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Covenant         Present
Agreement       Sedion          7)pe            Stains               Description of Covenant               Comments
Petroleum supply
DCA          3.01 (a)        Project           CP         The Borrower shall carry out the Project, as  and distribution
implementation                   set forth in Schedule 2, through the      study was not
National Oil Corporation of Kenya Ltd.   carried out
(NOCK)
DCA          3.01 (b)        Project           CP         The Borrower shall carry out the project in    There were delays in
implementation        CD         accordance with the implementation        some components as
program set forth in Schedule 4.         per Table 5
DCA           3.02        Procurement           C         Procurement of goods, technical services
required for the Project, to be financed out
of the proceeds of the credit, shall be
govemed by provisions of Schedule 3 of
______________  this Agreement.                                               l
DCA          4.01 (a)      Accounts             C         The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate
to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the
project of the departments or agencies of
the Borrower responsible for carrying out
l__________  .the project or any part thereof.
DCA          4.01 (b)      Accounts                       The Borrower shall:
CD         (i) have accounts referred to in paragraph    Delays in carrying
(a) of this section for each fiscal year  out and submitting
audited, in accordance with appropriate  audited reports (see
auditing principles consistently applied by    para 23 of Part I)
independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
CD         (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than nine
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have
reasonably required; and
CD         (iii) fumish to the Association such other
infommation conceming said Accounts and
the audit thereof and said records as the
Association shall, from time to time,
reasonably request.
DCA          4.01 (c)      Accounts                       The Borrower shall:
C         (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this
section, separate records and accounts
reflecting such expenditures;
C         (ii) retain, until at least one year after the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit
Account was made, all records (contracts,
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other



18
Covenant        Ament
Ageement       Secdon         Type           StA                 Dacription of Covenaw               Conuuenls
and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
C
(iii) enable the Association's
representative to examine such records;
and                                    Delays in submitting
audited reports (see
CD        (iv) ensure that such separate accounts are  para 23 of Part I)
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this section and that the
report thereof, contains, in respect of such
separate accounts, a separate opinion by
said auditors as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn in respect of such
expenditur -. -ere used for the purposes for
I which the)  :e: provided.
Status:   C       =        Covenant complied with               CP       =         Complied with partially
CD       =        Complied with after delay            NC                Not complied with
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Operational Manual Statements were complied with.
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of Project                Planned                      Revised                      Actual
Cycle___ __
Weeks          USS          Weeks          USS          Weeks           USS
Through appraisal               n.a.              n.a.          n.a.          n.a.          17.2       29,321
Appraisal - Board               n.a.              n.a.          n.a.          n.a.          30.7       52,250
Board - Effectiveness           n.a.              n.a.          n.a.          n.a.          18.1       30,940
Supervision                     n.a.              n.a.          n.a.          n.a.          77.4      132,537
Completion                      11.0          23,210           11.0        23,210            8.4        18,398
Total                           na.               n.a.          n.a.          n.a.        151.8       263,446
n.a. = not available



19
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
T  - !  TPerformance Rating                 -
|       Stage cf           Month/    Number    Days in         Specialized SuffSkills    Implement-    Development                       Types cf
PrGject Cycle         Year    zfpersons    Field             Represented           aton Status  |   Impact                        Problems
Through appraisal          6/85             2         15  FA; ES
8/85             3          3  FA; OS; DE
Appraisal through          9/85             5         10  FA; ES; OS; G; OS (c)
Board approval            1/86             6          3  RR; FA; ES; G; L; OS (c)
Board approval through     7/86             3         14  FA; OS; G                         3               2        Deadline for credit effectiveness may have to be
effectiveness                                                                                                       extended.
11/86            3           4  FA; G; G(c)                       3              2        Project became effective only November 25,
1986. Consultants' contracts not signed due to
lack of effectiveness. Choice of contractor for
airmag survey has been stymied due to improper
evaluation of bids.
Supervision        1      04/87             3          3  DDC, FA, G                        2               1        Contracts with contractors should be signed soon.
Airmag survey contract is being negotiated.
2       06/87             1          7  G                                 2               I        Contracts for airmag survey signed and ready to
start in July 1987.
3       05/88             1          3  G                                 I               I        Delays in paying invoices to consultants.
4       10/88             1          3  G                                 I               1
5       04/90             1          7  G                                 I               I       Finally, after delays in submission of audited
reports, they have been submitted to IDA.
6       09/90             1         10  G                                 I               I       Proposed reallocation of funds. Promotional
round has attracted little interest from oil
companies.
7       02/91            2           3  PO; G                             I              1
8       10/91            2          10  PO; G                             I
Extension of project completion date to December
1992.
9       08/92            2           5  PO; G                             I
In view of promising results of Lamu study, the
GOK has requested a one-year extension to
December 1993.
Supervision/Completion    08/93             2          8  P0; G                             1



20
FA      -       Financial Analyst                                  L       -        Lawyer
ES      -       Energy Specialist                                  RR      -        Resident Representative
OS      -       Oil Specialist                                     DDC    -         Deputy Division Chief
DE      -       Drilling Engineer                                  PO       -       Project Officer
G       -       Geologist



APPENDIX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE OF ICR MISSION



I



AIDE-MEMOIRE
Cr 1675-KE
Petroleum Exploration Technical Assistance Project (PETAP)
A mission comprised of Ms. Rosemary Cubagee, Task Manager,
and Mr. Jack Warren, Geologist, visited Kenya from August 27, to
September 3, 1993, to supervise the above project. This aide-
memoire sets out the agreements and understandings reached
during the mission and will be confirmed upon return to
headquarters.    The  mission  wishes  to  thank  NOCK  for  the
courtesies extended and commend it for the exceptional progress
which is being maintained in the regional study program in the
project area. Since this will be the last supervision mission
for the project, the mission wishes to set out a few thoughts
and observations which it hopes will ease the implementation of
any follow-up project.
APPROVALS OF CONTRACTS AND INVOICES FOR GOODS AND SERVICES
The project team has noted a persistent occurrence of delays
in approvals of contracts by Government of Kenya (GOK) and not
infrequently, delays in approvals for disbursement of Credit
funds for the supply of goods and services.   The mission
acknowledges that Government agencies must be confident that
disbursement requests, in all cases, are properly documented
before authorizing disbursement; however, in some instances
during the project, this vigilance went beyond normal zeal so as
to create unprecedented delays and/or financial hardship for
suppliers. It is hoped that future disbursement requests can be
handled with greater dispatch so as not to inhibit project
implementation.



2
SHELL OIL COMPANY (BLOCK 10) NEGOTIATIONS
Since the last supervision mission, Shell Oil Company, who
had farmed into block 10 with Amoco iJ, has encountered a very
encouraging show of oil in their test well, Loperot No. 1.
Although the show itself has been declared non-commercial, it
confirms the fact that oil has been generated in an area which
was deemed as gas prone at best. Shell has requested that the
Production Sharing Contract (PSC) be modified so that it can
undertake a well-thought-out campaign of additional seismic and,
if warranted, additional drilling to possibly confirm the
existence  of  producible  reserves.    Shell  has  proposed  a
negotiation of the PSC based on four aspects:
1. Evaluation program consisting of about 1,000 line km of
high quality, heavy effort seismic work to outline the area
of interest.   In addition, some 1,000 line km of seismic
reprocessing of the current data has been proposed.
Finally, an interpretation of the seismic and geological
data leading to a final decision to go ahead with drilling
or to drop the acreage;
2. Look for another partner with whom to share the risk and
the expense of the seismic work and the eventual drilling;
3. Economic terms of the PSC to be modified to reflect the
development of marginally economic oil fields. The possible
oil find at Loperot No. 1 would be quite small, hence Shell
feels the PSC should acknowledge that small fields should be
treated differently than larger fields; and
4. Legal matters on the PSC could be changed as a result of
negotiations with the Government.
It has always been considered that the National Oil
Corporation of Kenya (NOCK) was the institution through which
oil companies could communicate with the GOK.   Indeed,  the
mission feels NOCK's mandate to be the following: negotiations
with oil companies; monitoring of oil companies' activities;
assistance to oil companies in their operations; regional and
detail technical studies; and promotion of open acreage.
1/ Amoco has subsequently withdrawn from the partnership leaving Shell
alone with 100% interest in the block.



3
The mission feels that negotiations with Shell to enter into
the second additional exploration period which was due in May,
1993, has been delayed for too long. The mission has informed
the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Energy (MOE) that if
Shell should withdraw from its block because of these delays on
the part of GOK, that Kenya's credibility within the oil
community  would  be  irreparably  damaged.    The  mission  has
reminded the Permanent Secretary that the objectives of this
project, and the one preceding, were to attract oil companies to
explore for oil and gas within Kenya. To attract a company to
come into Kenya and then to take an inflexible attitude towards
proposed negotiations is to invite universal condemnation in the
oil exploration industry. This would effectively negate all of
the Bank financed oil promotional activities during the last
decade.
REMAINING FUNDS LEFT IN THE PROJECT
At the request of NOCK, who felt that the reported remaining
funds within the project were lower than expected, the mission
has spoken with Mr.Nyangada of the Treasury regarding the credit
balance. After investigation by Mr. Nyangada it was discovered
that US$144,330.48 of expenditures for Cr 1975-KE, another World
Bank project, were inadvertently debited to Cr 1675-KE which,
when credited back to Cr 1675-KE, will raise the total amount
left in Cr 1675-KE to US$251,485.76 2.   This discovery is
timely in that only four months are left in the project during
which commitments can be made.
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
The mission has discussed the Project Completion Report
(PCR) with NOCK and has outlined NOCK's responsibilities in the
preparation of its portion of the PCR,  Part II.   NOCK has
assured the mission that it will prepare Part II upon closing of
the project on December 31, 1993.
a/Please see attached letter of September 1, 1993, from Ministry of Finance
(Treasury).



4
FOLLOW-UP PETROLEUM PROMOTION PROJECT
Although no "stand-alone" project is being considered for
petroleum promotion, there is a consideration of the inclusion
of a promotion project within the Energy Sector Investment
Credit I, for which a pre-appraisal mission is due in Kenya
during September, 1993.  In order to maintain the momentum of
the regional geological studies, NOCK will be discussing the
possibility of a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) with the
Energy Sector mission. In discussions with NOCK, the following
components   are  considered  necessary   for  the   follow-up
promotional project and should form a basis for discussion with
the  forthcoming  pre-appraisal  mission.    NOCK  reminded  the
mission that this follow-up project (Petroleum Exploration
Technical Assistance and Special Studies Project) for oil
exploration, was discussed with the preparation mission for the
Energy Sector Investment Credit I, and was identified by GOK as
a priority area.   At the request of NOCK,  the mission is
attaching a proposal for the above project.



S
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
SPECIAL STUDIES PROJECT
Project Costs and Financing
Million Us$
Component         Foreign          Local           Total
Exch.         Currency
(US$)          (US$)
Consultants            2.70            0.07             2.77
Proj. Admin.            0.00           1.80             1.80
Geophysical/            0.70           0.07             0.77
Gravity Survey
Basin Promotion        0.20            0.02             0.22
Training                0.30           0.02             0.32
Data Storage/          0.10            0.01             0.11
Acquisition
Lab & Computer          0.30           0.03             0.33
Equip (update)
Transportation/         0.10           0.01             0.11
communication
Seismic/Airmag          0.70           0.07             0.77
Proc. & Reint.
Geochem./               0.15           0.015            0.17
Petro-
physical Anal.
SUB-TOTAL               5.25           2.12             7.37
Physical Cont.          0.79           0.32             1.11
Price                   0.89           0.43             1.32
Escalation
SUB-TOTAL               1.68           0.75             2.43
TOTAL                   6.93           2.87             9.80



6
LAMU BASIN REGIONAL CEOLOGICAL STUDY
The mission was pleased with the recent results of the Lamu
Basin regional geological study.  The staff of NOCK should be
complimented on their efforts in the study which are manifested
by a well thought out interpretation representing a "new look"
at the off-shore and near shore areas of Kenya. The team's use
of state-of-the-art equipment such as computers and color
plotters for maps, cross-sections and graphs, is quite
impressive.    Moreover,  the  team's  expertise  in  computer
programming has been very useful in achieving the project's
objectives as well as realizing significant savings of time and
money. These results clearly demonstrate what can be done with
proper training,  enthusiasm and motivation.   The personnel
involved with the project and their management should be
commended for a truly professional job.
In order to continue with the geological study, NOCK has
requested that the financial cap of the contract between GOK and
Corejab be raised to US$585,000. The mission agrees and hereby
gives\its no objection.
For NOCK                                  For  1R D
Date:___________



APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT SUMMARY
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE PROJECT - LOAN 1675KE.
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM
BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Prepared by National Oil Corporation of Kenya.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT - LOAN 1675KE
PART II - PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Prepared by National Oil Corporation of Kenya
INTRODUCTION
In 1985, the World Bank and the Kenya Government reviewed
the progress made in Petroleum Exploration under credit
2065KE. The review concluded that considerable improvement
in attracting International Oil Companies to explore in Kenya
had been made as already four Production Sharing Contracts had
been signed the same year. The need to monitor these activities
as well as provision of new data for further acreage promotion
in order to maintain this momentum became a neccessity.
Consequently both parties agreed on a followup project which
resulted in credit 1675 KE. Having identified the need both
parties agreed on SDR 5.5m financing. This was approved and
signed by the Government and the World Bank on 11th July,
1986, but became effective in November, 1986.
(1)



PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The World Bank in September, 1985, agreed to finance
a followup Exploration Project to sustain the exploration
momentum which had picked up under credit 2065KE which
expired in December, 1986.
The major objectives of the project were
1. Technical Assistance to Nock - This included strengthening
Nock's monitoring capabilities in the then ongoing oil
company activities. Training of Nock professionals to
upgrade their technical capabilities as well as provision
of equipment such as computers and laboratory.
2.  Exploration Promotion -   This covered assistance in
preparation, planning and acquisition of new data
particularly in the rift valley for integration into
a promotion package for acreage promotion to attract
new oil companies including promotion of gas prone areas
as well as assistance in the preparation of contractual
terms and provision of transport for the field work.
PROJECT DESIGN
The project design was similar to credit 2065 KE but
included :-
- Acquisition of 22,070 Km of aeromagnetic data
over the Rift Valley and winam Gulf.
- Seismic survey in the same area after the
aeromagnetic survey results.
(2)



Consultar.cy and advisory services to assist in
project implementation.
Aeromagnetic survey quality control and interpretation
over the Rift Valley.
Setting up both accounting procedures and data base
under the capacity building.
- Training of the Nock professionals.
- Procurement of equipment and materials including
construction of a laboratory and procurement of
the necessary equipment.
- Holding of a third promotion round to attract oil
companies as well as monitoring the oil company's
exploration activities.
The Lamu basin study was designed after the promotion
as a second phase and was not included in the original
project design project but included reprocessing of
seismic lines, basin evaluation, use of a consultant
and a project leader and a promotion of the basin
when the report is completed.
IMPLEMENTATION
In preparation of the third round promotion in June, 1990,
the following works were completed.
(a)   22,070 Km of aeromagnetic survey in June, 1987
in the Rift Valley and Winam Gulf.
(b)   Quality control and interpretation report completed
in January, 1988.
(3)



(c) 138 line Km of seismic survey was reprocessed including
slim inversion studies of the selected lines.
(d)  100 line Km of seismic survey was acquired in the Rift
Valley and Winam Gulf in 1989.
(e)  Accounting procedures and the technical data base were
completed in 1989.
(f)  A twelve minute promotion video showing the Kenyan
infrastructure was completed in early 1990.
.(g) The third round promotion was completed in June, 1990
in both Houston and London. A collective total of over
300 oil industry personnel attended.
(h)  A new study of Lamu basin hydrocarbon potential and its
prospectivity was completed at the end of 1993 to promote
Lamu basin acreage.
TRAINING
A total of 17 professionals were trained between 1989 and 1993.
Of these 7 sucessfully completed postgraduate courses leading
to Mscs in oil exploration desciplines where National Oil
Corporation had weaknesses.
The other ten (10) attended short courses and seminars including
diploma courses in oil exploration and basin evaluations.
Apart from these 17 professionals 8 non-professionals
(support staff) attended short courses to improve their capability
in supporting the professionals. The total cost of this training
was SDR 443,887.02.
(4)



Equipment and Materials
To support the professionals in their work, working tools
were provided through the credit. This included the procerement
of
- Transportation Equipment (vehicles)
at a cost of SDR 44,784.62.
Training materials (audiovision)  and books
at a cost of SDR 18,095.82.
Computer hardware and software at a cost of
SDR 95,349.04.
Laboratory equipment at a cost of SDR 368,993.04.
Total equipment and materials procurement was
SDR. 509,127.62.
Procurement
The following services were procured.
(i)    Exploration consultancy and advisory services
at a total cost of US$ 4,637,468 from June, 1993.
Core Laboratories was engaged in accordance with the
Bank rules and procedures. Their contract was renewed
six times up to December, 1993.
(ii)   Aeromagnetic acquisition contractor was engaged in
July, 1987 who acquired 22,070 Km of aeromagnetic
survey in the Rift Valley and winam Gulf. C.G.G. of
France was paid FF 1,879,160 in accordance with their
contract. Additional aeromagnetic survey was undertaken
by the Ministry over the Geothrmal area. This 7,329 Km
of airmag cost additional FF 168,567.
(5)



(iv) Both Western Geophysics and Geocentre were contracted
to reprocess some specific seismic lines in the Lamu
and Anza basins. Western geophysics was to be paid by
Core Lab through their contract while the Government
entered into a-contract with Geocentre for US$ 170,012
to reprocess 2,200 line Km in 1992.
(v)   The promotion video was prepared by Kenya Broadcasting
Corporation in conjunction with Nock under a contract
in 1990. The cost of this contract was SDR 8,024.67.
(vi) Both the accounting procedures and the data base were
set up by Core Lab in accordance with their obligations
in the contract between the Government and themselves.
(vii) As agreed between the Bank and the Government, a Coreshed
and laboratory was constructed between 1991 and 1992 at
a cost of KShs. 5m.
Negotiations and Monitoring
Only one contract was negotiated and concluded during the life
of the credit. This was in 1989 with Amoco, Texaco, Total
and Marathon for block No. 1  Mandera basin.
The second negotiation in 1988 was for a Non-exclusive Permit
over blocks 8 and 7, Lamu basin with Union Oil.
Other minor negotiations included extension of exploration
periods, work programmes and entry into new additional
exploration periods with existing contractors such as Amoco
and Total.
Negotiations with new oil companies after the 1990 promotion
did not materialize due to lack of new data in the open
acreage.
(6)



Monitoring
There were fine ongoing contracts with oil companies and
one joint venture with Petrocanada. These were seriously
monitored to ensure that all obligations are fulfilled in
both financial commitments and work programmes.
Economic Impact
This credit had the following economic impact in the
country :-
i.  Exploration investment -  A total of US$ 148m was
invested in both drilling and exploration. 12 wells
were drilled between 1987 and 1993. Some of these
wells tested marginal oil deposits which require
further evaluation.
ii.  Reduction of enemployment in the country.  Hundreds
of local personnel both skilled an unskilled were
employed in these operations.
iii. Training of local personnel and direct procurement
of goods and services.
iv.  Rentals  and training levy amounting to US$ 4.8 and
1.04m respectively was paid directly to the
Government.
Comments
(a)   Adequacy.  All the important dates were provided.
(b)   No comments can be provided for part one which has not
been reviewed by GOK.
(7)



(c) Banks performance was excellent in terms of supervision,
technical advices, disbursements, concerns on delays,
advice on procurement procedures and oil company activity
monitoring. This enable the project to be completed
effectively.
Borrowers Performance
The Government did not want to respect the experience it had
during credit 2065 KE. As a result it avoided any actions or
policies which would derail the project implementation. These
included adequate budget provisions to meet its local
contribution, provision of working facilities and climate to
local professionals, retention of trained manpower resources
and building theneccessary capacity, facilitation of oil
companies activities by quickly responding to their requests
and creating a working relationship with all the parties involved
in the project implementation to ensure its success. However,
although this was done there were minor problems which are
characteristic to all projects such as the delay in procuring
project consultants, slight delays in invoice payment delays in
submission of audited accounts from 1986 - 1988 and the holding
of the promotion in 1990 instead of 1989 as planned.
Relationship between the borrower and the Bank
The Government and the Bank implemented the project like partners,
as such they had a very good working relationship.
(8)



ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN
The project achieved all the set objectives and design except
the attraction of new international oil companies to invest in
Keny dueto :-
(i) No new data was acquired in the Lamu onshore/offshore
for the 1990 promotion. The old data was reprocessed,
interpreted and integrated for promotion. The oil companies
felt that this data did not provide anything new as
anticipated.
ii) The potential basins where new data was anticipated by oil
companies (Anza, Mandera and the northern part of the Rift
Valley) were under contract and since the companies had
sort for and granted renewals of these contracts in these
basins, the expected 50% relinquishment and the release of
new data was not available during the promotion as the data
remained confidential in accordance with the contracts.
The Government having realized that the 1990 promotion could not
attract international oil companies due to the above reasons
designed and implemented the Lamu onshore/offshore to provide
the new data as required by 10cs. The project was completed
at the end of 1993 and is pending promotion which has been
delayed due to lack of funds.
In the area of training, equipment and materials, the project
assisted in capacity building which enabled the borrower to have
highly trained manpower, and the provision of the necessary
working tools such as modern laboratory, computers and other
field work equipment.   This capacity building enabled the
borrower to undertake the Lamu basin studies locally with less
supervision and assistance from the consultants.
(9)



ACHIEVEMENT OF THE CREDIT
Even though credit 1675 KE did not attract new oil companies
as anticipated, the following had been successfully
achieved :-
(i)  Credit 2065 KE triggered the oil exploration  momentum
in the country. This momentum was continued by credit 1675KE
and culminated in the testing of marginal oil deposits in
the country by late 1993. Without these credits this
information could not have been known.
(ii) Credit 1675KE assisted in the capacity building. Proper
implementation of the credit objectives resulted in capacity
building to a point where the Government can now undertake
inhouse basin evaluation with occasional assistance from
consultants on highly specialized areas. This capacity
building was not only restricted to manpower resource training
but also in the provision of working tools (computers,
software, laboratory equipment and field equipment), setting
up accounting procedures and data base.
(iii) The results of exploration and drilling from this credit
shows that it is more important than ever before to continue
the achievements of this credit to attract new oil companies
to seriously evaluate these results by promoting each basin
separately in order to ensure proper evaluation is done.
(iv)  The cooperation between all the parties involved to
supervision and ensure the objectives are fulfilled
has proved to be the key to the successful implementation
of such projects.
(10)



GOK   INPUT   INTO  THE   PROJECT  (LOCAL  COMPONET)   (Kshs.m)
1987          1988      1989        1990         1991          1992         1993         Total
Included      2.9       3.1         5.1          8.4           7.7         15.7         42.9
in 1988.
Note :1. The doubling of expenditure in 1993
was due to the Lamu project which
was being done inhouse by Nock
which started in 1991.
2. The above information is contained
in all the auditted reports submitted
to the World Bank.






APPENDIX C
BORROWER'S COMMENTS TO THE BANK'S DRAFT ICR






1
CONMENTS ON TEDRAFT IUPmIN  -1ION COPEIO    EOT  1  H
PETROLEUM LXPLORATION TECHX1gICL ASSITAC  PROJECT CETIT 1675 XE.
The Ministry considers the draft implementation completion report
to be fairly accurate and covers most of the topics exhaustively.
It pinpoints major problems encountered- during the life of the
project. We also agree with the bank's assessment that the project
was marginally successful.
There are however some issues and comments contained in the report
that do not reflect the true position of neither the Ministry nor
NOCK which was the implementing agency.
The following paragraphs discuss these matters in detail:
Clause 8.
The report states that the second objective i.e. to improve the
efficiency of petroleum supply and distribution was not achieved at
the request of GOK as it considered it to be very sensitive. This
is not true. The second objective was not achieved mainly because
no financial provision was made to cater for it.
Clause 11.
Whereas it is true that there were delays in awarding tenders for
the aeromagnetic survey, this did not arise due to the improper
evaluation of bids. The cause of the delay arose due to the fact
Lhat the contractor, Hunting GeophysicS which was the lowest bidder-
and who had been awarded the contract, was sold to another company
and could not reveal their legal status at the time to the GOK..
The GOK, after much consultation with the Bank, felt that it was
unwise to enter into a contract with the company with so much cloud
in the air. The contract was then awarded to the second lowest
bidder C.G.G,, with the full concurrence of the Bank.
The report further indicates that there was no quality control
during the aeromagnetic survey.  This statement is also without.
foundation. Edcon carried out quality control during the entire
period-of the survey, and even submitted an interpretation of the
results of the survey.   We are however in agreement with the
assertion of. the World Bank that the quality of the data and the
standard of the survey was substandard.
The report further points out that one consultant refused to
present a report which formed a part of the promotion effort due to
lack of payment. The GOK is not aware of such a consultant, as our
consultants, (eq. Beicip, Edcon, Corelab etc.) all submitted their
final completion report.



2
Clause 14,
It is asserted that the one year extension granted to AMOCO in
Block 10 denied the promotion of an acreage which reduced the
attractiveness of the areas under offer. Whereas this statement
may have some merit on its face value, the issue should be looked
at from the point of view that, the extension resulted in a further
exploration work which included a farm-in with Shell Exploration
Company and culminated in the drilling of two additional wells.
CLause 17.
The view contained in the report that MOE is bypassing NOCK in
dealing with International Oil Companies (IOC) not correct and
should be deleted.   The Bank should by now be aware that all
Production Sharing Contract (PSC) negotiations are conducted by an
Inter-Ministerial Committee of which NOCK is the Secretariat.
Prior to such negotiations, it is NOCK that receives and evaluates
the bids.
On rmustainability, the Bank should be assured that it is the wish
of the Government that follow-up projects are carried out to
further explore our sedimentary basins.   Already, the GOK has
proposed projects for which she is seeking the Wordi Bank's
assistance to finance. This request is already with the Bank as
follow-up to Credit 1675XE.
The view that there is poor co-ordination between MOE and NOCK
which led to the granting of the extension in BLOCK 10 to AMOCO is
surely not true. As stated above, the extension to AMOCO was given
after serious consideration and consultation involving NOCK,
Attorney Generals Chambers and the Treasury. In any case this was
by no means the first case.
The Ministry concurs with the statement that the bank provided
inadequate supervision during the project.



3
Clause 22
The delay in submission of audited reports was caused by the delay
in engaging the external auditor. Once this was done and approved
by the Bank, all reports were submitted in time. It is our opinion
that communication and co-ordination among ministries and with NOCK
is excellent.
The Ministry agrees with the Bank that the project outcome was
unsatisfactory as it failed in its main objective.   As stated
hereintofore, project sustainability is guaranteed as the
Government has already initiated moves towards this end.
Clauge 27
It is our opinion that the issue of lack of co-ordination, and
extension of Block by MOE, be deleted from this paragraph as they
are incorrect.
The GOK believes that the completion report should have included
comments on the performance of the project consultants.   The
performance of the acromagnetic survey consultants and that of the
project consultants should have come in for review.   It is our
opinion that the continued stay of the same company as the main
consultant for the project adversely affected the project's
performance.






NOTES



NOTES



MAP SECTION






S U D A N                                                                                                                     A   N
S~  ; 1\EUDAND SAAA
/    N                :-- <~  \            .                                111                rZ 'UGA A
)  -   !AIRE/                                                                                                          /    K A  I *   nK
's8,~ ~~~~~~~~~ T'<l                                   H,, 0 P,, 
U  G A  N  D A    |    ,                ,,             "u7       ETHIOPIA                   TY                                  ,v
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/                                       -'---N,~~~~~j                                                      -- --
UGANDA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                           TNAI
I                                                   'K NnOSIX               rAf          /        '     ,,         SOMALIA
mr                            ,-                                                                                                  /
/|/r~~~                     ~~ F>C  10 -;-                                  -                                  1 /  / o o l  *   g   b -w n    Aj_=
z > A a  g     C   {              t            C                          \; | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1220  6 .<5350'  
B ,s 8ute.  Kokomego
I*  IS-    ,pOI*IA                                           N , - - -                                  i - - - -
\ / 0° t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PANGANGUA                                        6.J2 IIC,rN4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT   <  X          s<0           '                        J e       4   ,~~~~~~~~~~~4     AZ2
Rzvers ----- lim.wof Sedimentory fF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~alssn e4v o 7GOH
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~              ~       ~~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  5-2  SsoAC RAR1RAl(l   4J
t~~~~~~                                                           ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 14, \.  5.430 bsa OS.0AR2
VIIES 0   50   '°°                                        .               /               /                        D3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6,0
KZJ                                                                                                                               ls   deuE  o NY  nA  K  '-hrntUAd  s//*
5-d, R;d                           Dy Wo1., (dopAh  I-; )









IMAGING
Report No:       15170
Type: ICR



