Doc_nt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
CR /6>>--g
Report No. P-4194-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 5.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
February 28, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   l
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       -      Kenya Shilling
US$1.00            -       K Sh 16.50 I/
K Sh 1.00           -      US$0.61
US$ 1.00           -       SDR 1.09842 2/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
bpd                =       Barrels per day
GWh                 =      Gigawatt-hours, equivalent to
1 million KWh
KWh                 =      Kilowatt hours
MW                  =      Megawatts, equivalent to 1000
kilowatts
m3                  =      cubic meters
TOE                =       Tons of oil equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS
CAF     -     Cost and Freight
CIDA   -      Canadian International Development Agency
ESMAP  -      Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
LPG    -      Liquid Petroleum Gas
MOERD  -      Ministry of Energy and Regional Dievelopment
NOCK   -      National Oil Corporation of Kenya Ltd.
iEPP   -      Petroleum Exploration P'romotion Project
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/ Since August 1985, the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a rate
of SDR = KSh 17.74. The rate vis-a-vis the dollar has fluctuated since that
time. A rate of US$1.00 = KSh 16.5 has been used in evaluating this
project.
2/ As of December 31, 1985.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    Government of Kenya
Implementing Agency:         National Oil Corporation of Kenya Ltd. (NOCK) on
behalf of Ministry of Energy and Regional
Development (MOERD)
Amount:                      SDR 5.5 million (US$ 6.0 million equivalent)
Terms:                       Standard
Project Objectives and       The project would help accelerate petroleum
Description:                 exploration in Kenya by assisting the Government
to: (i) strengthen its technical capability to
negotiate production sharing agreements and
supervise petroleum exploration; (ii) establish
the information necessary to identify and open up
new prospective areas for exploration; and (iii)
promote and offer prospective acreage to
interested oil companies and subsequently
negotiate contracts and monitor the companies'
activities. These objectives would be accomplished
through technical assistance, training, purchase of
equipment, and geophysical data gathering.
Risks:                       The principal risk is that Kenya's petroleum
exploration promotion efforts may prove
unsuccessful. Given the high cost of Kenya's oil
imports, current oil company interest, present
knowledge of the country's geology, and the low
cost of the project relative to potential
returns, the potential future benefits from this
project outweigh the risk.
Ths domuent ha a rstied ditibution and may be usd by rcpieut oly in tbe petformwcm
of dher official duies. Its contents may not otherwise be disclased without World Bank authoriton.



- ii-            -
Estimated Project fosts:
Technical Assistance                  Local      ForeiR        Total
C-US$ tho-usanTds 
Exploration Consulting               47        1630         1677
Project Administration             1668           -         1668
Training                             28         400          428
DlkLa Storage, Laboratory
and Computer Equipment            760         600         1360
Refining, Supply and Distribution    9           100         109
Sub-total                       2512        2730         5242
Exploration Promotion
Survey Engineering                    9         500          509
Geophysical Surveys                  47         680          727
Third Promotion Round                 -         100          100
Transportation and Communication    19          200          219
Gas Exploration Promotion             9         100          109
Sub-total                       84        1580         1664
Total Base Costa/             2596        4310         6906
Physical Contingencies              260         431          691
Price Contingencies                 715        1259         1974
Total                       3571        6000        9571
-~
Financing Plan
Local     Foreign       Total
-US$ thousands
Government                         3571          -          3571
IDA                                  -         6000         6000
Totala/                     3571        6000        9571
Estimated Disbursements (US$Million equivalent):
Fiscal Year                     1987      1988       1989      1990      1991
Annual                          0.5       1.3        1.7       1.3       1.2
Cumulative                      0.5       1.8       3.5        4.8       6.0
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Appraisal Report: No separate report
Map: IBRD 19368
a/ Includes taxes and duties of US$700,000 equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECONMLNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit ft the Republic of Kenya of SDR 5.5 million (US$6.0 million
equivalent), on standard terms, to assist in the financing of a petroleum
exploration technical assistance project. The National Oil Corporation of
Kenya Ltd. (NOCK) would implement the project on behalf of Ministry of
Energy and Regional Development (MOERD).
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum (Report No. 4689-KE) dated October
5, 1983, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. An economic
mission visited Kenya during June/July 1985, and its draft report will be
discussed with the Government in February. A sta-mary of social and
economic data is in Annex I.
Trends in the 1960s and 19708
3         Kenya became an independent nation in 1963.  Kenya's first decade
as an independent nation was one of remarkable growth and structural trans-
formation. Total GDP grew at an annual average rate of 6.6S during
1964-73. Both agriculture and manufacturing grew rapidly, at 4.7% and 8.4%
per annum respectively. The expansion of agriculture was stimulated by the
conversion of considerable high-potential land from extensive use to smnall-
holder cultivation, the introduction of high-value production activities,
and the adoption of high-yielding maize varieties. Growth of manufacturing
was made possible very largely by the expansion of domestic demand due to
rising agricultural incomes, while investment for domestic production was
being encouraged by high levels of protection, a liberal attitude towards
foreign investment, and active Government promotion of and participation in
manufacturing ventures.
4.        Following the first oil crisis of 1973, growth decelerated to 4X
p.a., or virtual stagnation in per capita terms, reflecting not only the
oil shock, but also the emergence or intensification of structural con-
straints largely unrelated to the post-1973 terms of trade deterioration.
These problems are briefly described below.
(a) First, agricultural growth decelerated, due partly to the
tapering off of the specific positive factors which had sustained
agricultural growth in the first decade after independence.
Government policies, including trade and exchange rate policies
which turned the internal terms of trade against the agricultural
sector, and inefficient, monopolistic Government involvement in
agricultural marketing which discouraged production and placed
undue burdens on the budget.



-2-
(b) Second, industrial growth also decelerated, and was being
accomplished at an increasingly higher cost in term of the
capital-intensity of investment, low labor absorption, and the
burden on the balance of payments of a sector which imported a
substantial volume of intermediate goods for 'final touch'
processing and assembly, but exported very little. These
undesirable features resulted from Government policies which
included high and increasing levels of protection, and
inadequately selective Government financial participation in
industrial firms.
(c) Third, energy supplies became relatively more expensive, due to
increases in world oil prices, and imbalances between consumption
and replenishment of domestic woodfuel.
(d) Fourth, the public sector overexpanded and was inadequately
managed.
(e) Fifth, export volume grew by less than 1% annually, and exports
became more concentrated on coffee, tea, and petroleum products.
(f) Sixth, population growth accelerated to one of the highest rates
in the world, reflecting a decline in mortality, and health
improvements enabling fertility to move closer to its biological
limit.
Macroeconomic Management and Performance
5.        The above structural issues were generally well recognized in the
Fourth Development Plan (1979-83) and the Fifth Development Plan (1984-88),
which have provided broad guidance to the Government's economic policies
during the first half of the 1980s. The Fourth Plan stated that
quantitative import restrictions (QRs) for purposes of industrial
protection would be discontinued, and that restrictions on private sector
agricultural marketing activity would be relaxed. It projected GDP growth
of 6.3% annually. The Fifth Plan declares that "Growth in the private
sector is the core of the development process in Kenya,' and proposes to
provide a more favorable environment for private sector activity by
lowering the claim of Government expenditure on available resources;
curtailing or in some cases eliminating Government investment in
non-essential activities; and reviewing Government procedures for obtaining
various approvals and licenses to determine whether any can be eliminated
or simplified. GDP growth is projected to be 4.9% annually.
6.        Actual developments in the Kenyan economy during the first half
of the 1980s have been less favorable than projected in the Fourth and
Fifth Plans. Because of the second oil crisis, the deterioration in the
external terms of trade was sharper than had been projected in the Fourth
Plan; additionally, in the wake of the 'coffee boom' of the late 1970O
there had been an erosion of fiscal discipline. As a result, at the
beginning of the decade the Kenyan economy was characterized by very large
financial imbalances. The large excesses of domestic demand over domestic
supply, of expenditure over revenue, and of imports over exports, meant
that the Kenyan economy was on an unsustainable path.



- 3 -
7.        The period since 1980 has been characterized by a steady
reduction in the excess of domestic demand over domestic supply, and by a
somewhat erratic growth of domestic supply, at a trend growth rate which
has been somewhat less than the population growth rate. The Government has
restrained domestic demand by lowering its budget deficit; decelerating
monetary growth; raising interest rates so that they become positive in
real terms; and permitting real wages to fall, beginning in 1982. In 1981
the Government also began to use exchange rate policy to switch demand away
from imports, and towards exports. In addition, in 1982 import
restrictions were intensified. As a result of these measures, by 1984 real
domestic demand was 5% less than in 1980, despite the fact that the
population increased by almost 17% during this period. The burden of the
reduction in domestic demand has fallen more on investment than on
consumption. On the external side, the resource gap has been narrowed
entirely by a reduction in imports, since exports have declined in real
terms.
8.       Real gross domestic product grew by 3.7% annually during 1980-83,
and then by only 0.9% during the drought-affected year 1984. During this
period of time, Kenya's external terms of trade have deteriorated, and
therefore its real income grew more slowly than its real product. From
1980 to 1984, real product per capita fell by 5%, real income per capita
fell by 10%, and real domestic expenditure (i.e. consumption plus
investment) per capita fell by 18%.
9.        The record current account deficits by 1980-82 were financed
partly by a record level of borrowing, and partly by a substantial
reduction in the level of gross reserves. In the period since 1982, the
Government has succeeded at bringing the borrowing requirement down to a
level which could be financed largely by official sources. Because of the
combination of rising debt service payments and generally lower export
receipts, the debt service ratio rose sharply from 13% in 1980 to 29% in
1984.
Sectoral Policies and Developments
10.       The Agricultural Sector.  Agricultural growth during 1980-84 was
affected by poor rainfall in 1979-80 and a serious drought in 1984. Value
added grew at about 3% p.a.; somewhat lower than in the late seventies.
Growth in the last ten years-- about 3.5% p.a.--has been higher than in
most developing countries, but somewhat below the rate of growth of
population.  While production of traditional export crops has performed
impressively, production of domestic crops has stagnated or declined,
requiring growing imports of wheat, edible oils and milk. Except for
horticultural exports, minor agricultural exports (i.e., those other than
coffee and tea) have stagnated.
11.       If Kenya is to adequately meet the challenges of agricultural
intensification, it will be necessary for the farmers to be provided with
adequate incentives, inputs, and technical advice. Within this context, it
will be necessary for the Government to determine what the role of the
public sector in agricultural marketing, pricing and the provision of
agricultural services should be, and what roles can best be left to market
forces and the private sector.



-4-
12.       Two areas in which recent policies and programs have been
importantly supportive of increased agricultural production are producer
prices and agricultural extension. Within the present framework of
substantial parastatal involvement in marketing, producer prices for the
major import-competing crops have been substantially increased, and for the
grain crops--maize and wheat-brought closer to import parity. Second, the
Training and Visit extension system has been implemented since 1982 to
increase yields on small holdings which produce 90% of output. However, in
other areas, government policies need to be improved in order to reinforce
the effectiveness of producer price policies and extension programs in
encouraging agricultural production. These areas are: (a) excessive
government involvement in marketing (and, in some cases, production)
contributing to parastatal deficits and price controls and marketing
restrictions that reduce incentives to smallholders; (b) availability of
farm inputs, particularly fertilizer; (c) the adequacy and focus of the
research effort; (d) poorly performing public credit institutions which
have drained public resources and contribute little to private capital
formation.
13.       The Industrial Sector.  Value added in the manufacturing sector
grew by 3.7Z p.a. during the period 1980-84. Since the volume of
manufactured exports declined, the growth was entirely attributable to
production for the domestic market, reflecting expenditure-switching away
from imports in the wake of exchange rate depreciation and intensification
of import restrictions, particularly on consumer goods.
14.       Implementation of the Government's program for reforming the
protective system has lagged behind the schedule originally envisaged. Due
to inadequate coordination of exchange rate, demand management, and trade
policies, a foreign exchange shortage developed in 1982, following which
the Government re-restricted some of the import items which had been
liberalized. Progress has recently resumed. The June 1985 budget
contained the first increase in several years in the number of items on the
free list, and there has been an increase in foreign exchange
authorizations for imports. The June 1984 and June 1985 budgets also
included lowering of many tariffs. Despite the recent resumption of
progress, it appears that effective protection has remained high and
uneven. Because the protective system remained largely in place during
1980-84, its consequences of inward-looking bias and encouragement of
inefficient use of capital spread deeper into the manufacturing sector.
15.       Aside from exchange rate depreciation, relatively little was done
to promote exports, until the June 1985 budget when an increase in the rate
of export compensation (a fiscal incentive for selected nontraditional
exports) to 20X (of export value) was announced. During 1980-84, the
volume of Kenya's manufactured exports declined by 38%, to a level of only
4.5% of gross output. The low level of manufactured exports is
attributable to the incentive structure which has remained biased against
exports, while the decline seems to be attributable to foreign exchange
problems in neighboring African countries.



IPublic Finance
16.       Central Government Finances.  The Central Government budget
deficit went down from 9% of GDP in FY81 to 4% of GDP in recent years,
despite a significant decline in the ratio of revenue to GDP, because of
sharp reductions in expenditure and an increase in grants from abroad. The
ratio of government revenue to GDP decreased from 25% in FY81 to 22% in
FY85. The decline in revenue is due to decreased collection of import
duties, arising primarily from contraction of import volume and secondarily
from lowering of tariff rates. The observed decline in the revenue yield
has been consistent with the view, recommended in the Report of the Working
Party on Government Expenditures (RWPGE) and adopted in the Fifth Plan,
that the revenue yield should be permitted to decline in order to free up
more resources for private sector activity.
17.       The ratio of government expenditure to GDP has decreased sharply
from 35% in FY81 to 28% in FY85. Among expenditure categories, interest
payments increased and personnel expenditure was relatively protected,
while non-wage operating and maintenance expenditure, fixed capital
formation expenditure, and transfers to parastatals are the three
categories which were reduced. The problem of inadequate non-wage
operating and maintenance expenditure, which has existed since the late
1970s, has thus been exacerbated. At the same time, because lower levels
of capital expenditure have been spread out over a large number of ongoing
projects, not all of which have been of equally high priority, completion
dates for many projects have been postponed.
18.       The Government has begun to address these expenditure issues
through its Budget Rationalization Program. The objective of the program
is to increase the productivity of Government investment, by concentrating
capital expenditures on a smaller number of projects, all of which are of
high priority, and by providing adequate resources for operation and
maintenance of the existing Government capital stock. In order to
implement the budgec rationalization concept, ministries are now required
to prepare policy statements on recurrent and development expenditure
priorities, and to rank projects in their portfolio according to priority
criteria. Additionally, the Government intends to develop norms and
standards for capacity utilization, and to achieve greater collections of
user charges, as part of the program.
19.       The Parastatal Sector.  In the period since the submission of the
Report of the Working Party on Government Expenditures in 1982, the
Government has been engaged in an effort to rationalize and improve the
efficiency of the parastatal sector. The Government's intention has been
to implement a two-pronged strategy, consisting of divestiture of some
investments to the private sector, and strengthening the performance of
those parastatals which remain in the public sector. A Task Force on
Divestiture was established in 1983. Its principal task, which has been
completed, was to classify the parastatals into those which should remain
in the public sector, and those which are suitable for divestiture.
However, so far no enterprises have been divested. The Government has
checked the further expansion, through utilization of budgetary funds, of
the parastatal sector. However, during FY83 and FY84 the parastatals
responded to the decrease in budgetary transfers by increasing their



utilization of banking system credit. It is difficult to assess, due to
lack of readily available and consistent data, what progress there has
been in improving the economic efficiency and financial performance of the
sector. In the area of institutional and procedural strengthening, the
pace of progress has been relatively slow.
Population
20.       Kenya's population growth rate, currently 3.9% per annum, is the
highest in the world. Fertility has begun to decline in Kenya, but at a
slow rate, from an extremely high level. The total fertility rate has
declined from a peak of 8.1 in 1977 to 7.9 in 1979, and 7.6 (provisional
estimate) in 1984. At the present time, Kenya is one of only three
countries in the world with a total fertility rate greater than 7.0. The
recent rate of fertility decline of about 1% per annum is well below the
declines of 2Z per annum or more, which has been achieved by countries with
vigorous population programs. The Government has recently intensified its
commitment to addressing the problem of rapid population growth. The
National Council on Population and Development (NCPD) has adopted a target
of slowing population growth to 3.3% p.a. by 1988, the end of the Fifth
Plan period. This would represent a dramatic acceleration in the rate of
fertility decline. However, an adequate program to meet this objective has
not yet been defined. In order to achieve or move closer to the
demographic objective, an expansion of both demand-creating education
activities and service delivery will be needed.
Summary Assessment
21.       In view of the comhination of the economy's structural problems
and adverse exogenous developments such as terva of trade deterioration and
drought, the deceleration of growth and decline in per capita incomes which
took place in Kenya during the first half of the 1980s were inevitable.
What was not inevitable, was whether this deceleration would take place in
an orderly fashion, with declining financial imbalances and rates of
inflation, and maintenance of a manageable external position; or, as in
many other developing countries, in a disorderly fashion, with persisting
large financial imbalance, high rates of inflation, and external payments
difficulties. Of those developing countries which faced large financial
imbalances at the beginning of the decade, Kenya is among those which have
successfully reduced them toward sustainable levels in an orderly fashion.
At the same time, an acceleration in the pace of implementation of policy
measures to increase the efficiency of investment, expand exports, and
mobilize domestic resources will be needed to bring about sustained growth
of per capita incomes.
Prospects for the Kenyan Economy
22.       Short-term Prospects.  Reflecting good rainfall beginning in late
1984 and the Government's prudent financial policies, the prospects were
for a recove'y in the Kenyan economy beginning in 1985 and extending
through 1986, even before the recent developments in the world coffee
market. Because the drought in Brazil has led, not only to an increase of
50% in coffee prices expected for 1986-87, but also to a suspension of
export quotas, the short-term prospects for the Kenyan economy have become



-7-
highly favorable.  During 1986-87 there will be substantial increases in
export receipts, national income, and government revenue. It will be
important for Government policy to reflect that the higher coffee revenues
are expected to be temporary. During the previous 'coffee boom' of
1977-78, there were large and unsustainable increases in both government
expenditure and gross domestic expenditure, following which difficult
adjustments were necessary. On this occasion, only modest and sustainable
iucreases in expenditure should be permitted. The windfall of financial
resources should be devoted primarily to reducing the economy's absorption
of foreign savings during 1986-87 in order to reduce the externil debt
burden.
23.       Medium-term Prospects.  The medium-term prospects for the Kenyan
economy depend critically on the pace of implementation of policy measures
along the general lines discussed earlier. With vigorous policy
'mplementation, it should be possible to accelerate agricultural growth to
4.5Z per annum, and accelerate industrial growth to 5.5% per annum. GDP
growth would then be 4.9% per annum, the rate envisaged in the Fifth Plan.
24.       External Capital Requirements.  The Fifth Plan provides for
current account deficits (net external borrowing) averaging 4Z of GDP over
the Plan period. This is an appropriate and sustainable level, taking into
account the concessionality of Kenya's capital inflow, and assuming that
export growth can be accelerated as intended. Due to the increase in
coffee export receipts in 1986-87, it is expected that the current account
deficits during 1986-87 wilI be lower than usual - about 2-3% of GDP.
During 1986-87 it is expected that gross loan disbursements from official
sources will be about $400 million annually, while gross loan disbursements
from private sources (chiefly previously arranged suppliers' credits) will
be about $100 million annually. In addition, Kenya receives grant aid from
about $100 million annually. Over the next two years, the stock of
external debt owed to private sources is expected to remain approximately
constant, as the private-source debt incurred during 1979-81 is retired
while the stock of debt owed by official sources would grow by 5%
annually. The debt service ratio is expected to drop sharply from 32% in
1985 to 24% in 1986, reflecting higher coffee receipts, and then decrease
gradually to 19% in 1990.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
25.       To date, Kenya has received 45 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 45 IDA credits, including one Special Fund Credit,
amounting to US$1,891.2 million, in support of 78 operations. In addition,
Kenya was one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million
which were extended for the development of common services (railways,
ports, telecomunications, and finance for industry), operated regionally
for the three partner states of the former East African Community (EAC).
Annex II contains summary statements of Bank loans and IDA credits to
Kenya.
26.       Since 1980, Bank Group lending has been oriented towards
assisting the Government in its efforts to restructure the economy,
resulting in the inclusion in the program of structural adjustment



assistance. For the future, since structural adjustment lending has proved
to be problematic in the short term, sectoral operations are to be
substituted in support of structural adjustment objectives. Sector loans
for agriculture, industry and energy are included in the Bank's future
lending program, and are now under preparation. Recent economic work has
also focused on the structural problems in specific sectors. The selection
of projects for financing and the design of such projects have been
influenced by the need to complement policy actions under the structural
adjustment program. Continuing priority has thus been given to the
agricultural and development finance projects, but increasing emphasis also
has been placed on infra-structure projects. In FY84, the Kiambere
Hydroelectric Power Project, the Second Highway Sector Project and a
Geothermal Exploration Project were approved. In FY85, a Nairobi Third
Water Supply Engineering project and a Third Telecommunications project
were approved.
27.       In contrast to FY82 and FY83, when disbursements improved over
immediate prior years, FY84 disbursements on projects as a percentage of
amounts outstanding at the beginning of the year fell slightly to 13% (19%
including disbursements against structural adjustment operations) compared
with 16Z in FY83. Improvements during this period were explained by
greater use of Procedure III (direct payments), and the application of a
Treasury Circular requiring operating ministries to make prompt
reimbursement claims under penalty of freezing funds. In FY85, the
disbursement percentage rose sharply to over 37% due primarily to the
introduction of Special Accounts, the rationalization of problem projects
and the cancellation of funds, and a few projects with unusually high
disbursements.
28.       Project implementation has deteriorated in recent years, in
contrast to the successful implementation performance in the past. Factors
accounting for implementation delays have varied widely, but some of the
more pervasive factors have been institutional/management constraints,
procurement problems, and budgetary constraints leading to a lack of local
financing. These factors, together with delays in preparing and submitting
reimbursement claims, have led to Kenya's poor project disbursement
record. An in-depth review of the causes of this situation has been
undertaken by the Bank Group and the problems and possible solutions have
been discussed with the Government at Country Implementation Review (CIR)
meetings. During these discussions, the Government and the Bank are
continuing to review the Government's development objectives and investment
priorities in the context of implementation capacity and resource
constraints. Recent improvements in budgetary and financial management in
one of the line ministries, which are to be introduced gradually to other
ministries, are expected to reap benefits in the future. The project
portfolio is under constant review to determine the scope for reducing
project costs through reformulation, rephasing or cancelling projects which
cannot be adequately funded. As a result, substantial cancellations of
funds have been made from the Sugar Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 1636-KE'
(US$58.0 million) and the Second Integrated Agricultural Development
Project (Cr. 959-KE) (US$38.0 million), and the project scope for the Bura
Irrigation Settlement Project (Ln. 1449/Cr. 772-KE) has been reduced to a
level commensurate with available local resources. To respond swiftly to
urgently required drought relief assistance, US$20.0 million for



-9-
fertilizer, chemicals, and agricultural seasonal credit has been
reallocated under the Fourth Agricultural Finance Corporation Project (Loan
1995-KE/Cr. 1143-KE) from loan funds which would otherwise have been unused
and cancelled. Additional possibilities for project rationalization are
currently being explored.
29.       At the end of 1984, IBRD held 25%, and IBRD/IDA combined held 39%
of Kenya's stock of e.ternal debt.  During 1984, IBRD's share of Kenya's
debt service payments was 22Z, and IBRD/IDA's share was 23%. Over the next
few years, our expectation is that Kenya's debt owed to private sources
will grow more slowly than Kenya's debt owed to official sources, such as
the Bank Group, reflecting the Government's success at reducing, through
stabilization measures, the country's borrowing requirements. Therefore,
by 1990, the IBRD/IDA share of the stock of external debt is expected to
increase to 40% (IBRD only, 25%), while the share of debt service payments
will increase to 25% (IBRD only, 21Z).
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
30.       As of June 30, 1985, IFC has committed a total of US$68.5 million
for twelve operations in Kenya. These include loans for seven companies:
Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; Rift Valley Textiles, Ltd.; Bamburi
Portland Cement Company, Ltd; Tetra Pak Converters, Ltd; and Leather
Industries of Kenya, Ltd. Also included are a US$2.0 million credit line
to the Kenya Commercial Bank, Ltd., a US$5.0 million credit line to the
Kenya Commercial Finance Company, Ltd., and equity investments in
Development Finance Company of Kenya, Ltd. (US$1.3 million), Diamond Trust
of Kenya, Ltd. (US$0.8 million), and Industrial Promotion Services of
Kenya, Ltd. (US$0.5 million). As of June 30, 1985, IFC held for its own
account US$42.4 million, comprising US$30.7 million of loans and US$11.7
million of equity. Since June 1985, IFC has committed US$37.6 million in
two additional operations (i.e. Madhupaper and Quatorial Beach Properties)
and approved, but not yet committed, US$10.2 million Oil Crop Development.
A sum-ary of IFC Investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Supply and Demand
31.       Kenya's modest energy resource base includes wood, hydropower,
geothermal and solar energy. wood is by far the most important energy
source, supplying close to 70 percent of total energy requirements, in the
form of fuelwood and charcoal, and all of the noncommercial energy used.
Forests cover about 4 percent of the country's total area, regenerating at
a rate of about 9 million m3 annually. Annual consumption is about 37.5
million m3, bowever, resulting in severe and rapid depletion of the
forests. The Government has undertaken intensive reforestation with
fast-growing softwoods and has received Bank assistance in this effort.
32.       The hydropower potential has been estimated at 6,000 MV (30,000
GUh per annum), although half of this lies in small rivers and is
uneconomic to develop. Most of the remaining potential is on the Tana



- 10 -
River, but it is economically feasible to develop only about 800 MW or
4000-5000 GWh per year, due to low storage capacity during periodic dry
years. At present, installed capacity is only about 348 MW.
33.       Geothermal resources have been located in the Rift Valley and a
45 MW power station at Olkaria has been implemented with Bank financing.
Further exploration at Eburru and Lake Bogoria is being carried out under
the IDA-financed Geothermal Exploration Project and other programs funded
by UNDP and bilateral donors, including Italy, Japan, France and the U.K.
34.       No commercial petroleum resource has yet been discovered,
although inland and offshore sedimentary basins exist and warrant further
exploration which is to be promoted under the proposed project. No
significant coal deposits have been discovered so far. Other potential
sources of energy in the country which require further research are wind,
biomass and biogas, as well as solar energy.
35.       Total energy consumption was about 7 million tons of oil
equivalent in 1984. Per capita annual consumption is estimated at 1,650 kg
of oil equivalent in urban areas and 315 kg in rural areas, a significant
disparity reflecting the existence of a large relatively affluent
population in Nairobi. Even the level of rural consumption, however, is
higher than the average of Africa (300 kg) or the subsistence level
(designated at 250 kg). Among commercial energy consumption in 1984
petroleum products accounted for about 7 2.8%, hydropower for 19.1%, coal
and coke 5.5% and geothermal 2.6%. About three-quarters of total energy
demand is accounted for by residential users (mostly noncommercial), about
13 percent by transport and the rest by industrial, agricultural and
commercial users.
36.       Petroleum demand is satisfied entirely through imports. Imports
of crude and products in 1984 totalled about 2.1 million tons (US$424
million), of which about 0.7 million tons (US$177 million) was re-exported,
mainly in the form of residual fuel oil and jet fuel to foreign airlines.
Consumption of petroleum products decreased from about 1.9 million tons in
1980 to 1.5 million in 1984. Consumption by sector is as follows:
transport, 42%; industry, 25%; electric power, 15%; agriculture, 11%; and
residential/commercial, 7%.
Sector Institutions
37.       In accordance with the increased attention being given to energy
issues, the Government consolidated responsibility for the energy sector in
the Ministry of Energy, which was created in December 1979 and merged in
October 1983 with the Ministry of Regional Development into the Ministry of
Energy and Regional Development (MERD). In the energy sector MOERD
oversees: (i) energy policy formulation; (ii) electric power development;
(iii) development of oil and other fossil fuels; and (iv) research on
nonconventional energy sources such as wind, biogas, solar, geothermal, and
fuelwood. Although the creation of MOERD was an important first step in
the organization of sector activities, there :Ls still a need to define
overall priorities in sector development and to coordinate activities of
bilateral and multilateral aid agencies to reflect such priorities. For
example, jurisdiction over forests is fragmented between Ministry of



- 11 -
Environment and Natural Resources and Ministry of Agriculture, while the
Ministry of Finance establishes prices and tax rates for all energy
resources.
38.       An energy assessment was carried out in 1981/82 (Report 3800-KE
of May 1982, Kenya:  Issues and Options in the Energy Sector).  The
assessment identified two major problems:  the cost of imported energy; and
rapid deforestation.  The measures recommended to address these problems
were:
(a) a more economic mix of petroleum product imports;
(b) further development of indigenous hydroelectric and
geothermal resources to replace thermal power generation;
(c) conversion to coal by large users of petroleum products;
(d) increasing efficiency of energy use;
(e) strengthening efforts to discover indigenous petroleum
resources; and
(f) reforestation programs.
39.       Following the energy assessment, the Bank has been addressing
these issues as part of its energy sector dialogue with the Government and
under the Energy Sector Management Assistance Program (ESMAP), a program
funded by UNDP and bilateral aid agencies to provide technical assistance
to countries in formulating and implementing their development strategies
in the energy sector. As part of its dialogue on lending, the Bank has
urged a review of supply and distribution of petroleum products. Kenya
already has largely eliminated fuel oil re-exports by switching to crudes
that have a higher yield of white products, by reducing capacity
utilization of the refinery, and by importing white products thereby
reducing the country's net oil Import bill. Since the assessment, the Bank
has financed the 45MW geothermal power plant in Olkaria which halved the
use of oil for power generation between 1981 and 1983. In addition, the
Bank-financed Kiambere hydropower project is under construction. One of
the two cement plants in the country has been converted from fuel oil to
coal. Under ESMAP, work has started on five studies, partly financed with
assistance from Australia, Canada and the Netherlands: (i) coal conversion
and energy conservation in industry; (ii) energy efficiency and fuel
substitution in tea drying; (iii) solar water heating; (iv) peri-urban
fuelwood plantation; and (iv) a master plan for the power sector. These
studies are nearing completion.
Energy Pricing, Taxation and Tariffs
40.       Government regulates prices for commercial energy products.  It
has followed a consistent policy of keeping petroleum product prices in
line with or above international prices, with the exception of fuel oil.
Until recently, fuel oil, if not used domestically, would be re-exported
at spot market price less freight and commissions, i.e. about USS 130 per
metric ton. Prices have remained constant in KSh terms since April 1984



- 12 -
and, as a result of the devaluation of the shilling since then, fell in US$
terms. The fall in prices was paralleled by the drop in international oil
prices. Taxes are levied on petroleum products with the exception of fuel
oil and industrial diesel fuel.
Retail Prices for Major Oil Products (October 1985)
FO3 Persian Gulf
Plus Freight                      Retail
Retail price, Nairobi      USS Metric Ton         CAF Mombasa  in % of
Product               USt/Galion (US)      Average October 1985     USf/Ga lIon    CAF
Premiu gasoline         197                268.0 + 9.2 = 277.2        77.7      254.0
Regular gasoline        193                256.6 + 9.2 = 265.8        74.5      259.1
Jet Fuel                167                265.8 + 9.2 = 275.0        81.9      204.5
Kerosine                100                265.8 + 9.2 = 275.0        81.9      122.4
Diesel OfI (Gas Oil)     136               268.0 + 9.2 - 277.2         88       155.2
Fuel Oil                 52                142.8 + 5.7 = 148.5        52.8       99.0 a/
Source:  MOERD, Platt's Oilgram Price Report
a/ Pricing of fuel oil is influenced by the alternative export market,
i.e. Singapore spot market less freight, in which case retail price is
about 11% above the international comparator (US$0.44/gallon).
41.       While there is no overall subsidization of petroleum consumption,
possible future sector operation might support a detailed examination of
the differences in taxation on gasoline and diesel, the perceived social
considerations leading to low domestic prices for such products as
kerosene, and the linkages between prices for kerosene and LPG on one hand
and charcoal (including the estimated social cost) on the other. An
electricity tariff structure based on long-term marginal costs, formulated
with Bank assistance, was introduced in 1979 and electricity tariffs have
been adjusted since then in the framework of the Bank's power lending.
Petroleum Supply and Distribution
42.       Background.  CIDA (Canada International Development Agency) has a
continuing program in cooperation with Petrocanada to support Kenya with
technical assistance in the downstream areas of petroleum supply and
distribution and Government wants to continue to work with Petrocanada in
this area. In addition, the Bank periodically reviews the overall
petroleum sector, including supply, refining, and in-country distribution.
At present, discussions are focussing on three major investments in the
petroleun sector and an expansion in NOCK's activities is being considered:



- 13 -
(a) the operation of the existing Mombasa oil refinery;
(b) the facilities for strategic storage of crude and fuel oil
in Mombasa, now nearing completion;
(c) the planned products pipeline to Western Kenya and the
Uganda border; and
(d) plans for NOCK's expansion into crude supply and products
marketing.
43.      Oil Refinery. The Mombasa refinery produces the bulk of
petroleum products consumed domestically. The refinery, originally
designed to serve the East African Community, has a capacity of 95,000 bpd
with catalytic reforming capacity of 9,000 bpd. However, capacity
utilization has been decreasing because Kenya's consumption is only on the
order of 29,000 bpd and neighboring countries have begun to import products
directly because of their lower cost compared to ex-refinery prices. The
refinery is jointly owned by the Government (50 percent) and four marketing
companies. The shareholder companies plus the other distributors operating
in Kenya run crude through the refinery to meet domestic demand. The
refinery is operated as a processing refinery which charges a processing
fee to the oil companies who process crude oil. Fuel oil accounts for
about 40 percent of refinery output and if all domestic demand for white
products were to be satisfied by the refinery, there would be large fuel
oil surpluses for re-export. This imbalance is likely to increase with
domestic demand for middle distillates and gasoline expected to grow while
fuel oil is likely to be replaced by coal, wherever possible, as already in
the Bamburi cement plant.  In view of this projected shift in demand from
heavier to lighter petroleum products, the Government has been considering
several options to modify the operation of the refinery, including a large
refinery modification scheme to reduce the relative output of fuel oil.
44.      Low cost petroleum products from export refineries now completed
or under construction on the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea, if substituted
for processing crude in Kenya, could result in significant foreign exchange
savings. Government therefore decided to move at least partly in this
direction. As of 1985, it seems likely that the refinery will be run
following the so-called  black oil rule, i.e. to process crude according
to fuel oil domestic requirements and to import the resulting domestic
shortage of light gasolines, while at the same time switching to crudes
that yield more white products. In the forthcoming years, therefore,
little or no exports of domestically refined fuel oil are expected.
Government will continue monitoring world market conditions and may
consider increasing direct product imports as a means to reduce oil supply
costs.
45.       Strategic Storage. After the second oil crisis in 1979 Kenya
decided to build up a strategic petroleum reserve (with assistance from
Canada) which is now nearing completion. Filling this reserve, however, at
present prices would cost about US$30 million. While the decision to build
this tankage appeared justified at the time, the increased availability and
falling prices of oil suggest that filling the storage would now represent



- 14 -
an unnecessary expenditure which would unduly affect the costs of petroleum
products in Kenya. Therefore, the Government has decided that the strategic
storage would not be filled any time soon and that any part of the facilities
which are not used economically be offered for lease.
46.       Pipeline Extension.  Since completion of the Mombasa-Nairobi
pipeline, an extension from Nairobi to North-Western Kenya has been considered
and a feasibility study was completed in 1985. After reviewing the investment
involved, Government postponed the extension in favor of strengthening the
existing railroad (so that it could handle petroleum products, including
exports, and thus help decongest road traffic along the Nairobi-Uganda
corridor). Because of the uncertainty regarding export traffic volumes to
Uganda (and to Rwanda, Burundi, Eastern Zaire and Southern Sudan) and because
of the lower capital cost involved, the decision to proceed with rail
transport seems reasonable at this time, although ultimately a pipeline
extension may be justified. The necessary investments in the railway are
being financed under the First Railway Project (1976-KE) and a second project
is expected to be approved in FY86. Our sector dialogue with Government will
include discussion of de-bottlenecking measures and a proposed supply and
distribution study.
47.       Role of National Oil Corporation of Kenya Ltd. (NOCK).  Government
established National Oil Corporation of Kenya Ltd. (NOCK) on April 30, 1981 to
oversee exploration and eventually production activities and recently
delegated to NOCK responsibility for negotiating, concluding and supervising
production sharing agreements. All NOERD staff working on petroleum have been
assigned to NOCK while NOCK in turn reports to the Permanent Secretary of
MOERD. As of September 30, 1985, NOCK had 10 professionals working on
exploration and production matters (including geologists, geophysicists and
geochemists) and 7 professionals assigned to supply and distribution issues
(including economists and refinery engineers). NOCK's 1985 budget was about
US$675,000 which was provided by the Treasury out of the approximately US$1
million p.a. surface fees paid by oil companies for exploration rights in
Kenya. NOCK's active role in petroleum exploration promotion has been much
appreciated by the oil companies involved who credit NOCK with ending a
stalemate (in mid-1969) of several years (which caused two major oil companies
to lose interest in Kenya) and with rapidly concluding agreements for five
exploration blocks involving 6 major oil companies.
48.       While establishment of an integrated national oil company remains a
long-range aim, NOCK intends to play a role in procurement of crude oil by
monitoring oil market trends and oil import costs. NOCK also intends to begin
purchasing some crude under government-to-government or spot market deals
because Kenya has been offered crude at prices below posted prices charged at
present by some oil companies. NOCK would complement the private oil
companies' procurement activities, not exceeding a 30% share in Kenya's oil
imports, with a view to minimizing the cost of oil imports. In any event,
NOCK and the Government intend to review thoroughly the costs and benefits of
expansion into crude purchasing before taking final decisions on the proposals
under consideration. They would continue to rely on assistance by CIDA and
Petrocanada to address the possible risks and costs of NOCK's expanding into
crude purchasing, including NOCK's lack of experience in this area and the
possible long term reliability of government-to-government crude deals.



15 -
NOCK's primary role would continue to be in the area of exploration promotion,
where its successes have been amply demonstrated. In particular, NOCK would
not expand into products marketing in the near future.
Institutional and Legal Framework for Petroleum Exploration
49.      On October 31, 1984, Parliament passed The Petroleum (Exploration and
Production) Act which replaced earlier laws and regulations and provides for
production-sharing type agreements with oil companies. Preparation of the
Act was financed under the Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project (PEPP).
Key provisions of the agreement such as the amount of royalty and duration are
subject to negotiation. All hydrocarbons in their natural state are the
property of the state. Government regulates exploration and eventually
production through MOERD. The present legislative framework and model
contract are considered quite workable and practical and the oil companies
operating in Kenya are satisfied with the legal and institutional
arrangements.
Petroleum Geology and Status of Exploration
50.      Kenya's sedimentary area totals 260,000 km2: 192,000 km2 onland,
8,000 km2 on the continental shelf, and 60,000 km2 in the deep off-shore.
Based on the evidence available from drilling in Kenya and neighboring
countries, the country's petroleum prospects are rated as modest, but in view
of the sparse data coverage the petroleum potential of Kenya remains to be
evaluated.   The most attractive areas at the present are the Rift-related
structural basins in the interior. Also of interest, but with lesser amounts
of present lease activity, is the coastal margin basin where the majority of
Kenya's exploration to date has taken place.
51.      Oil exploration in Kenya began in 1954 when Shell and BP obtained the
first exploration license. A total of 17 exploration wells, as well as a
number of shallow core holes, have been drilled to date. Most of the
exploratory wells had minor oil or gas shows. A number of other companies
obtained concessions during the seventies, the last of which was a consortium
of Cities Service, Union Oil and Marathon which have held a concession in the
coastal basin since 1979. Cities Services left the consortium after being
bought by Occidental Petroleum, leaving Union Oil and Marathon with 50% each
and with Union Oil as the operator. Until the recent round of exploration
promotion, this was the only concession in Kenya.
52.      To stimulate exploration in other areas, in 1981 the Government
launched an active promotion campaign with Bank assistance. The PEPP included
reprocessing of 1490 km of seismic lines, a 47,600 line-km airmag survey in
the Northwest and East, a Landsat interpretation of the whole of Kenya, and
geochemical analyses, as well as the drafting of a new petroleum legislation
and a new model contract. A promotional package compiling the results of
these project components was presented in 1983 and 1984 at two promotional
meetings held to invite oil companies to apply for exploration licenses. The
first promotion round included blocks in Eastern Kenya following reprocessing
of data gathered previously by oil companies. The second round included parts
of Northern and Eastern Kenya covered by the airmag survey.



- 16 -
53.      During 1984/85, Amoco signed agreements for blocks 10 and 2,
Petrocanada for block 4, Amoco (75X) and Petrofina (25%) for block 3 and
Total, Marathon and Mobil (each one third, with Total the operator) for block
9. The remaining blocks 1, 5, 6, 7, 8 are in the coastal basin and Lamu
embayment. In view of the fact that no oil has yet been found in Kenya, that
its petroleum potential ranks as modest, and that world oil prices declined
during the project implementation period, the results of the PEPP can be
considered quite good. Annex VIII summarizes work obligations for the
various blocks.
54.      A great deal of interest has recently been directed at the East
African Rift and the block offered by Kenya in this area (block 10) was
perceived as the most attractive. A review of Rift Valley areas not offered
previously indicated that the increased attention to this area justifies
efforts to interest companies in their exploration and efforts would include
an airmag survey, reinterpretation of existing subsurface and surface data and
compilation into a report to be offered for sale as part of a third promotion
round. Map 19368 shows the areas currently under exploration agreements, as
well as the area to be flown   -r an airmag survey and subsequently offered as
part of the third promotion round. In this respect a special effort would be
made to promote areas considered gas prone, which are usually not attracting
much oil company interest unless comprehensive contractual arrangements,
addressing in particular the risks of marketability and earnings
convertibility can be presented.
55.      Kenya also shares in the Lake Victoria basin which was covered by a
reconnaissance survey carried out by Project Probe, sponsored by 11 oil
companies and the World Bank and implemented by Duke University of Durham,
North Carolina. Some seismic lines hare been shot recently by Project Probe
and are being interpreted at present. However, only 10 km of seismic data
were recorded in Kenyan waters and the initial results are inconclusive.
Because of the low additional cost of extending the proposed airmag survey
over the Kenyan portion of Lake Victoria in Winam Gulf, this area would be
added to the Rift Valley survey. If the Winam Gulf area, including the
onshore extension, is considered prospective, it would also be included in the
third promotion round.
Government Approach to Petroleum Exploration
56.      Government does not intend to undertake work which could be carried
out by petroleum companies and limits its role in the sector to a promotion
and supervisory function. The Government would have the option of purchasing
a minority participation in case of commercial discovery by oil companies.
The Government's strategy is basically sound and deserves Bank Group support
Its successful implementation will depend on the availability of qualified
technical staff to compile and interpret available information, negotiate with
oil companies, and monitor their activities. MHERD is aware that until more
Kenyan personnel are adequately trained it will have to rely on foreign
expertise.
Previous Bank Group Lending for Energy
57.      The Bank Group has helped finance two projects in the petroleum
sector. In the petroleum products supply and distribution subsector, the Bank
financed the construction of a products pipeline from the refinery in Mombasa



- 17 -
to Nairobi with a US$20.0 million loan (Loan 1133-KE of 1975). The audit
report on this project (Report No. 3483) states that construction was
completed on schedule and that the economic rate of return was a satisfactory
192. The second petroleum operation, the Petroleum Exploration Promotion
Project (Loan 2065-KE of 1981), was successful in attracting six international
oil companies in taking up acreage in Kenya. Other Bank lending to the energy
sector consists of three loans for reforestation (Loans 641-KE of 1969,
1132-KE/Credit 565-KE of 1975 and 2098-UE, Credit 1213), six power loans
(Loans 745-KE of 1971, 1147-UE of 1975, S-12-KE of 1978, 1799-KE of 1980
2237-KE of 1983 and 2359-KE of 1985), and one credit to help finance the
Geothermal Exploration Project (Credit 1486-KE of 1984). Implementation of
power and geothermal projects has been excellent; in the forestry sector the
first loan was Implemented satisfactorily while the second loan suffered from
cost overruns and implementation problems.
The Role of the Bank Group
58.      In the upstream areas of petroleum exploration the Bank has been
instrumental in assisting Government in launching a promotion campaign and in
advising Government to successfully implement this promotion effort. The Bank
Group has maintained close contact which Government during this time in
preparing appropriate petroleum legislation and contract framework
commensurate with Kenya's perceived petroleum potential, and balancing the
Interests of Government with those of the oil companies. The Bank Group will
continue to help Government open new areas to exploration, intensify efforts
in placing unallocated blocks and strengthening the Government's sector
institutions. The principal objective of the Bank Group in petroleum
exploration promotion in Kenya is to attract foreign capital and expertise and
to strengthen and develop the necessary institutional skills to deal with the
foreign oil companies in an effective manner. In addition, the Government
wishes to address significant financial sector issues such as the operation of
the refinery, the use of the strategic storage facilities in Nombasa,
improvements in cost of crude imports and plans for modifying the product
distribution system in Kenya. These issues will continue to form the basis of
future Government/Bank dialogue.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
59.      The proposed project was identified during a Bank mission to Kenya
January 1985 and appraised in September 1985. The project was prepared by the
National Oil Company of Kenya. Negotiations were held in Nairobi January
17-20, 1986. The Kenyan delegation was led by Mr. P.S. Kihara, Deputy
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Energy and Regional Development. A credit
and project summary is given at the beginning of this Report, and a
supplementary project data sheet in Annex III. No Staff Appraisal Report has
been prepared.



- 18 -
Rationale for IDA Involvement
60.      The Association's support of the proposed project would be in the
context of its assistance to petroleum exploration efforts in Eastern Africa
which have already led to exploration agreements in Burundi and Kenya, and to
the negotiation of others in Uganda, Tanzania and Zaire. The Association
would also address, as part of the broader petroleum sector dialogue between
the Government and the Bank Group, the role of various institutions of the
petroleum sector. This would include the refinery and least cost solution to
transport products upcountry from Mombasa in the broader context of petroleum
supply and distribution in East Africa in cooperation with neighboring
countries.
Proj ect Obj ectives
61.      The proposed project is designed to continue to support the effort of
the Government to increase the level of petroleum exploration interest and
activity in Kenya by interrational oil companies in the open areas. This will
be accomplished by additional geological and geophysical studies in areas
which have not previously been included in hydrocarbon prospectivity studies
in the first project. A third promotional round of bidding will be organized
to include these new areas, blocks which have been unallocated in previous
rounds, as well as areas mandatorily relinquished at the conclusion of the
first exploration period. This round is anticipated to take place in 1989.
The exploration promotion efforts included in the proposed project have been
discussed with representatives of petroleum companies to test preliminary
responses and to avoid including any steps that would duplicate efforts
planned by the oil companies, or do not meet sufficient interest to justify
the expenditures. On the basis of these discussions the proposed program was
defined as the least cost solution to generating new interest by oil companies
in exploring open areas in Kenya. An equally important project objective is
to strengthen the institutions already in place to effectively handle the
anticipated increase in the level of exploration activity. This will be
accomplished through continued on-site technical assistance, training, and the
provision of necessary hardware.
Project Description
62.      The project will consist of the following:
A. Technical Assistance
(a) strengthening NOCK's promotion and negotiating strategy through
consulting services;
(b) project administration;
(c) training;
(d) equipment; and
(e) a study of the supply and distribution of petroleum products.



- 19 -
B. Exploration Promotion
(a) survey engineering;
(b) geophysical surveys;
(c) third promotion round;
(d) gas exploration promotion;
(e) transportation and communication.
63.       lechnical Assistance.  A petroleum exploration consulting firm would
provide 98 man-months of services as follows: (i) help NOCK prepare a
promotion and negotiation strategy; (ii) supervise and monitor exploration in
various blocks and evaluate geophysical, geological and drilling reports;
(iii) an engineering advisor as required to review drilling locations, testing
programs and results; (iv) train counterparts; (v) ensure satisfactory
environmental standards; (vi) establish petroleum accounts to register
exploration expenditures to determine the cost of oil in the event of
discovery, and train NOCK staff to operate the system; and (vii) carry out
speciral studies, including geochemistry, as needed. Project administration
wotlld comprise salaries and overhead for staff implementing the project. The
training component includes overseas courses for 12 professionals; 8 courses
for NOCK in Nairobi; in-house seminars for MOERD and NOCK staff in petroleum
exploration related techniques, management, contract administration and other
activities; and continuous on-tehe-job training. Laboratory and storage
facilities, office computer, laboratory and drafting equipment would be
provided. A study would be undertaken to review the options to supplying
Kenya with petroleum products, including an economic analysis of the
alternatives.
64.       Exploration Promotion.  Survey engineering services (30 man-months)
would be provided to (i) help design, implement and evaluate the geophysical
surveys planned to launch the thlrd promotion round; (ii) monitor geophysical
surveys carried out by oil companies; and (iii) train NOCK staff in
geophysical techniques and applications. A geophysical and geological survey,
including about 22,000 line-km of aeromagnetics, would be flown over the Rift
Valley and over the Kenyan portion of Lake Victoria, and on-shore east to the
Rift Valley. Acreage offered would include that identified by earlier
surveys, areas identified by the 1987 survey, blocks unallocated at the time
of the third promotion, and those relinquished by oil companies at the end of
the first exploration period. The third promotion round would include: (i) a
promotion report; and (ii) exploration consultants to organize the meeting.
The promotion reports would be offered for sale to recover part of the cost of
the surveys. The area coverage of the third promotion round would be agreed
between NOCK, MOERD and IDA by December 31, 1988. Transportation and
communication expenses are included to permit NOCK officials to communicate
with oil companies and others, and travel as required to promote Kenyan
acreage and review the status of exploration. Prospective areas exist in
Kenya which are perceived as gas prone and not attractive to international oil
companies because of concerns over marketability and, if successful,
convertibility of foreign exchange. On the other hand, discovery and
development of a gas field could substantially improve Kenya's energy



- 20 -
situation. Therefore, efforts to promote gas prone areas will be undertaken.
These efforts would focus mainly on contractual arrangements that would make a
geologically attractive area financially attractive. About 12 man-months of
services would be provided by the exploration consulting firm and terms of
reference would be agreed by June 30, 1987.
Project Cost and Financing
65.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$9.6 million
equivalent (including about US$700,000 equivalent in taxes and duties) with
foreign exchange components of US$6.0 million, or about 62.7% of project
cost. The cost estimates include physical contingencies of 10 percent. Price
contingencies of 7% for 1986 and 1987, 7.5% for 1988, 7.7% for 1989, 7.6% for
1990 and 4.5% for 1991 have been applied to local costs. Total contingencies
amount to 39% of base costs. Estimated costs by project component are given
in the project summary. Cost estimates are based on December 1985 prices.
The proposed IDA credit of SDR 5.5 million (US$6.0 million equivalent) would
finance the foreign exchange component or about 62.7% of total project cost.
The Government would finance the local costs of US$3.6 million equivalent.
Project Implementation
66.       The project would be implemented by NOCK on behalf of MOERD with the
assistance of consultants. The contract with the exploration consulting firm
would be for 2.5 years giving NOCK the option to either extend its contract
with the consulting firm or to ask for new proposals. The areal coverage of
the third promotion round would be agreed between Government and IDA by
December 31, 1988. Interested oil companies are expected to purchase
promotion reports. The Government would record proceeds from such sales in a
separate account and shall make the proceeds available for energy studies and
surveys. The refinery, supply and distribution study would be completed by
June 30, 1987 and recommendations discussed with the Association by December
31, 1987. The airmag would be flown in 1987 and the data interpreted in 1988
in time for the 1989 promotion round. Annex VII shows a Project
implementation bar chart.
Status of Project Preparation
67.      NOCK has a capable manager.  The few key staff in place successfully
handled the first negotiations with oil companies under the PEPP. Recruitment
of 4 additional professional staff needed to implement the project has started
and the training envisaged under the project would prepare them for their
tasks. Existing office and support facilities are adequate to initiate the
project tnd NOCK rents its office space. Terms of reference have been
prepared for the technical assistance components requiring consultant's
servicee and a short list of exploration consulting firms to be invited to
submit offers has been agreed. The selected firm should be in the field by
about July 1986. One exploration consulting firm would be selected to provide
resident advisors, specialized technical assistance services, survey
engineering and gas promotion. Contracts for the refinery, supply and
distribution study and organization of the third promotion round would be
tendered separately. All terms of reference will be satisfactory to the
Association.   An overall procurement plan was prepared.  Bidding documents
for equipment and supplies to be procured under ICB are under preparation and



- 21 -
a general procurement notice for equipment to be procured under ICB has been
agreed upon. A training program and schedule has been prepared at appraisal
and traidning is included as an obligation In the terms of reference of the
various consultants. All critical preparation work should be completed in
time for the scheduled project start-up in July 1986. Terms of reference for
the gas promotion effort would be agreed by June 30, 1987. The proposed
project would continue Bank Group assistance to Kenya's petroleum exploration
promotion after the August 31, 1986 extended closing date of PEPP.
Procurement and Disbursement
68.      Technical services needed to implement the geophysical surveys and
goods packages exceeding US$100,000 would be procured under international
competitive bidding (ICB). Office and laboratory equipment would be procured
following local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures which are satisfactory to
the Association. All bidding packages procured under ICB would be subject to
the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation, resulting in a coverage
of about 80% of the total value of contracts for goods and services. Local
supplies would be granted a 15% local preference margin in bid comparison for
goods and technical services. All consultants would be selected in accordance
with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Procurement by method
for the various project components is summarized below:



- 22 -
Procurement and Disbursement
International     Local
Competitive   Competitive
Bidding       Bidding    Consul-
Project Component            (ICB)          (LCB)      tants   Other   Total
- -               US$ Millions - - - - - - - - - -
Technical Assistance
Exploration Consulting       0.00           0.00       2.36      0.00    2.36
0.00          0.00       (2.29)    0.00   (2.29)
Project Administration       0.00           0.00       0.00      2.32    2.32
0.00          0.00        0.00     0.00   (0.00)
Training                     0.00           0.00       0.00      0.59    0.59
0.00          0.00        0.00    (0.54)  (0.54)
Data Storage, Laboratory
Computer, Drafting and    0.51           0.51        0.00     0.80    1.82
Office Equipment          (0.40)         (0.40)      0.00      0.00   (0.80)
Refinery, Supply and
Distribution Study         0.00           0.00       0.13      0.00    0.13
0.00          0.00       (0.12)    0.00   (0.12)
Exploration Promotion
Survey Engineering           0.00           0.00       0.73      0.00    0.73
0.00          0.00       (0.72)    0.00   (0.72)
Geophysical Surveys          1.02           0.00       0.00      0.00    1.02
(0.96)         0.00        0.00     0.00   (0.96)
Transportation and           0.00           0.00       0.00      0.30    0.30
Communication              0.00          0.00        0.00    (0.28)  (0.28)
Third Promotion Round        0.00           0.00       0.15      0.00    0.15
0.00          0.00       (0.15)   (0.00)  (0.15)
Gas Exploration Promotion   0.00            0.00       0.15      0.00    0.15
0.00          0.00       (0.14)    0.00   (0.14)
Total                        1.53           0.51       3.52      4.01    9.57
Of which IDA                (1.36)         (0.40)     (3.42)   (0.82)  (6.0)



- 23 -
69.      Disbursements would be made for 100% of the foreign exchange cost for
consultants, training, technical services and equipment, or 80% of the local
cost for technical services and equipment. Disbursements for expenditures
under ICB contracts will be fully documented. For all other contracts,
disbursements would be made using statements of expenditure. In accordance
with the Association's current disbursement practice, all reimbursements,
direct payments and agreements to reimburse would be made against applications
for individual amounts of US$10,000 equivalent on direct payments and special
commitments (Agreements to Reimburse) and US$20,000 equivalent on
reimbursement (payments to the Borrower). The expected disbursement profile
is in line with that of IDA credits for energy in general.
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
70.      NOCK has designated a financial officer to maintain project accounts
and implement, together with the consultants, the petroleum accounting
system. The responsibility for auditing accounts, as with all Government
organizations, rests with the Controller and Auditor General. This entity
shall perform audits of project accounts, and submit audit reports
satisfactory to the Bank no later than nine months after the close of the
fiscal year starting with FY86. NOCK shall keep separate financial accounts
for the project and submit quarterly and annual reports on project
implementation in a format acceptable to the Association. It would also
submit a project completion report not later than six months after the closing
date.
Environmental Impact
71.      Although a technical assistanue project as such hps no measurable
environmental impact, successful promotion would lead to exploration and
possibly to developmental activities potentially disruptive to the
environment. To address such concerns, the Petroleum (Exploration and
Productior) Act of 1984 states that oil companies shall 'conduct petroleum
operations in accordance with sound professional and technical skills and
adopt measures necessary for the conservation of petroleum and other resources
and the protection of the environment and human life". The Act further
authorizes the Minister to issue regulations related to the conduct of
petroleum operations, conservation of petroleum resources and measures
relating to safety, environmental protection and the avoidance of waste,
pollution and accidents". The exploration consultants to be hired under the
proposed project would help Government set reasonable environmental standards
and assist in enforcing these during exploration and possibly development.
Project Ben2fits and Risks
72.      The primary benefit of this project would be to attract further
private capital to undertake petroleum exploration in Kenya. It is expected
that attractive unallocated offshore tracts and onland areas in the eastern
part of the country and areas covered by geophysical surveys in sedimentary
basins of the Rift Valley and Lake Victoria would be offered in a third
promotion round in 1989. The project would also strengthen the capacity of
MOERD to negotiate with foreign companies, formulate and supervise an
exploration program and monitor its results. The project would help address



- 24 -
key questions in Kenya's petroleum products supply and distribution system
where Government is considering modifications which may have a large impact
upon the cost of products to the final consumer.
73.      The main risk associated with the proposed project is that tracts
offered may not prove attractive enough to foreign companies. Given the
current expense to Kenya of importing oil, present knowledge of the country's
geology, current oil company interest, and the low cost of the project
relative to potential investments in petroleum exploration it could attract,
the advantages of proceeding with the project outweigh this risk.
PART V. RECOMMENDATION
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 28, 1986



-25 -                                ANNEX I
Page 1
DCFlNTK OF SOCLiL INDICIWTOFS
NoteoAlthoughthedata redrawnrocn nalfjud  th tatttivean        drli. itshoullsobenoed t  tbeymayno beintenmhodoty
compabl beca_e of tle lck of sandarddd denioad o epaomp me by dient count. in eiectn mw ais. The data a   onethelss uul to
d_scibe orof u tude. india trends, and chamicteSi crin major diff_e  betsIen countrie.L
The    o   oare () tbe   e cnry op dof de sujeut country and (2)a coy goup wih   ht hier aveag inoe tbhn tbe county
poup ofthiesubjectcounaty(eazept fer Nigh In-Oil xpoer   up hese 'Mdde Income North Afnca and Middle  t is choen bec of stron
oonalal anitlm) in t  Aen  group dat the avare populaion weigh  arithmetic momi for each inditr an shown only wben mtjority
ofth countr ins ogrop ha dat for tat indiatoi Siae the overage of contri among the indicato depend on the viaility ofdata and is not uniform,
caution must be ned   reatig av     ofone init to anotemr The avasa am. only uefl in compaig tie vlue ofone indictor nt a inc among
the Coun  snd rne goup
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                        Crd BARJWe (per fFhmd)-Number of live births in the year
Tal-Total surfc area compring land area and inland waters;   per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 dama.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data                                     Cud Desk Rate (per rh.usad)-Number of deaLths in the year
AgEticwrl-Estimate of agricultural ata used temporarily or    per thousnd of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permanedy For crops, pastures, market and kitchen gadens or to  Coie Repc_atu Rat-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                         wil bear in her normal reproductive period if she cperiences
presnt age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current      in 1960, 1970, and 1963.
market prices, calculated by same conversion method as World  FanCy Plediug-Accepems, Annual (thossaudsJ-Annual num-
Daok Aplas (1981-83 basis); 1983 datd,                       ber of accepton of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                fay pbnning program.
consumption of commecal primary energy (coal and lignite.     Fauy flaudh-Uwrs (pees of wed .s-The percn-
petrokumn, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  tap of married women of child-bearing age who are practicng or
tncity) in kilograms of oil equivalent per capita; 1960, 1970. and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                   ofchild-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATIA        CS                        groupsL
Tota PopamId, Mid-Yesr (th Aeudrl-As of July 1; 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND NUTRiTION
and 1983 data.
Index 'ifFood Prodluctio. Pe Cdpita (1969L-71 - ItNfl-lndex of per
Wham _fp.ai  (pecent of ert)-Ratio of urban t totl           capta annual productio  of all food commoditi  Production
population. different definitions of urhan areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agrcture. Food cmmodities
ahility of dat among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.   include primary conmmodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Popul alias Projecdom                                        which are edible and contain nutrients (eg. colfee and tea are
Popuatio h year 2000-The projection of population for 2000   exduded)t they comprise creals, root crops. pulses oil seeds,
made for each economy separatly. Starting with information on  vgetables fruits, nutS. sUgcane and sugar beets. livestock, and
total population by age and sx fertity rates. mortality rates, and  ivestock products Aggregte production of each country is based
itrational migration in the base year 1980. thme paramners   on national average producer price weights; 196145, 1970, and
wer projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generaized  1982 data.
aumptions until the population became sationary.              P  Capa SWj ofCaoi (percen pfte-u'aes-Comput-
Sbadonary population-s  one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in cotmtry
tality rates have not changed over a long period, whie age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level    tion, imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate- 1). In such a population. the birth rate is    exclude animal feed, seeds for use in agriculture, quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is al3o  food processing and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering enviromnental temperature, body weights.
the population in the year 2000, and the rate of decine of fernhty  age and se distributior sf population, and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement eveL.                                    waste at household kevel 1961, 1970 and 1982 data.
Popu*adon Monuewum-Is the tendency for population growth to  Per Capt Spi  ofPtein (grssper AsyJ-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacenent-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; tat is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is meaured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year s, given the assuoption that fertility remans at replace  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
ment levl from year a onward. 1985 dataL                     75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
D,                                                          averge for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-  Suppy; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.              Per Capa Potein Sapply hor Aniaea and Fiske-Protein supply
Per sq.km agriousurai lad-Computed as above for aricultural  of food derived from animalsand pulses in grams perday: 1961-65.
Iand only, 1960, 1970, and 1982 data.                         1970 and 1977 data.
Populto Age Suture (perceent-Children (0-14 years). work-    CUiIdages I-4) Deat Rate (per thousand)-Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.           group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Popatio CGowth Rate (percen) rBtrae-Annual growth ratcs of   from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 1970-83.  HEAnLTH
Populto Growth Rat (perce)nt_-rm--Annual growth rates         Lif Expectawy at Etc  (yes)-Number of years a newbom
of urban population for 1950-60, 1960-70, and 197043 data.    infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-26-                                             ANNEX I
Paae 2
at the tm  of of its birth wer to say the sme throughout its life;    AhV&ecler Ratw - prbmry. and secno,iur7-Total sudents en-
1960. 1970 ad 1983 dat                                        roiled in primry an   econday leves dided by numbers of
lo4few Mralfa RAae (p  thuassad)-Number of ifants who die    teachers in the corrpoanding levels.
before reacing one year of ag per thousan live births in a given
yer. 1960.1970 and 1983 d                                     CONSUMPTION
Awsr so S* f WaG (pm   of pba, i.                             Pmeugfi Ca (per thosad papiava)-4asaeer can comn-
vuuU-Number of peope (totaL urban ad rural) with ruonable     pnws motor cas seaing le than eight paso  excludes ambul-
acen  to safe water suly (inlude ted sufhce wam or            asc herses and military veiles.
ntraed but uno tininatd watr scsh   that fr   protected       RAdai Recevr (pefrthdasadpep.5t1)-AI types of recivers
boreholes, sp  and untary well) u percent   of their respeo-  for radio broadcat to gnal public per thousand of population;
tive populato   In an urban ar  a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-lcnsd receivers in countries and in yeas when
located not mos than 200 metes fiam a bouse may be c   d             tion of radio sets was in effect; data for recent yca  may
as being within reaonable acis of that hoase In runal         not be cmparble since most countris aboisd licnsg.
easonab ul acces would mpy tat the houwife or mmbersofthe
hoslhod do not have to pend a disproportionate pat of the day  TfReem (jr ou.dpoph )-TVrcve for broadct
ia fetcin the family's water ned                              t0 genea public per thousnd poputio  exludes unlicnsed TV
,   erD. Excrete D_*1osal (perceat qi!ppalatieu)-Eot4 rn-ba.  receivers in couontries ad in years when registration of TV sets was
i.E ruwi-Number of people (total urban and ruir) erved by
acrea disposal as percentas of their  spectiv   populations.  AN'P   Chculam (pm AtIsiondptpIlsion)4hows the aver-
Excreta disposl may mclude the colection and disposl, with or  age ciulion of "daiy gene  interest ncwspapeM  defined as a
without treatment of human oaa and waste-water by water-      podi pubiato devoted primarily to recording gn    news.
bore systems or the uwe of pit privies and similr instlltions  It is con5deed to be daily" if it appcaf at keat four times a week.
Ppakdou per Pysidhas- Populati  divided by number of prac-    CGema Aaaau Atteance per Capita per Year-Based on the
using physicians qualified from a medical school at university lenve.d    number of tickets sold during the year. induding admisuions to
P.poin per NuriV P-mv-Populaion diviWde by number of          drive-in cinemas and mobil units.
practicng male and female graduate nurses, assstant nDuSesO
practcal nurss and nursing auxi                               LBOR FORCE
ApdI d  p.' Hepea Re-eaearhon. ad -raI-Pbpulation              Total Labo Foc (thoasauds)-Economically active persons, in-
(totaL urban, and nir  divided by their espective  number of  duding armed forces and unemployed but excduding housewives,
hospital beds available m public and pvatcd                   studentsgsetc., covering population of all ages Dennitions in
hospita  and rehabilitation center Hospitals a  estabidnents  various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at eat one physician. Establishments prov-  Feine (percetU-Female labor form as perentage of total labor
iding principally custodial aue are not included. Rural hospitals  force.
bowever,dn healthandnedicalcntersnotpermantlystaffed          Agubae  (pecat)-Labor force in farming, forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistnt, nurse, midwife etc)  and fishing as penta  of total labor force; 1960 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a lirnited rang  data.
of medical facilifics.                                        lakra  (percent)-Labor force in mining, constuction. manu-
A 'hssiu per Hospid Red--Total number of admissions to or     facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
dscharge  from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
PM dprio Rate (pe Q-u)-eoea1#  muk. axdftoudePszticpation
HOUSING                                                       or actvty rates are computed as total male, and female labor force
Aveq  S&e of Ho Wehol (pers per ho)Aehl)-toe4 m-ha            as percentages of totaL male and fenale population of aU ages
andrur-A householdconsistsofa group of individualsvwho sham   respectively; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on iLs
living quarers and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  particpation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the popul    and
may not be induded in the household for statistcal purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from naional soures
Average Naabgr of Pom- per Room-ttadl, arba, ad uwal-    E&conoic Dpmaeucy Ratio-Ratio of population under 15. and
Averge number of penons per room in al urban, and rural       65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings repectivdly. Dwelings exlude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                INCOMI DISTRIBUIlON
P     <ecmage of Duelins with BEcbictp-ttul,   t    n mb, and rual-  Pere~ e of ToaDi posablke      (boh is cobh   hiid)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accring to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwelings respectively,        hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGEI GROUPS
Aasred Ewoliew Rios                                           The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
fnwy swol - totcl, mae  nd fmale-Gross tota  mc and           lcvels. and should be interpreted with consirable caution.
female ensolmhent of all ages at the primay evel as percentages of  Esumred Absolute Aben  iucone Leved (USS per capea)-morban
reqpcve priary scool-    populions While many countries       ad rura-Absolutc poverty income klvl is that income level
conside prnmay school age to be 6-11 years. othets do not The  below which a minimal nutritionaly adequate diet plus essential
differences in country pracices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratis givL For some countnes with universal  E Ped RtiR' e Perty 1,cgw  ed (USper cqpiha) -arba.
education gross enrollnent may exceed 100 percent fime some  dad ruwr-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard prmaury-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban kvd is
age                                                           derived fromn the rural level with adjustment for higber cost of
Seodwy sdhot - toal mal and emfanai-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
scondary educatio  requires at last four years of approved pri-  Etmaed Pparaouw Refew Absolte ibmiy Iome Lewed (per-
mary insrucn  provides general vocational, or teacber taining  etsb   mid  r- Percent of population (urban and rral
instructions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are absolute poor."
ence coures are generally exluded.
Vocarkmal Eiwollmetr (perceat of s-condivy-Vocational institr            Comparative Analysis and Data Division
ton include tehial industrial or other progrums which operate         Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as deparments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



- 27 -
populatlons  19.7 1ILLION (1984)                                                  mAIC  r
CNP per Capita: USS300 (1984)                                                      Pe 3
KNAS  OICVIC DNDICAT1lS
Am_ut                     Annul mrwtb rte (C) at Constant prce.
Call uon US$
at current  Ites)                    Actual                 Prowlelen   Prg  tion
396r            19830   1981  0192    3983    147i     365 
NATIONAL AOCCTh
Cross domestic product/C          5,958            4.1    1.9    1.7    3.8    0.9         4.0        4.7
Agriculture                    13193             1.1    S.9    4.7    4.5   -1.5         4.0        4.4
TAductry                         935             S.t    4.3   -0.6    1.A    2.3         4.0        5.7
Servica.                        2,607            5.5    6.9    0.8    3.5    3.5         4.0        4.7
Conma,tion                        4,784           -1.5   -1.5    4.4    4.4   -4.8         2.1        4.3
Crooe inv6t_ent                   1.289           39.0   -2.1  -21.1   -4.8    4.0         4.3        4.1
Export. of CUnS                   1.1J0            5.5   -4.5    0.1    0.0   -8.1         8.3        4.4
luporto of GIuyS                  1,706           10.5  -20.7  -16.6   -6.2    0.0         2.9        4.5
Crome dmenetic saving             1,114           40.7   25.3   -6.S    1.7   -1.0        -0.9        4.9
PRI CZS
CDP d-flator C1984-100 In US$)                      51.5   62.1   75.8   92.4  100.0    133.0
Exchae rate (Kab/ISS)                                7.4    9.0   10.9   11.3   14.4        16.5
Share of CDP at  irkat Pricee (2)           Average Annual Iucreo- (2)
(St cen  pre o)                         (st contnnt pce)
1-980    1984    1966    1990    1970-75  1975-80   98184^   39-84-66  19m6-90
Gr=ow domeetic product- 100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0         9.4      6.0      2.2     4.0      4.9
Agriculture             27.5    26.7    26.7    26.4         5.9     3.2      2.1      4.0     4.5
Industry                16.8    15.7    15.6    16.1        15.4     7.9      1.2     4.2      5.4
Services                38.6    43.8    43.7    43.8         7.5     5.4      2.7     4.0      4.9
Coammption                81.4    80.3    78.8    77.4        11.5     6.2      3.0      3.1     4.4
Grses snvt-ent            30.0    21.6    21.7    23.2       -3.5    12.2    -8.9       4.2      6.6
Exports of CIIPS          28.6    26.5    30.3    27.2         1.7     1.1    -2.2    11.2       2.1
l ports of CnPS           40.0    26.6    30.9    26.0       -2.0      6.4    -8.4      6.0      2.3
Croen national savings    17.5    18.5    19.2    21.5       -0.9    11.2    -0.2        R.7     1.6
As 2 of CoP
C47.  OES !Wh. nancgz" ;b                                                 Prowlac. n
1960/111   1981/82   1982/83   1983184   19ol4185  IPr5cl6
Ravenu  and Crants                 26.1      26.0       24.7      24.1       23.8       24.0
Revemue                        25.3      24.6       23.1      22.8       22.1       21.9
Grants                          0.8       1.4        1.5       1.2        1.7        2.1
Expenditures                       34.8      33.4       28.4      28.6       27.9      28.0
Current expenditure            24.7      23.5       22.2      23.0       20.7      20.7
Capital expenditure            10.1       9.9        6.2       7.6        7.2       7.3
Overall cah deficit                9.5        6.7        3.1       4.2        5.0       4.1
Avrag Annal Growth CX)
(at conutant price)
1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1984-66      1986-90
OIER IDDrCTOR
CIIm growth rate (z)                     5.2         5.5        4.6         4.2        5.2
CGP par capita growt rate IS)            2.2         2.2        1.3         0.2         1.2
Energy Cumption growth rate CZ)           -           -         4.9          -
IDR                                     6.1         4.2        4.8         5.3        4.6
Margnal cavin, rate                       .27        0.00       0.21        0.355      0.069
Import elatidty                          0.9        -0.2        1.1         0.1        0.9
/a  At market pric; comPonte sre  pr_aa"d at factor coat and 131 not add due to excluesi  of
new indirect taxe and  nbediee.
Ib Fiscal years ending Jan 30.
March 1986



- 28 -
Population:       19.7 million (1984)                                                                  ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$300 (1984)                                                                         Rage 4
KENYA: EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount          - - - -             Annual Growth Rates (Z) - - - - - - - - -
(million US$   I                      (At constant 1984 prices)
Indicator                   at current prices)                      Actual                            Projected
1984            1980    1981    1982    1983    1984             1985    1986
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports             1,078              3.2    -5.2    -3.3    -1.5    -1.9              9.5    18.9
Primary                         917             -7.3     6.7    13.9    -1.1    -2.0             10.5    21.3
Manufactures                    161             29.6   -16.3   -16.5    -3.0    -0.8              4.0      4.0
Merchandise Imports             1,54A             14.7   -22.8   -12.5   -11.3       7.3            2.8      5.3
Food                            155             57.6   -48.4    58.4   -10.1       8.8            6.8   -15.7
Petroleum                       523             16.7   -21.5    -6.7   -18.2       0.4           -0.4      3.5
Machinery and equipment         450             19.0   -22.0   -19.2   -13.4    12.1              4.2    10.0
Others                          420              5.0    -7.1    -3.6    -1.3    11.5              3.7    10.6
PRICES
Export price index                100.0           57.6    63.2    69.4    83.3   100.0             R5.8   105.5
Import price index                100.0           50.4    64.4    74.0    94.8   100.0             97.2   101.4
Terms of trade index              100.0          114.4    98.1    93.7    87.9   100.0             88.3   104.0
Composition of Merchandise
Trade (2)                             Average Annual Growth
(at current prices)                        (at constant prices)
1981     1984      1986      1990       1974-79   1980-84   1984-86   1986
Exports                              100.0    100.0    100.0       100.0           -       -2.2       14.1       1.5
Primary                            87.7      85.1     87.6       84.8          2.1       2.2       15.8       0.7
Manufactures                       12.3      14.9     12.4       15.2        -11.3      -3.4        4.0       6.7
Imports                              100.0    100.0    100.0       100.0           -       -7.3        4.0       4.2
Food                                4.8      10.0      8.4        7.7       -10.4        5.9       -5.1       2.2
Petroleum                          36.9      33.8     32.2       30.1         -2.8      -8.5        1.5       2.5
Machinery and equipment            27.2      29.0     30.7       33.1          1.7      -7.6        7.1       6.2
Others                             31.2      27.2     28.8       29.1           -        0.9        7.1       4.6
Direction of Trade
Share of trade with           Share of trade with        Share of trade with capital
industrial countries (Z)    developing countries (X)        surplug oil exporters (2)
1979     1981      1984       1979     1981      1984      1979       1981 1_84
Exports        54.4     42.1      56.3       34.0     45.0      33.8        1.8       2.3        0.7
imports       67.4      57.3      56.5       10.0      8.2      17.7       20.3      33.5       24.1
March 1986



- 29 -
Populatlons  19.7 dilllon (1984)                                                                              ANNCX I
CUP per Capita:  US$300 (1984)                                                                                Page T
ENYA. DALAWCE 0r PAfUEITS. KEERI.AL CAPITAL AND D EnT
(millIoum us$ at current prices)
Actual                                  Eatl ated
1980       1981        1982        1963        981.       19AS        19A6
JALANIJC OF PAYMHETS
Exports of soods and services             2.038       1,747       1,616       1.507      1.621       1.577       2,101
Exports of goods                        1.243       1,050        934         923       1,078       1,013       1,480
Exports of services                       795         697        682         584         543         564         621
D ports of goods and servIcea             3.070       2.584       2.161      1.787       1.954       1.966       2,2A9
Import. of good                        2,633       2,148       1,721       1,426       1,549       1,547      I,44/
Imports of servIces                      437         436         440         361         405         419         445
(of whicb:  intereet)                 (131)       (162)       (178)       (162)       (IRI)       (191)       (198)
Tranfere (net)                              140          95          67         115        147         104          87
Current Account Balsnce                    -892       -743        -477        -165        -185        -285        -101
Direct inveat_ent (noet)                     7a          60          60         74          40          42          43
Public NLT  lo-an  (net)                   4A4          275         217         84         167         215         274
GroDaa dleommes                          562         437        397         262         382         468         496
Repaymente                                 Ia         162         10        17R         215         253         222
IM      e Credit (n0)                        69          27         147         96         -11          44         -92
rche Te                                     8         35         16S         1472         47         II         -
ftepurcbasee                                9          8           19         46          59          69          92
Other capltal (net) /a                      148         131          33         76           A         -36         -16
Change in Gross R-ervee                    -153       -250         -20         165           2         -20         110
Meuorandum  itw:
Grocs  reservv at year'. end              500        250         230         396         39a         378         4Aq
_meervee _ weeks Import.                   10           6          7          10          11           9          10
Curre   account deficit as 2 of CDP
Including official grants _b          12.5        11.0         7.7         2.8         3.1        4.7          1.5
Excluding offlicid grants /           14.2        12.3         9.0         5.0         5.5         6.5         2.R
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEST
Crown Dieburz _nto
Officl  grants $d                      123         82          80         125         150
Conceeaioual loan                       178        149         191          92         204
J1lateral-DAC                         66         104          85          44          91
Bilateral-OPEC                        -            8           6           4          38
XDA                                   72          15          85          20         36
Other                                 41          22          15          24          39
Nonconceslonal loan                      383        288         206         171         179
Offica.  eport credlta                   16        -            16          51          17
IRD                                     44          59          85          99         128
Other mltlateral                         16         15          25           8          18
Privte-noource                         307         183          80          13          16
Public ILT loan. - total                  562        437         397         262         3R2
/a  Include. aort-term capital, commercial back's net foreig  position, error. and  elasoion. and valuation
adju tment.
lb  Including offlelal granet  -above the  ine  a. en itm contributlng to the detemination of the current
account deficit.
/c  Treating official grant. so a 'beow the li1' ite  whlch contributes to the financing of the current
account deficit.
/d 'Covernnt tranfer receiptes' in the balance of paymnts.
7W  Includig the purcha  of the gun boats and airplane.
areh 1986



-30 -                                ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN XENYA
-A. State_ent of Bank Loans and IDA Credlt. an of September 30. 1985
USS Million -
Loan or                                                              Amount (Less Cancellations)
Credit 0    Year   Borrower   Purpose                               Bank 1I    IDA    Undisboreed
Twenty-one (21) Loan and Twenty-eight (28) Credlts and three (3)
Third Window Loans Fully DIsbursed*                                  440.78    347.63
1449       1977    Kenya      Bura Irrigation Settlement             34.00               12.20
1550       1978    Kenya    (Second Urban                            25.00               24.80
797       1978    Kenya      Fourth Education                                  23.00     3.83
1636       1979    Kenya      Sugar Rehabilitation                   14.00                1.34
1637       1979    Kenya     Rural Water Supply                      20.00               18.20
1684       1979    Kenya     Righway Sector                          90.00               10.15
914       1979    Kenya      Smallholder Coffee Improvement                    27.00    22.80
959       1980    Kenya      Second Integrated Agric. Dev.                     12.00     7.00
962       1980    Kenya      Blaringo Semi-Arld Areas                           6 50     1.38
1799       1980    Kenya     Third Power (Olkarla Geothermal)        40.00 2/             2.40
1817       1980    IDB       Fourth Industrial Dew, Bank             30.00               13.45
1045       1980    Kenya     Export Promotion Technical A-et.                    4.50     3.75
1051       1980    Kenya      Fisheries                                         10.00     9.84
1107       1981    Kenya     Fifth Education                                    40.00    27.18
1976       1981    Kenya     Railway                                 58.00               19.06
(1143      (1981   (Kenya    (Fourth Agriculture                                 10.00     0.30
(1995      (1981   (Kenya    (Fourth Agriculture                      25.00               10.60
2065       1982    Kenya      Petroleum Exploration                   4.00                0.63
(2098      (1982   (Kenya    (Forestry III T                          21.50               21.50
(1213      (1982   (Kenya    (Forestry III                                       16.00     5.98
1237       1982    Kenya     Cotton Proc. & Marketing 3J                       22.00    18.01
1238       1982    Kenya      Integrated Rural Realth &
Family Plnning 3/                               23.00    14.04
2155       1982    Kenya      Second Telecommunicatlon               44.70               18.52
1277       1983    Kenya     Agric. Technical Assistance 3/                     6.00      2.60
2237       1983    Kenya      Olkaria Geothermal Expansion           12.00        -       7.00
1387       1983    Kenya     National Extension 31                              15.00     9.79
(2319      (1983    Kenya    (Secondary Towns                          7.00                6.98
(1390      (1983    Kenya    (Secondary Towns 3/                                 22.00    15.66
2359       1984    Kenya      Kiambere Hydroelectric                 95.00               69.98
(2409      (1984   (Kenya    (Second Highway Sector                   50.00              (49.88
(F017      (1984   (Kenya    (Second Righway Sector                              40.00   (37.80
1486       1984    Kenya      Geothermal Exploration                            24.50    23.10
1566       1985    Kenya     Water Engineering 3/                                6.00     5.77
2574       1985    Kenya      Third Telecommunications 4/           32.60                32.60
Total                               1,043.58    655.13   528.12
of which has been repaid            116.79      6.77
Total now outstanding                 926.79    648.36
Amount sold                  11.81
of which has been repaid  11.81        .00
TOTAL now held by lank and IDA                   914.98    648.36
TOTAL undisbursed                                319.29    208.83   528.12
*   In addition, Kenya wa one of the beneficiaries of 10 loans totalling USS244.8 million
which mere extended for the development of comosn services (railways, ports,
telecommunications, and flnance for industry), operated regionally for the three partner
states of the former East African Community (EAC).
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
1 Includes Loan S-12 ($9.0 million).
3 IDA-6 Credit mounts expressed in dollar equivalents of SDR's.
f Not yet effective.



-31 -                                 ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investment in Kenya as at
September 30, 1985
Fiscal Year  Obligor                      Type of Business        Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968, Kenya Hotel Properties        Hotels                   5.2     0.7      5.9
and 1973
1970, 1974,  Pan African Paper Mills      Pulp and Paper          22.2     6.3     28.5
1977, 1979
and 1981
1972         Tourism Promotion            Hotels                   2.4     -1/      2.4
Services
1976         Rift Valley Textiles Ltd.   Textiles                  6.3     2.8      9.1
1977         Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd.  Capital Market            2.0     -        2.0
1980         Development Finance          Development Finance      4.3     1.3      5.6
Company of Kenya Ltd.
1981         Kenya Commercial Finance    Money & Capital Market  5.0       -        5.0
1982         Bamburi Portland             Cement & Construction   4.4      -        4.4
Cement Co., Ltd.            Material
1982         Diamond-Trust of Kenya       Money & Capital Market  -        0.8      0.8
Limited
1982         Industrial Promotion         Money & Capital Market -         0.6      0.6
Services (Kenya) Ltd.
1983         Tetra Pak Converters         Pulp & Paper Products   2.2      0.3      2.5
Limited
1984         Leather Industries of        Tanning                  1.6     0.6      2.2
Kenya Limited
1986         Equatorial Beach             Tourism                 3.7      -        3.7
Properties
1986         Madhu Paper International   Pulp & Paper Products  36.6       1.8     38.4
TLimi ted
Total Gross Commitments                             95.9    15.2    111.1
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                52.7     1.7      54.4
Total Commitments now held by IFC                   43.2    13.5      56.7
Total Undisbursed                                   12.5      1.8     14.3
1/ $51,395.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
KENYA
PETROLEUH EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.    Timetable of Key Events:
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:               9 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                             NOCK
(c)  First presentation to Bank Group:                January 1985
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:                  September 1985
Ce) Completion of negotiations:                       January 1986
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:                   July 1986
II.   Special Implementation Action:
None
III. Special Conditions
None



- 33 -
ANNEX IV
KENYA
PETROLEUN EXPLORATION PROMOTION PROJECT
Schedule of Implementation
Employment of Exploration Consultants                     July 1986
Geological Advisor in place                               July 1986
Geophysical Advisor in place                              July 1986
Traiidng program commences                                July 1986
Purchase of lab equipment                                 October 1986
Bidding documents for aeromagnetic survey                 January 1987
Purchase of computer                                      July 1987
Engineering Advisor in place                              July 1987
Construction of core and data storage                     July 1987
Initiation of aeromagnetic survey                         July 1987
Completion of aeromagnetlc survey                         September 1987
Gas promotion                                             May 1988
Initiation of other geophysical surveys                  May 1988
Third round of acreage bidding                            March 1989
Promotion Meeting                                         June 1989
Signature of third round agreements with oil companies   May 1990
Final exploration report                                  October 1990
Closing date                                              December 1991



- 34 -
ANNEX V
Page 1
KENYA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Geological Annex
1.       Throughout much of geologic time, the area of present-day East Africa
was in the interior of the ancient mega-continent, known as Gondwanaland. As
the first strains of breakup, and eventual separation into its constituent
parts were felt during .he Carboniferous to Triassic periods, extensive rifts,
or longitudinal breaks in the crust of the continent were manifested. As the
basins which were associated with the rifts subsided in response to the
stretching and thining of the crust, they became filled with continental
debris which had been eroded from the margins of the rifts and transported
into the subsident basins. These oldest of continental sediments in East
Africa are known as the Karoo, and their counterparts can be seen also on
Madagascar and India.
2.       With continued stress, Gondwanalandts continental crust eventually
ruptured, and incipient separation of Madagascar, the Seychelles and India
began with these component parts moving away from East Africa.  Into the area
of separation flowed the newly formed Indian Ocean during the Jurassic. The
initial separation was not in the form of a single clean break, but was
comprised of several fractures, or failed arms of the ocean. The most notable
of the latter was the failed arm of the Mandera Basin, extending northerly
from the present day continental margin and thence northeasterly along the
Kenya/Somali border into the Ogaden area of Ethiopia. Both the Mandera basin
and the Coastal Margin basin were initially filled with thick black to dark
gray shales, becoming carbonates upward in the section as the sea finally
flowed freely into the area, overflowed the confines of the basins, and
transgressed across the edges of the newly formed continent.
3.       During the initial phases of the breakup of the continent, the
Mandera shale basin was sandy along its margins, as the erosional debris from
the continental margins were transported into the basin. Within the coastal
Margin Basin, there was less erosional debris, but with a restriction of
seawater ingress during the initial phases, evaporation began. Parallel to
and offshore of the present-day continental margin, a large salt basin
formed. The salt passed laterally into shales along the basin edges, and
upwards into shales and carbonates as the seaway became more open, and
circulation within the newly formed Indian Ocean improved.
4.       Following complete separation of the continent, there was a cooling
of the crust along the newly formed continental margin. With this cooling
came a thermal subsidence as the crust became denser and sank deeper into the
mantle. The surface manifestation of thl.is subsidence was the drooping of the
margin, and the formation of a passive margin wedge of sediment, thickening
seaward, thinning landward during the Cretaceous and Tertiary. As a result of
this progressive subsidence of the margin, a number of shoreline related



-35 -                             ANNEX V
Page 2
facies occurred such as longshore bars, beachs, offshore carbonate banks and
other similar features which parallel the ancient as well as the present
margin of the coast. When charged with newly generated hydrocarbons, these
form stratigraphic traps within reservoirs which can often be prolific.
Exploration for these types of accumulations has dominated Kenya and the rest
of East Africa until relatively recently. Discoveries have to date been
sparse, but Songo Songo in offshore Tanzania, and Afgoi in onshore Somalia are
of this type.
5.       Strains within the crystaline mass of the newly formed African
continent continued into the Cretaceous, and other trial breakups of the
continent continued, forming additional failed arms, simultaneous with the
formation of the passive margin sedimentary wedge. These failed arms formed
ragged breaks, leading northwesterly into the heart of the present day formed
continent. As with their Karoo predecessors, they were filled with
continental sediments, and, similar to be present day Rift Valley, contained a
series of lakes which became filled with organic-rich shales. These failed
arms continued to subside throughout the Cretaceous, as they were filling with
sediment. The result was the penecontemporaneous formation of structural and
stratigraphic traps in which petroleum-generating source rocks were faulted
into juxtaposition with excellent reservoir sands.
6.       The Cretaceous continental rift system is not well defined, but
appears to be present in Kenya, as defined by the aeromagnetic survey flown in
northern Kenya, going under Lake Turkana, and based on both gravity and
aeromagnetic data, appears to continue northwestwards into southern Sudan. In
the latter area, the system becomes more widespread, and major oil discoveries
have been made in at least two of these rifts. It is this similarity, and its
apparent continuation into Kenya which has resulted in most of the recent
Kenyan leasing activity which has been confined to the northern area, within
the Cretaceous Rift.
7.       Superimposed on top of the Cretaceous rift, is the much younger
Gregory rift, or present day Rift Valley, the northern end of which contains
Lake Turkana. This rift, dating from the Miocene to the present day, is of the
same age as the prolific Gulf of Suez rift, and Lake Turkana itself is the
s3mie size and general shape as the Gulf of Suez. The similarities may be
superficial however, in as much as the Rift valley basin is continental in
origin and may be gas prone rather than oil bearing although outcrops of oil
shale are known within the Rift Valley. The physiographlc boundaries of this
basin are easily seen, but its depth and internal structure are very poorly
known. Moreover, portions of it are covered with extensive volcanic flows and
ash cones, which make exploration difficult, and the high associated heat
flows may have thermally destroyed whatever hydrocarbons Day have been
present. Because of the many unknowns however, and the presence of the
required reservoirs, source rocks, seals, structures and thermal gradient,
there is no obvious reason why it cannot be an attractive basin for
exploration. Consequently, an aeromagnetic survey of the entire Rift Valley
is being proposed as a component of the present project, to better determine
the configuration of surface volcanic flows from basement related igneous
rocks. A compilation of relevant geological and geophysical data which is
available within the basin will also form a component of the project.



- 36 -
ANNEX V
Page 3
8.       To summarize the geology of Kenya, as it relates to petroleum
exploration, it starts in the Carboniferous to Triassic with the Karoo
sediments which form excellent reservoirs, but with little known about their
associated source rocks. Where the Karoo lies underneath the younger basins,
it is often too deep to be reached by the drill, or to have its porosity
preserved. Along the margins of each of these basins however, it is
prospective.
9.       Superimposed on top of the crystaline massif that forms the bulk of
Africa with its veneer of Karoo sediments, are a series of structurally
controlled basins which have formed in response to the stress of continental
break-up associated with the formation of the Indian Ocean during the
Ju-assic. Listed in order of decreasing age, these are:
Jurassic continental margin salt basin which is rich in source
rock but with its rare reservoirs deeply buried.
Jurassic/Cretaceous Mandera basin, the southwestern margin of
which is in Kenya. It contains rich source rock, although evidence
suggests that it has been thermally cooked to an excessive degree;
with associated reservoir rocks around the basin margins, and in the
overlying carbonates and sandstones.
Cretaceous to Recent passive margin sedimentary wedge, with
abundant source rocks and the probability of multiple facies-related
reservoir rocks, but with a low geothermal gradient, and hence low
generative power for the conversion anZ release of hydrocarbons from
the source rocks.
Cretaceous continental rift basin in northern Kenya extending into
southern Sudan. Little is known about the geology of this basin, but
by extension into and its similarity with the petroliferous 63danese
basin it has become a sought after exploration play by a number of the
international oil companies, among which Amoco and Total are the most
conspicuous.
Miocene to Recent Rift valley - very little is known about. its
petroleum potential. A component of the project entails a compilation
of all the petroleum related components within the basin for sale In
conjunction with a future petroleum promotion.
10.      Exploration to date has been confined to the Passive Margin
sedimentary wedge, and the Mandera Basin. The Jurassic salt basin is in
general too deep for exploration offshore Kenya, and the two rift basins have
yet to be drilled, although the Cretaceous rift is now completely leased
within Kenya. The Tertiary Rift Valley basin has also considerable potential
to attract exploration efforts. There appears to be a good chance that on the
basis of data available, hydrocarbons of some type may be found within Kenya.
Experience with similar type basins in other parts of the world suggests that
with continued effort Kenya, although modestly endowed and to date
unsuccessful in its efforts, might stand a reasonable chance of ultimately
becoming a producer of hydrocarbons.                             I



KENYA
PETROIEUM EXPORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Thmeknm for Oil Expmlron
OM0OR            1964                1965           1966            796        1                  1969             199            1991             99             19                 TOIAL
FMN ARNI                                                                         DM         M TIMI7O02VRS
mACC                            GRA'AI GEClOYI 00(910                                                                                                     IL 
x 1  VfRI0  UGAS     5     ERIC 2 1  Wl  OD)           I                                                                                                               CWR MU9PC
BLOCK                                                       I VYL~~~~~~~~Y,L ~U  I AE1L       I Y.'IJ            IWL       1%4atFO1U
-FRUlYED^TSEPIU  _  _  _ t _     _       -            w      I        *                       SCGjOt4AL 2MG
ANO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~                                                                                 TIAKOIll2YA C0125iJ 0 (
EMOCO   CCSLDATIM SE 8                                   0,1o        m                                                                                                   E01rn0m  
LOCK 2                                               SEECM  5 IKM O NJ)            ICI
(30DfA)  IYI            I Y1LI          1wm IYAL 36O3 DI .175 .
MNMAADDUULOt                     2;MS              I                                                              MSMS    ThIS __  iS  7MS
UfECTNE DAM SEPTU 55                       t;RSt    3YEAEO  PER---                             2 EARS             |      It0DPER102YE# S/                            , wAY           27
_tO0g3    HMRKOILGG  T  .   an  w   s  25%   G   .
,~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~ ~ ~~~______ _.   _,_______ .______ .______ .______   5YBL SLl_tMS                                                                                    1w
EIRO   DliEDI: MAY?7 85                aRSIFERKD  MsYAR                                   oePIRY J YEA#RSIC  2 W AR t2ES_-ttt 
AMOCO9    VCZtx cGECIo OS5I;C30%M N                                                        G COtSYEMICe .                     It                               In              1
LOOC 3U    1                        I  WR       I YI                            -                           C WH1  GEOLG
MINKME(FIENDMIIRE-                9 S_                   7SJbS                              OM             l           iiSSS
TOTAL                                                                                                                                                                        GE0EAGYQ)CrvY)Ili il
C.0(                     SES :~                                                                   W   M
B EfEC9 YXWOBLIGAnm            GEOLOGY thEX (3000 IOA MNFAN)            ZL       GloLoGvsEwx(,mlt4                  25E                                            GEQOGY  K AC 
MNF" DRN        IFE2002WAA                          iLMS                   A115         6MG          SM 6M&MG                     &SMS                          EL&2
U%ookf  Yl           I PERIOD \EA                                                                                                                                 CONIR- 1 
MOCK 4  CONT MUnON  i WELL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IVL
_____________________ ___                                                                                                                ___ _ _ __ _ _ _   s M7
W!ECTNI DATE,
NOV i,                                1WR9                   CAR        OCDS l.JW.(TOIW
I Weiu           NO RJMDEfO6 YAnON ACCO0RC9G TCII 31 OOMTACI                                                                                  I VAIL?
___________________   ______________   1    YAX?                                                                                      __ __ __ __ __IC
65      _       6       5       7               9s                            90              91              92             93
GEOLOGY/    AMCO TOTAL       AMOCOEAL    AMOOD TOTA         MOCOTOTAL    AMOCO TOTAL    AMOCO TOTAL    AMOCO TOtAL    TOTAL                               MR rv
GeOAISCS   PETrOCANVA        L2ION           I WaU AMXO     I 'A MLACO    2YWAMOCO   3 YlIS7 JAMOC0   3VAllS?AMOCO   2WEUS?7AMOC0LR
YMI          W      _ L.     VglWM: KMi0     I MiB7 to      3WE1SMOCtI t ILL TOTAL         i M?I TOtL      I fy7 IOUL      I YEL7 IOUL    _ .     -   _
d  WMKk*d                                                                                                                                               WXtft-gX1



KENYA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1986     i 1987 T     1988   I  1989   I  1990   I  1991
EXPLOR. CONSULTANTS
GEOLOGICAL ADVISOR
GEOPHYSICAL ADVISOR
ENGINEERING ADVISOR
TRAINING PROGRAM
AEROMAGNETIC SURVEY
DATA INTERPRETATION
CONSTR. & DATA STOR. |:I:                                   
PROMOTION MEETING



5 U D A N                                                               1 !
b.,
U G A N D A                                                                                9    , "                ,-9-'r
f                                                                                                                     I SOMALIA
3
/   gKi.l.  2rxMolbl                          .__,  M-             40, 0        '                  \           /
r,>            ,,,2melwo     I SOMA A   I
KENYA   ''+/   ,5((t  ...........rK/,RERI
~~~~~~~7                                                                                  ~
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                'r            l                                            4eu A NA E       '     '   
PETROLEUM EXPLO)RATI N r-                        S                                     [S\/w F   t
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT                                                                                                      PMtKLN
,E1.F   di.-                     - iNNONNO7
ENYA                      N.  _ 1                                                                     6    7       /
@   Noll;m C.,Sl6                 1 51.Olo                                   ;  I1                 FMENE I/                 
INDIA OCEAN0 
5!5  tsMCopMlfi                                 \>  Q                          MAVEN>97N
_  _  Inemalll 50b.1.,                            \  '                  jWEN  ^'11 1                     {NDM    OESN~~~~~~~'0
5110ET(5 0     16  10  20  25                          \                rS KIUI /        [            rM   l 
MliEE 0   iC           100           15D                               \ 4*_                   MoE,114  -






