LOAN NUMBER 3772 CRG
Loan Agreement
(Sixth Caribbean Development Back Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Dated                     , 1994


﻿LOAN NUMBER 3772 CRG
LOAN AGREEMENT
Agreement, dated           t A"            , 1994, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (the Borrower), a regional development
bank established by and operating under an Agreement entered into at
Kingston, Jamaica, on October 18, 1969 by the Governments of the
several states and territories which were signatories thereto.
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the
International Development Association (the Association) of even date
herewith (the Development Credit Agreement), has requested the Bank
to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower has also requested the Association to
provide additional assistance towards the financing of the Project,
and by the Development Credit Agreement tha Association is agreeing
to provide such assistance in the form of a Credit in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to seven million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 7,800,G0) (the Credit) out of which,
subject to change from time to time under the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, five million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 5,000,000) have been estimated sufficient, as of the date
herewith, and thus allocated, for purposes of Part B of the Project
(the CDB VI Project Credit);
(C)   the Bank and the Borrower intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the CDB VI Project Loan (as
defined in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement)
provided for in this Agreement be disbursed on account of
expenditures in respect of Part B of the Project ga ei-ass, with
disbursements on the proceeds of the CDB VI Project Credit; iand
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Loan Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Preamble to this Agreement, the General
Conditions and in the Development Credit Agreement except, in the
latter case, for those terms that are defined in paragraphs (b), (d)
and (f) below, have the respective mee-Aings therein set forth and
the following terms have the ,ollowing meanings:
(a)   "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes the "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as
applied to such agreement, and all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement;
(b)   "Eligible Country" means any state or territory that, on
the date on which disbursements from the Loan Account have been
authorized by the Bank in respect of an IBRD Sub-loan for an
Investment Project partially or totally located in such state or
territory, was listed in Schedule 5 to this Loan Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower; the term "OECS Eligible Country" means an Eligible
Country, as defined herein above, that at the same date referred to
above was a member of the Organization; and the term "Government"
means the government of an Eligible Country and, if the context so
requires for purposes of this Agreement (including the General
Conditions), other than authorizations of disbursements from the
Loan Account, of any country that at one point in time was either an
Eligible Country and later ceased to be so or was not an Eligible
Country and later became so;
(c)   "IBRD Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
out of the proceeds of the Loan by the Borrower: (i) to a Government
for the carrying out of an Investment Project directly or indirectly
by means of an Investment into or a Secondary Loan to, an Investment
Enterprise or a financial intermediary that shall use the proceeds


﻿-3-
of the Sub-loan as described in (iii) below; (ii) to an Investment
Enterprise, with the guarantee of a Government, for the carrying out
by such Investment Enterprise of an Investment Project; or (iii)
also with the guarantee of a Government, to a financial intermediary
that shall be using the proceeds of the Sub-loan exclusively for the
financing of one or more Investment Projects by means of Investments
into, or Secondary Loans to, one or more Investment Enterprises
which will carry out said Investment Project; and the terms "IDA
Sub-loan" and "Sub-loans" have the respective meaning stipulated in
Section 1.02 (f) of the Development Credit Agreement;
(d)   "Secondary Loan" means a loan made or proposed to be
made to an Investment Enterprise out of the proceeds of one or more
IBRD Sub-loans by: (i) a Government; or (ii) a financial
intermediary that has either borrowed from the Borrower under an
IBRD Sub-loan or has received proceeds of an IBRD Sub-loan from a
Government by means either of an equity contribution or a loan, in
both cases for the purposes of making, Itr alia, one or more loans
such as the loan in question to one or more Investment Enterprises;
provided, however, that, in     case  of a   loan made with    the
intermediation of financial institutions and exclusively for the
purposes of this Agreement, the loan in question shall be deemed
made to the Investment Enterprise regardless of the form of such
intermediation and the nature of the risk attached thereto;
(e)   "Prior Loan Agreement" means any of the following
agreements: (i) the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower
dated April 20, 1976 (Caribbean Development Bank Project) Loan 1233
CRG; (ii) the Loan Agreeant between the Bank and the Borrower dated
April 20, 1976 (Caribbean "Development Bank Project) Loan 1234 T-CRG;
(iii) the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower dated
January 9, 1980 (Second Caribbean Development Bank Project) Loan
1775 CRG; and (iv) the Loan Agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower dated June 18, 1990 (Fifth Caribbean Development Bank
Project) Loan 3200 CRG; and the term "Prior Loan" means a loan
provided for under any Prior Loan Agreement; and
(f) "Investment" means an equity contribution made or
proposed to be made, out of the proceeds of one or more IBRD Sub-
loans: (i) into an Investment Enterprise, in case the equity
contribution in question is made or proposed to be made, by eithet'
a Government or a financial intermediary which has borrowed under %An
IBRD Sub-loan for the purposes of making, inter alia, equity
contributions into one or more Investment Enterprises; or (ii) into
a financial intermediary, when the equity contribution in question


﻿-4-
is made or proposed to be made by a Government and the financial
intermediary in question shall, on its turn, use the proceeds of
such equity contribution exclusively to make one or more equity
contributions into, or Secondary Loans to, one or more Investment
Enterprises.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditicns set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02
of and Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.04 of the
General Conditions and except otherwise agreed between the Bank and
the Borrower, no reallocation of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
made from Category 1 of the table set forth in paragraph I of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement before the third
anniversary of the Effective Date. Any such agreement shall, on the
side of the Borrower, be deemed made by the Borrower after
consultation with the OECS Eligible Countries.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at a rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time, all in accordance with the provision of Section 3.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)   As soon as practicable after the ond of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)   "Interest Pe.iod" means a six-month period ending
on the date    inediately preceding each date
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
beginning with the Interest Period in which this
Agreement is signed.
(ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
borrowings of thz Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982, excluding   slch borrowings or portions
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
interest rates determined otherwise than as
provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
(d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time
at a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of- Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates


﻿-6-
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates
applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each
Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower and each Guarar,tor
of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of
such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement. Any notice from the Borrower in
respect of pre-payment of the Loan or any portion thereof, pursuant
to the provisions of Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
shall be deemed by the Bank made by the Borrower on its own behalf
and on behalf of and with the consent of the applicable Guarantor.
Section 2.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not utilize, or permit the utilization of, the
proceeds of the Loan to co-finance projects financed by the proceeds
of any other loan or credit made by the Bank or the Association.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
and Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Subject to paragraph (b) of this Section,
Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.04, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, and 4.04 of the
Development Credit Agreement and Schedulea 1 [except for paragraph
3 (a) thereof ] 2, 4 (except for Part B thereof), and 6 to the
Development Credit Agreement are, with the following modifications
in said Sections and Schedules 2, 4 and 6, hereby incorporated into
this Loan Agreement unless the context otherwise requires:
(i)   the term "Association" shall be read as "Bank";


﻿-7-
(ii)   the term "Credit" and "Credit Account" shall be
read as "Loan" and "Loan Account"; and
(iii)   the term "this Agreement" shall be read as "the
Development Credit Agreement".
(b)   So long as any part of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement shall remain outstanding and unless the
Borrower has been notified otherwise by the Bank:
(i)   all action taken, including approvals given, by
the Association pursuant to any part of the
Sections of, and Schedules to, the Development
Credit Agreement enumerated in paragraph (a) of
this Section, as well as pursuant to Section 2.02
of the Development Credit Agreement, shall be
deemed to be taken or given in the name and on
behalf of both the Association and the Bank; and
(ii)   all information or documentation furnished by the
Borrower to the Association pursuant to the
provisions of any of such Sections of the
Development Credit Agreement or Schedules thereto
shall be deemed to be furnished to both the
Association and the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Bank
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the  events set   out in   Section  5.01, except   for
paragraphs (c) (i) and (c) (iv) thereof, of the Development Credit
Agreement, and the stipulations in the proviso to paragraph (c) of
such Section 5.01 are incorporated in this Loan Agreement; and
(b)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of
maturity as provided in the respective contractual instruments, or
any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable.


﻿-8-
Section 4.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the events set out in Section 5.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement are incorporated in this Loan Agreement; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01
above shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement other than those related to the effectiveness of
this Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date of        A          , 1995 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.03. If the Development Credit Agreement shall have
terminated prior to the termination of this Agreement, the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement referred to in this
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect between the
Borrower and the Bank.
ARTICLE VI
Addresses
Section 6.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Caribbean Development Bank
P.O. Box 408
Wildey
St. Michael
Barbados, W.I.


﻿-9-
Cable address:                Telex:
CARIBANK                      WB 2287
Barbados
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                  197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in Madrid, Spain, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Aofw&      Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
B y                                R e p r  e ssn t a t i v
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULES 1, 2, 4 AND 6
Schedules 1, 2, 4 and 6 to the Development Credit Agreement
shall be deemed incorporated in this Loan Agreement pursuant to, and
in accordance with, Section 3.01 (a) of this Loan Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 15 and December 15
beginning December 15, 1999
through December 15, 2010                   835,000
On June 15, 2011                                  795,000
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.


﻿- 12 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of
Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                        Premium
The interest rate (expressed as
a   percentage    per   annum)
applicable   to  the   balance
outstanding on the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                       0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                       0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but                         0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                  0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before                  1.00
maturity


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 5
Eligible Countries
Anguilla
Belize
Dominica
Grenada
Jamaica
Montserrat
St. Kitts and Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Trinidad and Tobago
Turks and Caicos Islands


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 7
Modifications of the General Conditions
For purposes of this Loan Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
1.    Paragraphs 4, 5, 7, 14 and 15 of Section 2.01 are deleted and
replaced by the following paragraphs 4, 5, 7, 14 and 15 and the
following new paragraphs 21 and 22 are added to said Sectionz
"4.   'Loan' means the loan provided for in the Loan Agreement
and, if the context so requires, the term may also mean a
portion of the Loan equivalent to the amounts of the Loan
withdrawn for the financing of IBRD Sub-loans (as defined
below) made to a Guarantor or, with the guarantee or approval
of a Guarantor, to any agencies or instrumentalities thereof,
and, additionally, any and all IBRD Sub-loans made for the
Investment Project or Projects and Regional Investment
Projects, described or referred to in Schedules 1 and 2 to the
corresponding Guarantee Agreement, respectively."
"5.   'Guarantee Agreement' means any agreement between a
member of the Bank and the Bank providing for a guarantee in
favor of the Bank of a portion or portions of the Loan applied
to finance IBRD Sub-loans under the Project, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time. 'Guarantee Agreement'
includes these General Conditions as applied thereto, and all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the Guarantee
Agreement."
"7.   'Guarantor' means any member of the Bank which is a
party to a Guarantee Agreement."
"14. ljExternal debt' means any debt which is or may become
payable other than in the currency of the country
corresponding to the applicable Government."
"15. 'Effective Date' means the date on which the Loan
Agreement shall enter into effect as provided in Section
12.03."
"21. 'CDB Sixth Development Credit Agreement' means the
Development Credit Agreement between the Association and the
Borrower of even date with the Loan Agreement, and the term


﻿- 15 -
includes the General Conditions referred to in Section 1.01 of
the said Development Credit Agreement as applied thereto, and
all  schedules and   agreements supplemertal to the     said
Development Credit Agreement as incorporated in the Loan
Agreement by virtue of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of the
Loan Agreement."
"22. 'Eligible Country' and 'Government' have the meanings
defined in the Loan Agreement and 'IBRD Subloan' and 'Subloan
Agreement' have the meaning defined in the CDB Sixth
Development Credit Agreement."
2.    Section 3.02 is deleted and replaced by the following:
"3.02. Commitment Charge. The Borrower shall pay a
commitment charge on the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan at the
rate specified in the Loan Agreement. Such commitment charge
shall accrue in respect of each portion of the Loan allocated
to a specific IBRD Sub-loan: (i) from the date on which the
Bank has notified the Borrower that the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of the IBRD Sub-
loan in question pursuant to sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 3
of Schedule 1 to CDB Sixth Development Credit Agreement; or
(ii) a date sixty days after the date of the Loan Agreement,
whichever comes later (such later date hereinafter called the
Accrual Date), to the respective dates on which amounts of the
aforesaid portion of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to the
IBRD Sub-loan in question shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Loan Account or shall be cancelled."
3.    Paragraph (b) of Section 4.10 is deleted and replaced by the
following paragraph:
"(b) The principal (including premium, if any) of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan shall be paid without
restrictions of any kind imposed by any Government, or in the
territory of any Eligible Country, or in the territory where
the Borrower is located."
4.    Section 5.08 is deleted and replaced by       the following
Section 5.08:
"Section 5.08. Treatment of Taxes. It is the policy of
the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be withdrawn on
account of payments for any identifiable taxes levied by any


﻿- 16 -
Government, or in the territory of the corresponding Eligible
Country or in the territory where the Borrower is located, on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To that end, if the amount of
any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or increases, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect
of such item in the Loan Agreement as required to be
consistent with such policy of the Bank."
5.    Section 5.09. is deleted and replaced by the following Section
5.09:
"Section 5.09. Payment by the Bank. The Bank shall pay
the amounts withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account
only to or on the order of the Borrower or with the prior and
specific written request of the Borrower, to or on the order
of an agency of a Government~; provided, however, that any
request of the Borrower that such amounts be paid to or on the
order of an agency of a Government shall be deemed also a
representation made by the Borrower to the Bank that: (i) the
Borrower has received, and has agreed to, a specific written
request from an authorized representative of the Government in
question to the effect that such amounts be paid to or on the
order of the agency in question; and (ii) that the Borrower is
satisfied that the payment in question is made in direct
connection with expenditures for the Project eligible for
financing under the Loan."
6.    Paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced by the
following paragraph (a):
"(a) The Borrower shall have failed to make payment
(notwithstanding the fact that such payment may have been made
by a third party) of principal, interest, service charges or
any other amount due to the Association or the Bank: (i) under
any development credit agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, including the CDB Sixth Development Credit
Agreement, except when the failure to make such payment is
related to a corresponding default on the part of an Eligible
Country in the payment of debt service or other charges
payable pursuant to any agreement, including a Sub-loan
Agreement, under which proceeds of the Credit or of a Prior
Credit have been relent by the Borrower to such Eligible


﻿- 17 -
Country, and which has given rise to rights of the Borrower
which have been assigned to the Association; or (ii) under any
loan agreement between the Borrower and the Bank; or (iii) in
consequence of any guarantee or other financial obligation of
any kind extended by the Bank to any third party with the
agreement of the Borrower, provided, however, that, for
purposes of this paragraph a payment made to the Association
by a Government (as defined in any agreement referred to in
(i) above) upon request from the Association, exercising as
assignee of the Borrower the right of the Borrower to receive
such payment from such Government, shall not be deemed made by
a third party."
7.    Paragraph (f) of Section 6.02 is deleted and replaced by the
following paragraph:
"(f) (i) The Bank shall have dispatched a notice to the
Borrower indicating that any country listed in Schedule 5 to
the Loan Agreement as an Eligible Country has been deleted
therefrom; or (ii) any Eligible Country shall have been
suspended from membership in, or not been admitted as or
ceased to be a member of, the Bank; or (iii) any Eligible
Country shall have ceased to be a member of the International
Monetary Fund; provided, however, that any suspension of the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account based on this paragraph shall be limited to that part
of the Loan intended to be used to finance one or more Sub-
loans (as defined in the Loan Agreement) to such Eligible
Country; and provided further, that the provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply, in the case of sub-paragraph (i)
above, in respect of any Sub-loan to the Eligible Country in
question in respect of which disbursements from the Loan
Account have been authorized before the dispatch referred to
in such sub-paragraph (i) has taken place."
8.    Paragraph (k) of Section 6.02 is relettered as paragraph (1)
and a new paragraph (k) is added to said Section to read as follows:
"(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
the Bank's Articles of Agreement."


﻿- 18 -
9.    Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
Section 6.03:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If: (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days; or (b) at
any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the
Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be required to
finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan; or (c) at any time, the Bank determines that the
procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes
the amount of the expenditures in respect of such item which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan, and further determines that the amount
in question cannot or should not be used in connection with
other Investment Project or Projects; or (d) after the Closing
Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdravn from the
Loan Account; or (e) by the date specified in paragraph 6 (b)
of Part A of Schedule 4 to the CDB Sixth Development Credit
Agreement, as incorporated in the Loan Agreement or another
date determined pursuant to the provisions of such paragraph:
(i) no requests permitted under paragraph 6 (a) of such Part
A shall have been received; or (ii) having been so received,
shall have been denied, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such
requests or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the
case may be, with respect to such amount or portion of the
Loan. Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or portion
of the Loan shall be cancelled."
10.   The phrase "guaranteed by the Guarantor and" are hereby
inserted after the first occurrence of the word "Loan" in line seven
of Section 6.07, and the reference to the Guarantee Agreement in
such Section shall be understood as a reference to the applicable
Guarantee Agreement.
11.   The words "or guarantee" are deleted from sub-paragraph (i) of
paragraph (c) of Section 7.01.
12.   Sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (c) of Section 7.01 is hereby
deleted and replaced by the following:


﻿- 19 -
"(iii) under any development credit agreement between
the Association and the Borrower (including the CDB Sixth
Development Credit Agreement) except when the default in
question is related to a corresponding default on the part of
a Government or an Eligible Country (as defined in the
agreement in question) in the payment of debt service or other
payable charges pursuant to any agreement, including a Sub-
loan Agreement, under which proceeds of a credit granted by
the Association have been relent by the Borrower to such
Government or Eligible Country, and which has given rise to
rights of the Borrower which have been assigned to the
Association."
13.   Section 8.01 is hereby deleted and replaced by the following
Section:
"Section 8.01. Taxes. (a) The principal of, and other
charges on, the Loan shall be paid without deduction for, and
free from, any taxes levied by a Government, or in the
territory of the corresponding Eligible Country or in the
territory where the Borrower is located.
(b)   The Loan Agreement, and any other agreement to
which these General Conditions shall be made applicable, shall
be free from any taxes levied, by a Government or in the
territory of, the corresponding Eligible Country or levied in
the territory where the Borrower is located, on or in
connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof."
14.   Section 9.02 is deleted and replaced by the following:
"Section 9.02. Financial and Economic Data. The Borrower
and the Guarantor shall furnish to the Bank all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request with respect
to financial and economic conditions in the Guarantor's
territory including its balance of payments and its external
debt as well as that of its political or administrative
subdivisions and any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of such Eligible Country
or any such subdivision, and any institutions performing the
functions of a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or
similar functions, for the Eligible Country in question."


﻿- 20 -
15.   All references to the Guarantee Agreement or to the Guarantor
in Sections 12.01 through 12.04 are hereby deleted.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I herely certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development.
FOR SECRETARY


