CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 264 IN
Project Agreement
(Cochin II Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE FERTILISERS AND CHEMICALS,
TRAVANCORE LIMITED
DATED JULY 30, 1971


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 264 IN
Project Agreement
(Cochin II Fertilizer Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE FERTILISERS AND CHEMICALS,
TRAVANCORE LIMITED
DATED JULY 30, 1971


﻿AGREEMENT, dated July 30, 1971, between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and THE FERTILISERS AND CHEMICALS, TRAVAN-
CORE LIMITED (hereinafter called FACT).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date
herewith between INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association (hereinafter re-
ferred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the Asso-
ciation has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million
dollars ($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condi-
tion -that FACT agree to undertake such obligations toward
the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and FACT, the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agree-
ment will be made available to FACT on the terms -and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS FACT, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations herein-
after set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context -shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the


﻿4
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Executiou of the Project
SECTION 2.01. FACT shall carry out the Project de-
scribed in Schedule 2 of the Development Credit Agreement
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
sound administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose. FACT will use its best efforts to
carry out the Project by March 31,1974, in accordance with
the Critical Path Schedules and, in that regard, will give
special attention to critical equipment procurement times.
SECTIoN 2.02. In order to assist FACT in process and
engineering design, equipment selection, construction and
start-up, FACT shall obtain process licenses, plant design
and consultant services acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
SECTION 2.03. (a) In carrying out the Project, FEDO
shall act as managing contractor. In addition, FACT shall
employ such outside competent and experienced contractors
as are necessary to carry out the Project, after having ob-
tained competitive bids whenever possible. At the request
of the Association, FACT shall consult with it prior to
employing outside contractors.
(b) FACT agrees to employ, for the duration of the
Project, an Assistant Project Manager and an Engineer,
both of whom shall be acceptable to the Association, to assist
FEDO in budget and schedule control and in general engi-
neering, procurement, and construction duties.
SECTION 2.04. (a) FACT undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the goods to be


﻿5
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable
in a currency freely usable by FACT to replace or repair
such goods. FACT shall keep the Association informed as
to such insurance arrangements.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
FACT shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the Project.
SECTION 2.05. (a) FACT shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, reports, speci-
fications, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) FACT: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to dis-
close the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's representatives to inspect the Project, the
goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant rec-
ords and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation all such information as the Association shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of
the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
SECTION 2.06. FACT shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, FACT -shall not take or
concur in any action which would have the effect of amend-
ing, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿6
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of FACT
SECTION 3.01. (a) FACT shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future ex-
pansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with
sound business, financial and engineering practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent man-
agement assisted by adequate competent staff.
(b) FACT agrees to fill any open positions in connection
with the Project promptly as they become vacant by experi-
enced, competent personnel.
(c) FACT shall take all necessary steps, including in par-
ticular limiting its indebtedness (excluding debt incurred
in the ordinary course of business and payable on demand
or not more than one year after the date of such determina-
tion) in order to maintain a long-term debt equity ratio of
55/45 and to maintain an adequate liquidity position.
For the purpose of this Section:
(a) The term "long-term debt" shall mean all debt ma-
turing after one year from the date of such determination;
and
(b) The term "equity" shall mean all unimpaired paid-in
share capital plus accumulated earnings or losses from prior
fiscal years not set apart for specific purposes.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(a) FACT shall at all times take all steps which are
necessary to maintain its existence and its right to carry on
operations and to acquire and retain ownership of all lands
and to maintain and renew all interests in land and other
properties and all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful in the carrying out of the
Project or in the conduct of its business.


﻿7
(b) FACT shall at all times operate and maintain its
plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and
promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
in accordance with sound engineering practices.
(c) FACT shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dis-
pose of any of its property or assets which shall be required
for the efficient operation of its business and undertaking.
(d) FACT shall not alter its corporate structure or
amend its Memorandum of Association in any way that will
materially and adversely affect its ability to perform its
obligations under this Agreement.
SECTION 3.03. FACT shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions .satisfactory
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in
such amounts as shall be consistent with sound practice, and
keep the Association informed as to such insurance arrange-
ments.
SECTION 3.04. FACT shall develop and implement a com-
prehensive program for establishing a market for the
fertilizer grades to be produced from the Cochin II Plant,
which  shall be satisfactory to the Association and which
shall be based on fertilizers, which shall be imported, if
necessary, in the following minimum amounts:
Fiscal Year Ending March 31  Amount (in tons per year)
1972                25,000-50,000 NPK
1973               100,000-150,000 NPK
1974               200,000-250,000 NPK
1975               As necessary to supple-
ment production
SECTION 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, FACT shall not make expenditures or commitments
for expenditures for fixed or capital assets, other than for
the Project, the Udyogamandal Rationalization Scheme and


﻿8
construction of the Cochin I Plant, which would result in
estimated aggregate capital expenditures exceeding the
equivalent of $1,000,000 in any fiscal year.
SECTION 3.06. FACT agrees to consult with the Associa-
tion before bidding for, accepting and scheduling outside
work for FEDO where the fees to be received by FEDO for
engineering services will exceed $200,000 for any one con-
tract, until the engineering work for the Project is com-
pleted, with the exception of any bids outstanding on the
date of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
SECTIoN 4.01. FACT shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition.
SECTION 4.02. FACT shall (i) have an annual audit satis-
factory to the Association, prepared by independent and
competent auditors in accordance with sound auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, (ii) furnish to the Association
certified copies of said audit in such scope and detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested as soon as
available but in any case not later than four months after the
end of each fiscal year, (iii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than 30 days
after the end of each of the four quarters unaudited finan-
cial statements (balance sheet, statement of income and ex-
penses and related statements) as of the end of the quarter,
and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of FACT
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
SECTION 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, FACT -shall not declare dividends or pre-pay any
debt if, after the payment of such dividend (assuming such


﻿9
payment was made on the date of such declaration) or debt,
the ratio of FACT's current assets to current liabilities is
less than 1.5/1.
For the purpose of this section:
(i) The term "current assets" shall mean cash, assets
readily convertible into cash, and all other assets which
would in the ordinary course of business be converted within
one year into cash or assets readily convertible into cash.
(ii) The term "current liabilities" shall mean liabilities
due and payable and all other liabilities which would be due
and payable, or could be called for payment, within one
year including -the portion of long-term indebtedness falling
due within one year.
(iii) The term "debt" shall not include debt payable on
demand or maturing not more than one year after its date.
SECTION 4.04. FACT agrees to establish and carry out a
program satisfactory to the Association for improving its
accounting system and management information system and
to put the program into operation not later than January 1,
1972.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Association and FACT shall coop-
erate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be
accomplished. To that end, the Association and FACT shall
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the per-
formance of their respective obligations under this Agree-
ment, the administration, operations and financial condition
of FACT and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
SECTION 5.02. The Association and FACT shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with,


﻿10
or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance
by the Borrower and FACT of their respective obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
SECTION 5.03. FACT shall enable the Association's rep-
resentatives to inspect all plans, sites, works, properties
and equipment of FACT and any relevant records and
documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
SECTION 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit
Agreement becomes effective.
SECTION 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of FACT thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 16 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify FACT of this event and, upon the giving of
such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties
thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any can-
cellation or suspension under the Development Credit
Agreement.


﻿11
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 7.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement and any
agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agree-
ment shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be
deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radio-
gram to the party to which it is required or permitted to
be given or made at such party's address hereinafter speci-
fied or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For FACT:
The Fertilisers and Chemicals, Travancore Limited
Udyogamandal P.O. via Alwaye
Kerala State
India
Cable address:
FACT
Udyogamandal via Cochin
Kerala State
India
For Managing Director


﻿12
SECTION 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be
executed, under this Agreement on behalf of FACT may be
taken or execued by its Managing Director or such other
person or persons as FACT shall designate in writing.
SECTION 7.03. FACT shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen iignature of the person or persons who will, on
behalf of FACT, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by FACT
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
SEcTIoN 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and
all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATIoN
By /s/ S. ALDEWERELD
Vice President
THE FERTILISERS AND CHEMICALS,
TRAVANCORE LIMITED
By /s/ M. RASGOTRA
Authorized Representative


