CREDIT NUMBER 2640 CRG
Assignment Agreement
(Sixth Caribbean Development Bank Project)
between
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated Oi                  1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2640 CRG
ASSIGNMENT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     OcD, 1994, between CARIBBEAN
DEVELOPMENT BANK (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called the Development
Credit Agreement), the Association has agreed to make a credit to
the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,800,000) (hereinafter called the Development Credit);
(B)   the Borrower has undertaken under the Development Credit
Agreement to relend the proceeds of the Development Credit to each
of several Eligible Countries under IDA Sub-loans (both terms as
defined in the Development Credit Agreement); and
(C)   the Borrower has agreed to provide security for the
payment of principal of and charges on the Development Credit by
assigning to the Association all rights that it may exercise under
such IDA Sub-loans and for that purpose has agreed to execute this
Assignment Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Assignment Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, the several terms
defined in the Preamble to this Assignment Agreement, in the General
Conditions referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, and in
the Development Credit Agreement have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a)   "Development Credit amounts due and payable" as applied
to any date means all amounts due and payable as of such date on
account of commitment or service charges, or both, on the Develop-
ment Credit and on account of principal thereof in accordance with
the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that if the Association shall by notice to the Borrower
have declared the principal of the Development Credit then outstand-
ing to be due and payable immediately together with the commitment
and service charges thereon, then the term "Development Credit


﻿- 2 -
amounts due and payable" shall also include such principal of, and
accrued commitment and service charges on, the Development Credit;
(b)   "assignment" means any assignment made in accordance
with and subject to the provisions of this Assignment Agreement;
(c)   "assigned agreement" means any agreement (including each
Subloan Agreement, as the term is defined in the Development Credit
Agreement) pursuant to which proceeds of the Development Credit are
relent by the Borrower and which gives rise to rights that have been
assigned in accordance with and subject to the provisions of this
Assignment Agreement;
(d)   "sub-borrower" means an Eligible Country, or the Govern-
ment thereof, that is a party to an assigned agreement;
(e)   "assignment benefit" means any amount paid or to be paid
by a sub-borrower to the Association pursuant to the provision of an
assigned agreement and an assignment; and
(f)   "Preceding Assignment Agreement" means either the
assignment agreement between the Association and the Borrower dated
January 9, 1980 or the assignment agreement between the Association
and the Borrower dated May 27, 1983 or the assignment agreement
between the Association and the Borrower dated May 29, 1987 or the
assignment agreement between the Association and the Borrower dated
June 18, 1990.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. (a) As security for the due payment of the
principal of and service charges on the Development Credit, the
Borrower shall assign to the Association any and all rights,
contingent or otherwise, which it now has or may hereafter acquire
under any agreement pursuant to which proceeds of the Development
Credit are relent by the Borrower.
(b)   Such assignments shall be made by the Borrower by
issuing to the Association in respect of any agreement pursuant to
which proceeds of the Development Credit are relent by the Borrower
an indenture of assignment in form and substance according to the
form of indenture of assignment set forth in the Schedule to this
Assignment Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.02. (a) Each assignment of rights under an assigned
agreement, when executed in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding Section 2.01, shall cause the Association to accede to all
rights hitherto vested in the Borrower pursuant to the assigned
agreement so that the Association shall have full ownership of such
rights, without restriction or reservation, and shall entitle the
Association to exercise any and all rights which the Borrower would
have been entitled to exercise pursuant to that agreement in the
absence of such assignment.
(b)   Each assigned agreement shall specify that the sub-
borrower concerned agrees to the assignment by the Borrower to the
Association of the Borrower's rights under that agreement in
accordance with the provisions of this Assignment Agreement, and to
the effects of such assignment specified in this Assignment
Agreement.
Section 2.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of the
preceding Section, the Association hereby authorizes the Borrower to
exercise the rights so assigned under any assigned agreement, except
for the right to amend, abrogate or waive any Provision of the
assigned agreement that relates to payment of prtncipal of, or
service charge or other charges on, the Sub-loan made under that
agreement, or to any contractual remedy which may be e;.ercised in
the event of a default of the sub-borrower in the carrying out of
its obligations under that agreement; and the Borrower accepts such
authorization and shall exercise such rights in accordance with the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Association
agrees that it shall not exercise any of the rights under an
assigned agreement whose exercise it has delegated to the Borrower
under the preceding Section 2.03, unless any of the events mentioned
in Section 2.04 of either of the Preceding Assignment Agreements, or
the following event shall have occurred, namely that a default shall
have occurred in the payment by the Borrower of any Development
Credit amounts due and payable, irrespective of whether such default
is related or not to a corresponding default on the part of the sub-
borrower in the payment of debt service or other payable charges
pursuant to that assigned agreement.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall use its best efforts to
assist the Association in the enforcement of the assignments and the
rights assigned thereunder. To that end, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association all such information, documents and other


﻿-4-
evidence as the Association shall reasonably request from the
Borrower for the purpose.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. All assignment benefits paid to or on the order
of the Association shall pro tanto discharge:
(a)   the sub-borrower concerned from its obligation to pay
principal of, and service charge or other charge on, its IDA Sub-
loan, but only if the Association has instructed the sub-borrower to
make such payment to or on the order of the Association; and
(b)   the Borrower from its obligation to pay service charge
or other charges on and principal of the Development Credit, in that
order. Any assignment benefits received by the Association in excess
of the Development Credit amounts then due and payable shall be
applied to prepay the principal amount of the Development Credit in
such order of maturities as shall be determined by the Association.
Section 3.02. As far as concerns discharge of the Borrower's
obligations pursuant to the Development Credit Agreement that are
not discharged by the receipt of assignment benefits by the
Association, the Association reserves all its rights and remedies
against the Borrower as provided by the Development Credit Agree-
ment. In this regard, the parties hereto declare that no assignment
shall in any way constitute a payment or represent a novation of the
Borrower's obligations towards the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. The rights and obligations of the Borrower and
the Association under this Assignment Agreement shall be governed by
the provisions of Articles X and XI of the General Conditions,
provided, however, that the term "Development Credit Agreement"
wherever it appears in those Articles shall be replaced by a
reference to this Assignment Agreement.
Section 4.02. The addresses specified in Section 7.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement are incorporated into this Assignment
Agreement for the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 4.03. This Assignment Agreement shall become effective
upon its signature by both parties.


﻿-5-
Section 4.04. This Assignment Agreement shall terminate on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate in
accordance with its terms.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Madrid, Spain,
as of the day and year first above written.
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 A ,c N,'4  Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE
Form of Indenture of Assignment
[Date]
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Dear Sirs:
Re:    Credit No.       CRG
(Sixth Caribbean Development Bank Project)
Assignment of Sub-loan
The Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) hereby grants, conveys,
assigns and transfers unto International Development Association any
and all rights which CDB now has or may hereafter acquire pursuant
to the provisions of the Loan Agreement (                 Project)
dated                  between CDB and (name of Eligible Country],
all in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the
Assignment Agreement dated                        between CDB and
International Development Association.
Very truly yours,
CARIBBEAN DEVELOPMENT BANK
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
International Development Association hereby agrees to and accepts
the assignment described in the foregoing in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of said Assignment Agreement.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By:
Dated:


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


