DS 3SZ Z- -eEz
Documt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICL USE ONLY
lvport, Nc       bzA-EE                (P-IP
r' -` tle    F.H/. ti  '. I.: " .>  . A N
Author: EPPt  IAN.,                                     Ripoit No. P-5838-EE
Ext.  :;:i hocjm: l2 tv2 ler:t :
REPORT AND RECONENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTRNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AIND DEVELOP1ENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED REJABILITA&TION LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$30 NILLION
TO
TIUE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
SEPTEMBER 10, 1992
|Tls document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performe of
their official duties. Its contents may sot otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ESTONIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1, 1992)
Curreucy Unit = Kroon
US$1.00 = 12.6 Kroonl/
Kroon 1 = TS$0.08
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOE          -      Central Bank of Estonia
BOP          -      Balance of Payments
C(F          -      Cost, Insurance & Freight
CPAR         -      Country Procurement Assessment Report
EC           -      European Community
EEK          -      Estonian Kroon
FSU          -      Former Soviet Union
GDP          -      Gross Domestic Product
ICB          -      International Competitive Bidding
IBRD         -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IMF          -      International Monetary Fund
LB           -      Limited Intemational Bidding
MIE          -      Ministry of Industry and Energetics
MOA          -      Ministry of Agriculture
MOE          -      Ministry of Economy
MOF          -      Ministry of Finance
MOH          -      Ministry of Health
MOT          -      Ministry of Trade
PCR          -      Project Completion Report
P1U          -      Project Implementation Unit
RUR          -      Russian Ruble
SBA          -       M) Stand-By Arrangement
SlTC         -      Standard International Trade Classification
SOE          -      Statement of Expenditure
TA           -      Techical Assistance
TOR          -      Terms of Reference
VHK          -      Valtion Hankintakeskus (Finnish Government Purchasing Center)
If Cu:Iny peged to DEM at rte of EEK 8/DEM 1.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ESTONIA
REHABIIATION LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
I. Abe Eoonmy  ................................ 
A. Background ..........................................   1
B. Recent Economic Developments .............................   4
II.DkevelopmentProspectsand Uncertainties .............................  14
A. Prospects for Stabilization and Structural Reform  ..................  14
B. External Trade and Balance of Payments Prospects .................  17
C. Major Uncertainties .   .....................................  22
M. External Financing and Creditworthiness . ............................. .  24
A. Financing Requirements-Level and Structure .....................  24
B. Possible Sources of Financing  ..............................  27
C. External Debt Management .................   30
D. Creditworthiness  ........................   30
IV.TheGovernment's Economic lRefonrmPrograin .......... . .                                 32
A. Stabilization and Adjustment Policies for 1992   .......   ............  32
Price Policy ................................... 32
Incomes Policy ..................................                      35
Fiscal Policy ...................................                      35
Monetary Policy ..........              .................  36
External Policy  ...........................   36
B. Systemic/Structural Reforms ............................ ...  37
Enterprise Reform ...........             ................  37
Pro-Competition and Anti-Monopoly Policies ......      ............  39
Financial Sector Development .   ...........................  39
Social Protection and Safety Net ...........................  40
Economic Management ................................    42
V.EBank Assistance Stratea   .............................    43
A. Objectives and Overview ...........          ......................  43
Macroeconomic and Systemic Reforms ...................... 44
Sector-Specific Reforms ..........        .....................  45
B. Sunmary of the Bank's Assistance Program  .....................  46
C. Other Bank Group Activities ..........         .....................  47
D. Collaboration with other Agencies ...........................  48
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performame
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bankl autho iation.I



Vl MmRdisbIUt"on L408   #*O***#**v***** *so$    *****   *¢                       *t**O¢*  0
A. Odghlt andtObjea * es......................... ....                         0
B. Loan Descripon           ........... . . . . . . . . . ....... ....  0 so
C. inlomentobn .................................   52
D. Procurement        ......................... ............                .  53
E. Disbureaents .................. .... ...   .............  54
F. Acconti   Auding and Ropouti   ..........................  54
G. AgreenMelReached ...   ...............................  54
H. Envronmental  seme  ...............                    ....  N5
I. Benefits andiRIk  .        .................. .  55
TEXT TABLES
1. Main Economic Indicators, 1987-91  .....         .....       .............    3
2. Balance of Payments,1991-93                     .......................  19
3. Financing Plan, 1992-93  ...................................   25
ANNEXE
1. MalnEconomicIndicators          ........          .................   57
it. TimetableofKey ProceuingEvents           .     ............        ...........  60
MT. LetterlMemoandumonEconomicRefbrmPolices  ....... ......................  61
IV. Goods Eigllfor Bak Finaning  .................................  75
V. Tedicalc  Assistnce  ............................    * * *.  77
Box
3.1  Summary of th Systemic Refrm Prgm  ........................... .                     33
MAP OIRD NO. 23706



ESTONIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
LOAN AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Estonia
Amount:            US$30 million equivalent
Tamns:              15 years, including 5 years grace period, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Desaiption:        The proposed loan vwould provide fereign exchange to finance critically needed
imports, while supporting the government in the implementation of its ongoing
stabilization and structural reform program (which will also be supported by an
IMF Stand-By Arrangement that has been prepared in parallel). A policy
framework of systemic and structural reforms has been developed with the
assistance of the Bank in the following areas: enterprise reform (including
privatization), pro-competition and anti-monopoly policies, financial sector
reforms, establishment of a social safety net and strengthening economic
management. Basic impcrts are urgentlv required to prevent further
deterioration of the existing capital stock, to maintain essential services such as
power, heating, transport and health services, and to generate a supply
response to the new set of incentives in key productive sectors. The proposed
loan would finance the following components: (a) pre-identied fnports
(US$29 million) in four key sectors (energy, agriculture, transport and health);
and (b) a small technical assistance component (US$ 1 million) to support loan
implementation and the government's structural reform program (if alternative,
grant financing cannot be obtained for this purpose).
Bneflts and Risks:  The proposed loan would maintain and increase capacity utilization and
production in vital sectors of the Estonian economy, which is initiating a far-
reaching transformation. The imports to be financed by the loan would have
direct output and employment effects and would ensure minimum availability
of certain essential services and items, such as medicines and other health
supplies. In some cases, critical imports of spare parts could also preserve
existing capital assets and prevent a deterioration which would reduce service
quality or reliability and require considerable future investment. The technical
assistance to be provided would assist the Government in implementing its
structural reform program, thereby benefiting the economy as a whole and
enhancing the supply response and medium-term economic performance.



Ihe main risks include (i) the lackc of familiarity with Bank procurement and
disbursement procedures, which could lead to procurement delays; and (ii) a
deceleration in the implementation of the structural adjustment and refrm
program, which would minimize the impact of the import support provided at
this time. The first risk will be reduced through close attention to
implementation during intensive supervision, technical assistance and pre-
identification of most of the imports to be fnanced by the loan. The second
risk will be reduced by the provision of intensive technical assistance to
implement the reform program, including assistance for strengthening the
social safety net to enhance the program's social and political acceptability.
Nevertheless, the risks of policy sllp),ages and slower than expected
disbursements due to implementation capacity constraints are substantial.
US$ millon
KaBng Plan:                  Government of Finland            0.75
IBRD                            30.00
Total                           30.75
Bank Flscal Year               US$ million
Schedule ot Disbursements
of IBRD Loan:                  FY93                         25.00
FY94                          5.00
Map:               IBRD 23706



REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF TE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EX1ECUTIE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED RELABIUTATION LAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
1.       I submit for your approval the folowing report and recommendation on a
proposed   lition loan to the Republic of Estonia for the equivalent of US$30 mElln to
finance essna imports and technical assistance associated with the govemnment's stiuctnil
refonn pgam. Thi loan would be at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, with a
maturity of 15 years, including 5 years of grace.e Assistance valued at US$ 0.75 million is
is being provided by the Government of Finland for implementation-related technical
aim .
2.       The Republic of Estonia joined the IMF on May 26, 1992 and the IERD on
June 23, 1992. An economic mission from the World Bank visited Estonia in January 1992,
and a draft Country Economic Memorandum (CEM-'Estonia: The Trnsition to a Maret
Economy--will be distributed to the Board shordy.
-. THE ECONOMY
A. Bund
3.       With a teritory of 45,215 square kilometers, Estonia is about the size of
Demark; its population of 1.6 millon people is about one-thir the size of Denma's. Just
over 30% of the people are of Russian origin, the result of migration pnsored by the Soviet
Govnment as part of the post-World War I industialiion of Esonia. With over 50% of
the popun active in the labor force, the participation rate is considerably higher than in
Southern Europe, but similar to that of Northn Europe, reflectng among other facts the
high pFrticipaion rate of Estonian women.
4.       Estonia's teain is relatively flat, with forests covering 40 % of the country. Ihe
mos impotat mineral resorces, which are located in the north, consist of oil shale1
phosphorite and limestone. Estnia, which was an indepedent country between the Filst and
Second World Wars, enjoyed one of the highest standards of living among the republics of
the former Soviet Union, with a per capita income that, prior toD  was alost
30 % above the FSU average.
EBha is tetd as an upp-midde moom countzy for IBRD borrowing an de basi of te curnt
proviond estimat of 1991 GNM per capita of about $3,800.



-2 -
5.       Because of factors such as a relatively low population density and the absence of
large conceations of basic metal industries, Estonia's environmental conditions are
somewhat better than in many of the Eastern and Central European countiies. However,
toxic wastes (mcluding radioactive materials from ex-Soviet military bases within Elstona)
are of great concem, as are the levels of nitrous oxide and sulfur dioxide emissions,
especially from thermal plants burning oil shale. SO2 emissions per capita are higher than in
virtually any other European country-and over 10 times the level in Sweden. The nation's
valuable forest resources have been poorly used. Concerted efforts are needed to improve air
and water quality; to improve forest management; and, for both environmental and economic
reasons, to reduce energy intensity in manufactring, power, heating, and transport.
6.       Before World War H, Estonia was predominantly agricultural. After 1940,
however, major investments were made under the Soviet system to industrialize the country.
As a result, industry accounted for 45% of total employment and about 50% of GDP by
1991. While Soviet economic policies increased the role of industry in the Estonian
economy, the facilities tended to be excessively energy intensive, and often depended on
long-distance transpoit within the FSU of both inputs and final outputs. Linkages with the
rest of the world were limited, but somewhat better than for *nost of the other PSU
republics.
7.       The shortcomings of the central planning model of development became
increasingly apparent during the 1980s. Between 1980 and 1989, real gross domestic product
growth rates averaged only 1 % per annum, despite a level of investment equal to between 25
and 30 percent of GDP. The technology employed in civilian industries continued to slip
furer behind that used in the West, and the natural et.vironment suffered. The Soviet
authorities' gradual abandonment of central planning in the second half of the 1980s made
possible a mor entrepreneurial approach to enterprise management, which helped slow the
pace of economic decline, but a well-functioning economic system had not emerged by the
time the nation became independent.
8.       The movement toward economic and political independence in Estonia, as in the
other Baltic countries, gained momentum during the late 1980s. Rstonia declared its
sovereignty in November of 1988, and in 1989 the Estonian Supreme Soviet approved a law
granting Estonia economic autonomy, which opened the way for various economic reforms.
Estonia's declaration of independence on August 20, 1991, was quickly followed by Russian
and international recognition of Estonian sovereignty, providing a foundation upon which the
Estonian people could begin building a modem, market-based economy.



-3 -
Tabl 1: NaWu  - kMa Eeomul Indicators, 1987-91
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Real Growth (percent change from previous year)
Gross Domestic Product           3.1      2.7     3.3    -8.1   -11.0
Agriculture                   -2.5    -2.3    11.0   -18.0   -6.5
Industry (incl Construc,ton)   4.6     4.6      0.2    -7.9    -6.0
Services                       4.1     2.5      3.9    -3.5   -19.1
Expenditure
Gross Domestic Investment     -4.1    11.3      1.4    -1.6
Consumption                    5.2     0.3      4.8    12.8
Private Consumption            5.0     0.7      6.3    13.8
Government Consumption         6.0    -1.5    -1.7      8.0
Composition (percentage of GDP)
Value Added
Agriculture                   19.7      19.5    19.8   15.6   15.4
Industry (incl Construction)  46.9     45.7    43.9   46.8   56.9
Services                      33.4     34.8    36.3   37.6   27.7
Expenditure
Gross Domestic Investment     30.5      32.9    32.7   30.2   28.6
Consumption                   81.2      76.6    74.1   77.7   75.5
Private Consumption         64.5     61.1    60.2   64.4   65.3
Government Consumption      16.6     15.5    13.9   13.2   10.3
Prices, Wages and Money (percent change from previous year)
GDP Deflator                   2.2      3.1     8.0    35.2    92.7
Retail Price                  -3.5     0.7      1.3    12.3   210.0
Wholesale Price                                 2.1    18.6    87.6
Nominal Wage                   1.0     4.9    -0.5    16.4    50.0
Real Wage                      0.3     4.5      2.7     6.4   -39.4
Money. Supply (M2)                                     22.7
Fiscal Accounts (percentage of GDP)
General Government
Total Revenues                45.5    43.6    42.9    35.7    44.0
Total Expenditures            45.2    42.8    42.5    33.3    38.8
Balance of Payments
Non-FSU Trade ($m)
Trade-Balance                -70.0   -62.0  -57.0  -85.0  -150.0
Current Account Balance      -70.0  -62.0  -57.0  -85.0  -135.0
FSU Trade (rubles a)
Trade Balance                -54.0  -147.0  -120.0  -216.0  1167.0
Current Account Balance      -37.0  -143.0  -100.0  -199.0  1187.0



-4-
B Rect Economic Devlopiments
Grors Domestic Pdwd
9.       Real GDP fell by 8% in 1990, and 11% in 1991 (Table 1). Following a shaip
drp in the early months of 1992, output seems to have stabilized in recent months.
However, the oveall decline of GDP compared to 1991 is likely to be about 20%. The
contdon in economic activity by about 40% over the past three years was due primarily to
disruptions in trade with the former Soviet republics, which reduced the suWly of critical
intermedliate iputs such as chemicals, metal products and cotton on which Eonian industry
has come to depend heavily as the result of 50 years of Soviet-based industrialization. As
the shortage of inputs from the FSU became increasingly severe in early 1992, Estonia
tuned to the convertible currency markets outside the FSU; however, the prices there were
generally much higher, the result of both the higher average quality of such inputs and the
exchange rate for the ruble. With higher prices, falling domestic incomes, and shortages of
foreign exchange, the industial enteprises could not afford to maintain production levels
based on imported goods.
10.     Although the input shortages were particularly harmful to industrial output, the
rest of the economy suffered as well. In energy, electricity and residential heating output
suffered when the country exhausted its supplies of fuel oil in early 1992. Fuel supplies
were restored with help from Finland and Sweden, but the efficiency and output of the
energy sector continue to be constined by shortges of imported boiler chemicals and spare
parts. In agricukre, crop production has suffered from shortages of fertilizer, pesticides
and other imported agricultrl chemicals, and of spare parts for agricultunal machinery.
The herds of cattle and hogs have dropped shauply in the past few months, a response to
shortg  of imported fodder and feed grains. Veterinay medicines have also been in short
supply. The agricultural problems have been exacerated by the drought condiions that are
currently affectng all of the Baltic stats. In transport, shortages of spare parts have
reduced the number of publc buses in operating condition, and higher fuel pices have
increased the cost of opeaton for all modes of transport. For example, the import price of
gasoline from Russia rose from RUR 3,350 per ton in Jnuary of 1992 to nearly
RUR 20,000 in February, while the price of diesel rose from RUR 995 to nearly
RUR 13,000 over the same period (though these prices are still below world market levels).
11.     Gross domesdc investme  has been declining since 1989, a reflection of the
unseted political and economic conditions in the country since Estonia's inita declaration
of sovereignty in 1988. ITe steady decline in investment since then has been a significant
factor in the curent depleted sta;te of Estonia's economic infucte and in its lack of
compeiivenes in non-PSU markfets. Despite the 8% decline in GDP in 1990, real
conswnptlon eedite grew -rflecting a sharp inrease in net imports. Although the
data are excepdorially weak, it appears that consumption began to decline in 1991 along with
the fall ineal wages and GDP. It will decline fither in 1992 since there is no scope for



increased net imports undess adequate extemr financing arrangements are put into place
quickly (see following section on extemal trade).
Exernu  Thde and Bance of Payments
12.      Trade and Tems of Trade. Because of Estonia's small size and high degree of
inegration with the rest of the former Soviet Union, extmal trade plays a dominant role.2
Prior to 1991, trade with hard currency areas was minimal, but with other states of the FSU,
eports and imports were each equivalent to about 50% of Estoma GDP up to the late 1980s.
Since 1989-90, trade with the FSU has fallen sharply relative to GDP, a result of the
disrpton of normal trading relationships caused by the political and economic turmoil in this
region. FSU trade data in current rubles shows a significant nominal growth because of the
high rates of inflation in recent years, but the share of FSU imports in total Estonian GDP
atually fell from 54% in 1988 to 26% in 1991. This dccline reflects outright bans on the
export of critical products, sharp declines in the production of goods, and, in some cases,
refsals to deliver goods because of the unreliability of the FSU payments cleanng system.
Exports from Estonia to the FSU also declined in 1991, but only to 35% of GDP--a
relection in part of Estonia's somewhat more stable production environment.
13.      A faster pace of price reform in Estonia an in the other former Soviet republics
resulted in a sharp improvement in Estonia's terns of trade and in its nominal 1991 trade
balance-from a deficit of 2.5% of GDP in 1990 to a surplus of 8.4% of GDP in 1991, As
output prices for Estonian enterrises were liberalized while imported inputs were still
available at relatively low prices, the terms of trade gains were enjoyed directly by individual
firms. Tis gain on the terms of trade also helps explain why PSU exports from Estonia
declned more slowly than imports relative to GDP.
14.      hnports. During 1991, the sharp decline in imports from the ruble zone forced
Estonia to expand its non-FSU imports, which rose from $112 million in 1990 to $200
milon. These consisted primarily of mechanical, electrical and transport equipment;
textiles; and vegetable products (including animal fodder). Non-FSU exports did not expand
at the same speed, however, with the result that non-FSU imports were almost three times
non-FSU exports in that year-resulting in a severe foreign exchange shortage. This foreign
exchange shortage is lighlighted by the auction market rate for the ruble in Estonia, which
rose from RUR 30/USD in January of 1991 to RUR 302/USD by the end of the year.
15.      Despite Estonia's increased dependence on non-PSU imports because of the
problems with PSU tade, non-FSU imports ale nevertheless estimated to fall from $200
milion in 1991 to only $170 milion in 1992, a reflection of the nation's lack of foreign
2  Trade betwoen stnia and the rest of the former Sovet Union was tecbnically not "externall in the senso of
*fore  during the period that 1stonia was part of the FSU. However, for simpliity, it is troated as such
hore.



- 6 -
exchange availability. The projected compression of non-FSU impons is an important factor
behind the estimate that GDP will decline by a further 20% in 1992.
16.     Exports. Exports to the non-FSU markets reonded more slowly than imports In
1991 for a number of reasons: First, because of the disruption of normal supplies, the nation
faced widespread shortages almost across the board, severely limiting the supply of
exportables. Second, Estonia's industrial development for the past fifty years under the
Soviet planning system resulted in low-uality products ill-suited for export to non-FSU
markets. Third, the limited foreign trading expertise that existed in Estonia at the time of
independence was focussed almost exclusively on trade with other states of the FSU;
consequezrly, traders did not know how to sell potentially competitive goods in the non-FSU
markets.
17.     Trade Balances. The deficits with the non-PSU markets in 1991, and with both
non-FSU and FSU markets in 1992, led to overall trade deficits equal to about 10% of GDP
in 1991 and an estimated 15% of GDP in 1992. Since Estonia was not an independent nation
in 1991, the fnancing of its trade deficits for that and earlier years is obscured by numerous
fiscal transfers from the cental goverment and by inter-enteaprise arears. It appears that
the deficit with the other states of the FSU in 1992 is being financed largely by the buildup
of inter-enterprise anears. However, the overall financing of Estonia's deficit with other
FSU states involves a complex set of claims and counter-claims which will need to be
resolved through negotiations focussing on arrears settlement and netting out of claims. This
resolution will, of course, affect the financial health of many individual enterprises as well as
the overall balance of payments. Financing of the 1992 deficit with non-FSU areas is still
being arranged (Chapter III).
Pces and Wages
18.     Estonia abandoned Soviet pricing policies before independence, and stated
implementing comprehensive price reforms i 1990, about a year in advance of similar
reforms in Russia. Estonia's price refonns were in part a deliberate effort to dampen demand
from other areas of the z,f3le zone to help mitigate the intenal shortages that were
developing during this period. Price liberalzation brought a dramatic reduction in subsidies,
which dropped from 13% of GDP in the late 1980s to 2% in 1991. At the same time, the
cor-imer price index increased by over 210% on average from 1990 to 1991. In addition to
partially realigning relative prices, price reform and in.flation reduced the monetuy overhang
and the excess domestic demand for goods. Even sharper short-term price increases occurred
between December 1991 and March 1992, but were followed by a significant deceleration of
iflation during Aprl and May when the cost of living index increasf4 by only 11% and 5%
for these months rspectively. With the sharp increases between November 1991 and March
1992, and expectations of further moves toward world maket prices in the second half of
1992 (due in large part to andcipatd increases in the price of petroleum products from
Ruscia) the cost of living index is estimated to rise by about 1,000% between 1991 and 1992
on average.



-7 -
19.     Nominal wages were adjusted during 1991 and 1992, but consistent with economic
stabiizaion and adjustment objectives, no attempt was made to index them fully to prices.
As a result, average real wages decreased by 36% in 1991, and by another 45% during the
first half of 1992. This reduced both the excess demand for goods and the costs associated
with redundant labor in the state enterprises. The impact of higher prices was softened for
vulerable groups by a compensation scheme that transferred income to pensioners and other
low-income segments of the population. The fcal savings generated by the reduction in
price subsidies helped make resources available for this compensation/ safety-net scheme.
Employment
20.      During 1991, the improvement in enterprises' fincial conditions allowed them to
postpone adjustments and retain their work force, despite operating at very low levels of
capacity. Consequently, the unemployment rate remained negligible-around 1,000 workers,
or less than 0.5% of the labor force-and issues of unemployment insuance had not become
critical. The need for enterprise reform, and thus for adequate measures to deal with the
substantial labor redundancy that will be part of such restructuring, have temporarily been
obscured by the relatively faster pace of price reform in Estonia, which bolstered entetprise
profits in 1991, as well as by the buildup of arrears in 1992, both of which made it possible
for firms to continue employing and paying redundant workers. However, given the critical
state that most state enterprises m Estonia have reached, enterprise restructuring is
unavoidable and the associated unemployment is likely to become a major social and fiscal
issue in the near future.
Fiscal Pos*Won
21.      Total general government revenues averaged 43% of GDP from 1987-89, similar
to average levels in the BC in 1989. After a brief drop to 36% in 1990 associated with the
political unrest surrounding the early stages of the indpdence movement in the Baltics,
revenues rose to 44% of GDP in 1991, reflecting the price reforms of late 1990 and of 1991.
The surpluses hat have been maintained on the general government accounts for at least the
past decadincreased from 2% of GDP in 1990 to 5% in 1991, supported by higher
enterprise profits, higher tax revenues, and the reduced subsidy costs made possible by the
price reforms. In March 1992, the budget moved sharply into deficit as milk subsidies were
reintroduced and heating and tnsportation subsidies rose because of higher prices for
imported energy. Moreover, there was a worrisome increase in corporate and value added
tax payment arrears, which amounted to about 8% of total assessed taxes. The government
took remedial measures in May 1992, mainly by eliminating milk and heating subsidies as
well as obtaining advanced profit payments from selected enterprises. These measures
retred the genera government accounts to balance by mid-1992. In June, additional
revenue measures were announced-including an increase in the VAXI ide from 10% to
18%, a new 50% top marginal rate for personal income taxes, and a new unified corporate
income tax rate of 35%. The latter eliminated the multi-rate structure with an average rate
-.A 27% that had previously been in effect.



- 8 -
22.     A 1992 budget was originally approved only for the first half of the year. A
budget for the second half of the year has been presented to Parliament, but as of mid
August no agreement had been reached, reflecting resistance to the measures that had been
proposed to restore fiscal balance and a reluctance tO take politically difficult measures
before the Parliamentaty elections scheduled for September. As a result, the government,
which cannot borrow from the central bank under the monetary reforms announced in June
1992, has been operating on a month-to-month basis, seeing to limit expenditures in each
month to the revenues received during the previous month.
Monetay Policy
23.     Introduction of the Estonian Kroon (EEK) on June 20, 1992, marked a major
milestone in the government's program of transition from a socialist economy within the
ruble zone, to an independent, market-based economy with a much greater orientation to the
international economy. In introducing the new currency, one of the government's major
objectives was to allow Estonia to pursue domestic economic and financial policies
independent from those of the rst of the ruble zone. By isolating Estonia from inflation in
the ruble zone, the istence of an independent currency should contribute to a smoother
transition and structural reform process. The reform will also eliminate the chronic shortage
of cash mbles, a problem that had created serious internal payments bottlenecks earlier this
year, slowing the nation's economic growth. This mnonetary reform was discussed with
Russia, and appropriate agreements have been signed to assure the ongoing stability of
monetary relationships between the two countries. It was also designed and implemented in
close consultation with the Internatione' Monetary Fund.
24.     The following features of the monetary reform that ac-n,--nied the introduction
of the Estonian kroon should be noted:
(a) The Estonian kroon is pegged to the Geman mark at the rate of
EEK 8 = DEM 1, with allowance for a variation of 3% above and below the
central rate. Residents of Estonia holding rubles were allowed, subject to certain
limits, to convert rubles to kroons at the rate of Ru 10/EEK, which is in line with
the rate of Ru 125/USD that prevailed in the Tallinn foreign exchange auction
market at the time of monetary refonn.
(b) The internadonal reserues on hand to back the kroon currency note issue exceed
100% of the value of the notes issued. (This was made possible in part by the
return of gold totaling about $95 million that had been stored by Estonia dunng
World War II in Great Britain and Sweden.)
(c) The kroon will enjoy fiU intemal (cumnt account) convertbility through the
domestic banking system against acceroable import documentation.



- 9 -
(d) In the future, the domesdc currency supply in circulation will be linked direcdy to
the level of foreign exchange reserves through a currency board mechanism, thus
facilitating the maintenance of the fixed exchange rate that has been announced.
25.      Since the domestic currency in circulation will be expanded by the cufrency board
only upon receipt of an amount of foreign exchange that is equivalent at the announced
exchange rate, the domestic money supply can expand no faster than hard currency reserves.
It is the government's hope that, after a relatively short period during which inflationary
ex pectations come into line with the new policy, inflation in Estonia will move in line with
tha of the German mark. Among the downside risks of a currency board mechanism,
however, is that external shocks (e.g. higher oil prices) could reduce external reserves,
forcing a parallel reduction in domestic money supply. In theory this should raise domestic
interest rates, causing a compensating inflow of foreign capital seeking exceptional
investment returns. This mechanism has worked well in Singapore and Hong Kong, which
have their own versions of currency boards, but given the higher risks associated with a
transforming socialist economy like Estonia with limited links to world capital markets,
capital inflows may not materialize as readily. External price shocks could thus easily
unslate into domestic economic decline.
26.      Downward flexibility in wage rates could prevent this. However, such flexibility
would be hard to assume in Estonia. First, having already suffered a decline in real wages of
at least 40%, Estonian workers are unlikely to accept further real cuts in wages that are
imposed by government action. Second, the currency board mechanism is designed to
eliminate the inflation that would otherwise quietly erode real wages, thus providing the
necessaLy downward flexibility. The unemployment problem that will soon become visible in
Estonia-as the reIt^ HOth of planned enterprise restructuring and involuntary closure of
bankirupt enteprises-will almost certainly generate major demands for unemployment
insurance and other forms of social protection. Such demands could generate additional fiscal
pssures which could in turn make it difficult for Estonia to maintain the fiscal and
monetay restmint needed to assure the success of the currency board arrangement.
However, the initial undervaluation of the kroon-as illustuated by an average monthly wage
equivalen to about $40 at end-June 1992-provides a cushion that would allow an anticipated
real appreciation of the kroon against the German mark. Consequentdy, inflation during the
next year or so may not undermine significantly the credibility of the kroon or the cost-
competitiveness of the tradable goods sector.
Enterpie Refonn
27.      Refo.nig the state enteprise sector in Estonia is of high priority given the
virtually bankrupt status of many firms, the high levels of inter-enteris arrears, the
depleed capital stock and lack of competitiveness, and the substantial levels of redundant
workers. Erpriwse reform will require (i) eliminatng inter-firm arrears and placing
entepises on a solid financial foodng where possible, (ii) privatizing firms, and (iii) closing
those that cannot be made economically and financially viable. In addition, the highly



- 10-
concentrated structure of the Estonian industrial sector means that some enteprises may need
to be broken up through a demonopolization effort.
28.      Enterprise Finance and Arrears. Input shortages resulting from the collapse of
FSU trading arrangements and the high cost of non-PSU imports, together with falling
internal and extenal demand, have produced substantial losses for Estonian enterprses, and
they have not responded to faming sales and rising costs by laying off workers. The
consequent financial weakness of the firms, combined with failures of the FSU payments
system, have resulted in massive inter-enterprise anears. The arears in payments from
Estonian to FSU enterprises are estimated at RUR 2.6 billion, and in FSU payments to
Estonian enterprises at RUR 4.0 billion. Arrears owed to Estonian enterprises are equal to
about one fourth of the estimated 1992 GDP. Many firms seem to be reaching the limit of
the arrears that they awe willing to absorb from other firms in order to stay in business. The
arrears make normal profit-based management decisions difficult because there is often little
link between the apparent profitability of sales and the actual payments received, and longer-
term borrowing to increase future productivity is hindered by the heavy debt burden resuting
from the failure of customers to pay for goods received.
29.      Although the arrears problem is somewhat less severe when viewed on a net basis,
settement of these arrears is complicated by the fact that, since the arrears do not balance
out among pairs of finns, and since the firms involved are not all in one country, the arrears
can only be resolved by negotiations between the governments of the republics concerned.
The substantial net imbalance at the national level, together with other trans-national asset
and debt issues, makes prospects for an immediate solution remote. However, even if the
nter-state arrears problems cannot be solved in the near future, measures could be taken to
net out the inter-fim arrears within Estonia, to convert arrears where there is possibility of
repayment into loans with agreed terms of repayment, and to declare others as bad debts,
makdng adjustments as necessary in the books of the enterprises.
30.      Privatization. Estonia passed a Law on Enterprises in 1989 that began the
privatizatton of public entises. This process was strengthened by a law at the begining
of 1991 for the Privatzation of State Owned Trade and Service Facilities. In April 1992,
legislation was passed for the privatization of housing, and the following month the earlier
enterprise privatzation law was broadened, raising the limit on the net worth of enterpnses
that could be privatized from EEK 50,000 to SEK 600,000 equivalent.
31.      As of August 1992, about half of the eligible small serWce, trade and catering
enterprises had been privatized, in large part through auction by the responsible
municipalities. The benefits of privatization in small enterprises are evident, mainly in
private markets for agricultual products and smaller service establishments; prices now
respond to demand, and the availability of commodities appears to be better than in many
other states of the FSU. Also, about 40% of the homaing widts in Estonia are now privately
owned (including those that have been in private hands throughout the Soviet period).



- 11 -
32.      Seven larger enterprises have been or are being privatized to gain experience with
the process, and legiaton is curmny before Parliament to allow privatization of 30 large
scale public enterprises on a trial basis, prior to moving ahead with plans to privatize a group
of 260 enteiprises. However, action on such legislation is not expected before the
Parliamentary elections scheduled for September, and aside from these initial efforts, no
significant progress has been made to date in privatizing the larger public enterprises in
Estonia. Nor has any significant progress been made in restructuring firms, a process which
will necessarily involve a plan for addressing and resolving the arrars problem, as well as
improved management, and in many cases improvements in the technology and capital
equipment of the units. The govemment's enteprise privatizaton and restructuring program
is sfill at an incipient stage and wiU clearly require the design of an overall strategy and
implementation of pilot efforts, supported by technical assistance. It will also need to be
closely linkd to financal sector reform and to changes in the social security system, which
are described below.
33.      Urgent action  garcding enterprise restncturing is needed to prevent the illegal
diversion of public assets to private hands. Most of the larger public entepses in Estonia
have now been "colpomtized" by setting them up as joint stock companies with their own
boards of directors and managers. In the process, they have been given substantial
autonomy. Responsible branch ministres frequendy find it difficult to examine the books of
the companies, a right reserved to the audit office that answers to Parliament. That office is
eriously understaffed compared to the number and size of the enterprises that need
professional external audits, and the staff lack the training required to audit these enterprises
in line with the European accounting standards that are now being introduced.
34.      As a reslt of this control vacuum, "parallel" enterprises are being established
with the objective of stipping the assets of the state enterprises-a phenomenon quite
common in transforming socialist economies. It appears that about one third of the larger
state enterprises have been affected by this phenomenon to some degree. This underscores
the need for immediate efforts to implement a carefully considered privatization and
enterprise reform program that will protect the legitimate interests of the state while assuring
a successful transiton to an economy based on private sector production. Since the
privatition process is expected to require a number of years, and a significant number of
entmepses (especially in the tansport and public utilities sectors) are likely to remain in the
public sector, priority measures are required to strengthen the office that provides oversight
and control of the financial accounts of public enterprises for parliament and the government.
Technical assistnce will be required to strengthen this "Auditor General" function.
35.      ReAttution. The need to identify those who owned property nationalized during
the Soviet period has slowed privaon and enterpise ruuring efforts. The
government has promised to restore such property to the former owners or their
descendts-or to pay compensation in cash, vouchers, or comparable property when the
property itself cannot be restted (e.g., if the property is now being used for schools,
hospitals or public offices, and the goverment elects to retain possession of the property).



- 12 -
Claims for restitution or compensation were completed for all Estonian residents on January
17, 1992. Although non-resident Estonians with or eligible for citizenship have been given an
indefinite period to register their claims, the government has announced that it is moving
ahead with privatization, and that the former owners of any property not claimed by the time
of privatization will only be eligible for compensation. Potential restitution claims will no
longer be allowed to slow the privatization process.
36.      Demonopolization. Many enteiprises in Estona, mherited from the former
Soviet regime, were subject to heavy vertical and honzontal integration. Large industrial
kombinaats exist where there is no justification based on economy of scale requirements. In
addition to fostering monopolistic tendencies and anti-competitive behaviorc in selling goods,
these conglomerates tend to purchase inputs from other members of the kombinaat, thus
discouraging the development of competitive independent suppliers. As Estonia is a small
country with a limited domestic market, the govemnment has recognized that generally it will
not be feasible to develop competition through multiple large scale domestic plants in specific
products. Thus, the emphasis in this area will be to break up the conglomerates where
economies of scale are not an issue (e.g., the horizontally integrated enterprises in trade),
and to depend on foreign competition within an open trade regime to discourage monopolistic
practices among the remaining large-scale plants.
Financial Sector Reform
37.      Estonia has made considerable progress towards replacing the old Soviet mono-
banking system with a modem two-tier system. The first step was the establishment of the
Bank of Estonia on December 28, 1989 and the effective merger with it of the Tallinn branch
of the Gosbank-which was made official on January 1, 1992, and has now been completed.
The commercial banking functions that the Bank of Estonia inherited from the Gosbank, and
the foreign operations resulting from its absorption of the Vneshekonombank in 1991, were
legaly transfered in their entirety to the Northemn Estonian Bank in June 1992, leaving the
Bank of Estonia responsible only for central baning functions. As a practical matter,
however, a substantial overlap remains to be eliminated in the management,  ministration,
and operations of the two banks.
38.      Meanwhile, the commercial banking sector in Estonia has grown substantially and
now comprises 41 licensed commercial banks, plus the Savings Bank and the Agriculture
Bank from the Soviet era. The commercial banks vary in size and sophistication from very
small ventures with little capital or expertise, to a few that are well capitalized and have
excellent potenial to become solid commercial institutions by Western European standards in
the near future. Several are already involved in correspondent relationships with banks in
Scandinavia and handle foreign exchange transactons directy.
39.      The Savings Bank, on the other hand, presents a major challenge in terms of
reforming the financial system. During the Soviet era, it was the largest bank in terms of
branches and through this network collected the bulk of household deposits in Estonia. The



- 13 -
resources mobilized through the Savings Bank were filly transferred to the head office of
Gosbank in Moscow and rechanneled according to central plan directives. As a result, at the
end of 1991, the Savings Bank held claims on Moscow amounting to almost RUR 3 billion.
On January 1, 1992, these assets were frozen by Moscow, and the Savings Bank was left
without assets to cover its deposit liabilities. As part of the monetary reform in June, the
Bank of Estonia guanteed the assets of the Savings Bank. However, the formal
recapitalization of the Savings Bank remains as one of the issues that needs to be addressed
in the coming months.
40.      The relationship and relative roles of the Savings Bank and the new Postbank will
also need to be resolved. The Postbank is a joint venture between the Post Office and the
Tartu Bank (a leading commercial bank). It follows the model of the Finish Postbank, and
has been set up to collect small deposits from households and give credits to this sector.
Other institutions posing special issues that will need to be addressed during the rstucturing
of the Estonian financial sector include: (i) the Agricuture Bank, a specialized source of
subsidized credit to the agrculture sector which seems to be in a very difficult financial
situation: (ii) the Industry Bank, which because of serious portfolio problems was recently
split into two institutions (one of which was left with the bad loans and some obligations to
Gosbank (Moscow); and (iii) the Social Bank, which was created in 1988 to serve
municipalities, schools, hospitals and universities, but which acts more as a fiscal agent than
a bank and has a highly uncertain financial future since a significant share of its assets seem
to consist of non-interest bearing deposits with the central bank.
Sodad Secu*iy Sytem
41.      Estonia's social security system was fully integrated with the Soviet Union's social
programs undl 1990. Independence allowed the Estonian Government to redesign the
structure and administration of the social programs it inherited and to adapt them to Estonian
needs and preferences. Under the new system, the vast majority of cash benefits are funded
and administered through two newly created funds-the Socda Secui Fund (SSF), and the
Health Inswwure Fund (HIF). These two funds, which are financed through earmarldng of a
payroll tax of 20% for the SSF and 13% for the HIF, were budgeted for about 40% of the
total consolidated government current expenditures during the first half of 1992. As a
subsidiary funded by transfers from the SSF, the Employment Fund was created in 1991 to
provide job retraing for unemployed workers, and employment subsidies and credits to
employers and employees. Although the social secrity system, having been established
recendy, is in fairly sound condition today, changes wiUl be reqired if it is to remain
financially sound while meetig the needs of Estonia during the coming years, when
unemployment and early retirement resulting from enterprise restrcturing are likely to place
major burdens on the system. Measures will thus be required to rationalize and steamline
benefit stucture and adminison, including specific measures to: (i) reduce the cost of the
system (e.g., by resticting eligibility and benefits); (ii) reduce the need for benefits (e.g.,
through improved job training and placement services); (iii) improve its efficiency (e.g.,



- 14-
through bt targeting of beficay groups); and (iv) secum its financing in a way that
assures adequate resources while providing appropriae ietives to employers and
employees aibe.
H. DEVELPMENT ftoszms A  UNCERTANES
A. Pospects for Stabtion and Structral Reform
42.      Because Estonia started the stabilization process earlier than the rest of the FSU
republics, it appears already to have accomplished many of the critical objectives of the
stabilation phase of the economic tfonnation process. Evidence is seen in the relative
price stability in recent months, the introduction of an intenally convertble national
currecy, and pbas for another balaced government budget in 1992. The pospe  for the
contiue stabilt, as well as the t-ansoDrmation and stuctuiil adjustment of Estonia's
economy, will depend heavily, however, on the following key elements of reform:
*  An enterpilse sector reswuwing program  which creaes an efficient industrial
sector hat, in adition to meeting basic domestic requIFements, can generate an
adequate level of exports that are competitive in non-FSU maikets;
*  A reswued financial systn which can provide solid flnancial suport to the
rerucured entises and to other productive sectors of the economy,
eiminting in the process the heavy burden of bad loans and inter-enterpris
arers;
*  A socal sfety ne that is carefully designed and implamented, in close
coorination with the enterprise refrm program, to minimize the number of
people unemployed, the duration of such unemployment, the finai bhadsbips of
the unemployed, and thus the risk of social  since to the difficult but essetal
process of industrial ruuring;
*  Mscal polices that assure adequate finanig for the social safety net wihout
undue govewmm       borrowing, provide  ppprie incentives to domestic
produces, and provide in due coum  resources for invesdng in the public sector
o tn, communication, education and health facilities;
*  E:imal poicies that assure an open trade reime with minimum tariff and non-
tariff barier; estabish a sustable balce of payments position; help resore,
at least for the nex several years, the flow of trade with the FSU; and mobie
the eal1 financing, on the most favorable terms possible, that is rqired to



- 15 -
close the payments gaps that will be unavoidable for several years during the
economic transformation process;
* Monetary policies that, together with fiscal restrint, minimize inflation, thus
providing an environment congenial to the development of productive enterprise.
43.      As noted in the previous section, the goverment has already introduced many
policies in line with these objectives. However, much remains to be done to carry out the
economic stabilization and structural reform program which the government has designed
(ref. Chapter 4). Success will depend on continued detrmination, political support and the
skllful implementation of the program, as well as concerted, concessional and timely foreign
assistance. The very scope of the reform program makes future economic developments and
performance uncertain, and a number of alternative scenarios have been developed egading
the evolution of Estonia's economic growth and external trade and financing. This section
summarizes the macroeconomic framework of what seems to be a desirable reform scenario
for the next few years given the many economic, social and political constraints facing the
reform program. Section B continues with an examination of the external trade and balance
of payments prospects within this macroeconomic framework for 1992 and 1993, and
Section C reviews the external financing that will be required. if this desired scenario for
economic stabilization and structural reform is to be realized. The scenario may be
summarized as follows:
44.     It is assumed that, during the remaining months of 1992, state enterprise units will
find that they can no longer depend on financing their inputs through the accumulation of
arrars, and that they cannot afford to continue shipping products without being paid.
Furthermore, foreign exchange constaints will raise the cost and reduce the availability of
imports, further impiring the output and profitability of enterpises. Financial difficulties
will begin to force widespread layoffs and closure of some of the worst-affected plants. The
fiscal pressures arsing from sharp increases in unemployment claims, together with general
discontent deriving from the cumulative erosion of real incomes over the past two years by
about 60 percent, will lead the government to accelerate sharply its program of enterprise
reform.
45.      Because public enterprises commonly suffer from accumulated losses, inefficient
and often worn-out equipment, and decapitalization to the point of having negative net worth,
the government envisages an approach the restucting of Estonian enterprises along the
following lines. Rather than seeking to get the highest possible price when privatzing finms,
priority will be given to action plans that: (a) restore the efficiency and competitiveness of
the plants; and (b) maintain employment to the greatest possible extent, at least for a
transition period. Many of the plants will require substantial investments to become
competitive. Consequently, some enterprises may have to be given, at no charge, to private
investors for rehablitation, and in some instances it may even be necessary for the
government to provide financial support to secure the inteest of private investors. To
develop support for this type of privatization, and to overcome the view (widely held in
Estonia today) that the privatization of public enterprises wil produce a fiscal bons which



- 16 -
the govemment can use both to cushion the fiscal impact of rising unemployment and to
provide additional resources to the banking system that can be used for loans to encourage
new investments,3 the government may find it desirable to undertake a campaign to make the
public aware of the fact that many of the public enterprises are seriously decapitalized and
have a negative net worth.
46.       Despite all efforts to mminm    the unemployment caused by enterprise
restructuring, unemployment may rise from the minimal levels reported at present to perhaps
12-15 % during 1993-94. Given its relative neglect during the Soviet era, the service sector
may be an important source of growth in incomes and new employment, as may new
industrial enterprises in the private sector including foreign joint ventures. Even so, between
50,000 and 150,000 workers (6%-18% of the working age population) could be unemployed
by some time in 1993, which compared to only 6,000 currently registered as unemployed and
eligible for benefits, and to 12,000 job seekers who are currently not working, means a very
substantial increase in the unemployment levels.4 The current budget makes provision for an
unemployment rate of about 3%. This provides a substantial cushion compared to the small
percentage who are currently unemployed and eligible for benefits. However, if 12-15% of
the workers were to become openly unemployed and eligible for benefits, the budgetary
impact would be severe. The cost of unemployment insurance could rise from an estimated
EEK 15 million in 1992 to perhaps BEK 60 million or more in 1994 (depending on the
average period of unemployment). With no access to central bank financing under the
curency board system, the government could find it difficult to support the social safety net
progam adequately without additional revenue measures or cutbacks in lower priority areas.
47.       The fiscal burden of unemployment insurance would be compounded by demands
for higher wages, particularly in the last quarter of 1992, as the prices of fuel imported from
Russia increase to levels more in line with world prices. For example, the price of fuel oil,
which had already increased by 130% between January and June of 1992, is expected to
increase by another 50% before the end of 1992. Exogenous price shocks from fuel imports
and other products, together with an underlying infltionary momentum that has not been
fully contained by the inrduction of the currency board and a fixed exchange rate, could
lead to price increases totling about 25% over the remainder of the calendar year-though
the monthly inflation rate may have dropped to less than 5% by the end of the period. These
3 For example, a law was recently presented to Parliament which allocates the anticipated proceeds of
privatization, with 50% to a restiution account to pay former owners in lieu of physical property, 30% to
the central bank to provide funds that can inter alia be loaned to the pnvate sector for investment, and 20%
to the government budget. There may in fact be little to distribute.
4  The Estoian definitions of unemployment make comparing figures with other couatries somewhat difficult.
The gap between "unemployed' and "job seekers not working is largely explained by the fact that school
leavers and voluntary job leavers are not eligible for unemployment benefits, and thus are not included in
the base count of unemployed workers. It may also be noted that unemployment percentages reported by
the govemment are with respet to the entire population of normil working age, not of the lbor force.
Thw, for international compaisons, the unemployment figures would need to be increased by about 50%
given the Estoian labor force participation rate of somewhat over S0%.



- 17 -
projections assume, however, that the government maintains its current resolve to avoid
fiscal deficits and an eonary monetary policy, implementing revenue enhancing and
expendite control measures as required.
48.      As discussed in more detail in Section B below, substantial increases would be
required in the level of exports to non-FSU areas to attain a susainable balance of payments
position during 1992-94, and imports would need to fall from the artcially high levels of
1991 to levels that are more normal for a country of Estonia's size and income.
49.      The undervaluation of the domestic currency implicit in the new currency board
arangements would play an important role in attaining a sustadnable trade balance-
discoung imports for domestic consumption, and encouraging exports to non-PSU
markets. Condinued domestic inflation, which could result from the fiscal and consequent
monetay pressures noted above, could undermine the competitiveness of Estonian exports
through appreciation of the real exchange rate. However, as noted in para 26, the initial
undervaluation of the kroon should prevent this from becoming a problem in the next year or
so. To maintain confidence in the Estonian currency, and thus increase the attractiveness of
Estonia to foreign investors, it is important for the government to maintain its resolve to
pursue conservative fiscal and monetary policies, and to depend increasingly on the pnvate
sector to carry the burden of investment and management in production activities.
50.      The external debt service ratio is projected to stay within prudent bounds, peaking
around 1997 and declining therafter-provided that the currfet account deficit is brought
back down to more sustainable levels with respect to GDP by 1995-96 (see next section). By
then, the 3stonian people could begin to see a restoration of the incomes lost during this
painful yet necessary transformation prmcess.
B. Extenal Tde and Balance of Payments Prospects
51.      This section presens a scenario for Estonia's economic recovery that would allow
a very modest restation of growth staring in 1993. While this may prove to be optimistic,
even under thds scenaio, Estonia would not regain the pre-independence levels of GDP untl
the late 1990s. This scenario of slow recovery to previous output levels nevertheless
requires very favorable, even opdmistic, assumpions. In particular, the scenario assumes
that Estonia would be able: (a) to restore export production within the next few months to
levels that, wbile a considerable improvement over the present, are still below those in the
late 1980s; (b) to switch part of this production from FSU to non-FSU markets; and (c) to
sell the remainder of the export output to FSU markets. As noted below, however, major
riks are associated with this scenario, mcludig those of: (a) slippage for poLitical reasons in
implementing the required policy measures within Estonia; (b) imlementaton capacity
cnstraits that cannot be eliminated with the technical assistance that can be made available;
(c) filure to obtain the requwired amounts of external financial aid in a timely manner on
sufficiendy soft and flexible terms; and (d) adverse developments in the extenal
environment, including a slower-than-expected recovery of the FSU markets for Estnia's



- 18-
exports. Should these riks materialize, thus making the scenario quantified below difficult to
achieve, Estonia would face the prospects of: (a) further economic decline even in 1993 and
perhaps 1994 (which could cause intense social problems, further delaying the process of
stabilization and structural reform); (b) higher levels of extenal indebtedness (which could
lead in turn to an unsustainable external debt service burden later in this decade); or (c) both
of these.
External TIde
52.      The above scenario depends heavily on successfully restructuring Estonia's
extemal trading pattern. Estonia's overall merchandise trade deficit is expected to rise in
1992, then begin to decline towards more sustainable levels over the longer term as sctural
adjustment and reform measures begin to have an impact (Table 2). Although imports from
non-FSU areas are expected to contract significantly between 1991 and 1992, the overall
compression is not particularly serious since, as noted above, imports from were sharply
higher in 1991 than in previous years. Also, the projected ratios with respect to GDP are
consistent with the experience of countries broadly comparable to Estonia,5 as well as with
Estonia's own average degree of openness to world trade for the period 1989-91.
Furthermore, while the imports are down in absolute terms for 1992, they are nevertheless
higher relative to GDP than in the past, reflecting the anticipated 20% decline in GDP for
1992.
53.      Of Imports from the FSU area, about 70% are intermediate and capital goods.
Because of Estonia's industrialization under the Soviet system for some 50 years, time will
be required before  stonian enterprises can adapt to alternative sources of supply,
particularly for spare parts and some replacement equipment. An additional 15-20% of
imports from the FSU is for energy. Russia is expected to raise the prices of raw material
and energy exports to Estonia to international ievels before the end of 1992. Depending on
the timing and degree of such increases, and the overall level and product composition of
trade at the time, these increases could result in a 20-30% deterioradon of Estoia's terms of
trade with that market. At least for the short term, Estonia's imports from the FSU (of
which about 60% come from Russia and another 20% come from Ukraine and Belams) will
have to be sustained at the current reduced levels to prevent a further collapse of production.
In 1990, imports were equivalent to 41% of GDP for the countries of the world of rougbly silar size (1-5
million people), and of broadly smiar economic development (per capita incomes between $1,000 and
$10,000 p.a.



- 19 -
Table 2: Fatonia - Balace of Paymets, 1991-93
(US$ million)
-1tl       1992  1299     1992-29
Actual      Proiected u1    Total
Bxports                             115       345      590      935
ISU                              65      255      480      735
bon-PSU                          50       90      110      200
imports                             2so       550      765     1315
FSU                              50      380      560      940
Non-pSU                         200      170      205      375
Merchandiie Trade Balance           -135     -205     -175     -380
PSU                             15      -125      -80     -205
Non-FSU                       -150       -80      -95     -175
Services (net)(all Non-FSU)           15       25       40       65
Net Services 'excl. interest)    12        20       35       55
Interest (net)                    0         1       -5       -4
Net Current Transfers (pvt.)      3         4       10       14
Current Account Balance               -120     -190     -135     -315
ISU Trade                           15      -125      -80     -205
Non-FSU Trade                      -135      -55      -55     -110
Capital AccountC
Direct Foreign Investment                    20       25       45
Grants                                     S5        35        90
Commercial Credits (NCA)           ..       20        25       45
Public lLT Net Disbursements       ..      105       5S       160
Disbursements                  ..     105        55      160
Amortization                             0        0        0
Claims on Gold                      ..      100        0      100
clearing Arrangements                        20       25       45
Reserves Buildup (- . gain)             ..    -140       -30     -170
Mame Item
Gross Reserves ($m)                  ..     139       165
As Montho of Imports                 ..      3.0      2.6      2.8
a.    1991 figures are distorted by exchange valuation effects, which
have been partially offset through use of implicit accounting
rather than market exchange rates.
b.    Because of delays in finalizing foreign assistance agreemants,
some of the disbursements shown in 1992 may not take place until
1993. Import inflows under such circumstances will be
correspondingly delayed, except where such imports can be financed
through a buildup of payments arrears. Should this happen, the
growth of exports could also be slowed by shortages of imported
inputs required for their production. Projected figures have been
rounded for presentational reasons and thus may not correspond
exactly with data being presented.by the IMF.
c.    As gatonia was not an independent country throughout 1991, capital
account data are not available for that year.
d.    Includes both confirmed as well as unconfirmed assistance.
.   Not available.



-20-
54.     Expanding the nation's non-FSU exports is one of the most important medium-
term challenges for the Estonian economy. After a basic initial adjustment in 1992 that
restores total exports to a more normal level--with a particular emphasis on switching the
export that can be redirected to non-PSU markets without major improvements in quality
and marketing efforts (e.g., basic wood and paper products, fish, and selected meat and dairy
products), non-FSU exports would need to grow by about 15% p.a., from 1992 to 1997.
Such growth appears high, but is considered plausible since (i) the base from which this
growth is measured is relatively low, (ii) this only implies an inck.-ase of the non-FSU share
in total exports from an estimated 25 % in 1992 to about 30% in 1997, and (iii) the share of
non-FSOJ exports in total r-DP would be less than 10%, which should be obtainable given
Estonia's substantial natural resources, low wage rates, and the competitive exchange rate
established for the kroon. Despite its close links to the former Soviet Union over the past 50
years, Estonia produces a number of products that are already competitive on world markets.
For example, the Estonian wood industry (including furniture) was considered among the
best in the FSU and can compete in some products today in non-PSU markets. Other
commodity-type products like pulp and paper, though produced in plants that lack appropriate
environmental controls and which are inefficient by modern standards, may still be
competitive in non-FSU markets given the current exchange rate. Some dairy and vivestock
products could also be exported to non-FSU tather than FSU markets with only modest
additional investments.
55.     Unlike the situation in many countries, export growth in Estonia is not hindered
by distortionary trade policies. The government (i) has eliminated virtually all export quotas
and taxes; (ii) does not create a bias towards import substitution industries through tariff and
non-taiff barriers; (iii) maintains an exchange rate that does not overvalue the domestic
currency; and (iv) has removed virtually all trade-disrting subsidies. Thus the policy
framework exists that should encourage solid export growth based on Estonia's abundant
forests, established livestock industry, non-metallic minerals, long tration of deep sea
fishing, and low cost educated labor. Considerable time will be required to improve
productive efficiency throughout Estonian industry, given the long history of distortirzs in
the pattern of Estonia's industrial development. Nevertheless, considerable potenial already
exists for expanding non-FSU exports through modest improvements in production,
padcging, and marketing techniques. To help ensure that such improvements are made in
the shortest possible time, collaboration with external firms should be obtained. This
collaboration could involve a wide variety of activities ranging from short term visits and
conslting assignments through long term joint venture agreements involving not only
technology and marketng assistance, but major capital investments as well.
56.     While expanding non-FSU trade is a priority issue for the reasons laid out above,
equal attention must be given to restoring PSU tade. Eports to FSU republics declined
from 52% of GDP in 1988 to 35% in 1991 and to an estimated 24% in 1992. Tis colLapse
in trade must be reversed for at least two reasons: first, many of Esonia's enterprises
depend for their fimncial viability on sales to PSU markets, and they face serious problems
today since their products cannot be absorbed in the domestic market nor can they be
exported to non-FSU marets; second, Estonia will continue to depend on FSU marfets for



- 21 -
the majority of its imported inputs for the foreseeable future, and the most economical means
of paying for these ruble zone imports will be with rubles earned through exports to this
zone. Otherwise, convertible foreign exchange that is both costly and scarce will have to be
used, with a consequent risk of debt service problems in the future. Although the recovery in
FSU exports shown in Table 2 between 1991 and 1993 appears to be very abrupt, the
absolute figures provide a very misleading picture of the efforts that would be required. The
shaip absolute growth reflects primarily the tremendous collapse of such trade during the
transition to independence. In fact, the share of FSU trade in GDP shown for 1993 is still
substanally lower than it was in 1990-despite a contraction of GDP by about 25% in the
meantime.
57.      Even though the expansion of FSU exports shown in this scenario is not as great
when viewed from a longer term perspective relative to GDP, the risks of this improvement
not taking place within the next year are still substantial-and seem to have become worse in
recent weeks as FSU incomes drop and political tensions within the individual FSU republics
continue to rise rther than to abate, further slowing the progress of economic stabilization
and recovery. Nevertheless, the fact that Russia and Estonia recently signed a trade
agreement provides the basis for a modest optimism that progress towards restoring fonner
levels of FSU exports relative to GDP can be realized during the next year or two. In
addition, efforts (a) to sign similar trade agreements as soon as possible with Ukraine and
Belarus; (b) to facilitate enterprise-to-enterprise trading contacts; (c) to establish better
multilatal clearing account mechanisms to conserve scarce foreign exchange; and (d) to
improve payments systems between and within both the FSU and Estonia would all make a
majol nontribution to enhancing the recovery of FSU exports shown in this scenario.
series
58.      Net income from services is projected to make a significant contribution to the
balance of payments in 1992 and 1993. Net services could bring in an average of about $30
million per year over the next two year, reflectng both workers remittances genemed by
Estonian's working in neighboring European and Nordic countries, and fees from
intertional transport services plus some earnings from ship repair. Inadequate information
on prvate debt makes it difficult to estimate interest flows, but given the very low current
level of official debt and the concessional terms that are expected for debt to be contracted
during the next two years, it is anticipated that net interest outflows will not be significant
before 1993, and these may well be offset by transfers from Estonians who are residents of
foreign counties.



- 22 -
C. Major Uncertainties
59       The prospects for stabilization and reform as laid out above are quite reasonable, a
view reinforced by the very substtial progrss that the govemment has already made in
canying out its reform program. However, risks do exist in the areas of political and policy
slippage, implemeon capacity, resoutce availability and the extenal environment.
60.      Polidcal Slippage. The program of economic policy reform laid out in the
govemment's Memorandum on Econonic Reformn Policies (Annex 3) requires action in many
areas such as entepxise reform where there are vested political interess in the status quo,
including managers operating plants for their private profit. Reforms wil require actions
that further reduce real incomes by eliminating subsidies, restaining wage growth, and
generating unemployment. Privatization is a sensitive issue. The expected fiscal dividend
from the sale of public enteiprises is unlikely to be realized because of the degraded state of
the assets of most public enterprises. Also, the transfer of ownership is likely to be tid to
citizenship, and citizenship has not yet been fully clarified for the non-Estonian populaon of
Estonia. In fact, it is possible that, because of waiting periods that have been imposed
before non-ciizens can obtain citizenship, that a subsil portion of the non-citizen
residents may not receivu the right to participate in the privatization process (that comes with
citizenhi) until after tie process has been completed. The government has recenty
introduced a major currency reform, and has already completed most of the price
ralization process-a major stumbling block for many govenmments; these measures are
evidence of basic support for the government's reform programs. However, there is still a
real risk of slower-than-expected implementation of a number of policy and structual reform
measu, especially when unemployment begins to rise.
61.      The political uncertnty is further increased by the fact that Paliamentary
elections are scheduled to be held in late September, 1992. At the time of writing,
Parliament is in recess, and while a special session was plamned in late August to handle
various pieces of legislation-including the budget for the rest of 1992-the general view is
that Parliament will avoid takdng decisions on politicaly sensitive measures until after the
September elections. Consequently, the initiation of important parts of the reform program,
incling in particular the privadzation of larger public enteiprises, could be delayed untl
October or later.
62.     Impleation Capacity. The policy reform progam being developed by the
sonian government is technically complex, particulady in areas such as privatiation,
enterpise refonn, and reform of the financial sector. Since Estonia is a small county and
operated under the Soviet system for about 50 years, the number of people with the trining
and experience needed to implement a complex program of economic reforms is lmited.
However, as one of the most developed and western-oriented of the former FSU repub'cs,
Estonia is probably in a better position with regard to implemention capacity than are the
other FSU republics which were not independent countries with a ful instituttonal



- 23 -
inf    ctu  duting this cenuy and which lacked the links that Estonia maintained with
Western Europe while part of the Soviet Union. Still, as implementation resources are
limited compared to the task ahead, the Bank has made special efforts in the context of this
initial opeon in Estonia to ensmure that a substantial program of technical assistance is part
of the overall effort.
63.      Resource Availabty. Estonia faces a major resource mobilization task if it is to
avoid further sharp contractions in economic activity and the consequent social problems that
this would bring following the substantial reductions in real incomes that have already taken
place in tie past two years. In large part because of the policy reform program that the
govemnment has announced and is successfully implementing, the country enjoys broad
support in the donor community for this effort, and prospects are good for closing the
financing gap.
64.      External Environment. While the pace of Estonia's economic stabilizon and
recovery depends primarily on what Estonia can do for itself in terms of implementing
apiate policies, resuctring the public enteiprises, and providing adequate
infrastructure to support the growth of production, the process will also depend on extemal
developments. In addition to the need for adequate foreign exchange resources on
appropriate terms, as oudined in the previous section, Estonia's economic recovery will also
depend on developments in the external environment over which it has little control. Most
important is the pace at which the politkcal and economic situation in the PSU is stabilized,
for this will be critical in determining the pace at which Estonia's exports to the FSU can
return to previous levels relative to GDP. That in turn will determine the financial
viabiliy of many of its entprises, the rate at which these can be privaized and/or
restructWred, the supply of inputs that can be imported from the FSU to support production in
Estonia, and the degree to which Estonia will have to use convertible currency that has been
earned or borrowed in non-FSU countries to cover payments deficits on FSU trade. At the
moment, the risk of a slow pace of nonnalization in the PSU appears to be fairly high.
65.      Some slippage in the program in terms of the level and timing of financing is
quite possible given the riks discussed in this section. If all possible efforts were already
being made to do the following: (i) to work at the finn-to-firm level to restore supplies of
critical inputs from former FSU tading partners and elsewhere among the former CMEA
countries; (ii) to find economic domestic substitutes for imports; and very importandy,
(iii) to shift into lines of production that used imports more efficiendy and that were fully
consistent with the country's naural resource base, slippage in the reform program and
hortflls in the exteral financing would mean that Estomna would have to reduce imports,
which would mean a slower rate of growth. The risk of a contiung decline in production
driven by shortages of criia imported inputs underscores the imortance of the import
assistance to be prvided by the loan proposed here, and of mobilizing sufficient resources
from other donors to cover the finncig requirements laid out in the next chapter (pam. 69
in partcular oudines the implications of financing uncerinties).



- 24 -
m. EXTERNAL FINANCING AND CREDITWORTHSS
A. Fnancing Requirmens-Level and Structure
Lewl
66.      Estonia will need to mobilize about $485 million of external financing during the
next two years (Table 3). This will be required primarily to finance the current account
deficits that will be associated with the imports needed to prevent further declines in the
EBonian economy. Estonia also needs to build its external reserves to the levels required to
cover nornal tade flucuatons, and to maintain adequate foreign exchange cover for the
kroon under the currency board system. By next year, Estonia will also have to start
servicing the external debt now being contmcted.
Reqarments by Cunvncy Zone
67.      Estonia's extena financing needs are complicated by the fact that two-tinrds of
the current account financing dunng the next two years will be needed to cover cunent
acunt deficits with PSU tading partners, particularly Russia.6 However, virtually all of
the supplies of extnal aid that have been identified for Estonia are from convertible
curency sources outside Pt FSU. Using these resources to finance rible deficits may be
difficult.
68.      It is esima   that some $45 million of financing for PSU deficits may be
available during 1992-93 through clearing account arngements. Unless fnancing to cover
the residual ruble trade deficits can be found, Estonia wil have to pay for the rest of its net
imports from the FSU with convertible curmncy export earnings.  his approach may be
feasible since Esonia's projecd non-FSU ewport earnings (including services) exceed its
projected FSU trade deficit. As shown in Table 2, non-PSU merchandise exports are
projected to total $200 million for 1992-93, and another $65 million is expected from net
senice eots, bringing "free foreign exchange" availabilities to $265 million. C(he total
that is actually free and available to cover FSU deficits would, however, be smaller to the
extt that any of the non-FSU trade were through barter or bilateral payments
'  The foIowssg discussion is couchd m teWms of trade fincing with Russa, wuich ha traditionally
accountdfor abot 60% of E3sonia's FSU imports, in recent years but appL;es in principle to Estia's
thder FSU tadng patnns.
7  Ses are treated on a at basis in the absence of more detailed infonnation regarding their composio.
Thus it is possible thwat goss free freign exchag as defined here might be somewhat higher.



- 25 -
Table 3: Fiancng Plan, 19W2-193
(US$ million)
1992       1993       Total
funancing Requirements                320         165         485
Current Account Deficit           180         120        300
(excluding interest paida)
Debt Serviceb                       -          15         15
Amortization                      -           -
Inerest                           -          1S         15
Reserve Buildup                   140          30        170
Possible Flnancing Sources            320         165         485
Private Sources                    40          50         90
Direct Foreign Investment        20         25          45
Commercial t editSd             20          25          45
Public Sources                    280         115        395
Official Grdtnts                55          35          90
Loan Disbursements             105          55         160
Intl. Financial Institdons    80         25         105
Bilatel Donors"              25          30          55
Clearing Arangemens             20          25          45
Claims on Gold                  100          0         100
a. Net inters in Table  includes both interest inflows and outflow,.
b. Aswmes no liability for servcing debt of FSU, other than that associad with enterprbs
located in Estonia [amount to be clarified for grey cover].
c. Assumes maitig two months reserves for total impotts.
d. Some short term credits will be used duritg the year, but will not, an an annual basis,
contribute to meetig the BOP financmg requirements. Commercial credits with official
export credit agency cover is included under Private Sources; credits extended directly by
ECAs are mcluded under Public Sources.
arrangements.  For the same period, the total PSU trade deficit after cleaig account
arangements is estimated at $160 million. This means that Estonia's hard crey export
eanings from goods and services for these two years would be more than sufficient to cover
the $160 million residual payments deficit with Russia, with $105 million to spare.
However, if Estonia has only $105 million of convertble currency earnin  available,
$270 milion of the $375 mion non-FSU import bill for those two years would have to be
covered through capital account financing, including flows from both private and public
sources.



- 26-
69.       The pattem of financing discussed below assumes that at least part of the aid is
untied, and that the remaining portion that is tied is consistent with Estonia's non-FSU
impolts in tenns of products and countries of origin. To the extent that aid from bilateral
sources: (i) cannot be used to finance FSU imports; and (ii) is not consistent with Estonia's
non-FSU import requirements in terms of products and countries of origin, Estonia would
have to resort to some combination of the following: (i) purchase goods that are less suitable
to present needs; (ii) purchase goods at higher prices from tied sources; and (iii) because of
the consequent increased costs, accept a lower total level of imports and thus a slower pace
of economic recovery.
70.      The constraints that face Estonia in reconciling tied aid flows with residual import
requirements will be eased to the extent that mechanisms can be found to finance mble
deficits directly. Though some net credit may be availiable through bilateral clearing account
arrangements, it would be difficult for Russia and Estonia's other FSU trading partners to
extend substantdal trade credits to Estonia, given its shortages of domestic and foreign
capital. However, a porion of the aid coming to Estonia from the donor community should
be untied and available for financing ruble deficits.
71.      Since the FSU current account deficits are expected to be nearly twice the size of
the convertible cuncy current account deficits over the next two years, the need to match
financing to the FSU trading patterns poses a critical challenge for Estonia's external aid
coordination and intemal foreign exchange management. This underscores the need for a
well-managed aid coordinaton process, and highlights the importance of the foreign aid and
extemal debt undts which the government is establishing as part of its economic reform
program. These units will need to wokk closely with other ministries and agencies-
particularly with Trade, Economy, and the Bank of Estonia. If necessary, technical
assistance can be made available under the present loan to support these efforts.
Shc4uwre by Type and End Use
72.       In designing an external financing package for Estonia, it is also necessary to
consider the restrictions which official aid donors often place on the end use of their aid
(i) balance of payments support; (ii) project aid; and (iii) technical assistance.' -
73.      Estonia's greatest present need is for balance ofpayments support. If all aid
could be obtained durng the next two years as BOP support (program aid), this would give
Estonia maimum flexibility in managing its foreign exchange flows wbich, as noted above,
will be difficult because of consl Itregarding the countries and markets in which vanous
aid flows can be used. The Bank will encourage donors to malk as much of the aid as
possible available as BOP support during the next two years. The present World Bank
s  In addition, the IMF plans to restrict a myor share of its initial ass_tne to building up the nation's
resrva. Such funds will not be able to support cunret aunt fiacing require_m.



- 27 -
hbilitation Loan, for example, while targeted at imports for four broadly defined seors,
can be reallocated for other high prority imports, the only exception being the standard
"negative Is" that includes products such as weapons, tobacco and alcohol.
74.          The govemment's highest priorities today lie with obtaining the imports
needed to stabilize the economy. Neither the domestic nor the external resources are
available to support major new investments at this time. Consequently, project los for new
projects are a lower priority within the next few months. However, some project aid could
be useful if focussed on restrchtring public enterprises for privatizaton. Also, project-type
loans for ehabiliation and moderizaton to increase the efficiency of existing facilities,
prcularly in the energy, transport and communications sectors will be quite impoitnt.
Project financing from private foreign sources, especially through directforeign investment,
is also of high priority.
75.      As noted above, Estonia will need substantial amounts of techical assistance
from abroad during the net few years. Donor support for such technical assistance is being
sought actively (e.g. the technical assistance that the Government of Finland has agreed to
suply in support of the present Rehabiliaton Loan). However, technical assistance funds
make very little contibution to the balance of payments since the flows lie outside the BOP
acunts. For example, saAes paid in Finland to a Finnish consutant in Finnish marks
would not show up in Estonia's balance of payments, even though dhe consultant works in
Etonia and the funds used to pay his salar would be counted officially as aid to Estonia.
Technical assistance expenses bave therefore not been included in the balance of payments
projections shown here, and technical assistnce aid from donors cannot be counted towards
meeig the external financing requirements as defined in Table 3. (Further details on TA
reaqirements are given in Annex 5.)
B. Possible Source of Tinandng
76.      Of the $485 million required for 1992-93, $100 million will be covered by the
return to Estonia of gold that had been held abroad by the pre-World War H (this restution
has been aranged in cooperation with the Swedish and UK governments). Another $45
million would be available through clearing account arrangements. Given Estonia's very
recent exposure to convertible cunency markets, and the time which will be required to
develop its capacity to ea  foreign exchange and establsh its crediworthiness for
commial borrowing, it is estimated that no more that $90 million will come from private
sources for 1992-93, inclung both direct foreign investment and commercial credits.9 The
rmaining $250 million wUl thus need to come from public sources, which means that
official grants and loans will have to play a major role for the next several years. Esonia's
prospects for obtining such official financing are enhanced by (i) the clear and pressing need
9  Direcon frm export credit ancis are included under public deb. Loans from commercial bank
guarteed by expot credit agecies are ead as pvaw sourco debt



- 28 -
to maintain imports to avoid further economic compression and its consequent risk of serious
social and political problems, (ii) the government's good track record to date in taking
appropriate steps towards assuring short term stabilization, and (iii) the existence of a solid
economic reform program for stabilizaton and structural change (ref. Chapter IV), which
enjoys the support of both the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
77.      Direct Foreign Investment. Estonia has recognized the importance of attracting
diret foreign investment to provide access to capital, technology and makmets. Some direct
investment is already beginning to come into Estonia, particularly from Finland and the other
Nordic countries. Projects are being established in the hotel industry (to take advantage of
Estonia's touristic potential), in fish processing (based on Estonia's long tradition of deep sea
fishing), and in the textile/gannent industry (taking advantage of Estonia's well-educated
labor force and wages that are a fraction of those in neighboring countres). Foreign
investors enjoy equal treatment under the law with domestic investors-and are, in addition,
offered special tax incentives. However, major inflows are not expected until Estonia has in
place the necessary legal infratructure regarding, for example, bankruptcy and liquidation.
Significant increases will also depend on improvements in communications, ancillary business
services, and access to critical inputs including urban real estate. Foreign investment should
also increase once Estonia has established a longer track record in critical areas such as
(i) free current account convertibilit as promised under the recent monetary reforms, and
(ii) assured capital account convertibility for foreign investors. Direct foreign investment may
total $45 million on a disbursement basis for 1992-93. The total volume of foreign
investment commitments may well be larger, but the investments will generally be
implemented over several years. However, over the longer term, foreign investment will
provide a major impetus to Estonia's economic development and to its export earnings.
78.      Loans from Private Sources. Some private foreign borrowing without
government guarantee is reported from foreign commercial banks, but it appears that the
volume of such borrowing is still limited, as would be expected given the nation's lack of an
established credit history in convertible currency financial markets. Most commercial lending
to Estonia so far seems to be for short term trade credis, which do not make a net
contribution to meeting the aggregate annual balance of payments financing requirements.
However, given the strong support that Estonia enjoys among G-24 countries, good prospects
exist for some export credit agency cover for commercial lending. Thus about $45 million
can be expected from this source for 1992-93.
79.      Official Source Grab and Loans. The following pamgraphs summainze
tentative estimates of the funds that may be available to Estonia from official sources over
the next two years to cover the requirement of about $250 million of financing from official
sources. However, it should be noted that commitments from these sources are not definite,
and will need to be confirmed through the aid coordination process.
80.      The internatonalflnancial   tutions (IFis) are likely to authorize commitments
that could generate disbursements during 1992-93 totaling about $105 million. Of this, about



- 29 -
one-third would come from the IMP (largely as reserves financing, but possibly with some
BOP support); a similar amount may be available from EBRD) disbursements; the remainder
would come from the World Bank. None of these commitments have yet been confirmed,
however.
81.      From the bilateral donors, about $90 million in grant dsbursements is anticipaWed
for 1992-93. However, some of the grant funding that is currently anticipated may end up
being used to finance technical assistance, and such assistance tends not to appear in the
balance of payments for reasons noted earlier.
82.      Another $55 million in disbursements will be required for 1992-93 from bilateral
loas. Direct lending from bilaterl export cret agencies (ECAs) is expected to become a
significant though not major source of financing over the next several years. Trade credit
facilities have been or are being established for Estonia by Denmark, Canada, and Germany;
others are acticipated. Cover for commercial medium-term credits will depend, at a
minimum, on the adoption of a stabilization program with the International Monetary Fund
and a full state guarantee. In addition, cover from export credit agencies will be enhanced
by progress with stiotural adjustment and clear evidence of creditworthiness in the form of
sufficient foreign exchange eanings capacity. In the current distorted and uncertain
envionment, ECAs will need to pay particular attention to the financial and economic
viability of projets proposed for financing under export credits. There may be significant
opportnities for cofinancing arrangements with multilateral institutions, which would help
provide additional assurances regarding the economic merit of such investments. Some $50
million may be forthcoming through various forms of ECA support during 1992-93.
83.     The residual financing is expected to come in the form of commitments by G-24
members for additionalfstsbut- ng BOP assitance. Preliminary indications are that at
least $100 million would be mobilized from the G-24 for Estonia. Without such funding, the
compression of imports will have to be more severe, which could well result in a further
decline in national output and personal incomes.
84.     In addition to external resources designed to fill the balance of payments gap,
substantial resources are expected to be available to help finance Estonia's techical
assistance requirements. Potetal major sources include the Nordic counies and the
BC's PHARE program.
85.     Aid coordinaon wiUl play a vital role in securing the funds to meet Estonia's
financing requirements, thereby helping assure the success of the government's reform
program (see Section IV below). The staff of the World Bank and Inanal Monetay
Fund have been working closely for several months towards this objective by: (i) providig
analytical work regari  finncing requirements and possible sources of financing for
private and officil sources; (ii) prepang briefing notes and background papers;
(ill) contacting representatves of potential donor countries; (iv) participating within the G-24
framework for the coordination of assistance to the Baltic countries, which is chaired by the



- 30 -
BC and involves par1tciPation of other inteonal financial institutions; and
(v) participating in the coordinadon of technical assistance.
C. External Debt Mangement
86.      As a repubHc within the former Soviet Union, Ritonia was allocated rewsponsibility
for 0.61 percent, or $30.40 million, of the extmeal debt of the FSU.10 However, on March
16 1992, the chairmen of the Supreme Councils of the three Baltic states declared that their
countries "are not legal sccessors of the former Soviet Union and therefore cannot take
responsibility for servicing and paying off its extenal debt." Discussions on this issue
continue. Other than this possible external liability, Estonia has accepted responsibility for a
minimal amount of debt that was contracted prior to independence for enterprs  on Estonian
soil, and has undertakn veiy limited borrowing since independence (e.g., for emergency oil
spplies last winter). The exact amounts, which will be confirmed by the External Debt
Letter, are not exptd  to have any effect on the nation's creditworthiness as stated in the
following pagraph. As shown in Tables 2 and 3 above, Estonia will need to borrow
substantial sums of foreign exchange during the net several years to help assure the success
of its economic reform program. If the funds were obtained exclusively on normal
commercial terms, or even on IBRD terms (closeto-market interest rates but long mauity
periods), the debt service ratio could rise above 30 percent within the next four years. Thus
the main debt   n    e     nt issue facing   onia today is to obtain the equivalent of at least
10-20 percent of its external financing resources on grant terms.
D. Creitworthness
87.      Having only recently regained independence and with no credit record, Estonia
will need time to establish full creditworness, a process that will be made more difficult by
the daunting task of reforming the public entelprise sector which the government faces. As
discussed in the extemal trade prospects sector above, Estonia's current account deficit under
the sustined reform scenario would be about 20 percent of GDP in 1992 and about 10
percent of GDP in 1993. In the longer term, if the current account deficits can be brought
back down to 2-3 percent of GDP by the mid-1990s, which a successful implementtion of
the government's econotic sabization and refom program should help ensure, and
between 10-20 percent of bilateral financing is on a grant basis, Estonia's outstanding debt
would be equal to about 20 pecent of GDP",1 and the debt service ratio should not exweed
The nge shown for Estonia she indicates differ  estmates regadog (a) he total PFSU dobt
and (b) the percentog of that debt that would be aloct to the former publics.
A debt to GDP ratio of only 20% looks conservative by internatiol standards: the average for middle
income counries for 1990 was 40% (wbich includes a number of seriously indebted counies such as Cot
d'Ivoire, Congo, and Jordan with dbt exceeding 200% of GDP); and tho averae for upper-middle-income
countries (the gro  witin which Estonia is classfied was 30% in 1990. A ratio of around 20% for



- 31 -
about 25 percent of convertible cumncy export enings through the mid-1990s (since all
ernal debt projected herm is in converdble currencies, the debt service burden must be
mared against converible cuncy exorts, not total expons). The ratio with rsect to
non-PSU exports of senrices as well as goods should remain below 20 percent. The ratio
would also be teduced to the extent tbat the replacement of the ruble by convertible national
currecies in the PSU takes place (as has already happened in Estonia, for example). The
debt service atio wod drop sharply if the ruble itself were to become a freely convertible
currenq
88.      In view of the considerable uncertainty that surrounds balance of payments
projecdons for Estonia, the Bank will continue to monitor closely the evolution of its debt,
and will seek to assure through aid coordination activities that as much of the foreign
assa    to Estonia will be either on highly concessional teris or on a grant basis. On this
basis, Etonia is at present cditworthy for the levels of lending proposed in the above
fnancing plan.
convertible curny external dbt sems more approprite in the cas of Edonia, however, because
co_vudble Cun33cy eos are to such a  al share of total GDP (and even of total exports).



- 32 -
In. T     GoVERN    ENT9s EcoNO iIC REFORM PROGRAM
89.      The Govenment of Estonia has developed a program of economic stabilization,
adjustment and structural reform for the next two years in cooperation with the World Bank
and the Intenational Monetary Fund. The key policy and institutional reforms addressed by
this program-for which the Bank's Rehabilitation Loan and the IMF Standby Amngement
will provide vital support-are in the areas of prices, incomes policy, public finance,
monetary reform, external trade and payments, public enterprise management and reform,
private sector development, competition and anti-monopoly policies, commercial baning
restructuring, social safety net design and maintenance, and economic management. (Box
3.1 summarizes the key structural reforms).
A. Stabilization and Adjustment Policies for 1992
Price Policy
90.      The government had made major strides in liberalizng prices prior to
implemenlting the monetary reform in late June, and on July 9, it removed controls on state
enterprise profit margins imposed by local authorities, except for those enterprises owned by
these authorities. The government recognizes the need to complete the price liberalization
process as soon as possible, and to that end, intends to remove price controls on flour,
cereals, grain, bread, sugar, macaroni and returnable botes no later than October 15, 1992.
Price controls will remain temporarily after that time in cases where the authorities judge that
monopoly power on the part of producers could lead to abuse. Meanwhile, the government
will continue to refrain f*om subsidizing any consumer goods or services, or providing
subsidies to state enterpses, except for selected public utilities. By October 1992, the
government will initiate a study of tariff setting procedures for municipal and public
entewrpnse services-including public transportation-in order to phase in cost-based pricing,
thus avoiding the need for substanial public subsidies and the consequent drain on the
general government budget. This study will be coordinated with the government's plans to
raise fuel taxes (para. 93 (d)).
91.      Although the prices of virtually all goods have now been freed from ainisive
controls, the govermment expects that further adjustments in relative pnces will continue to
take place, especially when Russia increases the price for petroleum product exports, an
action expected this fall about the time the heatng season begins. As the Estonian economy
is bighly energy intensive, and as the prices of petroleum products from Russia are still well
below world market prices, the necessary changes in relative pices will be substantial and
will lead to difficult adjustments.



- 33 -
Box 3.1 - S   ywnay of the Systmkc Rform Prags
I. ENTERPRISE REFORM
Corponftlon/Commerclalizaffon. State-owned enterprises have been converted into joint-stock
coaes, are autonomous and bave externa boards of dietos. The government will (i) introduce
amendments to the enterprise law to tighten reporting rquirements and define the role of board members; (ii)
adopt EC-based accounting and auditing standads by 12/31/92; (iii) increase financial discipline in enerprises.
Direct budgetary support to enterprises has boen eliminated and restraints are built in to monitor potential
subsidies ftom all levels of government. By October 1992, a system will be developed to monitor of inter-
enterprise arrears and subsidies through stute-owned commercial banks and a plan will be developed to deal with
etins arrears and prevent their accumulation.
P|ivat1zatlon. Privatization law for smal enterprises was passed in 1989; 33% of small entepises
privatization is now complete. In May 1992, the value ceiling was aised to increase the scope of the law. A
proposd for privatizing the housing stock and medium and large enterprises will be cnsered by parliament in
October 1992. In the meantime, 260 enterprises have been identified for sale to foreign and domestic investors.
20-30 large enterptises will be identified before October for demonstation sale after the necessay TA is
acquired. Seven alrady being privatzed to gain experience.
Restitution. Regulations to delineate the procedures for restitution including valuation and compensation
principles have been submitted to Parliament. A deadline of 12/31/92 will be set for restitution claims. 'Te
govenmnent will be given the right to sell property not claimed by that time. The identification of non-
restitution property for privatization will be completed by January 31, 1993.
Lgal Framework. The legal framowork for enterprise reform is largely complete. A bankruptcy law was
passed in June 1992. Contract and mortgage laws will be sutinitted to parliament by Ootober 1992.
11. PRO-COMPETrrION AND ANTI-MONOPOLY POLICIES
jD_nonopolivatio. Former monopolistic enterprises in the wholesale and retail sectors are largely broken
up. A demoopolization wording group will be established by September 1992 to develop an approach and
schedule for demonopolization, and to begin the program by March 1993. Basic competition and anti-monopoly
legislation will be submitted to Parliament by October 1992.
Private Sector Faciliaon. The government will continue efforts to: sell separable activities and moveable
assets of large enterprises; contract out public services; and remove obstacles to obtaining key inputs. FIAS is
undertkng a stL -ly to assist in promoting foreign investments. Leisation will be amended to based on results
by December 1992.
mE SRENGTHENING OF THE COMMERCIAL BANKIG SYSTEM
Banling Lislton. Technical assistncoe has been obtained to draft a nw commerc_ial bang law based
on european standards. The charter of the DOE and a new banldng law will be submitted to parliament by
November 1992.
Bnoking Sector Restucturing. An inter-agency working group has been established to make
gm& ho8 for strengtening the commercial banldng system. A commcial bank restructuring program
wil be submitted to the government by October 1992. By November 30, 1992 the government will (J) develop a
plan to deal with inter-enterptise arrears and non performing loans; (ii) identify a strategy to liquidate,
restructure, recapitalize or privatize banks; and (iii) take steps to improve internal efficiency of the banling
Acounting, Auding, and Playmen Sysyems. By September ;992, the government, in cooperadon with
the BOE, will submit legislation mandating use of internationaUly accepted accounting and auditing sndards for
com_meia banis and develop a plan for implemntation by March 1993.
(contd)



- 34 -
Box .I - Swmary of the Systemic Rfoim P'rogam (coat)
IV. SOCAL PROTECTION AND SAFETY NET
Poverty Line. 'Me govemment plans by Docember 1992 to develop a realistic poverty line which would
become the benchmawk for social assistace programs. The objective is to ensure that individuls recve paymet
sufficient to bing their incomes at least to the poverty line. A network of scial assistance offics w  be devloped
to channel help to the most vulnerable groups. Implementation will start in December 1992 and the system will
become filly operational by June 1993.
Tightening of Elibiity for Social Beneids. Sick pay refonr will be implemented by December 1992, placing
responsibilities for cost on employers and employees for the first 3-4 weeks of sickness Retiremnt age will be
raised as of Januaty 1993 Legislation would modify eligibility for unemployment benefits for new entrants and
reentrants, and would reinforce new job refulsal mles by Febnuay 1993.
Controlling Costs of PWleon Systems. Legislation to rationalize the presently usainable pension system
will be introduced by December 1992. A study will be conducted to compare merits of the flat-and eamings-related
pension rates.
Management of Unemplayment Progams. The risk of increasing unemployment is considerable.
Unemployment offices will be strgthened by December 1992. Retraining and other active labor market policies
will be undertaken with a specified level of financing.
Employees' Contibution to Social Beneits Program. ThL first draft proposal to reform financing
aangments of the social safety net and health services will be ready by December 1992. This will include a plan,
to start by March 1993, that will increase employees' contributions to the Social insurance and Health Funds, and
decrease employers' contributions to reach equal shares, and to separate insumce benefits from non-insurance
benefits. TA would be needed for the implementing an efficient operation of the Social Fund.
V. ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
Economic Reform Program Management. As part of initiating the currency reform, the government
established in June 1992 an inter-ministerial commission with BOE participation to monitor the reform program.
Instituional strengtheing requirments will be identified in the Ministty of Fnance (with BOE participation), and a
Research Dpatment will be established in BOE.
Stascal System. A staistical unit will be established by August 31, 1992 in the Ministry of Fiance to
provide key economic indicators suitable for program monitoring. Data will be published periodically in English.
l Exbtnal Assistce Management and Coordinaion. The govenment established in June 1992 a unit in MOF
to coordinate external assitance within which a system for external debt monitong and repotting will be formed by
November 1992.
Public Investment Program. By March 1993, a mechanism to set priorities among seckts and to evauate
projects will be established. A 3-year roiling public investment progam will be produced by June 1993. The
program will focus on establishing appropriate sectoral policy fiamework, setting relative public invesbtn
priorities, and determining the future of ongoing project.
LegIl Sydems for Pblicy Dedsgn and lmple     on. The government recognizes the need to enhance its
capacity to formulate and coordinate legislation to manage the national economy. Ae juridical infstuct  to
enfoe ls related to this end will also be enhanced by May 1993.



- 35 -
Income Polc
92.      The govemment wants in the medium tenm to establish a market-based system of wage
detenniation that will encouage labor mobflity and productivity. However, in the meantime, to
reduce infltionary expectations, to contain a possible wage-price spiral, and to avoid the
decaitaliation of state enterprises tbrough excessive wage increases, the government is
introducing an incomes policy which sets guidelines that limit the percentage increase for average
compensation for employees in the government (including local authorities) and in state
eneprises for the period August-December 1992. The guidelines are being based on the
argeted increase in the consumer price index during the period, taldng into account special
actors such as increses in bread, gas and heating prices. The govemment's aim is to prevent
any further decline in real wages. At the same time, wage increases above the specified ceiling
will be penalized by an excessive wges taxr on any amount over the guidelines of the wage bill of
an entepise, adjusted for the number of workers. Such excess wages will be taxed at 200
percent when wages exceed the guideline by 1-3 percent, and at 400 percent when more than
3 percent.
Ficd  Poly
93.      To avoid exacerbating the iation that is necessarily part of the adjustment process,
tght fiscal policy will coinue to be required, and several measures are being put into place to
assure success.
(a) Under the currency board system that was intoduced as part of the currency reform in
June, govermment borrowing from the Cental Bank is prohibited.
(b) The price lberaization undertaken by the Estonian Government over the past year has
sharply reduced subsidies, making a balanced budget much more feasible. The
remaining subsidies will be made rmparent in the budget.
(c) As part of the commerdzaon of public eterpdses, subsidies to enterprises (have
been] eliminat  except for cases limited primarily to enterxises providing public
services such as public heating and transport.
(d) Various rue    a        meazures have been implemented, including an increase
in the VAT rate from 10% to 18% on June 20, 1992, and the government plans to
propose to Pariament furtier revenue generating measures including a specia ad
valorem excise tax of 10 percent on high octane gasoline and a 1 percent tax on other
fuels.
(e) BorroWng by muicpaaes has become subject to prior approvE' by the Ministry of
Finance.
94.      By closing off the government's access to the creation of high powered money to
flnance fiscal deficits, the cunrncy board system sgnificandy reduces the risk that the
gove0 ment will "print" money to cover deficits arising from expansionary fiscal policies.



- 36 -
However, since (a) the government can stil borrow from the commercial banking system and the
public at large, and (b) the govemment is likely to come under political pressure to increase
unemployment benefits and to subsidize failing enterprises as unemployment increases during the
process of restrucing, downsizing, and/or closing these firms, the government may not be able
to attain its goal of a balanced budget, with the result that there may be increased inflationary
pressures driven by fiscal deficits.
Monetay Policy
95.      The introduction in June of the Currency Board and the new Estonian Kroon have
helped establish the framework needed to assure the program. Having its own national currency
will allow Estonia to pursue domestic economic and financial policies independent from those of
the rest of the ruble zone, enabling it to isolate itself from inflation in the FSU. ITe reform will
also eliminate the chronic shortages of cash rubles, a problem that had created serious internal
payments botdenecks, thus slowing economic growth. By making the currency fully convertible
on cure  account and providing greater thaD 100% cover for the domestic currency supply, the
county has aready gone wel beyond what most transforning socialist economies have been able
to do. Experience since June indicates that the currency board approach is working well; extermal
reserves have been reasonably stable; the kroon has appreciated against the ruble; and
government borrowing is beimg controlled. However, inflation has picked up since the low of
5% in May. Inflation for June and July totaled about 38%, and the cost of living is expected to
rise by an additional 25% by the end of 1992. Thus, despite strict controls on money supply
xpansion, an imflationary momentum exists that will be difficult to control. In the future, the
government will need to monitor caeully the operation of the currency board system to assure
that, in the case of exogenous trade shocks that reduce foreign exchange reserves, and in the case
of differendal rates of productivity growth in Estonia and Germany, the exchange rate is adjusted
to assure that (i) needess domestic economic contraction is avoided, and (ii) Estonia's export
products remain competitive on world markets.
External Poicy
96.      The growth strategy for a small country like Estonia has to be centered around foreign
trade, and sustainable grwth can only be ensured if the country produces and exports goods and
services where it has a tadiional or acquired comparative advantage. For Estonia, these include
wood and wood products, paper, building materals, processed agricultural goods (especially
dary and meat products), fish, textiles and tourism. Estonia is commited to maintaining an open,
outward-oriented economy with minimal tra& barriers. As part of its economic stabilization and
reform program, Estonia removed aU ewport quotas and licensing requirements as of June 29,
1992, except for alcohol, tobacco, grain, cables, peat, shale, sand, clay, limestone, dolomite and
hides, for which restictions will be removed as of January 1, 1993, unless such licensing is
deemed necessary for reasons of secuity and health. In the case of fenrous and non-ferrous
metals, exports taxes have been imposed instead. Export taxes also apply to rapeseed oil,
antiques, and selected cultl items. Wbile giving special emphasis to exports desdned for non-
PSU markets, Estoia will also seek to increase from the curent depressed levels the volume of
trade with rpublics of the former Soviet Union.



- 37 -
97.      On the import side, the government does not currently plan to impose or intensify any
import restrictions for balance of payments purposes. Though it curntly maintains a largely
tariff-free regime, it may introduce temporary, non-discriminatory import surcharges of perhaps
10-15% if needed to help finance the unemployment benefits during the enterprise reform process
and to meet other expenditure needs. This would reduce the need for cential govemment
borrowing, thus enhancing prospects for maintaming stability in domestic prices and in the
exchange rate.
98.      As part of its outward-oriented economic strategy, Estonia is introducing a
comprehensive modem customs system, allowing more timely and accurate information on trade
flows than is currently available through the costly and often inaccurate process of firm-level
surveys of import and export activity.
B. Systemic/Structural Reforms
Enterprise Reform
99.      As an integral part of Estonia's policy to transform its economy into a market-based
system, a vast majority of enterprises are expected to be privadzed. The country has already
made considerable progress toward this goal. However, additional time will be required to design
and implement the full program. In the interim, Estonia has taken measures to enhance the
efficiency of enterprises remaning in state hands for the short to medium term, and to construct
an appropriate legal framework for aU enterprises. In light of the experience with enterprise
reform elsewhere, this process is likely to be complex and protracted. The Estonian program has
set ambitious targets, but some slippage may be inevitable.
0OO.     Corporatizaton/Commerialization. All large stateowned enterprises have been
converted into joint-stock companies. They are autonomous of founding ministries, have extenal
boards of diectors, and no explicit subsidies from the government are being paid. Recent
discussions concerming state-owned enterise mgement have focussed on harnessing this
autonomy, which is now considered excessive in view of rumors of large-scale asset stripping and
lack of skilled managerial guidance. In response, the government is assessing the role of the
branch ministries to more effectively perform ownership functions in areas such as restructuring
and lquidation, prior to the time when enterprises enter the privatization stream.
101.    In addition, Estonia is now attempting to strengthen the discipline of these enteprises
by: (i) proposing amendments to the enterprise law to tighten reporting requirements and to
define more clearly the role of Board members; (ii) introducing new internationally accepted
accounting and auditing standards, including an expanded role for extnal audits, and
(iii) increasing the financial discipline in enterprises. As part of the latter, the government will
need to address the issue of enteprise arrears, which have risen to unacceptable levels and are
uming the ity  of the financialindustrial enterprise system. All direct budgetry
support to enterprises has been eliminated, and a system is in place to monitor and restain
potenial subsidies from all levels of government to SOEs. Estonia will have a system to monitor
and develop guidelines to prevent accumulation of inter-enteprise arrears and subsidies to
enterprises thrmgh the state-owned commercial banking system by October 1992. The



- 38 -
government will also inidate a study to assess tariff setting procedures for municipal and state-
owned enterprise services by the same time in order to phase in cost-based pricing.
102.    Privatization. The design of Estonia's privatization program has been initiated. The
govenment has submitted to Parliament a proposal for privatzing the housing stock and medium
and large entrises, or shares thereof, through a combination of vouchers and outright sales.
This is intended to provide a balance between rapid privatization on the one hand, and the
provision of fresh capital and skilled corporate governance on the other. Detailed principles for
this privatizadon and a final draft Privatizadon Act will be completed by October 1992. In the
meanime, a st has been identified and submitted to Parliament of 260 enteprss tat can be
sold to both foreign and domestic investors prior to the passage of the Privatization Act. Twenty
to thirty large enterprises will be identified for demonsation privatation by October 1992, and
the government has sought techncal assistance to begin seling a group of 10-20 of these
enterpnses as soon as approval for the short list is granted and the technical assistance is
received, at the latest by year-end 1992. Finally, the government has submitted to Parliament a
proposal to reorganize the State Property Department (hitherto responsible for designing the
privatization strategy), with the intention of negoating privatization transactions emphasing
future investment and employment preservauion rather than sales pnce. The agency would be
responsible for managing assets (including restuchtring, liquidaton or other measures necessary
as preparation for privatization) and negodating transactions for those enterprises identified as
privatization candidates. This will be done on a pragmatic, case-by-case basis. Where enteprises
cannot be sold "as is', they will be restctuc d or closed as appropriate. A new deputy Miister
of Economy has been appointed to oversee the implementation of this program. Technical
assistance from the Treuhandanstak in Germany is forthcoming.
103.    An initial privatization law for small enterprises was passed in December 1990, and a
significant number of service, trade and catering enterprises (some 50%) have already been
auctioned by the responsible municipalities. The sales of senrice, trade and catering
stablishments will be completed by July 1993. In addition, this law was amended in May 1992
to increase its scope by increasing the asset ceiling and pemitting such privatizations in all
sectors of the economy.
104.    Restitution. Considerable progress has been made in retoing property to former
owners. Regulations have been submitted to Pariament which delineate the procedues for
restitution, including valuaton and compensation principles. The government is compiling a list
of stte-owned properties identifying those which have been claimed, and has been given the right
to sell all proerty not claimed. The identificaion of non-rstion property for privatization
will be completed by January 1993.
105.     Legal Framework. The legl ftamework for enterprise reform is largely complete. A
banknptcy law was passed in June 1992. Drafts of a contract law and a mortgage law will be
submitted to Parliament by October 1992. An important step for implementing this legisation
will be to build up the insuonal capacity for dispute resolution.



- 39 -
Pro-Competiton and Anti-Monopoly Policies
106.    Many of the state enterpiises inherited from the planned Soviet economy are
monopolies. The industrial enteiprise structure is heavily concentrated, consisting of (i) regional
monopolies in wholesale and retil trade, ansportation, and services, and (ii) industrial conceris
or associations which can act as cartels. To stimulate competition, the govemment will enco,i:
new enry by both foreign and domestc investors and wil underake an active program lo bLi e
up existing enterprises. The introduction of a convertible national currency is serving to increase
interational competition, as is the effort to increase international trade.
107.    Demonopolfration. Progress bas been made in breaking up monopolistic entexprises
through subdivision of unnecessarily large conglomerates in the wholesale and retail sectors. The
govemment intends to establish a demonopolization worlkng group that will develop an approach
to and schedule for demonopolization. Systematic implementation of the program will begin by
early 1993. A draft Compeition Law is being prepared, and final legislation will be submitted to
Parliament by the fall of 1992.
108.    Private Sector Facilitation. Legislation has been enacted to permit domestic private
activity and foreign investment. To encourage new entry of small domestic businesses, the
govemment will continue its ongoing efforts to: (i) sell separable activities and moveable assets
of large enteises; (ii) contract out public services; and (iii) remove obstacles to obtaining key
inputs such as real estate.
109.    Foreign Investment. To stimulate foreign investment, the assistance of the World
Banks  Foreign Investment Advisor Service (MMAS) has been sought for a diagnostic study and
to assist in designing ways to promote such investment. Foreign investment procedures and
leslation will be amended as necessary by the end of 1992, based on the recommendations of
this sudy.
Ficia Sector Developmet
110.    Banking Legislation. The commercial banks are now in full compliance with existing
laws regarding reporting standards. Ihese laws lay a good foundation for improved supervision
of the commercial bans and for starting to idenify the banks that will have to be restructured,
recapitalized, privadzed or closed. Although the existing commercial baning law is penodically
amended and updated to make it more suitable for the new maret-based economic system, the
curft law (which comes from the Soviet era), does not provide an adequate basis for the reform
and development of the Estonian commercial baning sector in the longer term. Thus the
government, in coopraion with the Bank of Estonia, intends to submit a new commercial
banking law based on Europea standards to Parliament by late 1992.
111.    Fhnncial Sector Res. Given the seriously decapitalized condition of most
of the state-owned banks, the Bank of Estonia and the government place high priority on
restnictunig the banking sector. To this end, the government is establishing an Inter-Agency
Woring Group (inclng among others the Bank of Estonia and the Ministies of Finance and
Economy) to study and make recommendations regarding strengthening the commercial baning



- 40 -
system. This group will design and submit to government by late fail a program to restucture
and strengthen the commercial banking sector. This program will include:
(i)   A plan to appraise and deal with inter-enterprise arrears and non-perforning loans.
Serious consideration will be given to converting such arrears (perhaps at a discount as
under conventional bankuptcy restructuring procedures) into commercial bank loans
where appropriate.
(ii)   A strategy to liquidate, rstucture, recapitalize or piivatize banks.
(iii) Steps to improve intemal efficiency of the banking system;
(iv) A system for handling the financial losses associated with firms that must be liquidated
entirely, and for managing such firms until this process can be completed.
As indicated with regard to enteprise reform, the process of financial sector reform is likely to
be complex and time consuming, and the government should try to set realistic targets for
refonn. The restucturing of the bankdng system will also need to be very closely linked to
enterprise reform.
112.     Accouning, auditing and payments systems. The BOB and the government plan by
to present legislation by October 1992 mandating a system of intemationally accepted
accounting/auditing standards for commercial banks and will develop a program for its
mplementation in cooperation with other PSU authorities engaged in a simiar effort. By the
same time, the government wiU assure that commercial banks are adhering to accepted prudential
standards.
Social Prohtction and Safety Net
113.     The government recognizes that the need for measures to protect the most vulnerable
groups and encourage productive employment is acute during economic stabilization and
restructuring, when incomes and jobs of large numbers of people are adversely affected. Social
benefits in Estonia are generally adminisred by the government rather than by individual
enterprises, which means that people who lose their jobs during enterprise restrucuring, or who
must move to a different job (perhaps in a different town), will usually still have access to social
benefits. As a priority action to facilitate labor market adjustment, the government is removing
restictons on labor mobility, allowing citizens to move and settle freely within the territory of
Estonia (though housing shortages are still a practl constraint). In addition, the government is
seeklng ways to assure adequate financing for the social safety net. While good social protection
systems are vital during the transition process, budgetary costs must be kept manageable. The
social safety net system, and benefit eligibility criteria and adminisaton in particular, will be
carefully reviewed with these considerations in mind. In developing and strengthening its social
protection and safety net system, the government will need to carefully monitor developments in
the enterprise sector on the one hand, and the fiscal impact of safety net requi- aents, on the
other hand.



- 41 -
114.     Poverty Line. The current system of social assistance is not sufficiently means-tested
nor carefuUy trgeted, deficiencies that may place a heavy burden on the system in the near
future. The government therefore plans to define a realistic poverty line (taking into account
interaional experience). This line would become the benchmark for all social assistance
programs. Existing benefits may have to be adjusted once this line is set. Clarification of
methodology and definition of the poverty line will be completed by the end of 1992, and wiU
include provisions for regular revisions of the poverty level to maintain its value in real terms.
For the medium-term, the government wiU seek to assure that individuals receive payments
sufficient to bring their incomes at least to the poverty line. Simultaneously, it will continue to
develop a network of social assistance offices so that necessary help can be channeled to the most
vulnerable groups, either on a means-tested basis or on the basis of well-defined target groups.
Implementation of a revised social assistance system will begin by December 1992 and will be
fully operational by the middle of 1993.
115.     Tightening Eligibility for Social Benefits. The government is introducing other
measures to conserve fiscal resources and to make the social benefit system consistent with
mainstream practices of market economies. By the end of 1992, it will implement sick pay
reform, placing on employees and employers the responsibility for bearing the costs of the first 3
to 4 weeks of sickness. Staring in January 1993, the retirement age wiU gradualy be raised. In
addition, unemployment legislaton wiU be proposed that modifies eligibility of new entrants and
reentants for unemployment benefits, and enforces new job refusal rules.
116.     Controlln Costs of Pension Systems. Since the budgetary sustainability of the
crently suspended earnings-related pension scheme is doubtful, legislation wil be introduced to
rationalize the pension system starting in January 1993. Pending implementation of a rationalized
scheme, the government wil not dismantle the cun flat-rate temporary scheme. In the
meantime, it will complete a study to compare the reltive merits of flat and earnings-related
pension rates and to assess ways of increasing cost effectiveness. Consideration should also be
given to introducing a system such as in Chile where the pension contributions are paid into
private pension plans that in tun invest the resources in private enterpnse development. Such a
system should be introduced, however, only after appropriate capacity for prdential supervision
has been developed.
117.    Mnagement of Unemployment Programs. Although unemployment in Estonia is
still low, the risk of rapid unemployment growth in the future is considerable. The present system
of unemployment offices and financing labor market policies is inadequate to handle the
anticipated increases. Therefore, by the end of 1992, the government will strengthen local
employment offices with additional resources (including plans for expansion of such offices to
geographic areas likely to be hardest hit by unemployment) and design a system of retmaining and
other active labor market policies for displaced workers. A specified level of financing will be
assured for the program so that it does not become a residual activity.
118.     Employees' Contributions to Social Benefits Program. The presw   system does not
provide any visible linkage between employees' contributions to the Social Isurance Fund and
Health Fund, and the benefits obtained. Therefore, over an extended period of time, beginning
not later than by the spring of 1993, the government will start increasing the employees'
contibution and reducing the employers' contribution; evenually an equal shares system will be



- 42 -
established. At that time the government will also prepare a schedule for separating non-insurance
benefits (such as family allowances) from earnings-based insurance-type benefits (such as medical
insurance and old age pensions). The former will be financed directly from the budget rather than
from payroll taxes. Both of the above-mentioned changes will be part of the proposal for the
refonn of fnancing arangements for the social safety net and health services, includng
necessaty institutional and organizational changes (e.g., redefinig responsibilities of the
ministries and considering the merger of the Ministry of Social Welfare and the Ministry of
Health). The first draft of this proposal will be ready before the end of 1992.
Economic Management
119.    Economic Reform Program Management. In June 1992, the government established
an inter-ministerial commission, r t  to the Prime Minister, to monitor the implementation
of the economic stabilization and struchtral reform program. The goverment has identfied
requirements for institutional strengthenng in the Ministry of Finance including areas such as
cash management (including cash flow projections), and wili establish a Research Depantment at
the Bank of Estonia by September 1992.
120.    Statistical Systems. Recognizing the importance of accurate, interationally-
comparable information on the perf irmance of the economy, the government is forming a unit at
the Ministry of Finance for maint' iaing economic data (output, fiscal, monetary, BOP, prices).
Key economic indicators suitable ;or program monitoring will be published periodically in
English by this unit for the donor community as of August 31, 1992.
121.    Externa Asdstance Management and Coordination. The government has
established a unit to coordinate external assistance (loans and grnts).  is unit wil implement a
system for external debt monitoring and reporting to IBRD by November 1992.
122.    iPublic Investment Program. In anticipation of a resumed public investment
program, the government will establish a mechanism to set priorities among sectors, establish
project evaluation criteria, and appraise projects proposed for public investment by March 1993.
The govenment will produce a first version of a rolling Three-Year Public Investment Program
by June 1993, recognizing that, unlike multi-year plans in the past, these plans will be focussed
on (i) establishing appropriate sectorml policy frameworks; (ii) setting relative public investment
priorities among and within sectors; and (iii) examining only the requirements for public
investment and programs, not those for enterise investments-which would be handled by the
banking system. One of the first tasks will be to detrmine whether public investments projects
that were started before independence should be terminated, restudured, or completed as
originally designed, talkng into account the fundamental changes in the economic environment.
123.     Legal Systems for Policy Design and Implentation. Despite the major legislative
progress in recent months, the government recognzes that further enhancement of its capacity to
formulate and coordinate legislation for managing the national economy would be desirable to
assure that such legislation is consistent and effective. In addition, it intends to enhance the
nation's juridical infrastucture to enforce laws related to economic management by May 1993.



- 43 -
V. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Objectives and Overview
124.    The Bank's immediate objectives are to assist the govenment in the implementation of
its economic reform program, while providing import financing to maintain essential services and
production. Ibe Bank's medium-term objectives are to continue to support a full transition to a
market-based economy (including structral measures to ensure a vigorous supply response to the
new incenive system), while financing sound investments in key sectors. More specifically, the
Ba's activities would aim to
(a) support the process of economic reform by facilitating the implementation of
macroeconomic policies and systemic or structural reforms needed to stabilize the
economy and stimulate production, while providing quick disbursing support to critical
sects of the economy;
(b) strengthen the design and implementaton of a social safety net that would protect the
most vulnerable groups during the transition period and assist in labor force
restructuring;
(c) build insttuonal capacity in economic management to suppoIt a market-based
economy; and
(d)  upport sector-specific reforms to restuctu  or expand productive capacity and
promote medium-term investments to improve economic efficiency and protect the
environment (focussing iniially on the critical energy sector).
The impl    tion of the reform program being supported by this loan wiU be monitored closely
by the Bank and the degree of its success will be used as a benchmark aganst which the scope
and content of the evolving Bank assistance program to Estonia wil be. determined.
125.    Estonia joined the IBRD in June 1992 and the Bank's relationship with Estonia is
therefore still at an incipient stage. The proposed Rebabilitation Loan would be the first Bank
opeato in the country. Contacts with the Estoni  government were iniated shordy after
Estonia regained its independence and applied for membership (in August and September 1991
respectively). In anticipation of membe.rship, a Bank economic mission visited Estonia in January
1992 and rviewed the macmoeonmic siation, examing recent economic performance and the
policies required for strtnal economic reform and restored economic growth. It also examined
key sectors. inclding agul, industry, energy, tnsport, telecommunications, enviromnent,
municial services, health, education, and housing. A draft Cownby Econonic Memo rndam
will be d   d  to the Excutive Directors shorJy. In addition to reviewing recen economic
and policy developments, the rport examines macroeconomic prospects, including eternal
finacing requiements, and priorities for medium-term stucural reforms and sectoral policies
and investments. Based on work rlated to the CEM and the proposed loan, the following



- 44 -
discussion provides an initial outline of the Bank's country assistance strategy in a number of
areas.
Macroeconomic and Systemic lReforms
126.    The prmary focus of the Bank's assistance strategy is to assist the government in the
ongoing tansformation of the economy, in order to establish market mechanisms and restore
sustainable growth. The govemment's intentions, in this connection, are described in the
preceding section of this report and in the attached Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies
(Annex 3). The proposed Rehabilitation Loan will provide concrete support for the reform
program. Related actions by the Bank to further support the program are described briefly in this
section.
127.    Macroeconomic Policies. Bank advice on macroeconomic policies is being provided
through both CEM-reblted discussions and the prepaMion of this initial lending operation, in
close coordination with the IMD. The CEM (and subsequent economic updang reports) wil
also provide the basis for mobilizing and coordinating assistance from other multilateral and
bilateral agencies. This task will become increasingly important as the emphasis shifts from
macroeconomic stabilization to systemic and sectoral reform. Since the normalization and
diversification of trade relations will continue to be a critical area, we will also initia  a review
of trade issues in Estonia and the other Baltic States. More generally, we expect that issues
relating to the management of the public expenditure program, central/local fiscal relations,
investment planning and sectoral reform will become increasingy prominent in the policy
dialogue. These are areas in which the Bani's technical expertise can be partiularly helpful to
the Estonian authorities in developing the next stages of the reform program and utiWizng foreign
assisance in an efficient manner.
128.     Systemic Reforms. In CEM and loan-related discssions, the Bank has already
provided initial support in the design and introduction of systemic reforms in a number of wide
ranging areas. We intend to continue to support this process through our ESW, lending and
upervision work. Bank advice and technical assistance proposals have focused, in particular on
the following areas:
(a) Enterprise Reform/Pro-Competition and Anti-Monopoly Poliies. Advice has been
provided by missions on various aspects of enterpnse reform and competitiontanti-
monopoly policies. Technical assistance proposals have been prepared in the areas of
pilot privatizaton and anti-monopoly policies. An enterrise survey has also been
initiated, and MAS has, at the request of the govemment, undertaken a review of the
environment for foreign investment. Financial support for the enterprise reform
process, drawing on this and further sector wor programmed in FY93, woud be
provided through a subsequent proposed lending operation focussing jointly oa
enterprise and financial sector reform.
(b)  hmncal Sedor Reform. The draft CEM provides extensive analysis of the
problems affecting Estoniats financial sector, and their links with the enterprise sector.
As a first step in the process of retuctring and stenging the commecial



- 45 -
baning system, a study to prepare a detailed plan will be initiated. The results of this
study, together with the work on the enteprise sector, is intended to be utilized in the
prparation of the above-mentioned enterprise and financial sector reform operation.
(c) Social Safety Net. The Bank is assisting the govermment in reviewing its social
protection and safety net system and identifying measures to strengthen the system
during the transition to a maket-oriented economy. Technical assistance proposals are
being prepared in several areas, including the development of a network of social
assistance offices, the steamlining and targetting of benefit programs and the
strengthening of local employment offices. In addition, the drft CEM provides
recommendations for improving efficiency and protecting essential services in the
health and education sectors. The proposed early assistance to strengthen the design
and implementation of social safety net programs will help protect vulnerable groups
from the prevailing dislocation and hardship, and the inevitable negative effects of an
economic reform process of this magnitude. This is essential for the socio-political
sustainability of the reform process.
(d) Economic Management. High priority must be given to strengthening the capacity of
policy-makers and staff to design and implement reforms. Although technical
expertise and education levels are relatively high in Estonia, market-oriented
professional sldlls need to be developed or adapted in a number of areas, including
accountng and legal frameworks and skills for a market economy. Many of the tasks
periformed by the public sector, ranging from statistical work to public investment
programming and aid manaeent, need to be redefined and strengthened. Technical
assstance, together with EDI and other training programs on various topics, is being
initated, to build up the government's capacity to perform essential economic
management functions and more generally to remedy skill deficiencies in areas that are
vital to a market economy. The Bank has initiated discussions with several bilateral
and multilateral donors active in Estonia to enhance complementarity of efforts in this
area.
Sedor-Specific Reforms
129.    In the short term, the government attaches high priority to preventing a collapse of
essnt  services (such as heat, power, transport and healh servces) and agricultural production,
and will therefore channel the imports financed by the proposed Rehabilitation Loan to these
sectors. In the medium-term, the govemment recoges that there will be a need for sector-
specific reforms and investments, complementary to the broader macroeconomic and systemic
reforms, in order to achieve the desired supply response, faciltate private sector activities,
increase efficiency and reduce environmental degradation. This section outlines the Bank's
preimiary assistance strategy in several key sectors.
130.     Energy. In view of the critical importance to Estonia of electricity production and
exports, on the one hand, and energy imports on the other hand, the Bank has already initiated
the project i    n  process in this sector, which is expected to lead to an early lending
opation which is liklly to have a significant environment component. The main pioridtes in the
sector are to improve energy efficency (among consumers and producers), switch to lower cost



- 46 -
and less polluting fuels (mainly away from fuel oil and, where possible, oil shale), improving the
environmental controls on combusdon units (especially for those fired by oil shale), imptove
security of supply (oil import faciLities and gas storage); retre old power sector units, reiabilitate
some units and convert others to gas; reduce hot water losses in urban heating systems and
replace boilers with more efficient gas-fired plans. Faced with much higher prces for imported
energy, conservation and efficiency has become a top priority of the government and would
constitute the core of a Bank lending operation, which would support a wide range of sectoal
policy and institutional reforms including pricing, taxation, ownersh  and efficiency measores.
131.    Agrkculture. The agriculture sector (including fisheries, foresty and livestock) is
especially critical for Estonia's export earnings and its food security. In the short-term, the
sector is facing an acute shortge of inputs (e.g., high protein feed, veterinary drugs, agro-
chemical inputs and spare parts) which are needed to avoid a further shalp decline in output.
Some of these inputs would be provided by the Rehabilitation Loan. In the medium-term, the
sector needs to address severa chalenges, including shifts in relative prices, reduced profitability
and an inadequate network of services oriented towards the growing number of small, private
farmers. The Bank's draft CEM provides a prelimnary assessment of the needed policy and
insftonal changes and the investment and technical assistance requirements in the sector.
Follow-up sector work is planned, including further work on the imporant fishing and forestry
sectos, to provide sound advice to the govement and initiate lending activties.
132.    Transportation. To meet urgent quirements, the Rehabilittion Loan would finance
imports of spare parts for the bus, trolley and tram system of urban tansporion and for the rail
system. For the medium-term, the draft CE3M provides a preliminary assessment of needed
policy and institutional changes, and investment and technical assistance requirements. These
include strengthening the institutional and regulatory framework, tariff-setting mechanisms and
maintenance, as well as upgrading or modenizing public transport, road, port, rail and aiport
facilities. The Bank has iniibted project pre-idenfification work in the sector to determine the
areas to be supported by an initial infucture lending operation.
133.    Envment. Projects in the above areas, particularly in energy, will contain
environmental components. In the energy sector, attention will be given to reducing the high
levels of aitorne pollution. Estonia is major source of pollution in the Gulf of Finland region,
emitting hundreds of thousands of tons of SO2, N02, and solid particles per year, of which about
75% come from the Baltic and Estonian Thermal Power Plants in north-east Estoa tha are
fueled with oil shale. In the agricure sector, environtal concerns are less severe.
However, nitrate pollution of the upper groundwater layers caused by agricultral nmoff of
ferdlizers and carelessness in the management of fertlizer stocks has been detcted in nearly half
of the Estonian territory. In the rnmspon sector, a major environmental concern is the high level
of tailpipe emissions, the result of poor vehicle design and mainteance. Improved public
tansport equipment should make a substantial conrbution, at least in urban areas.
B. Summary of the Bank's A tance Program
134.     Lending Program. Based on the priorites indicated above, the Bank is planning an
iniial anual tendig progm  of about US$30 million over the next three years. This would



- 47 -
allow one to two operations per year, which would be initially focussed on the implementation of
the reform program and associated financing requirements, and would emphasize relieving the
cridcal scarcity of inputs and spare parts. As the economy stabilizes and the need for fast-
disbursing import support decreases, Bank resources would gradually be channelled into
investments aimed at rebabilitating the country's infmstructure, and providing long-term
investment resources to the emerging pivate sector. Following the Rehabilitation Loan, which
focusses on the provision of essential goods for the agricultural sector and for energy, transport
and health systems, an Energy/Environment Project is planned, which would support energy
conservation and possibly other investments in energy, transport and municipal infastructure,
many of which would not only result in significant cost savings and improved services, but would
also begin to address environmental issues and enhance environmental quality. The proposed
lending program is also likely to include a Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan,
which would support the restructurng of the banlkng and enterprise sectors and private sector
development, through policy and institutional measures and investment finance. In general, the
overall size and composition of the Bank's lending program wir be very closely linked to the
government's performance in implementng its reform program.
135.    Economic and Sector Work. The planned economic and sector work would provide
te analytcal underpinning for the Bank's policy discussions with the government and future
lending. In close coordination with the IMF, European institutions and EBRD, the Bank's work
will continue to focus on the sectoral and structural elements of the reform program. As
indicated above, the initil CEM in FY93 provides a comprehensive overview of macroeconomic
and setol issues, constraints and priorities. Following the CEM, periodic economic updates
are planned to review fast moving developments in the economy and to reassess overall financing
reqements and creditwortiness considerations. A formal updating economic report will be
Issued in FY93. In addition, a tade study will be launches; this year to review trade-related
issues in all three Baltic states. Sector work will also be initiated in energy/environment, and on
enterprise retucturing and financial sector issues.
136.    Technical Assistance. Substantal technical assistance will clearly be required to
design and implement stuctural and sectoral reforms and investment projects. The identification
of critical TA requirements has already been initiated in the context of preparing the CEM and
Rehabilition Loan (Annex V). As indicated above, many systemic or structural reforms are
being supported by the Loan and Terms of Reference for the related TA have been prepared.
The government would understandably prefer to finance this TA with grant resources and the
Bank is assistng the government in identifying possible grant sources of funding. The Bank has
already made available its preliminary assessment of TA requirements to interested donors and
has expressed its willingness to help in the drafting of terms of reference for and recruitment of
consultants. Nevertheless, the government has agreed that some technical assistance may have to
be financed by the Bank loan. Futre sector opertions or projects are also likely to require TA
components, partcularly for the design and implementation of related policy and institutional
reforms.
C. Other Bank Group Activities
137.    lFC's strtaegy in Esnia is to support the privatizaion and moderization process of
local enteprises so that they can become internationally competitive, particularly those that are



- 48 -
large enough to attract foreign technical partners in joint venture undertakings. IFC will assist
such firms by providing technical assistance for the privatiation process when requested, and by
providing financial support to privatized enteiprises that show promise of becoming
teationally competitive. IFC's initial investments in Estonia are expected to be made in
relatively small compames that have joint venture partners with access to export markets. Areas
that show particular promise at this time are wood products, construction materials and tourism
sectors. At the request of the government FLS is undertaking an initial diagnostic assessment of
the environment for foreign investment with a view to providing the government specific
recommendations in this area. Once Estonia becomes a member of MIGA, new foreign
investments would be eligible for non-commercial risk guarantees, and for specific promotional
and advisory services. The Bank's Economic Development Institute is also prepating to provide
training courses in such fields as pnvatization and bank management.
D. CoDlaboration with other Agencies
138.     Close coordination has been maintained with the IMF, EEC, EBRD, OECD, and other
aid agencies in developing our planned operations to ensure the efficient use of resources and
tehnical assistance. Varous donors have been providing assistance to Estonia for the past year
and the G-24 has started to coordinate resource mobilization activities. The Nordic countries are
involved in a number of sectors already, providing both financial and technical assistance. Other
European countries, either bilaterally or through the EC, have initiated programs of assistance, as
have the Umted States of America and Canada. EBRD has also initated its program in Estonia,
focussing in particular on energy, telecommunications, and the financial sector. As the Bank
builds lup its presence in Estonia, we plan to intensify aid coordination efforts. Considerable
effort has already been devoted to sharing iformation with donors, both formally and informally.
This is important in order to minimize the risk of duplication of activities and to ensure
complementarity activities by various donors. Realizing the full potential of ongoing or planned
assstance efforts wil require strengthened coordition by the government and the establishment
of consistent approaches among donors. Establishing an appropriate aid coordination framework
appropriate systems and strengthening the central government agencies to fulfill these
resonsibilities is of the highest priority at this stage of the reform process. -
139.     The Bank has worked closely with the IMF. In addition to a regular exchange of
infonnation and participating in each otheres missions, Bank and Fund teams have collaborated
extensively during the preaation of the Rehabilitation Loan and the IMP Stand-By
Armnngement, with Bank staff assuming the lead in discussions on systemic reforms and Fund
staff on the sabilization program. Parallel missions have been in the field over the past several
months to ensre that the respective operations were consistent and complementary. Ihe
Estonian reform program would benefit considerably by the continued close coordination and
coeration between the IP, the BC institutions, the G-24 countries and the World Bank Group.
The Estonian Government fully encourages such close coordination.



- 49 -
VI. THE REHABILrIATION LOAN
A. Origin and Objectives
140.    Backgod. As described earlier in this report, the Estonian economy is in the midst
of both a fundamental transformation and a sharp decline in output. Estonia has already made
substatial progress in designing and inidating the implementation of a broad transition to a
market-based economy. Nevertheless, the govenmment recognizes the need for further
stlization measures, as well as a bmadening and deepening of its reform program, and has
committed itself to structal adjustment and reforms in several areas. This program will be
implemented in a context charactenzed by shaip compression of imports from its traditional
suppliers in the PSU and widespread shortages of key production inputs and spare parts as well
as essenl health-related consumption goods. As indicated above, the adjustment and reform
process has been constrained by severe trade disruption and more recently by a sharp
detrioratin in Estonia's terms of trade. By early 1992, Estonia was experiencing critical
shortages of basic consumption commodities and key raw materials and production inputs.
Although enterpres were still able to draw on accumulated stocks of raw materials and trading
comnections with enterprises in other republics in 1991, the supply situation reaced a critical
sta in early 1992. Efforts to normalize trade relations are continuing, with limited success, but
the prospects are for further trade dismption and large increases in the prices of energy and other
imports which were traditionally supplied at prices far below world market levels. Hence, there
is an immediate need for import support to mitigate furtfer declines in output, while a
comprehensive economic adjustment and reform program is being introduced.
141.    Rationale for Bank Involvement. The proposed Bank loan, which is being presented
to the Board concurety with the presentation of a Stand-By Anangement to the IMF Board,
would be part of the response of the international financial community to Estonia's pressing
short-term import needs, on the one hand, and to Estonia's demonstrated commitment to
economic reform, on the other hand. Although bilateral donors and the EC will continue to
account for a large share of the financial flows to the country, Estonia and others will be looldng
to the Bank and the D!@ for leadership and coordination of financial assistance as well as advice
on macroeconomic and sectoral policy. The Rehabilitation Loan has been pred in close
associaon with the IM's Stand-By Anangement. The Bank has concated on developing the
program of systemic reforms described above and in the attached Memorandwn on Economic
Reform Polcies. lbis program lays out a framework for reforms which are necessary for the
medium-term  stctning of the Estonian economy and establishes realistic targets and
indicators to monitor progress over the coming year. The proposed Rehaition Loan is based
on the esence of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework in the form of an agreed progam
with the DOP, and on a recognition of the substantal progress already made by the govemment
in iniating the refonn process, especially in the area of price libraizain. If implemented
succssfly, the reform program would provide a sound basis for future Bank assistance to
Estonia. The rationale for Bank involvement would therefore be to support the reform process
and balance of payments at this critical turming point, by financing essential imports and technical
assista. The loan would not contain any specific policy conditoalty except for nonnal
conditions regarding procurement, disbursement and use of technical assistance for
implementati



- 50-
142.    Objectives. The loan's objectives would be two-fold: (a) to assist the government in
the design and implementation of its adjustment and structural refonm program (as outlined in its
Letter/Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies, which is attached as Annex 3); and (b) to
help maintan or increase capacity utilization and output in key sectors during the next 6 - 12
months. Basic imports are urgently required to prevent further deterioration of the existing
capital stock, to maintain essential services such as power, heat, transport and health services,
and to generate a supply response to the new set of incentives in key productive sectors such as
agriculture.
B. Loan Description
143.    The proposed loan of US$30 million equivalent would finance the following
components: (a) pre-idenffied imports (US$29 million) in four key sectors (energy, agriculture,
transport and health); and (b) a technical assistance component (US$ 1 million) to support the
government's structunl reform program (if alternative, grant fnancing cannot be obtained for
this purpose). Reallocation among components would be possible by mutual agreement, based on
actal disbursement performance and need. The proceeds of the loan are expected to be fully
disbursed by March 31, 1994, the loan closing date.
144.    Pre-identifi-ed hmport Component (PIC). Bank financing of US$29 million
equivalent would be provided for 100% of foreign expenditures on priority imports, on the basis
of a list of sectors and goods identified by the government and reviewed by the Bank.  The
import lists may be amended from time to time by mutual agreement between the government and
the Bank (provided that the criteria listed in Annex 4 for selecting imports contnue to be
applied). Procrement and distribution arnangements for all categories of critical imports, as well
as picing or cost recovery from the final beneficianes, have been discussed and agreed with the
relevant agencies. Funds would be provided in the budget to cover the cost of the imports at the
market exchange rate, part or all of which may be recovered from the end users at prevailing
local prices. Most output prices have been liberalized in Estonia, so market prices reflecting full
import and distribution costs will be applied for project-financed goods, with some exceptions
where tanparent subsidies are provided in the budget (e.g., for pharmaceutcal distribution in
hospitals and public trasport services).
145.    The pre-identified imports proposed by government (which have been reviewed by
Bank sectoral specialists) are distributed as follows:
(a) Energy Imports (30%). The government has requested financing for (i) chemicals for
boiler feedwater treatment to maintain adequate water quality at power and combined
heat and power stations, including caustic soda, trsodm phosphate and sulfnric acid;
and (ii) steel tubes and other materals and spae parts for boiler repairs. In additon,
depending on the availabiLity of other sources of financing, the government could use
part of the loan proceeds to finance purchases of heavy fuel oil for heating and power
generaion. These imports are required immediately in order to maintain essential heat
and power services. High priority energy conservation and efficiency measmes and
investments are also being planned, and these efforts would be supported by a
subsequent Bank operation.



- 51 -
(b) Agriculre inports (30%). The government has requested fin ng for (i) high
protin feed for poutry; (ii) veterinary poducts for livestock and poultry; (iii)
agrochemical iiputs (fertilizers, pesticides); (iv) spare parts for arcultural equipment;
and (v) packaging materials for milk and other food processing facilities. These
imports are critically needed to mitigate further declines in sectoral output, particularly
in the meat and dairy sub-sectors which generate significant exports and provide food
security. The proposed imports would, Inter ala, increase yields, reduce crop losses
due to pests, and reduce feed grain requirements, while enhancing the efficiency and
competitiveness of the Estonian livestock industry (by improving the quality of feed
with more protein and supplements that increase feed efficiency). Feed per unit of
meat produced can be reduced significandy with existing livestock breeds if producers
can obtain the protein and supplements needed for a balanced mixed feed. Bilateral
donors have so far provided only grains and are unlikely to provide the protein and
feed supplements that are needed.
(c) Tralsport Imports (15%). The government has requested financing for spare parts
for the bus, tram and trolley system of urban tansportation and for the rail system.
These spare parts are urgently needed to meet minimum maintenance and repair
requirements (excluding replacement needs) in order to continue to operate the urban
tasport system. In the medium term, consideable investment, coupled with policy
and instittional changes, wiU be necessary to strengthen the regulatory framework,
tariff-setting mechanisms and maintenance, while upgrding or modemizing public
trasport fleets as well as road, port, rail and airport facilities.
(d) Health imports (25%). The govemment has requested financing for pharmaceuticals
and other essental medical supplies and equipment. The disruption of supply
arrangements within the CMEA and FSU has caused severe shortages of essential
drugs, vaccines and other supplies (e.g., syringes, sutures, catheters, surgical gloves).
Emergency aistanc has been provided by various bilaeal donors, but the quantities
received have been inadequate to mee current consumption requirements and begin
rebiding safety stocks. In addition, basic surgery and diagnostic equipment (and
related spare parts) are needed for hospitals and clinics, including equipment required
to safeguard the blood banks.
Detailed lists of specific products in each of these categories have already been prepaed and have
been rviewed by Bank staff. In addition, draft bidding documents are ready for a substantial
sbare of the goods, so prnt is expected to proceed in a timely manner once the loan has
been approved.
146.     Techial Asisance Component (TAC). This component includes (a) procurement
and other implementation-related istm ce to be provided by VHK of Finland with bilateral
financing (of US$0.75 equivalent) from the Finnish government, in order to enable Estonia to
follow Bank proemet, disrement and accuntig procedums; and (b) advisory semces (to
be financed by the loan at the request of the Borrower if grant sources are not available) to assist
the government in the implIeentaton of its structu  reform program, inudinginter alia
assistnce in the following areas: (i) pilot prvatzaton, (ii) competition and demonopolization
policy, (iii) social safety net progrms and policies and (iv) the legl fiamework for the economic



- 52 -
reform. Terms of Reference (TOR) for this assistance have been drafted and brief summaries are
provided in Annex 5. Additional areas requiring technical assistance that may be fnanced by this
component and for which TOR would be elaborated include: accounting and auditing
improvements in the enterprise sector, public investment progiamming, tariff stnictures for
public services and local government finance. The proposed loan would fmance 100% of foreign
expenditures for the technical assistance component. If the funds are not required for TA, they
would be reallocated to the import component of the loan.
C. Implon
147.     The AMinisty of Finance (MOP) wil have prunary responsibility for the administrton
of the Loan. A Project Implementton Unit (PI]) was established by government decree in June
1992 to administer and coordinate all loan-related activities. The P1U is located within the
Ministry of Finance and is headed by a senior civil servant, the 'Coordinator", and reports to the
Minister of Finance. Extemal advisers, including a Procurement Specialist and a
Finance/Disbursement specalist are assisting the PIU. In addition, external sector specialists are
made available to assist as required in more sector-specific procurement matters and to undertake
pre-shipment inspections. These advisers are being provided by Finland's VHK and are expected
to be financed on a grant basis by the Govermment of Finland. Responsibilities of the P1
include, inter aia, monitoring overall progress of implementation; coordination among the
various partcipang Ministries and procurement agencies to ensure a consistent approach in the
implementation of the project (with particular attention to the agreed procurement/disbursement
procedures), the admiion of the Special Account, prepation and submission of
disbursement applications, maintaiing project accounts, aranging for annual audits and
prepation of the consolidated semi-annual progiess report and the Project Completion Report.
148.    The relevant sector ministfies and tdeir specialied procurement agencies would be
responsible for the procurent of goods, and for their distribution to the final users, under the
supervsion of the PIU and its advisors. Ths would include, inter alia, preparation of bidding
documents; adversement for interested suppliers as required; evaluation and recommendations
for contract awards; signing and supervision of contracts; and oversight responsibilities for
ensuring that imported goods reach end users, with guidance provided by the PIU and its
advisors. Sectoal ministies or their specialized procurement/distribution agencies would act as
implementing agents on bebalf of the govemment, with the Miistry of Finance being responsible
for budget and payment authorzations and disbursements, as well as receipt of local counepart
funds. To ensure prompt resolution of issues involving the various ministries and their
procurement agencies or jurisdictional disputes which may arise during implementaton, the PIU
coordinator would refer any unresolved issues (including reallocation of loan proceeds among
sectors) to the Minister of Finance, who would in tum refer them to rel cabinet meetings
presided by the Prime Miister.
149.    The Ministry of Finance, through the PMU, would be responsible for overall
implementation of the Technical Assistance Component, with day-to-day supervision by
individual agencies responsible for various strnctura reform areas. Detailed World Bank
supervision of the project is plamed and wiU be camied out by staff with extensive relevant
experence. Given that ts is the first operation in Estonia, the time allocated for Bank



- 53 -
supervision has been augmented in order to provide any additional assistance which may be
required to ensure problem-free implementation. In particular, use will be made of an
exprienced group of p  ent advisors being established in the region to assist the PIU and
its advisors with any implementation problems which may arise. The Bank is also preparing
training courses on procurement, and the Estonian specialists in the PIU as weli as in the other
concerned agencies will be invited to participate.
D. Procurement
150.    Procurement procedures previously utilized in Estonia are based on the arrangements
which prevailed under central planming in the former Soviet Union and are no longer appropriate.
New prourement guidelines are under preparation. A Country Procurement Assessment Report
has not yet been prepared but is planned for FY93. As briefly outlined below and as set forth in
the Loan Agreement, proement of the imported goods and commodities financed under the
proposed loan would follow Bank procurement guidelines. Contracts above US$300,000 would
be awarded on the basis of simplified international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures,
allowing the Borrower to require the bidders to state the bid price in a single currency widely
used in intnational trade, specified in the bidding document. To the extent possible, consistent
with broad priorities for critically needed goods and commodities, items that can be purchased in
packages of not less than this amount will be selected to ensure quick disbursement of the Loan
proceeds. Standard biddig documents are being prepared by the PIU and its advisers based on
the Bank's sample bidding documents. While all bidding documents will be subject to prior
review, after the Bank has reviewed at least the first two ICB documents in each sector, further
review would be waived subject to cerdfication from the PIU that no changes to the stadard
documents have been made. Prior review of the evaluation and recommendations for contract
award would be required for all ICB contracts. For contracts under US$300,000, international
shopping procedures would be permitted (i.e., quotations from at least three suppliers from two
counties). In cases where goods are clearly available only from a single source, direct
contrtng would be allowed, with prior agreement from the Bank. Goods which are provided
by natonals of, or produced in or supplied from republics of the PSU are eligible to participate.
151.    Procurement for the pre-identified imports component would be handled by the
specialed agency of the concerned government ministry. Advice to these agencies would be
provided by the PFU and its advisers, which would oversee and monitor the procurement process
to ensue conformity with Bank procurement guidelines.
152.    Concerning the Technical Assistance component, consultants financed from the
proceeds of the Loan would be selected and hired on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines on the 'Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers".
153.    Becase E.stonia is new to the Bank and has limited knowledge of market- oriented
procurement as well as Bank Guidelines, supervision will need to be intensive. To strengthen
supervision, a core group of procurement experts managed by the Regional Prourement Office is
being created. This group of experts will provide assistance to supervision missions as well as
review procurement documents for their approval.



-54 -
E. Disbursemnts
154.    Disbursement would be on the basis of 100% of foreign expenditures for goods,
commodities and technical assstance specalists/consultants. Withdrawal/disbursement of the
proceeds of the Loan would be: (i) through a Special Commitment guatanee covering a Letter
of Credit, if requested by the Bonrower; (ii) through direct payments by the World Bank on
behalf of the Borrower, or (iii) through the Special Account. Disbursements would be fuiy
documented for al items except those under US$50,000 where a certified Statement of
Expenditure (SOE) would be used. Documentation supporting the SOE's will be retained by the
PMU.
155.    In order to ensure that funds are available for the project when needed, a Special
Account admnistered by the P1U would be established in a foreign commercial bank and
operated and maintained on terms and conditions acceptable to the World Bank. An initial
deposit of US$1 million would be replenished on the basis of satisfactory documentary evidence,
to be povided to the World Bank by the PIU, of payments made from the account for goods and
services. The Account would be used to the extent possible for all eligible expenditures. No
limit would be set on the size of payments which may be made from the Account other than that
imposed by the balance remamng in the Account at any time. It is expected that $25 million of
the $30 million loan amount would be disbursed in FY93, with the remainder to be disbursed in
FY94.
F. Accounting, Auditng and Reporting
156.    The FlU would maintain consolidated accounts of all project activities (including all
receipts and payments) in accordance with interationaly acceptd accounting procedus. While
the introduction of modem accouning standards is only now beginning in Estonia, the provision
of an external finance and disbmument adviser (pam. 147) will enable the PMU to maintain all
project accounts in accordance with internationally accepted accounting procedures. Financial
reportng will comprise stements of the rceipt of Bank funds and of disbursements during the
reporting period, for eligible expendiures. These accounts and statements (including the SOE's
and the Special Account) would be subject to an anmnal adit verifying the financial status of loan
operations, which would be submitted to the World Bank. Sqearate audit opinions would be
provided for the SOE's and Special Account. Auditing would be performed by independent
auditors, acceptable to the World Bank, and audit reports would be sbmitted to the World Bank
within six months after the end of each govemment fiscal year.
157.    Semi-anul progress reports accordng to agreed formats, would be submitted by the
PIU, to the World Bank. These reorts will also include progress in the technical assistance
program supported under the loan. A Projea Compklaon Report would be submitted to the
World Bank by the PW promptly after the completion of the project but in any event not later
than six months after the Loan Closing Date.



- 55 -
G. Agrements Reached
158.    At negotations, understndings acceptable to the Bank were reached on the following
topics or issues, in order to ensure successful project implementation: (a) a Leter/Memorandutm
of B3cnomic Reform Policies outlining the scope, content and timing of the govenmment's
stuctural reform program; (b) details of the PlU's staffing, responsibilities and relationship with
sector ministres and thei prorement agencies; (c) details concerning the establishment and
operation of the Special Account, (d) TOR for technical assistance and amount to be allocateu to
the tecnical assistance component; (e) the preiminary list of goods to be financed by the loan
and the criteria for selection of goods eligible for Bank financing; and (f) procurement,
disbursement and audit procedures.
H. Environmental Assessment
159.    The project would be consistent with Bank policy and folow acepted Bank
procedues. Given the nature of this loan, no environmental rating has been assigned.
Nevertheless, in developing the eligibility for imports to be financed under the loan, specific
provision has been made to ensure that the inclusion of any toxic or hazardous substances would
be under conditions acceptable to the Bank. In particular, any agrochemicals to be financed will
be selected and used in accordance with Bank guidelines in order to minimize any negafive
environmental impact.
I. Benefs and Risks
160.    The proposed loan would maintain and increase capacity utilization, production and
consumption in vital sectors of the Estonian economy, which is iniating a far-reaching
transformation. The imports to be financed by the loan would have direct output and
employment effects and would ensure minimum availability of certain essential services and
items, such as medicines and other health supplies. In some cases, crital imports of spare paits
could also preserve existing capital assets and prevent a deterioration which would reduce servie
quality or reliability and requre considerable future investment. The technical assistance to be
prvied would assist the govemment in iplementing its structura reform program, thereby
benfitng the economy as a whole and enhancing the supply response and medium-term
economic performance.
161.    ITe main risks include (i) the lack of familiarty with Bank pourement and
dibsement procedures, which could lead to prourent delays; and (ii) a deceleaon in the
implementa    of the stmuctural adjustment and reform program, which would minimize the
impact of the import support provided at this time. The first risk will be reduced through close
attenton to ilementation    ingtenive suprvisin, and through pre-idefication of most of
the imts to be fianced by the loan. The second risk will be reduced by the provision of
intensive technical assistance to implement the reform program, including assistance for



-56 -
dipm_dienin the social sf    net to ene the progm's soci d political a    lity.
Neveidels, the risks of pocy s es and slower than expcted       _       due to
pEncapacity                    aresu bstantial.
162.                      I am satidied that the proposed loan wodd comply with the
Aticles of A       of the Bank and ecommend Xtt the Excuive Dieon apprve it.
Lewis T. Preo
President
Atachmens
Washngton, D.C.
Sepmber 10, 1992



- 57 -
tstals - WMOON         A IICATTRS                   t TAlUA
page 1 ot 3
Mid180 tcpsaltlor  (nls..):  1.6
A. Shag., of Gross Don.tle PEroduct    D. Growthb Rot"  p( r v a"mus)
(tteoo urant Peso* datW)            (roam ontnt trloe dat*)
1060   i.e.   iooo    1001              80-01    lo90"    101
GM$s Omb  ue isoduot. n.p.  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0                   -0.4   -0.1  -11.0
ustoultwo                     14.8   109.6    1.6   15.4               -2.3  -1.0   -6.S
ludastry                     46.7   43.9   40.8   56.9                  1.0   -7.0   -6.0
(of ibao tuaotuuln)          41.7   3S..   a0.6   51.0                  1.0   -5.1   -8.0
sergvlog                     3i.1   36.3   87.0   27.7                 -1.3   -3.s  -10.1
Resou.e Blano                   -2.5   -6.8   -7.0   -4.1
Total taaedltus                103.6  108.6  107.6  104.1                 2.3     8.5
total CX  "@4cFn              75.1   74.1   77.7   75.5                 3.1   I2.I
Private Conswiption        62.7   60.2   64.4   65.8                  2.7   13.6
*neral otera"Ant            12.4   13.0   13.2   10.2                 5.2    8.0
ros Dcomestic Inavotmet    26.5   32.7   30.2   20.0                    0.5   -1.6
tired Invatmant            26.7   28.8   23.0   15.4                 -0.3   -0.6
Ca.as In stock               1.6    3.8    6.5   13.2                 4.7   47.6
Gmros Domestic Savings          24.9   25.0   22.3   24.5
In .1111m   of Rubles
(at constant 1000 rices)
oss Domestic PUrodut          7076   6651   7077   7090                -0.4   -8.1  -11.0
C. Prio. Sl dl.s                                                                   Snflation Rates
(1987 - 100.0)                                                                       (2 p.O.)
1060  1lo"    1066    1080    1090   1001       60-01    1000  1061
Comauwer Prices                   06.7  103.7  100.7  102.0  114.8  301.5           6.0   12.8  210.5
Iaolaal Prlces                      ..      .       ..     ..      ..      ..              18.8  87.6
IapUctt GDP Defltor              64.6   97.0  103.1  111.4  150.5  200.2            7.7   85.2  146.3
Xsplict bverdlture Deflator    860.$    0.1  100.3  105.2  121.6           ..        ..   15.6
D. Other Indicators             60-01
Growth Rates (0 p.m.)
Population                     0.7
Labor Force                    0.2
PrIvate Consumption p.o.       1.9
icOa (period  averas)           -29.2
|Sha. of Total Labor force in-   1080    1900
Agriculture                    12.9   11.0
Industry                       45.2   44.8
Services                       41.9   43.3
Total                         100.0  100.0



- 58 -
Estonia - ECONOMIC SSDICATORS TABLES                     AN     
Page 2 of 3
Merchandise Exports             Value at current prices
(HMln US9)
1969    1990
Total Exports 10P                  3761.0  3087,0
F. Merchandise Inorts                1989    1990
Food                                769.0  533.0
Yuel and en rgy                     385.0  329.0
Other eonsumer goods                946.0  393.0
Other intermed. soods              1253.0  3028.0
Capital goods                      1442.0  100.0
Total Imports CIF                   4795.0  4383.0
G. Balance of Payments                Millions of Current Rubleo
1987    1986    1989    1990    1991
Former USSR Republics
Current Aecount                     -37    -143    -100    -199    1187
Trade Jalance                      -54    -147    -120    -216   117
Exports                          3009    2992    3111    3067    4784
Impo0ts                          3063    3139    3231    3283    3617
Services Balance                    17        4      20      17      20
Pormer CM¢A Members
(Only until January 1, 1991)
TradelServices Balnes a/           -98     -89      -78     -90
Exports                            62      71       64      39
Imports                           160     16O      142     129
Total Trade & Services Sal        -135    -232    -178    -28w    1187
(Former Uws  Republics and Former CMEA)
Balance of Payments                         Millions of US$
1987    1988    1989    1990    1991
Convertible Currency
Trade Balance a/                   -70     -62      -57     -85    -150
Exports                            38      42       39      27      50
Imports                           108     104       96     112     200
Serviess Balance                                                     15
Total Trade & Services Sal         -70     -62      -57     -8S    -135
Memorandum items:
Official X-Rate (Ruble/US$)        0.63    0.61    0.63    0.59    1.75
GDP (mi11icns.current US$)         8632    9441   10194   13520    7819
For 1991 the commerelal exchange rate employed in the valuation of trade was Rb
1.8 per US$, but market rates for the ruble were much bigher. Valuing this trade at
the market rate would put the total trade balance for 1901 in deficit rather than
in surplus.  In addition, fro September 1991, convertible currency receipts fra
merchant shipping and pert fees of some US815-30 mln may have accrued to the
Estonian authorities Instead of Mosow.
a/ Trade figures adJusted for trade taxes and subsidies.
Sourues: Bank of Estonla and Fund Staff estimates.



- 59 -
Estonia - CONWMUC TNDICATOMS TABLES                           ANN    I
Page 3 of 3
B. General Gevozruent Finance              Shre of GDP (Z)                              Growth Rates (I)
1987   1988    198S    1990   1991             1988    1989   1990   1991
Total Revenues                    45.5   43.0   42.9   35.7   44.0                 1.5    9.6    3.4  132.5
Total ESpenditures                45.2   42.8   42.5   33.3   38.8                 0.2   10.8   -2.8  118.3
Overall Balanoe                     0.3    0.8    0.3    2.4       5.2
Sborcei:  Goverenat statistics and Bank staff e tti.te .



- 60 -
Alnnah
ESTONIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
Timetable of Key Processing Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare:          Three and one-half months
(b)   Project prepared by:            Government, with the assistance of IBRD staff
and consultants It
(c)   First IBRD mission:            March/April, 1992
(d)   Appraisal mission:              March/April, 1992
(e)   Post-Appraisal mission:        June 8 - 18, 1992
(f)   Negotiations:                   September 3, 1992
(g)   Board Presentation:            September 29, 1992
(h)   Planned date of effectiveness:  October, 1992
(i)   Expected project completion:    March, 1994
(j)   Relevant PCRs and PPRs:         None
" The World Bank missions which visited Estonia in March/April, 1992 and June 1992
assisted the Government in identification and preparation of the project, and concurrently
appraised it. Mission members included: Mr. Jaime Biderman (country officer and task
manager), Mr. John Hansen (country economist), Ms. Barbara Lee (economist)(EC3C1);
Mr. Mitja Gaspari (financial economist)(EMTFl); Mr. David Mead (Iawyer)(LEGEC);
Ms. Jacqueline Renkewitz (disbursement specialist)(LOAAF); and consultants including
Mr. David Caplin (health sector); Mr. William Meyers (agriculture sector); Mr. Arturo Roa
(energy sector); and Mr. Joe Scearce (implementation/procurement). The April mission was
joined part time by a separate team consisting of Mr. Lars Jeurling (advisor)(EC3DR);
Ms. Daryl Reinke (disbursement advisor)(LOADR); Mr. Pervaiz Rashid (accounting advisor)
(CODOP), and Mr. Manfredo Linder (procurement specialist-consultant) which assisted in
the assessment of procurement, disbursement, and accounting procedures as well as
examining overall coordination and management of foreign assistance. Mr. Eduardo Abbott
(LEGEC) has served as counsel for Estonia since June 1992. Mr. Adil Kanaan and
Mr. Russell Cheetham are the managing Division Chief and Departnent Director,
respectively, for the operation.



-61-                      Annex III
Page 1 of 14
O1e .rime @linister
of 6tf Republic                             Saptember 3, 1992
of 45sfonia 
Dear Mr. Preston,
The  attached  Memorandum. on gconomic  Reform  Policies
outllnes the program of maocoeonomic stabilization and
systemic roforms of Estonia. We request the World Bank
to support this program with a Rehabilitation Loan in
the amount of US$30 million equiv*l.nt.
It lB our intention to implement the program described
In the attached Memorandum in order to achievo a rapid
resuwption of economic growth withisn a sustainable
macroeconoinc  framework. Given the complexity of  the
transition   to  a  market-oriented  economy,   it   in
inevitable that there will be some uncertainty  associ-
ated  with  the implementation of  this  program. Some
adjustments  and  corrective actions are likely  to. be
required. We will, where appropriate, review necessary
adjustments with the World Bank.
Your$s truly,
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
rresident, International Bank for
Reconxatruction and Development
1818 H 8treet N.W.,
Washtngton, D.C. 20433



- 62 -
Annexm
Page 2 of 14
MEMORANDUM ON ECONOMIC REFORM POLICIES
Introduction
1.       Estonia, as one of the first counties to declare independence from the former
Soviet Union and re-establish itself as an independent state, has already made substantial
progress in implementing its bold program for transformation to a market-based economy.
Ihese developments are described in the following sections, which outine our economic
stabiliztion and structural reform policies in key areas of the economy. The reform process
faces widespread obstacles, many of which are directly related to the seriously disrted
prices that prevailed under the previous economic regime.
2.       Energy in particular was made available to the economy at highly artficial prices
compared to those in world marets. Consequently, our households and industrial and
trsport sectors will now face major disruptions as they adjust to the higher world prices.
These adjustments will involve a period of substantial inflation, and they will rasult in
restructuring and possible bankruptcy of many of the nation's enterprises. This in turn will
fiuther weaken the financial sector (which already suffers from a very weak asset position),
substantially raise utility, trsport and other public service charges for most Estonians, and
wfll probably result in considerable unemployment. The consequent exwedtures to provide
an adequat social safety net wil impose a major fiscal burden.
3.       Furthermore, the structural reforms that are required to make our economy stable,
compeidtive, and self-sufficient will need to be accompanied by costly investments, which in
turn will require not only a major restrucuring of the domestic banking system, but also a
major inflow of extemal capital. Despite the costs and obstacles, the Government is
committed to move forward with its program of economic stabilization and structral reform,
as outlined in this Memor_nd    on Econonc Refonm Policies.
4.       This memorandm begins with a review of our progmams regarding price policy,
macroeconomic management and external economic reltions. Our discussion of these issues
has been kept relatively brief; a full discussion of our program in these areas will be found in
the memorandum we have submitbed to the International Monetary Fund. The remainder of
this memorandm focusses on the struc  and institutional reforms that we intend to
undertake in areas such as enterprise reform, competition, commercial bankng reform, social
safety net, and economic management to facilte a successful transition to a market-based
economy.



- 63 -                           Annex
Page 3 of 14
1. Price Liberalization and Inflation
S.       The Government essentialy completed the pnce liberalization process prior to the
implementation of the cumency reform. Accordingly, on June 19, 1992 the commodities still
subject to control were mainly limited to those produced by state enterprises and included
land, naunal resources (including oil shale), precious metals and gems, electricity, natural
gas, liquid fuel, wood products, flour, cereals, grain, bread, sugar, macaroni, tobacco goods,
vodka and liquors, postal and telecommunications services, transportation services, medicines
and returnable bottles. A number of services provided by municipalities and public
enterprises, including rent, public utilities, and public transportation, also remained subject to
control. The Government recognizes the need to complete the price liberalization process as
soon as possible, and to that end, it is our intention to remove price controls on flour,
ceeals, grain, bread, sugar, macaroni and retunable bottles, no later than October 15, 1992.
On July 9, 1992, the Government had ahready removed controls on state enterprise profit
margins imposed by local authorities, except for those enterprises owned by local authorities.
The remaining price controls wi1 remain temporarily in place in cases where the authorities
judge that monopoly power on the part of producers could lead to abuse. Meanwhile, the
Government wil continue to refrain from subsidizing any consumer goods or services, or
providing subsidies to state enterprises (except for selected public utilities).
6.       The Government considers that rapid progress in the alignment of domestic energy
prices wi international prices is essential if energy const'mption is to be rationalized. To
this end, the prices of naturaJ as, electricity, heatng and hot water have been raised by an
aveage of 25 fold since ro- .mber 1, 1991. Furthermore, subsidies on heating and hot
water were eliminatev sn May 1, 1992 and average prices for all heating, natural gas, oil
shale, and electricity were adjusted to reflect full operating cost on May 1, 1992. Retail
prices of gasoline and diesel have been increased on several occasions, most recently on May
30, 1992 to a level about 70 times higher than a year ago; the Government's policy with
regard to fuel pricing has been and will continue to be to ensure a full pass-through of all
costs to the retail level. By October 31, 1992, the Government will also initiate a study of
tariff setting procedures for municipal and public enterprise services--including public
transportation--in order to phase in cost-based pricing (but allowing for some improvements
in operating efficiency) as soon as possible so as to avoid the need for substantial public
subsidies and a drain on the general government budget.
7.      It is expected that the further price liberalization measures will result in some
addtional pnce increases in the coming months, although these should be moderate in
relation to the experience during the first half of 1992. With the consistent implementation
of finm financial and incomes policies, the average monthly rate of inflation is expected to
decline to about 4 percent in the last quarter of 1992, as compared to an average monthly
rate of over 30 percent during the first half of 1992.



-64 -                                 Annexm
Page 4 of 14
2. Fscal Policy
8.       To ensure that the general government accounts returned to balance by mid-1992,
strong measwes were taken during the first half of 1992 including the abolition of consumer
subsidies and the rquirement that certain profitable public enteIprises make advance profit
distributions to the budget.
9.       The Government recognizes the crucial importance of keeping the general
government accounts in balance; in particular, reliance on bank finmcing of deficits prior to
the evolution of a market in Government obligations could place downward pressures on the
exchange rate for the kroon. Accordingly, for the second half of 1992, the Government has
drawn up a budget that is balanced, and also provides for a prudential cushion to meet
unforeseen expenditure contingencies. Revenue-raising measures in support of maintaining a
pmdent fiscal stance through the remainder of 1992 were adopted by a decree of the
Monetay Reform Committee and included: (i) raising the VAT rate from 10 percent to
18 percent; (ii) introducing a new top marginal rate of personal income tax of 50 percent for
taxable incomes in excess of ten times the minimum wage; and (iii) unifying the corporate
income tax at a single rate of 35 percent.
10.     The Government is determined to undertake fulther measures to ensure budgetary
efficiency and stability in 1993, including maintenance of a balanced budget and a remn to
an annual budget cycle. At that time, the Government will also consider implementing the
following measures: (i) to rationalize the personal income tax rate structure; (ii) to extend the
coverage of the VAT to the import stage and zero rate all exports; (iii) to rationalize the
sucure and administation of excise and customs duties; (iv) to take steps to introduce a
survey-based real property and land tax to be managed by, and for the benefit of, local
authority budgets (as part of the resucturing of local authority finances); (v) to transfer
responsibility for payment of non-pension benefits from the Social Secunty Fund to the state
and local budgets; (vi) to review tax exemptions to enteprises; (vii) to incorporate all but
two extra-budgetauy funds-the social security and medical insurance funds-into the state
budget; (viii) to prep= a consolidated general government budget that explicitly sets out the
economic classification and overall balance of expenditures and revenues and their financing;
(ix) to introduce a system of cost-sharing for education and health benefits; and (x) to
introduce a special excise tax on gasoline and other fuels (before VAI).
11.     By October 31, 1992, the Government will complete a study of revenue authority
and expenditu  responsibility of local govermments; pending completion of this study, any
borrowing by local governments would require pnor clearance by the Ministry of Finance.
A rview of civil service staffing and remuneration policy will be completed by December
31, 1992.
12.     In 1992, financing from the banking system of the general government (including
local authorities) wil be confined to smoothing seasonal fluctuations in revenues and



- 65 -                                  Ann,e,,
Page 5 of 14
expenditures.1 Takdng account of seasonal factors, the net deposit position of the general
govermment with the banking system, which was EEK 150 million on June 30, 1992, shall
not fall below BEK 105 million as of September 30, 1992 nor BEK 150 million on December
31, 1992. These ceilings will take into account disbursements of foreign grants and will be
adjusted for any disbursements of foreign loans.
13.      The Government is committed to support structural fiscal reforms consistent with
keeping the evolution of public expenditure in the medium term in line with the evolution of
tax revenues and of non-inflationary financing from domestic and foreign sources. Specific
structuml measures in the fiscal area would include strengthening of tax administration and
collection by, inter alia, revising tax forms, introducing a taxpayer identification number,
exending the withholding system to cover interest paid by banks and individuals, and
clarifying the penalties imposed on non-filing and non-payment. A particular effort will be
made to ensure that the emerging private enterprise sector is fully captured within the tax
base. For this, the Government will seek technical assistance from the Fund and other
sources.
3. Monetary Policy and Currency Reform
14.      The introduction of the kroon in the context of a currency board operated by the
Bank of Estonia will provide Estonia with a stable monetary environment within which
bilization and reform efforts can be implemented expeditiously.
15.      Monetary policy will be drastically circumscribed. Any increases in the total of
the kroon note issue plus commercial bank deposits with the Bank of Estonia (BOB), will by
virtue of the operton of the curency board, be backed 100 percent by liquid international
reserves. The BOE will not be allowed to extend credit to the Goverment. Commercial
banks facing transitory liquidity shortages will be able to address these through the use of
their reserve deposits with the Bank of Bstonia, but increasingly severe penalties will apply
in circumstaces where these deposits fall below required levels.
16.      The Government of Estonia is committed to ensuring that conditions favorable for
the operation of the cunency board are realized. To that end, the commercial badking
activities of the Bank of Estonia have already been separated from its cental banking
functions to establish a genuine two-tier banking system on June 17, 1992. The Bank will
also prepare by August 15, 1992 the following three balance sheets reflecting positions as of
July 31, 1992 (and for each end-month thereafter); (i) for cunrency board operations (the
'Issue DepartmentV), (ii) for the remainder of the Bank's operations (the 'Banking
Department'), and (iii) for the Savings Bank. It will segregate from the balance sheet of the
currency board all opeations that fall outside the limited scope of the currecy board (i.e.,
issuing currency and holding commercial bank reserves, all 100 percent backed by foreign
resrves).
Under the provisos of the cufrncy refrm, any general goverment fiacg woud be confied excluively
to borrowing fom comercial bans.



-66-                                   Anex
Page 6 of 14
17.      Meanwhile, the Government will conduct fiscal policy in the prudent manner set
out above and will accelerate privatization and structural reform efforts. For its part, the
BOB already enforced in early June 1992 full compliance of existing commercial bank
reporting standards and has required that bariks report their positions on the basis of a
standardized balance sheet. It will also work to further streamline and modernize Estonia's
financial institutions by (i) improving the clearing system for payments within Estonia by
September 30, 1992 so that all domestic payments clear within two business days of receipt
of instmctions; 00i) submitting to Parliament by November 30, 1992 a new charter of the
Bank of Estonia, a Central Bank Law and a Commercial Banking Law; and (iii)
implementing an intemationally accepted bank accounting plan by March 31, 1993.
Furthenmore, to make all bank supervision procedures operational and ensuring that aU banks
adhere to established prudential guidelines, the Bank will arrange for the approval,
publication and implementation of adequate licensing guidelines for commercial banks. It
will also ensure that (i) approval and publication of supervisory regulations on asset
classification standards, provisioning for problem loans, capital adequacy requirements, asset
concentration guidelines, lending limits and foreign exchange exposure limits wil be
implemented by November 30, 1992; (ii) approval and publication of enforcement procedures
and penalties of said regulations will be completed by January 1, 1993; (iii) capability to
perform off-site supervision, including adequate staffing at the Bank of Estonia, will be
achieved by January 31, 1993; and (iv) procedures manual and implementation of on-site
monitoring will be effected by March 31, 1993.
18.      The Government recognizes that an efficient financial system is characterized by a
system in which interest rates are the principal means by which credit is allocated.
Moreover, within a currency board framework, changes in interest rates are the principal
mechanism signaling shifts in the demand and supply for kroons. To ensure that interest
rates play their vital role in achieving rapid adjustment to changing circumstances,
commercial banks wil remam free to set interest rates for credits and deposits based on
market conditions. However, given the current structure of the banking system, paricularly
the close ties between banks and enterprises, temporary limitations on interest rate margins
may be imposed, in consultation with Fund staff, to prevent banks with lare portfolios of
nolperforming loans from using excessive spreads to recapitalize themselves. As a
performance criterion, the Bank of Estonia will ensure maintenance of (i) full foreign reserve
backing for the curency board's liabilities at the end of each weekly reporting period and (ii)
reserve requirements by commercial banks consistent with Bank of Estonia regulations.
4. Incom Pblicy
19.      The Government considers a market-based system of wage determination that will
encourage labor mobility and productivity to be a highly desirable objective in the medium
term. However, in the meantime, to reduce inflationary expectations, contain a possible
wage-price spiral, and avoid the decapitaliztion of state entemprises through excessive wage
increases, the Government introduced an incomes policy effective July 1, 1992. To allow
time for preparing the detils of this policy, wage compensation was frozen in July.
Tbeafter, specific guidelines were established to limit the percentage increase for average



- 67 -                                 _m
Page 7 of 14
employee compensation in the state sector (including local authontes) and state enterprises
for the period August-December 1992. Similar guidelines will be issued for every
succeeding calendar quarter thereafter. The guidelines for August-December 1992 were set
to equal the targeted increase in the consumer price index during the coresondimg penod,
alo taking into account special factors such as increases in bread, gas and heating pnces.
The Govemment's aim is to prevent any fiuther decline in real wages and to that end the
guidelineswll allow gross incomes to rise in line with inflation. In suport of this policy, a
new consumer price index will be introduced by August 31, 1992. For the first period, wage
increases are to be granted in September 1992 and again in November 1992. Wage increases
in succeeding periods will be pranted in the middle of each calendar quarter. Guidelines for
wage increases will be the same for all governmental administative units and state
enris  and there would be no exemptions. There wil be no restriction on the level of
any individual's wage; only the percentage increase in the average wage in each enterprise or
administtive unit will be limitad. If in any calendar quarter the actal increase in the
consumer price index turns out to be substntiy different from the expected increase on
which wage limits were based, any such deviation will also be aken into account when the
acceptable increase in the average wage compensation for the following incomes policy
period is established. For this, the Government will review wage and price developments for
the first time in November. In the first instance, private entises would be exempt from
this policy.
20.      The Government's projection for inflation during the period August-Diecember
1992 is 26.5 percent. Accordingly, the guideline for the September 1992 provides for a
maximum increase in average wages of 12 percent, to be followed by a further maximum
ncrease in November 1992 of 13 percent. The guidelines for increases in subsequent
peiods will be established with the cooperation of Fund staff.
21.      Wage increases above this ceiling wil be penaizd by an excessive wages tax.
Tis tax wil be levied on enteiprises at the end of January 1993, and at the end of each
three monthly period thereafter, for any excess of the wage bill - adjusted for the number of
wokers - beyond the permissible amount during the immediately preceding period at
progressive rates: 200 percent for an excess of between 1 percent and 3 percent, and
400 percent for an excess of more than 3 percent.
S. Extra Sector Polies
22.      The Govemment recognizes that, in the trasiion to a market economy, the
removal of remainig exchange and ttade restictons is a cental part of the stategy for
intrdong a rational stucture of relaive prices, for exosing domestc monopolies to
compeJtion, and for allevtg supply botlenecks. These measres will work together with
price libe on and privatization to create a competitive environment and establish
appropriate maret sigals to guide production and investment choices by decentralized
decision makers. A credible cuecy board operation will also serve as an important
element in maintaining confidence in the kroon and in Estonia's financial integrity.



-68 -                                Annex
Page 8 of 14
23.      With the introduction of the kroon, the Government adopted a libeal exchange
rate system providing for broad current account convertibility, whereby unlimited amounts of
kroon may be converted into foreign exchange at authorized banks by resident-individuals
and by resident-entes upon prsentation of import or payments documentation. Limited
capital account converdbility was also provided, whereby individuals and enterpnses could
keep in Estonia, and freely use untdl January 1, 1993, balances in their foreign exchange
accounts outsnding as at June 20, 1992 (but not add to such balances). Meanwhile, full
surrender of foreign exchange by exporters is required within a period of two months.
24.      The Government will review the relevant decrees providing for current and capital
account convertbility in due course with a view to further liberalizing the exchange system,
thereby reducing or eliminating the risk that "black markets" may emerge for the kroon with
rates significantly different from the official exchange rate established by the Bank of
Estonia.
25.      The foreign investment law in effect befoare the intoduction of the kroon, allowing
the full repatriation in hard currency of capital involved in foreign direct investment, has
been maintined. For prudendal purposes, Hmits have be imposed on the foreign currency
exposure of domestic bans whereby each bank licensed for foreign exchange operations is
permitted an overall open position no greater than 30 percent of its capital and reserves, or
an open position with respect to any single currency of 10 percent of its capital and reserves.
All foreign exchange holdings of the Government have been converted into domestic deposits
with commecial banks as from June 20, 1992. The foreign currency budget has also been
abolished as of the same date and the Government wiU henceforth meet its foreign exchange
needs through pwchases at the prevaig market exchange rate.
26.      The Govenmment and the Bank of Estonia recognize that the operaton of a
currency board is inconsistent with cental bank intervention to maintain or influence
exchange rates in the inteibank or auction market, and will therefore refrain from such
intervent. The exchange rate for the kroon will rarely drt ignficantly from the Bank
of Estonia's central rate owing to the existence of the Bank's guarantee to exchange cash or
commercial bank reserves with itself at that rate.
27.      There are viruay no licensing requirements for imports at present. All export
quotas and ficensing requirements were removed as of June 29, 1992, except in the case of
alcohol, tobwo, grain, cables, peat, shale, sand, clay, lmestone, dolomite and hides, for
which restictios wil be removed as of January 1, 1993, unless such licensing is deemed by
the Government to be necessry for reasons of security and health. In the case of ferrous
and non-ferrous metals, export taxes have been imposed instead. Export taxes also apply to
rapeseed oil, aniques, and selected cultual items. In any event, the Government does not
intend to intoduce new, or intensify eisting, exchange restrictions, introduce or modify
multiple currency practices or to impose or intensify any import restrictions for balance of
payments purpse, during the period of the arrangement.
28.      Payments and transfers will gerally be settled in convertible curencies.
However, selected bilateral agreements, some of which may entail restictions on payments



- 69 -                              &M
Page 9 of 14
and tansfers for curt international transactions and, in some cases, multiple currency
prces, are expected to remain in effect or be renewed. It is the Government's intention to
phase out these armangements as soon as practicable with a view to establishing the most
ibeal possible conditions for trade between enterprises in Estona and the former Soviet
republics. To that end, a customs union with Iatvia and Lithuania is currently under
negotiation and Estonia is engaged in discussions that could lead to a free trade agreement
with the CIS. During the period of the arrangement, the Government will not conclude new
bilateral payments agreements inconsistent with Article Vm of the Fund's Articles of
Agreement.
29.      The Government intends to conduct Estonia's intemational economic relations on a
nondiscriminatory basis in line with multilateral principles prevailing in the world economy.
In this context, the Government recognizes the need for continued close economic relations
with the former republics of the U.S.S.R. However, these relations will, of course, be less
intense than dunng the period when Estonia was part of the ruble area, and are expeced to
become less close as the restructuring process proceeds.
30.     It is the intention of the Government to take all possible measures to avoid actions
that would disrupt trade with former republics of the U.S.S.R. It is committed to removing
inter-state trade barriers, promoting direct trading between enterprises, and reducing direct
Govenment involvement in trade reLations. To that end, the Government will review and
propose improvements in mechanisms for settling payments with the ruble area by September
30, 1992. Improvement in these trade and payments relations, will, however, require
equivalent actions by other former Soviet republics. We note that part of the Fund's
mandate is to assist member countries so that they do not resort to measures destuctive of
internatnal prosperity. We understand that the Fund will work closely with the former
Soviet republics and assist them in efforts to enter into cooperative agreements and
relatonships among themselves.
6. Enterprise Reform
31.     As an integal part of our policy to transorm the Estonian economy into a mariet
based economy, a vast majority of enterprises must be privatized as soon as possible. We
have made consierable progress in the stategy, legislation and implementation of various
aspects of prion. However, it will takd time to implement the program fully. In the
interim, we have taken measures to enhance the efficiency of enterprises remaining in state
hands for the short to medium term, and to complete the legal framework for entepises.
32.      Corporatlztion/Commercdalization. The corpotization and commerilization
of all staeowned enterprises is complete. They have been converted into joint-stock
companies, are autonomous of founding ministries, and have extemal boards of directors.
We are now attempting to strengthen the discipline of these enterprises by: (i) proposing by
July 199 amendments to the enrprise law to tighten reporting requments and to define
more cleary the role of Board members; (ii) introducing new interationally accepted



- 70 -                              Amex
Page 10 of 14
accounting and auditing stndards and adoptig them by Jauy 1993; and (o) increasig
the financial discipline in enterprises. To help achieve the latter, all dirct budge    suppot
to enterprises has been eliminated, and a system is in place to monitor and restrain potential
subsidies from all levels of Government to stte-owned enterprises. We will have a system
to monitor and develop guidelines to prevent accumulation of inter-enterprise aras and
subsidies to enterprises through the state-owned commercial banking system by November
30, 1992. We will also initiate a study to assess taiff setting procedures for municipal and
state-owned enterprise services by October 1992 in order to phase in cost-based pricing.
33.      Privatization. The design of our privatization program is largely complete, and
awaits public debate and fial confirmation. The Parfliament has approved the laws on
privatization of housing and the large enterpises and the government has sarted their
implementation. The Parliament has given the right to the government to approve the list of
enterprises that can be sold to both foreign and domestic investors. We will identify 20-30
large enterprises for demonstration privatization by October 1992 and have sought technical
assistance to begin selling a group of 10-20 of these enterprses as soon as approval for the
short list is granted and the technical assistance is received, at the latest by year-end 1992.
34.      An initial privatization law for small enterprises was passed in December 1990
and a significant number of service, trade and catring enterpises have already been
auctioned by the responsible municipalities. The sales of service, trade and catering
establishments will be completed by July 193. In addition, this law was amended in May
1992 to increase its scope by increasing the ceiling from EEK 50,000 to BEK 600,000 and
permitting such privatizations in all sectors of the economy.
35.      RestItion. Considerable progress has been made in the area of stitution. All
claims were submitted by resident listonians in January 1992, and we have submitted to
Parliament regulations which delineate the procedures for restitution, including valuation and
compensation principles. We are presently compiling a list of state-owned property,
identifying that which has been claimed, and the Govemnment has been given the right to sell
all property not claimed. The identification of non-restituon property for privatizaton will
be completed by January 1993.
36.      Legal Framework. The legal framewoik for entprse reform is largdy
complete. A bankrptcy law was passed in June 1992. Drafts of a conct law and
mortgage law will be ready by end-July 1992 and submitted to Parlament by Otober 1V".
An important step for implementation of this legislation will be to build up the instittional
capacity for dispute resolution.
7. Pro-Competition and Anti-Monopoly PbliIes
37.      Many of the state enterprises inherted from our previously planned economy are
monopolies. This heavily concentrated structure consists of both regional monopolies in
wholesale and retail trade, tportation, and services, and also indusial concers or
associations which can act as cartels. To stimulate competiton, we will not only encourage
new entry by both foreign and domestic investors, but will also undectae an active program



- 71 -                           Annex HI
Page 11 of 14
of breakng up exing entepnwses. In additon, introducing a convertble currency and
opening up trade will increase competition.
38.      Demonopollzatlon. Progress has been made in breaidng up monopolistic
enteipises in the wholesale and retail sectors. We intend to establsh by September 192 a
demonopolization working group to develop an approach to and schedule for
demonopolization. Systematic implementaion of the progrm will begin by March 1993. A
draft Competition Law will be prepared by July 1992, and fna legislaion will be submitted
to Parliament by October 992.
39.      Private Sector Facilitation. Legislation has been enacted to permit domestic
private activity and foreign investment. To encouage new entry of small domestic
businesses, we will continue our ongoing efforts to: (i) sell separable activities and moveable
assets of large enterprises; (ii) contract out public services; and (iii) remove obstacles to
obtaining key iwuts such as real estate. To stimulate foreign investment, we have sought the
assisance of the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS) to undertake a diagnostic study
and to assist in designing ways to promote such investment. Foreign investment procedures
and legislation will be amended as required based on the results of this study by December
1992.
8. Strengthenig the Comm ial Banking System.
40.      Banking Legislation. The commercial banks are now in full compliance with
existing laws regarding reporting standards, which lay a good foundation for improved
supervision of the commercial banks, and for starting to identify the banks that will have to
be restnuctred, recaitalized, privatized or closed. Also, the existing commercial banking
law is periodically being amended and updated to make it more suitable for the new market-
based economic system. However, the current law, which comes from the soviet era, does
not provide an adequate basis for the reform and development of the Estonian commercial
baning sector in the longer term. Thus the Bank of Estonia and the Goverment intend to
submit a new commercial baking law based on eurean standards to Pariament by
Novmber 1992. CTechnical assistance to draft this law has been obtained).
41.      Banking Sector Retctring. Given the seriously decapitalized state of most of
t  state-owned banks in Estonia, the BOB and the Govenment place high priority on
banking sector restcuning. To this end, we have established an Inter-Agency Working
Group (Bank of Estonia, Ministies of Finance and Economy, etc.) to study and make
mmendatns rerng strengthening the commercial baning system. This group will
des  and submit to Government a program to restucture and strengthen the commercial
baning sector by November 1992. This progrm will include:
(i)   A plan to appraise and deal with inter-enterprise arrears and non-performing
loans. Serious consideration will be given to converting such arrears (perhaps at a
discount as under conventional bankuptcy restructuring procedures) into
commercial bank loans where apppriate.



- 72 -                                Annex-m
Page 12 of 14
(ii)   A strategy to liquidate, restucture, recapitlize or privatize banks.
(iii) Steps to be taken to improve internal efficiency of the banking system;
42.      Accounting, Auditing and Payments Systems. The BOE and the Government
plan by September 1992 to present legislation mandating a system of internationally accepted
accountigIaudkbg sadws* for commercial banks and will develop a program for its
implementation. By the same time, we will assure that commercial banks are adhering to
accepted prudenlk sadwvds.
9. Social Protection and the Safety Net
43.      The need for measures that protect the most vulnerable groups and encourage
productive employment is acute during economic stabilization and restructuring, when
incomes and jobs of large numbers of people are adversely affected. At the same time,
budgetary costs must be kept manageable. Our social safety net system will be carefully
reviewed with these considerations in mind. As a priority action to facilitate labor market
adjustment, we shall immediately remove all restrictions on labor mobility, allowing citizens
to move and settle freely within the teritory of Estonia.
44.      Poverty Lie. Our current system of social assistance is not sufficiently means-
tested nor carefully targeted. These deficiencies may place a heavy burden on the system in
the near future. We therefore plan to define a realistic poverty line (taking into account
nternational experience), which would become the benchmark for all social assistance
programs. Clarification of methodology and definition of the poverty line will be completed
by December 19, and wiU include provisions for regular revisions of the poverty level to
maintain its value in real terms. It is our medium-term objective to assure that individuals
receive payments sufficient to bring their incomes at least to the poverty line.
Simultaneously, we will continue to develop a network of social assistance offices so that we
can channel necessary help to the most vulnerable groups, either on a means-testing basis or
on the basis of well-defined target groups. We will begin to implement the social assistae
system by December 1992 and have it fully operational by June 1993.
45.      Tightening EligibHity for Social Benefits. We will introduce other measures to
conserve resources where possible and to make the system consistent with mainstam
praces of market economies. By December  92, we will implement sick pay reform,
placing on employees and employers the responsibility for bearing the costs of the first 34
weeks of sickness. By January 193, we will begin raising the retrement age. In addition,
we will propose unemployment legislation modifying eligibility of new entrants and
reerants for unemployment benefits, and enforcing new job refusal rules by February
1993.
46.      Controillng Costs of Pension Systems. Since budgetary sustainability of the
currently suspended earnings-related pension scheme is very doubtful, we will introduce
legislaion to rationalize the pension system by December 1992. Pending implementation of
a rationalized scheme, we will not dimante the currnt flat-rate temporry scheme. In the



- 73 -                              Annex m
Page 13 of 14
meandme, by October 1992, we will complete a study to compare the relative merits of flat
and earnings-related pension rates and to assess ways of increasing cost effectiveness.
47.     Management of Unemployment Programs. Although unemployment in Estonia
is still low, the risk of rapid unemployment growth in the future is considerable. The present
system of unemployment offices and financing labor market policies is inadequate to handle
the anticipated increases. Therefore, by December 1992 we will strengthen local
employment offices with additional resources (including plans for expansion of such offices
to geographic areas likely to be hardest hit by unemployment) and design a system of
retraining and other active labor market policies for displaced workers with a specified level
of financing.
48.      Employees' Contributions to Social Benefits Program. The present system does
not provide any visible linkage between employees' contributions to the Social Insurance
Fund and Health Fund, and the benefits obtained. Therefore, over an extended period of
tme, beginning not later than by March 1993, we will be increasing the employees'
contibution and reducing the employers' contibution to eventually reach an equal shares
system. By March 1993 we will also prepare a schedule for separating non-insurance
reated benefits (such as family allowances) from eanings-related insurance-type benefits
(such as pensions). The former should be financed directly from the budget rather than from
payrolf taxes. Both of the above-mentioned changes will be part of the proposal for the
reform of financing arrangements for the social safety net and health services, including
necessay instiutional and organizational changes (e.g., redefining responsibilities of the
ministries and considering the merger of the Ministry of Social Welfare and the Ministry of
Helth). The first draft of this proposal will be ready by December 1992.
10. Economic Management
49.      Economic Reform Program Management. The Government has established an
inter-ministerial commission (including the Bank of Estonia) to monitor implementation of
the economic stabilization and structural reform program as part of initiating the currency
reform. Within the coming months, we will identify institutional strengthening requirements
in the Ministry of Finance in areas such as cash management (including cash flow
prqjections). In parallel, we wil establish a Research Department at the Bank of Estonia by
September 1992.
50.      Statitical Systems. Recognizing the importance of accurate, internationally-
comparble information on the performance of the economy, the Government has formed a
unit at the Minity of Finance for maintaining economic data (output, fiscal, monetary,
BOP, prices). Key economic indicators suitable for program monitoting will be published
periodicaly in English by this unit to the donor community starting by August 1992.
51.      External Assistance Management and Coordination. The Govemment will
establish a unit to coordinate external assistance Ooans and grants). Witmin this unit, we will
implement a system for extenal debt monitoring and reportig to IBRD by November 1992.



- 74 -                              Anw
Page 14 of 14
Ths unit wil also be responsible for prepaing the debt reprsentation letter that the
Government wi1l send to the World Bank before loan signing.
52.      Public Investment Program. In anticipation of a resumed public investment
program, we will set up a mechanism to set priorities among sectors, establish project
evaluation crteria, and appraise projects proposed for public investment by March 1993.
The Govemment will produce a first version of a rolling Three-Year Public Investmem
Program by Juue 1993, understanding that, undike multi-year plans in the past, these plans
will be focussed on (i) establishing approptiate sectoral policy frameworks; (ii) setting
relative public investment priorities among and within sectors; and (ii) focus only on public
investment requirements and programs rather than enteipise investments, which would be
handled by the bankng system.
53.      Legal Systems for Policy Design and Implementafion. Despite the major
legislative progress in recent months, the Government recognizes that further enhancement of
its capacity to formulate and coordinate legislation for managing the national economy would
be desirable to assure that such legislation is consistent and effective. In addition, we intend
to enhance our juridical infrasre to enforce laws related to economic management by
May 1993.



- 75 -                               Annex IY
Page 1 of 2
ESTONIA - REHABILTATION LOAN
Goods Elgible for Bank Financing
A. NePtive lst of goods which would not be financed
No withdrawal from the loan account shall be made in respect of:
(a) Expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract which a national or
international financing institution or any other financing agency shall have
financed or agreed to finance;
(b)   Expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for
luxury consumption; and
(c)   Expenditures for items in the following groups or sub-groups of the United
Nations Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3:
Group       Sub-group         Description
112                           Alcoholic beverages
121                           Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse
122                           Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                           Radioactive and associated materials
667                           Pearls, precious and semi-precious stones,
unworked or worked
718         718.1             Nuclear reactors and parts thereof, fuel
elements (cartridges), non- irradiated for
nuclear reactors
728         728.43            Tobacco processing machinery
897         897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group
metals (except watches and watch cases)
and goldsmiths' or silversmiths' wares
(mcluding set gems)
971                           Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores
and concentrates.



- 76 -
Annex
Page 2 of 2
B. Pre-identified essential Imports
The Government and the Bank have agreed on a list of essential imports in
four sectors:
(a)   Health: Pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and equipment;
(b)   Energy: Chemicals for boiler water treatment, materials and spare parts for
boiler house equipment, and possibly heavy fuel oil for heating and power
generation;
(c)   Agriculture: Inputs to maintain production in the agricultural sector, including
high protein feed, veterinary medicines, agrochemicals, spare parts for
agricultural equipment and packaging materials; and
(d)   Transport: Spare parts for buses, trams, trolleys and trains.
The goods on the lists have been selected by mutual agreement between the
Government and the Bank on the basis of their economic and social priority. However, the
lists may be amended from time to time by mutual agreement, provided the following criteria
are applied:
(a)   To be eligible, goods must be intended for the maintenance of essential
services and economic activities in key sectors (for instance, spare parts or
pieces of equipment for the maintenance of essential services, raw merials or
intermediate goods for the production of essential goods); and
(b)   To ensure speedy procurement, preference will be given to: (i) goods of a
commodity nature, which can be described easily without long or complex
technical specifications, and which can be procured from several sources under
large contracts; and (ii) goods which are available off-the-shelf without lengthy
delivery times.
To be eligible for disbursement under the loan, all pre-identified critical
imports will have to be procured in accordance with agreed Bank procurement procedures.
Procurement of agro-chemicals and other hazardous materials in the context of the PIC must
conform to Bank guidelines, which require prior review by the Bank.



- 77 -
Annex V
Page 1 of 4
ESTONIA- REHABILITATION LOAN
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.          Technical assistance (TA) requirements for implementation of both the
Rehabilitation Loan itself and the government's reform program have been identified. In
some cases, Terms of Reference (TOR) have already been prepared and fmancing from grant
sources has been secured (e.g., Finnish financing for advisory services related to loan
implementation). For most of the other TA items (related to the reform program) TOR have
been or are being prepared. Grant fmnancing will be sought for all of these items when their
TOR are finalized, and the Bank wir assist the government in this endeavor. However, if
such financing is not forthcoming, it is the government's intention to use the Technical
Assistance component of the Rehabilitation Loan for this purpose.
2.          Technical Assistance would cover four areas of the reform program:
(1) Enterprise Restructuring. TOR have been developed for assistance (i) in Pilot
Privatizations and (ii) to the Estonian Competition Office for Demonopolization. TOR are to
be further developed for assistance in Accounting and Auditing Improvements in the
Enterprise Sector.
(2) FTnancial Sector Restructuring. TOR have been developed for assistance in
Restructuring the Banking Sector.
(3) The Social Safety Net. TOR have been developed for assistance (i) in
Improving Income Support Program and (ii) to Develop Employment Services.
(4) Economic Management and Reform of the Public Sector. TOR have been
developed for assistance (i) in Procurement, Disbursement, and Accounting; and (ii) to
review and strengthen the Legal Framework for Economic Reform. In addition, TOR need
to be further elaborated for: (i) Public Investment Pogramming- (ii) Tariff Strucures for
Public Services; (iii) Local Government Finance and Central/Lccal Fiscal relations; (iv) Aid
and Technical Assistance Coordination and Debt Management and (v) Strengthening the
Auditor General function.
3.          The TA requirements for which TOR have been finalized or are in an
advanced stage of preparation are the following:
(a) Assistance in Pilot Privatizations. TA to the State Property Department is
required for the sale of a small group of medium and large enteprises (10-20 enteIprises) in
a "pilot privatization" program. The technical assistance would have two distinct objectives:
to take the leading role in undertaking these privatization transactions, and to train the



- 78-                                 Annex V
Page 2 of 4
Estonian government staff to carry out future privatizations. Since these privatizations will
be the first public sales of medium and large enterprises in Estonia, and thus will serve as a
demonstration to the Government and the public at lare, the success of these privatizations
is of utmost importance. Specific tsks would include: (1) utilizing the List of pre-identfied
privatization candidates and together with Estonian govermment staff select 10-20 for
privatization, selecting final candidates so as to employ the greatest variety of privatization
methods permitted under prevailing legislation; and (2) undertaldng privatizations of 10-20
enterprises by: carrying out an operational and financial audit; assessing the need for a
valuation and, if appropriate, performing such valuation; preparing the prospectus for
privatization; identifying prospective buyers; identifying procedures for each sale and
carrying out sales; and draffing and negotiating all contractual agreements. In addition, the
advisory team would undertake training activities as foRlows: briefly review different
techniques for privatizations, avoss their relevance to Estonia and present a seminar on this
topic to staff; review methods ior valuation of assets that can be used in the various forms of
privatization envisaged--and present a seminar on this topic to staff; through actual enterprise
sales, tmin staff in pnvatization procedures to enable them to independently carry out future
privatizations; instruct staff in steps involved in competitive procurement of consultants to
undertake future privatizations, including an assessment of different contractual
arrangements.
(b) Assistance to the Estonian Competition Office for Demonopolization. TA is
required to develop and finalize an economy-wide demonopolizadon program for Estonia.
The scope of work is threefold: (a) to provide day-to-day assistance to the staff of the Office
of Competition; (b) to provide a detailed plan for implementing a demonopolization program
in Estonia; and (c) to implement demonopolizaion in selected industries. Specific tasks
include: (1) A review of current demonopolization-related legislation resulting in
recommendations for potential amendments. This review should include an assessment of
possible additional legislation needed for active demonopolization measures for exisng
enterprise strucures and anti-tiust measures taken against new enterprises (state or privately
owned) or new areas of activity, and more passive regulatory measures. (2) The
development of criteria for identifying priority subsectors/industries for demonopolization
(e.g., how quicldy breakups can be implemented, and the impact of one industry's monopoly
power on other subsectors); the prioritization of major subsectors of the economy for
demonopolizaion; and the identifcation of natral monopolies to remain as monopolies
subject to government reguation. (3) The development of an approach to demonopolize
ten major subsectors based on an economic overview and organizatonal analysis of the
subsectors. (4) An identification of institutional arrangements within the Estonian
government to carry out demonopolization, including: a) delineation of responsibilities of the
competition office; b) delineation of responsibilities of branch ministries; c) necessary legal
institutions, including court system or other institutions to enforce enterprise compliance.
(5) A determination of the need to break up non-monopoly multi-plant enterprises



- 79 -
Annex V
Page 3 of 4
(deconcentration), including specific recommendations to the government. (6) Assist the
government in undertang five enterprise breaups, based on the detailed recommendations
of the above tasks.
(c) Assistance for Restructuring the Banking Sector. TA is required to produce a
detailed plan for implementng the restructuring of the banking system. The study would
examine (i) the present overall strategy for banking reform; (ii) the legislative, regulatory,
and supervisory framework of banking operations; and (iii) the clientele of the banking
sector, particularly since the enterprise sector is being restructured and privatized, and it is
important to overhaul the banking sector in parallel with the enterprise sector. Taking into
consideration the financial sector strategy, the macro-policy, legislative, regulatory and
enterprise frameworks, the study would recommend the specific measures that are required to
resucture the baning system; note the obstacles and constraints which are being faced or
which may be faced in implementing these measures; recommend methods of implementation
for the measures proposed, with a detailed timetable for the critical first operations covering
the next 1-2 years; and indicate the possible contribution of external assistance to the banldng
reform program.
(d) Assistance for lIproving Income Support Programs. TA is required to: (1)
Establish objective critera for means testing, specifically to (i) design a simple procedure for
means testing that -n be used at local social assistance offices to determine the level of
services and benefits, (ii) help Ministry of Social Welfare to develop standardized levels of
benefits for each category of beneficiaries, (iii) prepare guidelines on policy interpretation
and operating instuctions for means testng and benefit provision and (iv) prepare and
organize a study, preceded by a household survey, to define a new, poverty line. (2)
Improve local social assistance offices facilities, specifically to design a model field office
and assist the Ministry in insalling the model in selected sites with necessary equipment.
The office should be provided with adequate office space to ensure easy access by physically
disabled and elderly claimants. (3) Define local social asistance training needs, specifically
to assist the Ministry in organizing international study trips for key staff and senior social
workers to view a variety of social programs and different systems and methods.
(e) Assstan  to Develop Employment Services. TA is required to: (1) Develop
materials and techniqes to support occupational counselling, specifically to: (i) assist
Ministry of Labor in developing appropriate procedus and in compiling, with appropriate
agencies, national occational information (e.g., job descriptions, location, wages, reqired
classifications, worldng conditions); (ii) assist the Ministry in compiling, with appropriate
agencies, information on national education and trAining opportunities (institutions, programs,
enrollment conditions, etc.) that are linked to occupational information; and (iii) develop and
disseminate job development techniques to staff of local labor offices to increase information
on job vacancies and to improve their relations with enterprises. (2) Improve local labor
offices' facilites, specifically to identify facihities and equipment required for local labor
offices to use new mateals and techniques and disseminate computer systems and other



- 80 -                                     Annex V
Page 4 of 4
equipment to the offices to improve services. (3) Improve staff training, specifically to (i)
develop and assist the Ministry of labor in delivering short and long term training for local
labor offices staff (mass layoffs, career development, interview techniques, aptitude and
interest assessment, job search etc.) and (ii) develop, in cooperation with the Ministry and
selected higher education institutions, long-term education programs for job counsellors.
(f) Procurement, Disbursement and Accounting. TA and training would be
required to assist the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in carrying out its functions, which
include, inter alia, the following: (1) Review proposals for procurement of imported goods
and consultant services to ensure that they meet the criteria and objectives of the loan and
that funds are available from the loan proceeds to cover their costs; (2) Advise participating
entities and their agents on acceptable methods and procedures of procurement and payment
for specific contracts; (3) Establish and maintain records of expenditures based on copies of
signed contracts and other documents as may be required; (4) Verify payments due under
contracts and prepare and process the applications to the Bank for loan withdrawals; and (5)
Coordinate all other actions and decisions among the participating entities and the procuring
agencies to ensure timely and effective project implementation.
(g) Assistance to Review and Strengthen Legal Framework for Economic
Reform. TA is required to review the legal framework and strengthen the legal system, so
as to create a legal environment that will facilitate commercial transactions, promote private
sector development and stimulate national and foreign investor confidence and investment.
Presently, some laws date from the pre-independence period, while other more market based
laws have been recently passed. There is a patchwork of laws, and the legislation in force
does not constitute a coherent legal framework. Even as more market-based legislation is
passed, this legislation must be effectively administered. The proposed technical assistance
program would therefore (1) review all economic, financial and business-related legislation
and (2) review the legal infrastructure and practical problems in implementing legislation. In
the review of economic, financial and business laws, special attention would be given to inter
alia, the following: (i) gaps, inconsistencies, contradictions or shortcomings in or between
existing legislation; (ii) whether the legislation is internally consistent within a market based
economic framework; (iii) whether any legislation is clearly out of date and in need of
replacement or revocation; and (iv) how all laws, resolutions, regulations or orders should be
systematically published after their enactment to provide a transparent legal framework for
investment. In reviewing the legal infrastructure and the practical difficulties in enforcing
legislation, special attention would be given to, inter alia, (i) the adequacy of legal training
and practices among current practitioners, including judges as well as lawyers, and (ii) the
court and administrative systems in charge of enforcing economic and commercial legislation.



IBRD 23706
FINLAND .
Gulf of Finland
SWEDEN '           S -'       RUSSIA
eAT VI. TAALU
POLAN                  BEIARUS -  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T s i  Ahd                                    J
by t W     w     dff
o 7ffd  *W   l, dh               HiiumaooRhK      
iGsd  IN  I    slisms
pwtof  wwBw9uu
Peipsi j6rv
Saaremao                                   PuANU                                                               r,      J          RUSSIA
5                      ~~~~~~~~~~\Rrlrs)arv   7
f,AL-f C  SEA
-N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Krs-ucPhv
TO     KlmbnJ                      \
LA1 VIA                                                                           E STO N I A LT
ELEVATIONS:
: -M TERS*NATIONAL CAPITA..                 TRUNK ROADS
IOLOMETERS                                                  -'    _)
10  20  30  40  50                                                     150            URBANAREAS              MAINROADS
o     lo   210   30                                                     50          !  SELECTED CmES            RAILROADS
MUM                                                             0              RNERS                   INERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
AUGUST 1992



