Docmt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFcIAL uSE ONLY
Report No. 14045-EE
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ESTONIA
-REHABILITATION LOAN
(LOAN 3522-EE)
MARCH 31, 1995
Country Operations Division I
Country Department IV 
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
teir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed writhout Wvorld Banki authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 31, 1994)
Currency Unit = Kroon
US$ 1.00 = 12.39 Kroons
Kroon 1   US$ 0.081
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January i - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EFTA        European Free Trade Area
ESA         Estonian Statistical Agency
ESW         Economic and Sector Work
EU          European Union
FSUB        Former Soviet Union and Baltic Republics
GATT        General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs and Trade
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IMF         International Monetary Fund
JEXIM       Export Import Bank of Japan
MERP        Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies
MOF         Ministry of Finance
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
SBA         Standby Arrangement
TA          Technical Assistance
VHK         Valtion Hankintakeskus (Finnish Government Purchasing Centre)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE . .......................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ...........................................
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................
A.  Project Origin and Objectives  ....................................
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives  .................................   2
C.  Implementation  Record  and Major Factors Affecting the Project  ..............   3
D.  Project Sustainability   .........................................    7
E.  Bank Performance   ...........................................    7
F.  Borrower Performance   ........................................    8
G.  Assessment of Performance and Outcome   ............................   9
H.  Future Operations  ...........................................    9
1.   Key Lessons Learned   .........................................    9
STATISTICAL  TABLES   .............................................                                                                      11
Table  1:    Summary  of Assessments  .................................    12
Table 2:    Bank Loans/Credits   .....................................    13
Table 3:    Project Timetable  ........                                 .............................    13
Table 4:    Loan/Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated and Actual    ...                                      .....    14
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation   ......................    14
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation  ..........................    15
Table 7:    Studies Included  in Project  ................................    15
Table 8A:  Project Costs   ........................................    16
Table 8B:  Project Financing    .....................................    16
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits   ..............................    17
Table  10:   Status of Legal Covenants  ................................    17
Table  11:   Compliance-with Operational Directives   .......................    18
Table  12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs   ..............................    18
Table  13:   Bank Resources: Missions  ................................    18
ANNEXES
ANNEX  A.            Aide Memoire    .....................................   19
Policy Implementation  Under the Rehabilitation Loan   .............  22
ANNEX  B.            Project Review  from  the Borrower's Perspective   ................  31
MAP IBRD No. 26135
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                          l






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ESTONIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Ln. 3522-EE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rehabilitation Loan in Estonia, for
which a loan in the amount of US$30 million equivalent was approved on October 1, 1992 and made
effective on October 6, 1992.
The loan closed on September 30, 1994, six months after the original closing date of
March 31, 1994. Total disbursements amounted to US$28.63 million equivalent and the remaining
US$1.37 million was cancelled. The last disbursement took place on December 14, 1994. In conjunction
with this loan, the Export Import Bank of Japan provided its own Rehabilitation Loan in the amount of
US$20 million equivalent which is being administered by the World Bank.
The ICR was prepared in the Country Operations Division for Belarus, Estonia, Latvia and
Lithuania of the Europe and Central Asia Region by Ms. Maha Armaly. Mr. John Hansen contributed
sections on the policy performance under the Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies. The ICR was
reviewed by Mr. Adil Kanaan, Country Operations Division Chief and Ms. Judy O'Connor, Principal
Operations Officer (EC4DR). The borrower provided comments that are included as an appendix to the
ICR.
Preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission in
October 1994. Policy performance was reviewed during a mission in November 1994. The report is
based on material in the project file and discussions held with Borrower staff involved in project
implementation, and with purchasing agencies. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR
by reviewing the draft report, by preparing an evaluation of the project's preparation and implementation,
and by contributing views reflected in the completion mission's aide memoire.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ESTONIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Ln. 3522-EE.)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
.1.    The Rehabilitation Loan of US$30 million equivalent is the first World Bank Loan to Estonia.
The loan was identified in January 1992, during the first World Bank economic mission, about five
months following the re-establishment of Estonia's independence. During the preparation of the loan,
the Estonian economy was in the midst of a fundamental transformation and a sharp decline in output.
By early 1992, Estonia was experiencing critical shortages of basic consumption commodities and key
raw materials and production inputs which were caused by the severe disruption of trade relations with
the traditional partners in the Former Soviet Union and Baltic republics (FSUB). Against this background
of economic crisis, the Rehabilitation Loan was prepared to provide critically needed import financing
to mitigate further declines in output while a comprehensive economic adjustment and reform program
was being introduced.
2.    The loan was prepared in conjunction with an IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA), and as part of
the response of the international community (the G-24 in particular) to Estonia's pressing short term
import needs, and its demonstrated commitment to economic reform. The Bank concentrated on
supporting the development and implementation of a program of systemic reforms agreed to in a
Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies (MERP). This program laid out a framework for reforms
necessary for restructuring the economy and establishing targets and indicators to monitor progress. A
grant from the Government of Finland provided financing for implementation advisors. A $20 million
equivalent Rehabilitation Loan from the Export Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM) was signed in April 1993
as Japan's contribution within the G-24 financial package. The Bank has been administering the JEXIM
loan whose objectives and implementation conditions are comparable to those of the Bank loan.
Project Objectives
3.     The objectives of the loan were to: (i) assist the Government in the design and implementation
of the stabilization and structural reform program outlined in the MERP; and (ii) help maintain capacity
utilization and output in key sectors during the initial phase of transition. To achieve the first objective,
a technical assistance (TA) component (US$1 million) was included to support the economic reform
program if alternative grant financing were not available. For the second objective, an import component
(US$29 million) was to provide financing for imported inputs in key sectors. Since grants were utilized
to finance the required TA, the $1 million TA component was reallocated to the import component.
4.    The Loan Agreement stipulated regular discussions between the Government and the Bank and
reporting by the Government on the progress of policy implementation and any underlying technical



iii
assistance. The Bank maintained regular dialogue with the Government in this regard, in association with
economic and sector work and through the preparation of new Bank operations.
5.    While the Loan Agreement included only the standard Bank negative list of imports, a broad list
of eligible imports was identified and agreed, including categories of imports that were deemed of
immediate importance for the economy's structural and sectoral priorities, Estonia's need to diversify
trade, and the need for quick action in vulnerable sectors of the economy. The reasons for the
identification and agreement on a broad list of imports were (i) to enable the government to proceed
quickly in terms of initiating procurement of essential items; and (b) to ensure that the highest priority
imports were financed. This guided but flexible approach proved to be useful as it allayed Government
concerns over borrowing for consumption goods. It also facilitated responsive action by the Bank during
a time of change. Thus the import list changed as Estonia's need for various imports evolved and
eventually shifted to include some equipment in addition to raw materials and production inputs.
6.    Loan objectives were ambitious and broad, and required strong government commitment and well
targeted support by the Bank. The indicators set in the MERP to guide specific stabilization and
structural measures were rather optimistic. Nevertheless, Estonia's economic reform record has been one
of the fastest and most successful of all the transition economies.
Implementation Experience and Results
7.    The loan has substantially achieved its objectives. The Government's commitment and open
dialogue with the Bank was the principal factor for this success. Overall policy performance under the
MERP was excellent. Stabilization proceeded at a faster pace than structural adjustment, as expected,
and inflation was reduced dramatically in a relatively short period. By 1993, the Estonian economy
showed signs of return to growth following three years of decline. Estimates of GDP growth for 1994
are in the range of 5-6 percent.
8.    The Loan objectives are expected to be sustainable in two ways: (i) on the policy side, the
reform process in Estonia has taken deep roots and is considered practically irreversible notwithstanding
changes in Government; the return to growth and the mitigation of transition difficulties facilitated the
population's acceptance of the new economic realities, thus increasing the sustainability of the reform
process; and (ii) as far as loan utilization is concerned, equipment contracts (train engines and gearboxes,
medical and dental equipment) required training and maintenance to ensure proper and efficient use. The
imports financed by the loan contributed to reversing the decline in output; and the two components
together contributed to the Government's efforts to put the economy on a sustainable growth path by
1993.
9.     Both the Government and the Bank devoted considerable efforts and resources to the
implementation of this loan. The dialogue on economic reform and strategy was open, extensive and
fruitful. The support provided by a grant from the Government of Finland greatly facilitated the efficient
and timely implementation of the import component. The financing by the JEXIM Bank enhanced the
imports component and improved prospects of sustaining the economy's supply response. All these
factors contributed to the highly satisfactory outcome of the loan.



iv
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
10.   There are no provisions for the future operation of the Rehabilitation Loan. It served a rather
specific purpose in the early phases of the transition. Now that the broad aspects of stabilization and
structural adjustment have taken root and in view of the plentiful sources for import financing from other
sources and the Government's borrowing priorities, the Bank's assistance strategy and corresponding
instruments have shifted in support of deepening and sustaining the reform drive through sector and
investment lending. Three investment loans (energy, transport and health), and a credit line (to support
the finance and enterprise sectors) have been approved. The Rehabilitation Loan supported the policy
framework and initiated sector-specific policy dialogue leading to the identification of these operations
and others in the pipeline.
11.   The lessons learned in implementing the Rehabilitation Loan operations are relevant critical
imports and emergency reconstruction.
(i)    A sine qua non for success is strong and sustained government commitment to the policy
reform package;
(ii)   the built-in flexibility and indicative policy targets included in the MERP, coupled with
strong technical support for both the policy and imports components, have contributed to the
successful implementation of the loan; this experience may only be replicable in countries where
governments show a very high level of commitment to loan objectives and to a well defined
reform agenda; and
(iii)  in designing loans of this nature, indicative import lists with broad categories, and
flexible procurement procedures (including reasonably high thresholds for international
competitive bidding) would allow the Bank to respond quickly in critical situations; for new
borrowers such as Estonia, foreign procurement advisors proved very important for the efficient
implementation of the loan.



I



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ESTONIA
REHABILITATION LOAN
(Ln. 3522-EE)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Project Origin and Objectives
1.    Estonia re-established its independence in August 1991, and joined the World Bank in June 1992.
Bank dialogue with the Government started during the first economic mission in January 1992. At that
time, Estonia was in the midst of fundamental political and economic transformation, and was suffering
from a sharp decline in output caused to a large extent by severe trade disruptions with its traditional
trade partners. Estonia had already taken some initial steps to start transforming its economy to a market
based system. Nevertheless, the Government recognized the need for stronger stabilization measures as
well as broadening and deepening of structural reforms. These reforms were to be implemented in an
environment characterized by sharp compression of imports and widespread shortages of key production
inputs, spare parts, and essential health related goods. By early 1992, enterprises were drawing down
their stocks of materials and the supply situation reached a critical state. Efforts to normalize trade
relations met with limited success, and prospects were for further trade disruption and increases in the
prices of energy and other imports which were traditionally supplied at prices far below the world market
levels.
2.    The situation was similar to that in other former Soviet Union and Baltic (FSUB) countries.
Following extensive discussions within the Bank, the Rehabilitation Loan concept was developed as the
most appropriate initial form of support by the Bank to these countries. Preparation of a set of such loans
was launched starting with the Russian Federation and the three Baltic countries. The main objectives
of this loan to Estonia were to: (i) assist the Government in the design and implementation of its
stabilization and structural adjustment program outlined in a Memorandum of Economic Reform Policies
(MERP); and (ii) help maintain and increase capacity utilization and output in key sectors. To achieve
these objectives, the loan was designed to finance (i) pre-identified imports (US$29 million) in four key
sectors (energy, agriculture, transport, and health); and (ii) technical assistance (TA) to support the
Government's structural reform program if alternative grant financing could not be obtained for this
purpose.
3.    The Rehabilitation Loan was envisaged as part of the response of the international community to
Estonia's pressing short term import needs and demonstrated commitment to economic reform. The Loan
was prepared in close association with the IMF's first Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) for about
US$40 million equivalent. The Bank concentrated on supporting the design and implementation of the
program of systemic reforms included in the MERP which laid out a framework for reforms necessary
for the medium term restructuring of the Estonian economy and established targets and indicators to
monitor progress. The loan did not contain specific policy conditionality to govern the release of funds
beyond a general commitment by the Government to implement the policy measures included in the
MERP as well as normal conditions regarding procurement and disbursement.



2
4.    Project objectives were broad and ambitious given that during project preparation and
implementation, dynamic changes and uncertainties beyond the control of the Government or the Bank,
were taking place, the most important being economic developments in the FSUB and the social changes
inside Estonia. The dated indicators specified in the MERP to monitor specific stabilization and structural
measures were too optimistic and were thus, adjusted during implementation. These adjustments were
necessary given the complexities of the process. Achievement of project objectives was important to
support Estonia's determination to move away from central planning to a market system in the fastest
way possible, while maintaining production of essential goods and services. The loan facilitated Bank
dialogue with the Government and the configuration of a country assistance strategy. The Loan was
demanding and complex for a new Borrower. Two risks existed that could have affected project
implementation. The first risk was a relaxation of the Government's commitment to the reform program.
This risk did not materialize due to the Government's clear vision, the advice of the Bank, and the
support of the international community. The second risk was the limited knowledge of Bank procedures
which was minimized with the support of advisors provided through a grant from the Government of
Finland, close monitoring by the Bank and the highly committed staff of the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU).
B. Achievement of Project Objectives
5.    The loan was successful in achieving the objectives set out at appraisal. The main reason for
success is the strong commitment by the Estonian Government and its open dialogue with the Bank.
6.    Supportfor Economic Reform. The MERP outlined the Government's commitment to undertake
fundamental market-oriented policy reforms. The Bank monitored progress and reported its findings to
the Government through aide-memoires. Given the Government's strong commitment to reform and the
excellent policy dialogue with the Bank, other than providing benchmarks for assessing progress, this
reporting and associated dialogue, was helpful to the reformers in sustaining and focusing their efforts.
Overall policy performance under the loan has been excellent (see paras. 9-17 below and the attachment
in Annex A for details). Success is evidenced by the broad consensus in the international community,
including the Bank and the IMF, that Estonia is among the more successful reformers in the FSUB and
the Eastern European transition economies.
7.    Maintenance of Capaciy Unlization and Output. The loan helped maintain capacity utilization
and output, and was particularly effective at the initial stages, by providing financing for critical imports
to replace inputs that Estonia had ceased to receive from traditional suppliers in the FSUB, and to halt
the decline in production and maintain essential services. This objective was reinforced with additional
funds provided through associated financing (US$20 million equivalent) from the JEXIM Bank. Estonia
was heavily dependent on trade with the FSUB which accounted for about 95 percent of its total trade
before 1992. The upheaval in trade relations within the FSUB was a major cause for real GDP to decline
by over 40 percent during 1991-93. This decline was halted during the first half of 1993 and was largely
offset by growth during the latter part of that year, only two years following independence and the
initiation of a concentrated effort to integrate the economy with the international market. Along with the
rejuvenation of growth, the structure of production has been shifting away from traditional agriculture
and industry towards services. Growth, which has been spurred by export industries and a strong inflow
of direct foreign investments, is expected to continue to pick-up and is estimated to have reached 5-6
percent in 1994.



3
8.    While the impact of the loan and the imports it has financed is difficult to assess in quantitative
terms, the loan has provided inputs to keep essential services running during a very difficult transition
period characterized by disruption of normal living standards. To some extent, maintaining these
essential services probably helped moderate any dissatisfaction among the population, making it less
problematic for the Government to proceed with the reform. For example, in Estonia's highly urbanized
society with low car ownership and harsh weather conditions, the consequences of disrupting urban
transport services would affect all facets of life of the urban population. The loan provided an estimated
20 percent of the annual requirement for spare parts for urban bus and trolley fleets that otherwise would
have been idle for a longer period of time. The provision of fuel oil and other imports to ensure heating
to households and factories contributed to making transition difficulties less onerous to the population.
The provision of gas (under the JEXIM Loan) helped provide Estonia with the necessary time to re-
establish ties with'the Russian gas supplier and find a solution to the gas supply issue still facing many
other countries in the region. In the agriculture sector, the loan financed a large percentage of Estonia's
annual imports of protein fodder, fertilizer and veterinary medicine which were essential to maintain
production. In the case of medicines, Estonia received besides some initial imports from the loan,
additional humanitarian assistance and gifts, and quickly established direct relations with suppliers,
enabling a large part of loan funds initially allocated for the health sector to be used to purchase essential
medical equipment. The indirect and initially unforeseen benefits of increasing knowledge of procurement
and other international commercial practices and establishing long term relations with suppliers have also
been important. Purchasers gained experience in international procurement, which increased their
efficiency, and in some cases helped them survive the transition process and remain viable in a market
environment.
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
Implementation of the Economic Reform Program
9.     Under the MERP, the Government outlined its commitment to undertake fundamental market-
oriented policy reforms in ten areas covering price liberalization and the control of inflation, fiscal policy,
monetary policy and currency reform, incomes policy, external sector policies, enterprise reform, anti-
monopoly and private enterprise development policies, commercial banking system reforms, social
protection and the safety net, and economic management. Of these areas, the first five focused primarily
on stabilizing the economy and were worked out in close collaboration with the IMF. The second group
related primarily to structural reforms. Although overall policy performance under the Rehabilitation
Loan was excellent, stabilization reforms were much more rapid than the structural reforms. This was
normal and to be expected given the clear need to focus up-front on controlling the then prevailing high
inflation. Structural reforms, whether in the financial, enterprise or social security areas, commonly
require the development of complex legislation, consensus building, a considerable amount of underlying
analysis, and physical investments, all of which are considerably more complex and time consuming than
many of the macroeconomic policy decisions required to carry out the stabilization part of the program.
10.   Stabilization Measures. Estonia had initiated its reforms in 1989 and stepped up its efforts
considerably after regaining independence in 1991. It has since successfully implemented the program
of economic stabilization, supported by the IMF and has complied with all conditions under two
successive standby arrangements. As a result, average annual inflation has been reduced from about
1,000% in 1992, to 89% in 1993, and 47% for 1994. By 1993, all food prices were deregulated.
Energy prices are currently close to market prices down to the consumer level; non-payment problems
still exist however. The Government has placed high priority on restoring fiscal balance and maintained



4
a very tight fiscal policy despite pressures to increase expenditures particularly for social considerations.
A broad range of tax reform and revenue and expenditure measures were introduced in an expeditious
and effective manner resulting in an essentially balanced budget that has been maintained throughout the
transition period.
11.   Fiscal prudence has largely contributed to the success of the currency board mechanism
supporting the kroon. Estonia took the lead in the FSUB to introduce its currency under a currency board
mechanism that eliminated monetary policy discretion by the Central Bank. Efforts were thus focused
on improvements to the payment system and the supervision of commercial banks. These efforts have
succeeded in reducing payment periods to acceptable standards. Basic prudential rules have been
established and commercial banks now report to the Central Bank on a timely basis. The major area of
concern is the need for tighter banking supervision to reduce the risk of bank failures. The Central Bank
needs to make further efforts in the area of on-site commercial bank supervision, including reviews of
the quality of loan portfolios.
12.   Estonia's success in implementing the incomes policy outlined in the MERP is based on the
credibility of the hard budget constraints imposed by the Government on public enterprises. Real wages
fell in line with real output, thus keeping the share of wages in total costs stable and allowing public
enterprises to retain workers despite falling levels of outputs. As a result, and with increased private
sector activities and the expansion of the service sector, unemployment in Estonia has been about one
tenth of the level experienced in many Eastern European countries, a fact that has contributed to social
stability.
13.   Estonia has established a highly liberal external trade and payment policies and has succeeded in
directing its trade to the west (which accounted for about 65% of the total in 1993). It has removed
virtually all import and export taxes and quotas (except for few products such as alcohol, tobacco and
few others) in a timely manner, and continues to resist strong pressures for import protection.
14.   Structural Adjustment Efforts. The Government began its privatization program at an early stage,
and has adopted additional modes of privatization to accelerate the process. Business surveys indicate
that confidence in the economy is increasing. Foreign investments continue to increase (having reached
about $350 million in 1994, or about 10% of GDP) reflecting confidence in Estonia's reform. The speed
of enterprise reform varied inversely with the size of enterprise. Rapid action on the privatization of
small enterprises created widespread opportunities for and experience with private ownership. It also
expanded the range of goods and services available, building support for the transformation process
among the general public. Privatization of large enterprises went much slower as it was based on
complicated tender procedures and strict requirements. The pace picked up however, and by the closing
date of the Loan, over half of the firms were sold, and the Estonian privatization process had become a
successful story. Anti-monopoly efforts were facilitated by two factors: the free trade policies and the
rapid development of private enterprise. After decontrolling prices, Estonia imposed anti-trust and fair
trade laws consistent with industrial country standards. The rapid development of private enterprises
within Estonia has been fostered by a policy environment that is highly favorable to investment from both
local and foreign sources.
15.   The commercial banking system developed rapidly during the course of the Rehabilitation Loan,
encouraged by capital adequacy requirements approaching European levels. Estonia placed no caps on
interest rates, and depended instead on competition among the many local banks. However, the lack of
experience and inability of banks to assess business risk was reflected in interest rates of up to 50% per



5
year in the period immediately after independence, rates that were sharply negative in real terms. Less
than 30% of assets in banks were lent out compared to around 75% in industrialized countries. This
situation improved markedly over the past three years and loans now account for about 50% of assets in
the banking system, while interest rates dropped to a range of 15-25%.
16.   Estonia has carried out many of the social protection and social safety net reforms agreed in the
MERP. A poverty line has been established to help determine adequate benefits to close the poverty gap.
Eligibility has been tightened by making employers and employees responsible for part of sick leave and
medical costs. The retirement age is being raised by six months annually until it reaches 60 and 65 for
women and men respectively. A second tier of benefits based on length of service has recently been
added to the pension system. Estonia has made major efforts to strengthen the system of employment
offices to improve active labor policies. More needs to be done in this area however to increase labor
mobility and to minimize unemployment that would result from further restructuring and privatizing
public sector enterprises.
17.   The Government moved quickly and effectively to implement the economic management policies
and programs agreed in the MERP. The Department of Statistics has been coordinating data submission
across ministries. The Estonian Statistical Agency works closely with the ministries to assure quality.
Improvements in balance of payments and national accounts are needed, but staff have already identified
the problems and are working to improve data quality. Coordination of external assistance was initially
good, but became more of a problem as the volume of external assistance increased. The development
of a Public Investment Program has provided a mechanism for restoring better control in this area. Debt
reporting has been reasonably good, and efforts to maintain the quality and timeliness are required as the
volume of reporting increases with more donor activity. The key elements of the legal framework for
a market economy have been established, and the existing mechanisms for creating laws should be
sufficient. However, a court system that can handle the enforcement of laws still requires considerable
strengthening and support.
Implementation of the Imports Component
18.   The Borrower's commitment and responsiveness to the Bank's dialogue extended to the imports
component. Despite staff turnover and delays in appointing new staff at the PIU in the early phases of
implementation, coordination with the Bank continued smoothly and all efforts were devoted to avoid
procurement delays. Considerable and sometimes rather elaborate discussions took place, especially for
the identification and agreement on the imports list and its subsequent fine-tuning. These discussions
typically took on a very professional tone and proved instructive for subsequent sector dialogue.
19.   Project Management. The PIU consisted of (i) the head of the PIU who was responsible for the
overall management of the project, with special emphasis on the policy dialogue and on the list of imports
to be financed; (ii) expatriate advisors from Finland (initially two, then one) who were responsible for
procurement administration; and (iii) a local staff who acquired full responsibility of the disbursement
process. The advisors and the local staff efficiently handled overall project management in terms of
records, accounting and auditing, and overall coordination with the Bank, the MOF and the purchasing
agencies.
20.   Disbursements:  A special account was opened in a foreign bank. The PIU staff were initially
concerned about the high cost of maintaining the special account in a foreign bank. They requested
information from the Bank regarding the level of fees, and undertook their own surveys of local banks.



6
They concluded that the foreign bank holding the special account charged competitive rates and offered
necessary services that were superior to those available at local banks.  Payments using special
commitments were utilized for the majority of the transactions.
21.    Procurement: The contribution of the procurement advisors provided from the Finnish Valtion
Hankintakeskus (VHK) Government Purchasing Center was very important for the successful
implementation of the import component. Initially, there was no full time local counterpart at the PIU
to train. In June 1993, a full time local person was recruited and became involved with the daily aspects
of procurement and had full responsibility for disbursements and accounting. Sectoral purchasing
agencies showed considerable interest in the procurement process. They worked closely with the VHK
advisors, and received direct technical advice from visiting Bank missions.
22.    Despite the generally good progress on the imports component, some problems were encountered.
Parts of the oil shipments were delivered late and were left in storage for the following heating season.
In the case of agriculture inputs and pharmaceuticals, initial overestimates of needs, decline in demand,
and the increased competition from the private sector, also resulted in longer than anticipated storage
periods. However, it was reported during the completion mission that no spoilage occurred and that all
items were expected to be sold.
23.    There was some initial questioning of the Bank's procurement process. Doubts were expressed
that it might lead to delays in delivery and to higher prices, particularly in cases where traditional
suppliers were not able to bid because of language barriers or requirements for bid and performance
securities. However, as general prices in Estonia rose to international market levels and trade disruptions
affected delivery from traditional suppliers, the improved quality of the products, the diversity and
efficiency of sources as well as the competitive prices changed the attitude of the purchasing agencies.
Several agencies now employ some form of competitive bidding in transactions financed by their own
resources. Still, because of the particular conditions prevailing in the markets of Eastern Europe and the
FSUB, Estonia generally preferred to import raw materials from these markets where prices were
generally lower, while it preferred to avoid importing sophisticated equipment (especially medical) from
eastern markets based on the country's past experience and its desire to upgrade its infrastructure to
European standards. Bank requirements were at times perceived as lengthy and the bidding documents
complicated. Shopping (for smaller packages) and limited bidding (for specialized equipment) were the
preferred methods. The advantages of ICB were recognized for large and simple imports.
Factors Affecting the Project
24.    As mentioned above, the strong commitment of the Government and its open dialogue and
acceptance of Bank advice was the major factor contributing to the success of the loan. Other factors
that were subject to Government control included: (i) early agreement with the Government of Finland
on the financing of advisors to the PIU on procurement and disbursement, who came on board prior to
negotiations and remained until after loan closing; (ii) early agreement within the government and with
the Bank on an indicative list of imports, subject to modifications required by evolving needs; (iii)
excellent management of the project in terms of the procurement and disbursement processes; detailed
and well organized records, submissions of satisfactory progress reports and adherence to loan covenants;
(iv) the Government's clear vision of the objectives of the economic reform program and its demonstrated
willingness to adopt the appropriate means to achieve the objectives; and (v) effective utilization of
available grant funds from several donors for TA which were used to help design and implement policy
reforms in key structural areas.



7
25.   Factors beyond Government control included: The broad international support to Estonia and
the availability of grant-financed TA, and the Bank's relatively generous supervision resources devoted
to the project greatly benefitted the Govermment. On the negative side, the initial lack of familiarity with
Bank procedures required additional Bank efforts. The inability of some traditional suppliers from the
FSUB to comply with Bank requirements may have constrained the participation of potential bidders from
the region.
D. Project Sustainability
26.   The Loan objectives are expected to be sustainable. The reform process in Estonia has taken deep
roots across the political and socio-economic spectrum, and is considered irreversible. Despite changes
in Government and key ministers, implementation of reforms has been maintained. The population has
begun to benefit from the return to growth, the decline in inflation, and the relatively low rates of
unemployment so far. Acceptance of the reform by the population has increased, which in turn, has
made the reform sustainable. As to the imports component, the issue of sustainability is marginally
relevant. The loan financed inputs into the production process that were to be utilized within a year or
so. The equipment financed by the loan (train engines, gear boxes and medical equipment) were
reviewed on economic and technical grounds to ensure their viability as well as their proper operation
and maintenance throughout their life. Critical imports financed by the loan contributed to bridging the
gap in productive inputs caused by poor balance of payment position, and helped to reverse the decline
in output experienced during 1991 and 1992. Both components contributed to support the Government's
efforts to put the economy on a sustainable growth path.
E. Bank Perfonmance
27.   Preparation.  The Bank quickly mobilized resources to assist this new member country
immediately following the re-establishment of independence. The project was identified during the first
Bank economic mission to Estonia in January 1992, while the country was still coping with the difficulties
associated with major economic and political transformations. Bank staff recognized the risks involved
in the operation and assisted the Government in identifying technical assistance required for the reform
program and the import component. The Bank coordinated closely with the IMF during the preparation
of the first SBA.  The project was substantially appraised during a March 1992 mission, and
implementation arrangements were in place by June 1992. The project was negotiated in August and
presented to the Executive Directors in October 1992. Throughout the process intensive discussions
continued on the design of the MERP and the content of the import list. In retrospect, the Bank's
response was timely and effective given the need for quick action in a new and changing environment.
28.   Initially, a Structural Adjustment Loan was considered, but this option was abandoned in favor
of a Rehabilitation Loan as a preferable instrument at that early stage of reform. Because of the urgency
of delivering the imported inputs, the Bank reasoned that the implementation record at the time was not
sufficiently robust to risk a tranched operation with very specific and tight conditionality, despite the
country's apparent commitment to reform. It was reasoned that a Rehabilitation Loan would, instead,
provide the import financing that was critically needed and would support and prod the reform effort in
a more flexible manner. The "conditionality" essentially took the form of monitoring reform performance
across the whole range of policy areas covered by the MERP to determine whether the implementation
of the reform was sufficiently satisfactory to proceed with the disbursement of the loan.



8
29.   Implementation. Overall Bank performance during implementation was satisfactory. The Bank
devoted higher than average supervision resources to loan implementation as one would expect with a new
Borrower. Monitoring and review of the MERP was intensive during the early phase of project
implementation, but slowed down once Estonia's strong commitment to reform was ascertained. The
Bank developed a matrix of dated policy actions, monitored developments, and provided concrete advice
to ensure that the reform program remains on track. At the request of the Government, the Bank
provided issue oriented fast turn around informal advice on specific and immediate issues confronting the
transformation process. Bank advice on policy reforms was - and remains - highly regarded in Estonia.
The Bank engaged in dialogue with other donors specifically on the design and implementation of
technical assistance to support the reform program. The interest of the international community quickly
extended to cofinancing the Bank's lending operations. The Bank broadened and deepened the advice
and dialogue with the Government through the Economic and Sector Work (ESW) and preparation of new
lending operations that specifically targeted issues and sectors important to the strengthening the reform
program.
30.   For the import component, performance was also satisfactory. Estonia was not familiar with
Bank requirements, and therefore the Bank made special efforts to explain them. Screening of the import
list was resource-intensive, but was rewarded by allaying fears of the Government that the loan might be
used for financing consumption goods. Following improvements in the balance of payment situation, and
the availability of other resources to finance critical imports, the Bank was flexible in adjusting the list
while adhering to project objectives and employing sound investment decisions. The Government
requested, and the Bank agreed to finance specific equipment in addition to materials and spare parts.
31.   While not covenanted, repayment arrangements from procuring agencies to the Ministry of
Finance (MOF) was a major concern to the supervisory team, which continued to advise the MOF to
extend repayment arrangements at close to market terms and to avoid implicit subsidies. This turned out
to be good advice which was appreciated by the central authorities, particularly the MOF, since it helped
to account for all project funds and avoid accusations of their misuse.
F. Borrower Performance
32.     Preparation. Estonia's performance and bold steps to transform its economy has become an
example for others to follow. Estonia had already initiated its reform program before independence, and
had taken courageous initial steps before loan implementation. As a specific example, Estonia introduced
its own currency, the kroon, based on a currency board arrangement, in June 1992, while the rest of the
FSUB countries were still trying to cope with the problems of remaining in the ruble zone or planning
the introduction of temporary currencies. The Government took the lead in the design of the reform
program and engaged in a healthy dialogue with the Bank on the required TA to implement it. Because
of Estonia's unfamiliarity with Bank procedures, the limited experience with intemational transactions,
and the initial hesitation to borrow for imports, the Government relied on Bank support and worked
closely with Bank staff to clarify sector priorities, to identify imports, and to work out necessary
arrangements for loan implementation.
33.   Implementation. The borrower performed in an exemplary manner in implementing this loan.
It shouldered the main responsibility for implementing the reform program and maintained an open and
receptive dialogue with the Bank. The Government forged ahead with the reform despite domestic
pressures to ease the impact of transition, and a difficult external trade environment. Details of the
Borrower's performance in the implementation of the economic reform program are outlined in the



9
attachment to Annex A (Mission's Aide Memoire). Similarly, good performance by the PIU on the
import component, including a well designed indicative import list ensured the success of this component.
G. Assessment of Performance and Outcome
34.   Project outcome is rated as highly satisfactory. Adherence to the reform program, which the
Rehabilitation Loan aimed to support, enabled Estonia to return to growth relatively quickly as compared
to experiences in other transition economies. The Rehabilitation Loan has contributed to Estonia's
transition to market-based economy and has facilitated the diversification of trade. The increase in private
sector activities and the considerable inflow of foreign direct investment reflect the confidence of investors
and the international community in Estonia's current performance and future prospects. The resurgence
of positive GDP growth is evidence of the achievements so far and augers well for the country's future.
H. Future Operations
35.    The Rehabilitation Loan was designed as a short term balance of payments assistance. There
are no provisions for future such loans to Estonia. Balance of payment financing being provided by the
IMF and the G-24 will be sufficient to satisfy Estonia's needs. The Bank's strategy in Estonia now is
to move to investment financing and some credit lines to support the Government in its efforts to deepen
structural reform and to further promote sustainable growth. The sectoral input under the Rehabilitation
Loan's import component has contributed to the broader sectoral dialogue and to the preparation of initial
investment operations.  Four investment loans have been approved:  District Heating Project
(US$38.4 million equivalent); Highway Maintenance (US$12 million equivalent); Financial Institution
Development Loan (US$10 million); and Health Project (US$18 million equivalent). Operations in the
environment and agriculture sectors are in an advanced stage of preparation.
I. Key Lessons Learned
36.   Similar Rehabilitation Loans have been prepared for other countries of the FSUB, and some
lessons learned from this loan have been useful in the design of later loans. They could also be useful
for other critical imports and emergency reconstruction operations, although the strong commitment by
the Government and the support of the international community may make this experience rather special.
Lessons learned include the following.
(i)    a sine qua non for sucess is strong and sustained Government commitment to the policy
reform package;
ii)   the built-in flexibility and indicative policy targets included in the MERP, coupled with
strong technical support for both the import and policy components, have contributed to the
successful implementation of the loan with the prerequisite of a strong and sustained government
commitment to a well defined reform agenda;
(iii)  in designing loans of this nature, including critical imports and reconstruction loans, it
would be desirable for procurement procedures to be flexible, and to include higher thresholds
for ICB, in order to allow the Bank to respond quickly. Initially the most important objective
was to deliver needed goods as fast as possible. This required agreement on a list of imports
subject to necessary adjustments to respond to evolving needs. The improved balance of payment



10
situation and the increased participation of the private sector called for flexibility in the
composition of the import list.
(iv)   the appointment of procurement advisors who provided overall project management
support was very important for the success of an operation in a new borrowing country; the role
of advisors should also stress responsibility for training local counterparts;
(v)    higher than average resources are needed when working with new borrowers and in loans
that include policy components; the flexible design and the list of agreed imports increased
supervision costs; however, the benefits reaped in terms of imports acceptable to the government,
and building sectoral dialogue were substantial;
(vi)   repayment arrangements need to be highlighted as an important element for the efficient
and rational use of loan funds, as early as preparation or appraisal; and
(vii)  grant technical assistance facilitated the quick implementation of TA and worked well to
support the government's efforts. On the other hand, it may lead to: (a) borrower resistance to
borrowing from the Bank for technical assistance, which could prove problematic in instances
where alternative funding is not available for the TA; and (b) lower Bank input into TA design
and implementation could compromise the outcome; the Bank should satisfy itself that other
funding sources are available and, if not, Bank financing would have to be used.



11
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:   Summary of Assessments
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:  Project Costs
Table 8B:  Project Financing
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



12
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives*    Substantial       Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                                    E              E] al
Sector policies                                                                  VI -  a E
Financial objectives              0               0              E3               0l
Institutional development          0              E               O              El
Physical objectives                0              E               E               
Poverty reduction                 O               E              El
Gender issues                      El             E              El
Other social objectives           E               E              E               E
Environmental objectives          El              El              E               l
Public sector management          0               El              E 
Private sector development        0               El              El 
Other (specify)                   E               E
B. Project sustainability           Likely               Unlikely           Uncertain
Z                     E                   El
C. Bank Performance           Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory         Deficient
udentification                    E]                     0                   El 
Preparation assistance             E                     E l
Appraisal                          0E                                        El
Supervision                       E                      0                   E
D. Borrower performance       Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                         l                    i0                  El
Implementation                     0l                    El                  El
Covenant compliance                l                     E                   E
Operation (if applicable)          E                     0                    O
E. Assessmcnt of outcome      Highly Satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Highly Unsatisfactory
0ZI            0l            1:10              0
Some of the objcctives werc identified in the MERP. Other objectives not originally envisaged were
indircctly achieved through loan implementation (such as sector policies and environmental screening).



13
Table 2: Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title            Purpose                    Year of Approval       Status
Preceding Operations                                            None
Following Operations
1. District Heating          Energy Efficiency                  FY94           Under
implementation
2. Highway Maintenance       Highway Maintenance                FY94           Under
implementation
3. Financial Institution     Financial Sector                   FY95           Approved by the
Development               Development                                        Board
4. Health                    Support health reform and          FY95           Approved by the
improve health of                                 Board
population
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cyde                           Date planned          Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)          3/92                 3/92
Preparation                                         4/92                 4/92
Appraisal                                           4/92                 4/92
Post Appraisal                                      6/92                 6/92
Negotiations                                        7192                 9/3/93
Letter of development policy (if applicable)/       8/92                 9/92
MERP
Board presentation                                 9/29/92              10/1/92
Signing                                                                 10/2/92
Effectiveness                                       10/92               10/6/92
First tranche release (if applicable)                -                     -
Midterm review (if applicable)
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)
Project completion                                 3/30/94              9/30/94
Loan closing                                       3/30/94              9/30/94
* 4-month grace period extended to finalize disbursement.



14
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY93              FY94              FY95
Appraisal estimate                             25                30
Actual                                        13.7              26.2              28.6
Actual as % of estimate                       55%               87%               N/A
Date of final disbursement                                                      12/14/94
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
INDICATORS                                                    IMPLEMENTATION
._ Stabilization        _
Price Liberalization and the     On time and completely satisfactory. Inflation declined slower than expected at
Control of Inflation             appraisal.
Fiscal Policy                    On time and completely satisfactory. Challenges remain in li) external tariff
policy; (ii) social safety net programs; and liiil balance between national and local
governments revenue and expenditure.
Monetary Policy and Currency     On time and completely satisfactory. Challenges remain in on-bank site
Reform                          supervision
Incomes Policy                   On time and completely satisfactory.
External Sector Policies         On time and completely satisfactory.
II. Structural Reform              Progress has been slower than with stabilization. Although some reforms could
have been more rapid, originally scheduled dates were excessively optimistic given
________    the complexities involved.
Enterprise Reform                Good progress continues. Land and housing privatization were not envisaged in
original MERP, but were later added to the reform program.
Anti-Monopoly and Private        Generally on time and completely satisfactory. Risks remain in the areas related
Enterprise Development Policies   to tariffs and social safety net expenditures.
Commercial Banking System        Some delays, but satisfactory progress. Challenges remain in supervision of
Reform                           commercial banks.
Social Protection and the Social  Generally on time and good progress. Challenges remain in need for better
Safety Net                       programs to target income assistance and to improve labor mobility.
Economic Management              Generally on time and good progress. Needed improvements to data quality are
ongoing. More needs to be done to make control and coordination of external
assistance fully effective. More efforts are required to develop a court system
that can handle enforcement of laws.



15
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated                        Actual
l. Key operating indicators in SAR  )
11. Modified indicators (if       )
applicable)                       )         - NOT APPLICABLE -
111. Modified indicators for future    )
operation (if applicable)         )
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                                   Purpose as defined at            Status         Impact
appraisal/redefined                           of study
1. Tariff setting procedures for  To phase in cost-based pricing  Done - 12/92         good
municipal and public enterprise   and avoid need for public
services (10/92).                 subsidies.
2. Revenue Authority and          To ensure general government     Policy notes        ongoing
expenditure responsibility of local    accounts are imbalance      provided by advisor
governments                                                        from US Treasury.
Further addressed by
Bank in context of
Public Expenditure
Review and will be
subject of ESW
planned for FY95.
3. Comparison of Relative Merits of To assess ways of increasing cost  Done - Legislation    good
flat earnings related pension rates  effectiveness                 introduced 4/93
(12/92)



16
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(U1SS million)                   (US$ million)
Item
Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                   costs     costs
1. Import                                      29.0       29.0                   28.6       28.6
2. TA                                            1.0        1.0                   0          0
Total                            30.0       30.0                   28.6      28.6
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                    (US$ million)
Srource          *                   Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign    Total
costs    costs                   costs     costs
1. IBRD/IDA                                    30         30                      28.6      28.6
2. Cofinancing Institutions
3. Other external sources
4. Domestic contribution
Total                            30         30                     28.6      28.6
* Parallel financing by JEXIM Bank ($20M).



17
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
- not applicable -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant                Original       Revised
Agreement   Section        Type       Status   FulfilLtment   Fulfillment  Description of Covenant   Comments
Date          Date
LA                 2.02       3          C           -              -        Utilization of funds -
negative list.
LA                 3.01       9          C           -              -        Consultation and exchange
of views.
LA                 3.02       9          C           -              -        Procurement Schedule
LA                 3.03       5         CP           -              -        Maintained PIU with some
staff turnover. TA and
studies undertaken with TA
grant and discussed
through Bank ESW,
lending and SPN.
LA                 3.04       9         CP           -              -        Progress reports submitted
on time, but did not review
TA and studies. See
above.
LA                 3.05       1          C           -              -        Accounting and auditing
requirement were timely
and acceptable.
Covenant type:                                                                                 Present Status
I =  Accounts/audits                     8 = Indigenous people                                 C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue        9 = Monitoring                                        CD = complied with after delby
generation from beneficiaries      10 =  Project implementation not covered by            CP = complied with partially
3 =  Flow and utilization of project funds      categories 1-9                                 NC = not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding                  I I = Remedies
5 = Management aspects of the project or   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or
executing agency                          other resource allocation
6 = Environmental covenants              13 = Other
7 = Involuntary resettlement



18
Table 11: CompLiance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and                       Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Title
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
($ '000)
Planned                             Revised                        Actual
Stage of project cycle        Weeks      USS         Weeks               USS          Weeks            USS
Preparation to appraisal        0           0             3.3               8.2            3.5            8.7
Appraisal                       13         32.2          27.5              68.4           41.3          110.4
Negotiations through Board      10         24.8          13.7              34.0           13.4           37.8
approval
Supervision                     49        113.6          68.7             168.8           70.8          160.7
Completion                      10         24.0          10.0              20.8            6.0           13.4
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
Rating 2
No. of  Days in                        lImpementation  Development Types of
Stage of project cycle     Month/Year  Persons Field         Specialization         e nstatus    objectives   Problems
Through appraisal               1/92
4/92        9        10       E, F, A, O*
Appraisal through Board        6/92         5       10          E, F, 0
Approval
Supervision                    11/92        5       10            E,O                I                   1
2/93        5        10            E,O               2                   2        M
6/93        4        8             E,O               2                   2        M
11/93       3        10             0                 2                  2        M
4/94        2        5              0                2                   2        M
Completion
11/94        3       9             E,O                I                   I
I- Specialization                            2 - Performance Rating               3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturalist                          I = Minor problems                    F =  Financial
E = Economist                                2 = Moderate Problems                T = Technical
F = Financial Analyst                        3 = Major Problems                    M = Managerial
* Other includes country officer, operations analyst, sector specialist, procurement and disbursement specialists. Many of the specialists
visited the country in combination with other missions.



19                                     ANNEX A
Page 1 of 12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ESTONIA
REHABILITATION LOAN (3522-EE)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
(OCTOBER 25-NOVEMBER 4, 1994)
AIDE MEMOIRE
1.    A World Bank mission, comprising Ms. Maha Armaly (task manager) and Mr. Joe Scearce
(consultant) visited Tallinn to review with Government authorities the last stages of the World Bank loan
in order to finalize the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report. The mission with staff
from the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) held meetings with representatives of purchasing agencies
that have utilized the loan. The mission wishes to thank all officials met for their cooperation, and in
particular the staff of the PIU for their assistance. The following is a summary of the mission's findings
which are to be confirmed by Bank's management.
2.    Implementation Completion Report (ICR): The mission and the PIU exchanged views and
comments on contributions to the draft report. Revisions are expected based on these discussions and
on comments received during meetings with the purchasing agencies. The discussions related only to the
results and experiences under the import component of the loan, and did not extensively discuss the
economic reform program. Government contribution to the latter is expected at a later stage. The final
version of the report is expected by the end of March 1995.
3.    Project Implementation Unit: The mission was timely in that it had the opportunity to have final
discussions with the PIU which - for the World Bank Loan purposes - had concluded its services on
October 31, 1994. Disbursements have been completed and records adjusted (except for the two last
disbursement notices). Arrangements have been made to ensure that the PIU will continue to handle the
JEXIM Rehabilitation Loan (Closing date May 31, 1995). At this point, we wish to thank the PIU staff
and VHK advisors for their excellent management of the loan and close and efficient cooperation with
the World Bank throughout the implementation of this loan.
4.     Disbursements: At the time of the mission, about 95% of the loan was actually disbursed. The
last two disbursement applications are being processed which would bring the total disbursement under
this loan to about US$28.65 million (95.5% of the loan). The remaining US$1.35 million will be
cancelled. Final steps were undertaken to recover funds from the special account.



20                                       ANNEX A
Page 2 of 12
5.     Accounting. Auditing. and Reporting: The PIU has now complete accounting records of the loan
funds. They have requested a final audit from the Finnish state auditor who had provided the first two
audit reports. This is also expected to be financed from the Finnish technical assistance grant in support
of this loan. The Government's contribution to the ICR will serve as the final progress report.
6.     Procurement and Use of Goods: All items have been received and the majority distributed to
final beneficiaries. The loan was distributed by sector as follows: 52% energy; 18% transport; 10%
social sector; 20% agriculture.
7.     Regarding the procurement process, and from discussions with purchasing agencies, there was
still a desire for more flexible approach/process. However, there was an almost unanimous agreement
that the process was very useful to these agencies in terms of learning international commercial practices,
establishing relationships with suppliers, obtaining competitive prices and improved quality, and
considerably increasing knowledge of products and services in each sector. All, except one of the
purchasing agencies met, were converted or are in the final stages of being converted to state owned joint
stock companies, with no budgetary allocation from the Government. They were aware of the financial
benefits that the loan has provided to them, but more importantly of the experience in commercial
practices that they indicated is now the basis of their business transactions. This is not a surprising
turnaround from initial reactions to competitive procedures that did not generate the "traditional low
prices". In two years of transition, these purchasing agencies became well adapted to a market economy
and a competitive environment.
8.    Issues during Implementation: This was the first World Bank loan to Estonia which involved four
sectors at a difficult time of transition. Therefore, the loan did not proceed without difficulties. There
has been delays in delivery of some critical items (heating oil), part of which remained in storage for the
following heating season. Due to the fast changing situation, estimates for needed imports for the initial
6-12 months of the transition were high in some cases (due to unforeseen competition from private sector,
shrinking agriculture sector), and some items remained in storage more than envisaged. There were long
delays in deciding on a list of some imports and at times disagreement between the Bank and the
Government on the nature of critical items. Close cooperation between the Bank and the PIU and the
support of the VHK advisors were important in minimizing problems.
9.     Conclusion: It is difficult to quantitatively assess the effect of the loan on the development of
each sector that received loan funds or on the overall objective of the loan - to support Estonia's
transition to a market economy and to stem the decline in production. Discussions indicated that the loan
provided from 30% to 100% of the agencies' annual turnover (initially these agencies were the only
providers of these imports, but now face stiff competition from the private sector). The purchasing
agencies indicated that the loan was timely and provided critical imports in their respective sectors to
support essential services, ease transition difficulties, and support the economic transformation program.
10.    The mission's conclusion, which we feel is shared by the PIU and the loan beneficiaries, is that
(i) the loan was very well managed; (ii) the benefits were substantial and trickled down to many aspects
of the economy, some of which were not originally envisaged; and (iii) the loan was successful in
achieving its objectives.



21                                    ANNEX A
Page 3 of 12
11.   Next SteDs: To complete administrative procedures to close the loan; and no later than
March 31, 1995.
The Government will: (i) provide the Bank with the final version of its contribution to the ICR including
an assessment of progress under the memorandum of economic reform program; and (ii) provide the final
audit report.
The Bank will: (i) finalize the ICR; (ii) provide the Government with the final disbursement and
repayment schedule.
Tallinn, November 4, 1994.



l
22                                ANNEX A
Attachment
Page 4 of 12
ESTONIA
POLICY IMPLEMENTATION UNDER THE REHABILITATION LOAN
1.    For the Rehabilitation Loan, the Prime Minister of Estonia signed a "Memorandum on Economic
Reform Policies" (MERP) that committed the government to undertake market-oriented policy reforms
in ten areas covering price liberalization and inflation control, fiscal policy, monetary policy and currency
reform, incomes policy, external sector policies, enterprise reform, and private enterprise development
policies, commercial banking system reforms, social protection and the safety net, and economic
management.
2.    Of these areas, the first five focused primarily on stabilizing the economy following independence
and were worked out in close collaboration with the IMF. The second group of policy reform areas
focused primarily on structural reforms. Although overall policy performance under the Rehabilitation
Loan was excellent, stabilization reforms were implemented much more rapidly and comprehensively than
the structural reforms. This can be explained in part by the IMF's close monitoring of key measures with
traunched releases of funds contingent on the outcome of regular policy performance reviews. The most
important reason for slower structural reforms, however, is that such reforms commonly require the
development of detailed legislation, consensus building, education, and physical investments, all of which
are considerably more complex and time consuming than many of the policy decisions required to carry
out the stabilization part of the program.
I. Stabilization Measures
Price Liberalization and the Control of inflation
3.    By the time the Rehab Loan was approved, Estonia had already deregulated prices in most areas
other than selected foods and energy products and the products of natural monopolies, especially housing
and public transport. Prices for the remaining key food products were raised sharply by October 1992
as scheduled, and by 1993 all food prices had been deregulated (liquor remained an exception both for
social reasons and because it was produced by state monopolies).
4.    Good progress was also made in raising prices for energy, housing, and public transport. Energy
prices are now at close to world prices even for final consumers, but the widespread non-payment of
energy bills remains a significant problem. Prices for housing and public transport were raised many-fold
during the life of the rehab loan, but full cost-recovery remains an illusive goal. Consequently, municipal
transport services continue to depend on government subsidies and find it hard to finance necessary
investments, and housing privatization has been slowed by the lack of rents that are high enough to make
home ownership financially competitive with continuing to rent at subsidized prices.
5.    Inflation declined much more slowly than had been anticipated in the program, which estimated
monthly inflation of 4 percent in the last quarter of 1992, and even lower rates in 1993. Although the



23                                  ANNEX A
Attachment
Page 5 of 12
government did an excellent job of eliminating the normal sources of inflationary pressures-fiscal deficits
and expansionary monetary policies, two other factors created the inflationary pressures seen in price
increases averaging over 1,000 percent in 1992, 89 percent in 1993, and is estimated at 47 percent in
1994. First, the sharp initial undervaluation of the exchange rate for the kroon meant that major increases
in domestic prices were required to bring the price of domestic tradeables into line with world prices,
which with a lag led to complementary increases in the prices of non-tradeables.
6.    The second factor was the exceptional inflows of capital from (i) foreign direct investment (over
10 percent of GDP in 1993 and 1994); (ii) positive current account balances through the majority of
1993, the result in large part of exceptional export growth to western markets; and (iii) substantial inflows
for foreign assistance. Through the currency board mechanism, most foreign currency brought into the
country acted like high-powered domestic currency creation, thus supplying sharp increases in the money
supply even without a fiscal impulse. The resulting real appreciation of the fixed exchange rate began to
dampen these net flows of foreign exchange during 1994. Exports have begun to lose their artificially
strong comparative position, and imports have become more competitive in domestic markets. Prospects
are excellent under the currency board mechanism that inflation will continue to decline during 1995.
Fiscal Policy
7.    In the MERP, the government placed high priority on restoring fiscal balance. To this end, it
agreed to a broad range of measures including reforms of most tax categories (VAT, business and
personal income, customs, excise), introduction of a new tax on land to enhance municipal revenues and
an excise tax on motor fuels, improved mechanisms for sharing revenues between national and local
jurisdictions, restructuring the financing of social safety net expenditures, integrating the social security
and medical extra-budgetary funds into the central government budget, and introducing user cost sharing
on health and education services.
8.    Reforms in these areas were carried out expeditiously and effectively. Estonia's exceptional
success in revenue reforms, combined with strict discipline in expenditure control, is reflected in the
essentially balanced budget that has been maintained throughout the transition period. This was key to
Estonia's success in living with the currency board condition that prohibits central bank lending to the
government. Limits on borrowing from the banking system have also been carefully respected. Together
with hard budget constraints on public enterprises, this has eliminated quasi-fiscal deficits as an issue.
The country's success in maintaining fiscal discipline during the difficult early phases of the transition
to a market economy means that it has been able to move on to the structural adjustment phase with a
very strong borrowing capacity, which will help assure that required investments in physical and human
capital can take place in a timely manner. The country will reap the benefits of this fiscal prudence for
many years to come.
9.     Despite the success to date in carrying out fiscal reforms under the Rehabilitation Loan,
challenges remain at both the national and local levels. At the national level, the challenge lies in two
areas that are far more closely linked than may appear to be the case-external tariff policy and social
safety net programs. The government has come under severe pressures from the agricultural sector to
abandon its free trade policies and impose high and differential tariffs to protect specific agricultural



24                                  ANNEX A
Attachment
Page 6 of 12
products from foreign competition, a retrograde policy strategy that could seriously impair the efficiency
and pace of Estonia's future economic growth.
10.   Now that Estonia has successfully passed through the initial stabilization phase of the transition
process, it needs to devote major efforts to designing a social intervention program that combines social
safety net programs (unemployment insurance and income support or welfare) with social security
programs (health insurance and pensions), and social and economic development programs designed to
reduce the longer-term need for social safety net expenditures.
11.   The other major fiscal challenge at this point is developing a good balance between the national
and local levels of government in the allocation of revenues and expenditures. Considerable efforts have
already been made in this, and Estonia has an even distribution of resources across municipalities on a
per capita basis, which is quite desirable. Further efforts are needed, however, to assure that expenditure
responsibilities match revenue allocations.
Monetary Policy and Currency Reform
12.   Estonia's performance in this area has also been exemplary. Virtually all of the actions outlined
in the MERP were attained in a timely manner. Given the existence of the currency board, which was
introduced about three months before the Rehabilitation Loan was approved, monetary policy is not an
issue in Estonia. The currency board eliminates all monetary policy discretion because domestic currency
is always and only issued upon receipt of foreign exchange.
13.   The reforms in this category were thus focused primarily on the operations of the central bank
and its relation with the banking system. Even here very little scope for discretionary monetary or credit
policy existed; the currency board eliminates virtually all lending or discounting facilities between the
central bank and the commercial banks. Consequently, the main tasks in this area were to improve the
management of the payments system and the supervision of the commercial banks.
14.    Efforts to improve the payments system have been highly successful. While the Rehabilitation
Loan was being designed, the inter-bank clearance of payments sometimes took weeks. In the highly
inflationary environment of that period, this seriously eroded the value of payments, making ordinary
commerce almost impossible. Today payments generally clear within one day, and the central bank is
working towards a system of immediate payments clearance with a full-time, on-line clearing system. The
clearance of international payments has also been greatly improved. Payments with the West are now
cleared in line with international standards, and many banks are directly linked to the SWIFT system.
Payments with republics of the former Soviet Union have also become relatively straight-forward and
timely with the introduction of bank-to-bank systems that avoid clearance through the central banks in
Moscow and Tallinn.
15.   The main residual area of concern regarding central bank operations is supervision of the
commercial banks. Basic prudential rules in line with the Basle standards have been established, and
commercial banks are now reporting to the central bank on a timely and reasonably accurate basis, and
basic off-site supervision is conducted on the basis of these reports. However, the central bank needs to



25                                 ANNEX A
Attachment
Page 7 of 12
make further efforts, particularly in the area of on-site commercial bank supervision, including reviews
of the quality of loan portfolios.
16.   The need for improved supervision is seen in the continuing unexpected failures of commercial
banks. While bank closure and consolidation is a natural process, especially during the transition to a
market society, it should not involve sudden surprise failures and the need for massive injections of
government and central bank funds to prevent serious repercussions in the rest of the banking system and
the economy at large. Yet this is precisely what happened in the recent failure of the Social Bank and
the related failure of the Development Bank. Good supervision should have foreseen the problems, and
good supervision legislation and regulations should have made it possible for the central bank to take over
administration of the failing banks in time to steer them into an orderly closure or consolidation with
stronger banks. High priority should be given to the work that the IMF is doing with Eesti Pank on these
problems.
Incomes Policy
17.   The MERP established a fairly intricate mechanism to control excess wage pressures in parastatal
enterprises during the transition based on punitive taxation of wage increases beyond established levels.
The inclusion of these provisions was justified given the experience in other transitional countries, but
Estonia has added a new chapter to the book on incomes policy. The wage limits set under the incomes
policy were never really tested for one simple reason: the hard budget constraints imposed by government
on the public enterprises were credible. This credibility was reinforced by the fact that some of the first
companies taken into bankruptcy court were public enterprises that were taken into bankruptcy by the
government for non-payment of taxes.
18.   Because of these highly credible hard budget constraints, workers knew that, if they pressed for
wage increases, this could bankrupt their enterprises and they would lose their jobs. In fact, the hard
budget constraints were so effective that even sick-leave absences dropped sharply in 1992 and 1993.
Workers feared being fired if they did not show up to work.
19.   The beneficial impacts of credible hard budget constraints went far beyond plant-level wage
discipline and are worth underscoring. Because workers were afraid to press for higher wages, the real
wage in Estonia fell in line with real output. Consequently, the share of wages in total costs remained
stable, which meant that public enterprises could retain workers despite falling levels of output and
revenues. As a result, unemployment in Estonia has been about one tenth of the level experienced in
many Eastern European countries. This has contributed greatly to social stability -- and has put
enterprises in a highly competitive position in terms of labor costs, one of the secrets to Estonia's success
in expanding its exports to the West so rapidly in the past four years.



26                                  ANNEX A
Attachment
Page 8 of 12
External Sector Policies
20.    Estonia had already established a highly liberal set of external trade and payments policies before
the Rehabilitation Loan was approved. With the exception of export controls on a few products such as
alcohol, tobacco, grain, and materials like oil shale that were produced by monopolies at artificially low
prices, Estonia had removed virtually import and export taxes and quotas. Most of the remaining
restrictions were lifted in a timely manner. Trade in non-ferrous metals like aluminum and copper was
placed under the control of a state trading company for a period to control the criminal activity that was
stimulated by artificially high price differentials between the East and the West for these products. This
trade is now back on normal commercial terms. As noted above, strong pressures for agricultural import
protection are being generated in rural areas, but the government has wisely resisted these pressures to
date.
21.    Estonia has moved more rapidly than originally expected to establish free trade relations with
neighboring countries. A Baltic Free Trade area came into effect on April 1, 1994. After establishing a
series of bilateral free trade agreements with various EFTA and EU countries, Estonia signed a free trade
agreement with the EU at large in July 1994, and is now negotiating a Europe Agreement with the EU,
which will further coordinate and integrate Estonia's economic and social policies with those of the EU.
Estonia has also applied for membership in GATT, has submitted its statement of economic policies, and
is now answering questions on- this statement, preparing for ultimate accession to the GATT.
22.    As foreseen in the MERP, the government has been less interested in establishing formal trading
arrangements with FSU countries, for it wanted to avoid the risks of unforeseen interruptions in its trade
flows and to develop as rapidly as possible strong trading relations with the West based on agreed rules
of the game. The reduction of FSU trade in Estonia's total foreign trade from about 95 percent in 1992
to about 30 percent in 1994 indicates that this strategy has been highly successful. It also indicates that
Estonia is now in a sufficiently strong position that, with growing stability in countries to the East, it can
now afford to begin taking fuller advantage of the trading opportunities in this still underdeveloped but
very large market. Besides expanding Estonia's exports, production for sales to FSU markets would make
good use of installed capacity designed originally for such markets, thus easing Estonia's transition
process and freeing investment resources for other more productive projects.
U. Structural Reforms
Enterprise Reforn
23.   In this and the other "structural reform" areas, Estonia's progress has been slower than with
stabilization. Although some structural reforms could have been more rapid, the originally scheduled dates
for many of these changes were in retrospect excessively optimistic given the complexities of the reforms
required.
24.    The speed of enterprise reform varied directly with the size of enterprise. Small scale enterprises
such as retail stores, restaurants, tourist facilities, and repair shops were privatized quickly through best
price auctions. Rapid action on this front was one of the keys to Estonia's transition success.



27                                 ANNEX A
Attachment
Page 9 of 12
Privatization at this level quickly broke the soviet wholesale and retail monopolies -- monopolies that still
impede structural change in other formerly planned economies. With state monopolies removed, the
playing field was leveled for small entrepreneurs, giving good managers of both privatized and new
private shops a chance to succeed on the basis of price and quality of service.
25.   This created widespread opportunities for and experience with private ownership. It also quickly
expanded the range of goods and services available, building support for the transformation process
among the general public. Rapidly opening retail trade to private sector initiative has also helped the
transition in the wholesale trade and agricultural sectors. Shop and restaurant owners go directly to farms
for supplies when the traditional agricultural processing and marketing enterprises are not responsive.
This has created new channels for farmers to sell their goods, and the competition is forcing existing food
processing and marketing enterprises to modernize.
26.   Before the Rehabilitation Loan was approved, a few large scale enterprises had been privatized
through employee management buyouts, some of which were quite successful. A substantial number of
other firms were effectively privatized through multi-year leases. Though many of these have also
succeeded in placing productive assets under managers who are using the assets effectively, experience
indicates that more caution should have been exercised in granting such leases because the government
has found it difficult if not impossible to privatize firms that have been placed under lease.
27.    Privatization moved much more slowly for large scale enterprises than for small ones, partly
because of the leasing problem, partly because of the difficulty of finding private individuals or firms in
a formerly socialist economy like Estonia who have sufficient capital to buy large industrial enterprises,
and partly because the govermnent decided to privatize large enterprises on the basis of evaluated tenders
rather than through best-price bids. With assistance from the German Treuhand organization, an Estonian
Privatization Agency was established in late 1992 to carry out the bidding and bid evaluation process for
some 600 large firms included in this program. Bids were to be evaluated not only in terms of price, but
also in terms of the background and experience of the bidders, their business plans for the enterprise, and
the jobs and new investments in the enterprise that they would guarantee over the first three years. The
first 25 firms were put up for sale in late 1993, and six months later, contracts were signed for part of
the group. At that pace, it was estimated that over 10 years would be needed to privatize the large
enterprises in Estonia. After the first round, however, the pace began to pick up, and by the closing date
of the Rehabilitation Loan, well over half of the firms had been sold, and the privatization process in
Estonia had become recognized as one of the most successful in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet
Union. The privatization agency estimates that all marketable large enterprises will be sold by the end
of 1995.



28                                  ANNEX A
Attachment
Page 10 of 12
Anti-Monopoly and Private Enterprise Development Policies
28.   Efforts in these areas have met with outstanding success. The Estonian price control office quickly
worked itself out of business by decontrolling virtually all prices in the economy other than those for
goods produced by state monopolies like Estonian Energy. The prices of such goods and services are
regulated by their respective ministries. The price control office was converted into an anti-monopoly
office and, in this role, has imposed anti-trust and fair trade laws that are consistent with industrial
country standards.
29.   The task of the anti-monopoly office was facilitated by two factors-Estonia's free trade policies,
and the rapid development of private enterprise. As a small country, Estonia quickly realized that it could
not achieve competitive, efficient production by breaking up large monopolies. In many lines, even a
single factory serving the entire country would find it difficult to attain internationally competitive
economies of scale. In fact, many products would require not only the entire Estonian market but major
export sales as well to attain competitive scales of production. Under such circumstances, the economies
of scale lost by breaking up domestic monopolies would far outweigh any possible gains from increased
domestic competition. The government has thus wisely focused instead on creating competitive pressures
through open trade policies rather than through more narrow demonopolization efforts.
30.    The rapid development of private enterprise in Estonia, which has helped assure effective
competition, has been fostered by a policy environment highly favorable to investment from both local
and foreign sources. Domestic and foreign capital enjoy an almost completely level playing field.
Estonia's successful stabilization policies have created a favorable environment for business with low rates
of inflation, a stable currency that is freely convertible for all current and most capital account
transactions, a flat income tax rate of 26 percent for all business and personal incomes coupled with a
highly transparent tax code that allows only a few standard categories of deductions, highly competitive
wage rates, a skilled labor force, good communications and other physical infrastructure, and a stable
political environment.
31.   The only significant risks in this area for the future are related to tariffs and social safety net
expenditures as mentioned above. Giving in to demands for protective tariffs for agriculture and food
processing industries could quickly lead to pressures for similar protection for all other manufacturing
industries, thus jeopardizing the competitive environment that makes a major contribution to Estonia's
favorable business environment. As a small economy close to large, wealthy markets, Estonia's present
market-oriented course, bolstered by improved social programs, is by far the best alternative.
Commercial Banking System Reforms
32.   The commercial banking system developed rapidly during the implementation period of the
Rehabilitation Loan. Encouraged by capital adequacy requirements that are quickly approaching European
levels, the 46 banks present in early 1992 have been consolidated through merger and closure to a core
of about 20 banks-banks that are far stronger on average than those of three years ago. Unlike some
countries that have destroyed the banking sector by holding interest rates to artificially low levels in the
name of trying to stimulate investment, Estonia has placed no caps on interest rates, depending instead



29                                ANNEX A
Attachment
Page 11 of 12
on competition among the many local banks to assure a balance between the demand and supply in
domestic capital markets.
33.   Business risk, combined with the inability of young banks' to assess this risk, was an overarching
issue for the Estonian banking system in 1992. The aversion to risk was reflected in interest rates of up
to 50 percent per year and in commercial banks lending on average less than 30 percent of their assets,
compared to around 75 percent in industrialized countries. In fact, some banks had considerably more
money on deposit in foreign banks than on loan in Estonia. This situation has improved markedly in the
past three years. Today loans account for just over 50 percent of Estonian banking system assets, and
interest rates have dropped into the range of 15-25 percent.
34.   The problems noted above when discussing the supervision of commercial banks are the most
important challenges for the future. Banks need to be encouraged through good supervision to maintain
a reasonable level of risk in their portfolios. Portfolio risk, and thus banking soundness, is almost
impossible for individual customers to determine because of banking confidentiality. As a result,
competitive pressures cannot assure banking prudence; in fact, such pressures often work in the opposite
direction, encouraging banks to take on higher levels of risk than they should in order to pay premium
rates to attract more deposits. Consequently, improved supervision is the only route to improved financial
soundness in the Estonian banking system.
Social Protection and the Safety Net
35.   Despite the concerns expressed above regarding the need for better programs to target income
assistance in rural areas and to improve labor mobility to more productive jobs, Estonia has generally
done an excellent job of implementing the social protection and social safety net reforms agreed in the
MERP. A poverty line has been established to help determine benefits adequate to close poverty gaps.
Eligibility for benefits has been tightened by making employees and employers responsible for part of sick
leave and medical treatment costs. Unemployment benefit eligibility has been tightened by requiring a
waiting period before initial benefits can be drawn, and by requiring that beneficiaries re-register
frequently so that they can be screened for eligibility and counseled regarding job opportunities.
36.   The pension program has undergone a series of major reforms. Estonia had moved to a low, flat-
rate pension not long before the Rehabilitation Loan was approved, reducing replacement rates from the
relatively high soviet levels to about 30 percent. Pension costs were further controlled by implementing
a program under which the retirement age is being raised by six months each year; over the next ten
years, the pensionable age will rise to 60 and 65 years for women and men, respectively. A second tier
of benefits based on length of service was recently added to the pension system. The intention is that this
tier will ultimately be fully funded, unlike the pay-as-you-go funding for the first tier.
37.   Under active labor policies, Estonia has made major efforts to strengthen the system of
employment offices throughout the country, computerizing job listings and beneficiary rolls, and training
employment counselors. More needs to be done, however, to increase labor mobility in Estonia to levels
that will minimize unemployment episodes. The forthcoming period will be challenging in this respect
because of the large public enterprises that remain to be privatized and restructured, and because of the



30                                 ANN  A
Attachment
Page 12 of 12
farms that need to be placed on a commercial basis. These structural changes will require that workers
gradually move to more productive areas of employment, a process that would be facilitated not only by
active labor policies such as employment offices, but also by structural changes such as improving the
supply of rental housing so that people can move more easily from one area to another for employment.
Econonic Management
38.   A highly professional and well-respected Research Department has been established in the Bank
of Estonia and regularly produces excellent analyses in English and Estonian of key issues related to
Estonia's transition process. Statistics on every major aspect of the economy are published regularly in
well-prepared dual-language (English/Estonian) documents. Coordination on data issues through the
Department of Statistics is exceptional-one rarely finds discrepancies in the data for a given variable
across ministries, which all tend to use data from the Estonian Statistical Agency (ESA). ESA in turn
works closely with the ministries that supply source data to assure quality. The quality of balance of
payments and national accounts data need improvement, but the people responsible for these indicators
are well trained, have identified the problems, and are working hard to improve data quality.
39.   The management and coordination of external assistance was initially quite good; the relatively
small workload could be handled by the small but well-prepared staff that was available. As the volume
of external assistance increased, as donors begin promoting their own project ideas more actively, and
as individual ministries began going directly to funding sources to press their own sectoral priorities,
coordination became more of a problem. The development of a Public Investment Program based on the
Public Expenditure Review that was prepared by the World Bank has provided a mechanism for restoring
better control and coordination in this area, and the meeting of donors in Paris in May 1994 improved
coordination among donors. More needs to be done, however, to make control and coordination of
external assistance fully effective.
40. Debt reporting has been reasonably good. Early reports were timely and accurate. Some delays have
been noted more recently, a reflection of the increased work load that has come with more donor activity
in Estonia and of the severe limitations on the number of staff available to handle the work.
41.   The excellent legal systems for policy design and implementation that Estonia put in place would
have been more than adequate in most countries in transition. In Estonia, however, the transition has
moved so quickly that the syrtem has had difficulty keeping up with the hundreds of laws and decrees
that have been proposed each year. Despite the problems, Estonia has an exceptional record in this area.
Now that the key elements of the legal framework for a market economy have been established, the
existing mechanisms for creating laws should be sufficient. More efforts will be required, however, to
develop a court system that can handle the enforcement of the laws, especially in the area of bankruptcy
and other forms of exit.



31                                  ANNEX B
Page 1 of 3
IMPLEMENTATION CONOPLETION REPORT
THE WORLD BANK REHABILITATION LOAN NO. 3522EE
REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA
PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Loan Amount:               USD30,000,000.00
Date of Signing:           October 2, 1992
Contracted:                USD28,651,793.22 (95.51 % of the loan amount)
Disbursed:                 USD28,540,522.90 (95.14% of the loan amount as of 10/31/94)
Uncommitted:               USD1,348,206.78 (4.49% of the loan amount)
Objectives
Purposes of the Rehabilitation Loan are:
a)    to achieve economic stabilization and systematic reforms in the Republic of Estonia;
b)    to finance the urgently (critically) needed imports and technical assistance: the aim of the
loan was to finance critical imports in four key sectors (energy, agriculture, transport and
health care) for about two years.
List of Goods
The economic situation in Estonia during the preparation of the project was critical. The collapse
of trade with the former Soviet Union created an urgent need for imports in all sectors. The initial list
discussed with the World Bank was long and amounted to more than 10 times the loan amount.
Agreement was reached on a broad allocation of funds and types of imports. Agreement was also reached
with the Government of Finland to provide procurement advisors from the Finnish Government
Purchasing Center (VHK).



32                                  ANNEX B
Page 2 of 3
During the implementation, the economic situation changed considerably especially in the trade
area, whereby many items on the list became not necessary. This process, therefore, required continuous
change in the import list, and a lot of time and effort from the PIU to obtain new requests from
purchasers and continuous clearances from the World Bank.
Cooperation with Purchasers
At the beginning of the project, there were several misunderstandings between PIU and
purchasers. It was difficult to get lists of new requirements from the PIU. They were not familiar with,
and in some cases, did not like the World Bank procedures especially in the beginning. They also were
not able to draw up the technical specifications for their requirements. They requested assistance from
VHK advisors and sometimes from visiting Bank missions. The relationship improved with time and
experience. Repayment agreements were reached between the Ministry of Finance and all purchasers.
Cooperation with the World Bank
During the whole project (preparation and implementation) we have had very close and fruitful
cooperation with the World Bank staff through visiting missions and communications. They have assisted
Estonian authorities and PIU to carry out this project successfully. The World Bank arranged for
procurement and disbursement training which was very useful.
Issues in Procurement
In general, the World Bank procurement procedures were useful to learn and by now, many
purchasers prefer to use some forms of competitive procedures for their own purchases. In many cases
they were also more pleased with the quality of goods and services from new suppliers compared to
traditional ones. But these Bank's procedures are complicated for new purchasers and also lengthy for
critical imports. The assistance by VHK advisors was very important.
Issues in Disbursement
The disbursement process went well. PIU staff found it useful in this first loan to use foreign
banks for the special account and letters of credit because local commercial banks were not stable during
the implementation period, and the PIU staff (and purchasers) learned from the experience with foreign
commercial banks.
Summary and Lessons Learned
In summary, it is our opinion that the loan was useful to obtain imports at a critical time in
Estonia to support its economic transformation. The critical element declined with time as the economic
situation improved and trade became open. While the loan preparations were made relatively quickly,
there were delays in the implementation process, many of which could have been avoided if there was
more flexibility in different procedures. For example, the following problems were encountered.



33                                    ANNEX B
Page 3 of 3
1.    One example is the heavy fuel oil which finally amounted to one third of the loan amount. The
delays in the bidding procedure resulted in delivery of almost 1/3 of the total heavy fuel after the heating
season was over in spring 1993. About 50,000 tons was stored for the summer (quite a costly exercise
for "Eesti Kutus" - the end-user), while it was clear that the oil was most needed in the winter of 1992.
2.     Medicines: Initially, US$2.5 million were allocated for medicines. The World Bank advised the
Government to purchase medicines from UNICEF as it was expected to be faster and more cost effective.
A contract worth about US$400,000 was awarded to UNICEF, and open competitive bidding was used
for purchases of another US$1.0 million. The purchasing agency was more satisfied with the results
obtained from competitive bidding procedures than from direct contracting. Prices and services obtained
from private suppliers were as a rule more competitive.
3.    In the case of medical equipment there were lengthy debates internally, what to buy, but also the
World Bank staff insisted on identifying the actual needs in Estonia and considered some items listed by
the Borrower as "luxury". We would like to reiterate at this point, that flexibility needs to be increased
as the borrowing countries differ so much from each other. While in some countries such items can be
classified as "luxury", in all developed countries they are regarded as normal and vital components of
the health care.
The rehabilitation loan was the first project Estonia has had with the international financial
institution. The need for quick action and implementation did not allow much time for pre-training.
Therefore, the assistance from the Finnish Government Purchasing Center (VHK) was crucial. The end-
users and staff at the ministries had no practical experience with international bidding procedures. In
addition, the staff of ministries kept changing over time. The VHK and the World Bank were helpful
in organizing the training for the personnel of the ministries (in this context it should be mentioned that
the PIU was not always consulted in the process of selecting the candidates which unfortunately resulted
in training the people, who had very little to do with project implementation, e.g. representatives from
the former Ministry of Trade).
We conclude the following lessons from our experience:
1)    the services of the Finnish VHK advisors were very useful to expedite the process;
2)    training in disbursement and procurement was necessary;
3)    the procurement process was lengthy and complicated. It should be modified, especially
where the loan is expected to be for critical imports in order to avoid costly delays LIB
procedures are more applicable than full ICB with regard to speed and choice;
4)    in this type of loan there is more need for flexibility and reliance on the country's own
judgement of its needs than on external experts. Advice on the technical specifications,
however, was extremely useful.



I



IBRD 26135
7T                                  r 7                               2                                  7?                                                                    7?
ESTONIA                                                                GulfofFinland
-       Main Roads                            Sectd Toh
Railroad,@    Count Headquarters                                                                                                                                                       Kohtlve
County Boundories                       Notional Capitol
Internojional Boundaries                Urban Ara o*
Haapsalu .id
I3aIIic
AV. L   C)
^   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V"
Kuressoare
Rigoiv                                                                                                                                                                   so          r
rIr r x jb4G ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Elevations in Meters:bi2 tv 
/ 151 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 250    LATVIA  b ' ,bl
mus          10       20         3~t
LATVIA                          2 '' '2,
l  2r                                2r                                                                         23                                                          27/            wm        .2 (       t           !R  F
7/29/1994 tFilcIaIE2DIJCIII  J     {m  






I



I



