Page  1
May 20, 1993
His Excellency Madis Uurike
Ministry of Finance
Kohtu 8
EE0l00 Tallinn, Estonia
          Re:  The Export Import Bank of Japan Loan to the
               Republic of Estonia, dated March 15, 1993
               Amendments to International Bank for Reconstruction
               and Development Loan Agreement No. (3522 EE)
Excellency:
     We refer to discussions among the Republic of Estonia (the
Borrower), the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(the Bank) and the Export Import Bank of Japan.
     The Bank is pleased to inform you that the Loan Agreement for
the Rehabilitation loan between the Borrower and the Bank dated
October 2, 1992 (3522-EE) is amended as set forth below.
     Section 4.01 is amended to read as follows:
     "Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a) a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that
the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; and
     (b) subject to subparagraph (c) of this paragraph:
          (i)  the right of the Borrower to withdraw proceeds of
               any loan made to the Borrower by the Export
               Import Bank of Japan for the financing of the
               project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
               terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the
               terms of any such loan agreement, or
          (ii) any such loan shall have been declared due and
               payable by the Export Import Bank of Japan prior
               to the agreed maturity thereof.
     (c) subparagraph (b) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that:  (i) such
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Program are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement."
     A new Section 4.02 is added as follows:
     "Section 4.02.  For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant to
paragraph (h) thereof, namely that the event specified in paragraph
(b) (ii) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to
the provision of paragraph (c) of that Section."
     Please confirm the Borrower's agreement to such amendments by
signing, dating and returning to us a copy of this letter.
                                     Sincerely yours,
                                /s/  Basil G. Kavalsky
                                        Director
                                Country Department IV
Page  2
                           Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED: by REPUBLIC OF ESTONIA on 6/14/93
