Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15329
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1811-RW)
JANUARY 31, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Division
Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Monetary Unit: Rwandese Francs (FRw)
Per US$ 1.00:
Appraisal Date (May 6, 1986): FRw 83
Closing Date (June 30, 1994) : FRw 145
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
I stre = I st.cbm (m3)
I m3 of stacked roundwood = 2 steres = 450 kg
I mn3 firewood = 1.6 steres (st.cbm) = 580 kg
26 poles= I m3 (roundwood)
I Toe = I ton oel equivalent  2.5 tons of air dried wood
I Toe = I ton oel equivalent  1.45 tons of charcoal
LIST OF ACRONYMS
APEF            Extension Unit (Actions a l'exterieur de la foret)
CAT            Technical Support Center (Centre d'appui technique)
CFD             French Development Fund (Caisse francaise de developpement)
CTFT            Technical Center for Tropical Forestry (Centre technique forestier tropical)
DGF             Forestry Department (Direction generale des forets)
DCE             Department for Control and Evaluation (Direction Contr6le et Evaluation)
ERR             Economic Rate of Return
FAC            French Aid and Cooperation Fund (Fonds d'aide et de cooperation)
FAO             Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FAO/CP         World Bank FAO/Cooperative Program
FFN            National Forestry Fund (Fonds forestier national)
Frw            Rwandese Francs (Francs rwandais)
GEF            Global Environment Facility
GOR             Government of the Republic of Rwanda
GNP            Gross National Product
GBK            Gishwati-Kigali-Butare Project (First Integrated Forestry and Livestock Project)
IDA             International Development Association
ISAR           National Research Institute of Rwanda (Institut des sciences agronomiques du Rwanda)
MDC            Ministry of Development and Technical Research (Ministere du developpement et de la
cooperation)
MINAGRI        Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forests (Ministere de l'agriculture, de l'elevage et
des forets)
ONF            National Forestry Office in France (Office national forestier - France)
ORINFOR        National Information Service (Office Rwandais d'information)
OVAPAM         Office for the Development of Agriculture and Livestock in Mutara (Office pour la
valorisation des produits agricoles du Mutara)
PACZN          Zaire-Nile Forest Conservation Plan (Plan d'action pour la conservation des forets de la
crete Zaire-Nil)
PASP           Second Integrated Forestry Project (Projet agro-sylvo pastoral)
PMC            Project Management Committee
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PSA             Agricultural Services Project (Projet services agricoles)
RPF            Rwandese Patriotic Front (Front Patriotique Rwandais)
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
TFAP            Tropical Forestnr Action Program
UGZ             Forest Management Unit (Unite de gestion de zone)
UNAMIR          United Nation Assistance Mission for Rwanda (Mission des Nations Unies pour
l'Assistance au Rwanda)
UPEL            Federation of Gishwati Livestock Owners (Union pour l'elevage laitier)
FISCAL YEAR OF GOVERNMENT
January I - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1811-RW)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
PREFACE ......................................................i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................................................i
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE .....................................................1I
Project Identification .......................................................
A. Project Objectives, Responsibilities,and  Standard  Steps ......................                                         ...............................1I
B. Major Factors Affecting the Project ......................................................4
C. Achievement of Objectives ......................................................7
D. Project Sustainability .....................................................                                                                                12
E.Performance of the Association and the Borrower .....................................................                                                        14
F. Assessment of Outcome .....................................................                                                                                 16
G. Lessons Learned  and  Recommendations for Future Operations .....................................................                                            17
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ................................................... 20
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION .....................................................                                                                            21
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .....................................................                                                                         21
Table 2:  Related Bank Credits .....................................................                                                                           22
Table 3:  Project Timetable .....................................................                                                                             23
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements .....................................................                                                                          24
Table 5:    Disbursement Profiles per Component and  Category .....................................................                                             26
Table 6:  Summary of Project Achievements .....................................................                                                               27
Table 7:  Project Costs and Financing .....................................................                                                                   30
Table 7:  Status of Legal Covenants .....................................................                                                                     31
Table 8:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .....................................................                                                                   37
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions .....................................................                                                                       38
Maps IBRD No. 20054, 20055, 20056, 20057 .....................................................                                                                 39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.                                                                         I






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1811-RW)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Integrated
Forestry Project in Rwanda, for which Credit 1811-RW in the amount of SDR 11.0
million was approved by the Board on August 14, 1986. The credit was closed on June
30, 1994, one year behind schedule. At this date, the undisbursed balance of about SDR
6.0 million was canceled.
At the Credit closing date, the country was in a state of civil war following the
death of the President on April 6, 1994. The consequences of the war on project
investments are difficult to evaluate under the present situation of political uncertainties,
since all project information has been destroyed, with the exception of the offices,
documents and equipment of the Nyungwe project component. Moreover, the majority of
project staff, including the most influential people of the Project Management
Committee, have either been killed or fled outside the country.
Parts I and III of the ICR were prepared by the Agriculture and Environment
Division of the Central Africa and Indian Ocean Department of the Africa Region. On
August 21, 1995, the Bank sent the Borrower Part I and III with the request to prepare
Part II. No comments have been received to date.
Preparation of the ICR was done about nine months after the Credit was closed.
Since most of the project documents were destroyed and offices looted during the 1994
civil war, the ICR is based mainly on documents available in Bank files at the time the
report was written. They include, inter alia, the Staff Appraisal and Project
Implementation Reports, the Development Credit Agreement, Preparation Reports,
Supervision Reports, the 1993 Evaluation of the Zaire-Nile Ridge Forest Conservation
Strategy, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, internal Bank memoranda,
annual reports prepared by the three Project Units and reports on discussions with
representatives of the Borrower and the Bank.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1811-RW)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Project Objectives. The Second Integrated Forestry Project (PASP; Credit 1811-
RW); under implementation from October 13, 1988 to June 30, 1993, with its original
closing date extended to June 30, 1994) was the follow-up of the First Integrated Forestry
and Livestock Development Project (GBK; Credit 1039-RW) that was financed by IDA
from 1980 to 1987. Recognizing the environmental and economic threat posed by rapid
destruction of natural forests, both projects were aimed at: (i) expanding the source of
wood products through industrial plantation and rural afforestation; (ii) enhancing the
value of protected natural forest ecosystems; (iii) developing a high productivity cattle
industry from degraded natural forests in the Gishwati area; and (iv) strengthening the
institutional capacity of the forest and livestock agencies involved. In the Gishwati area,
it was anticipated that most traditional nomadic cattle owners in the forest reserve would
adopt an intensive dairy farming technique.
2.    Although effective in achieving physical targets for plantation and pasture
establishment, the GBK project suffered from the following: (i) inadequate plantation
sites and species selection; (ii) limited stimulus to agroforestry development; (iii) high
costs of pasture establishment after forest-clearing in the Gishwati area; and (iv) deficient
management of the dairy facility due to the high operating costs of the obsolete
equipment. Moreover, the takeover of pastures by influential politicians and project staff
induced an inadequate rate of cattle destocking from the Gishwati forest. Furthermore,
unsatisfactory project management resulted in misprocurement and the misuse of funds.
In addition, intensive forest clearing and pasture development in Gishwati hampered the
development of surrounding communes and dislodged the Batwa (Impunyu) from their



ii                                                           Evaluation Summary
natural habitat and traditional way of life. No resettlement program was foreseen under
the project and the Batwa became internally displaced persons.
3.    The Second Integrated Forestry Project was built upon the experiences of the first
project and included five main components aimed at redressing first project deficiencies:
(i) the protection of the Nyungwe forest (PASP II/UGZ3); (ii) the promotion of
agroforestry and rural afforestation (PASP II/DGF); (iii) development of integrated
forestry, agriculture and livestock in Gishwati (GBK Gishwati); (iv) the maintenance of
fuelwood and industrial plantations established under the first project, particularly around
Kigali and Butare; and (v) the rehabilitation of pastures in the Mutara region. These
components were also aimed at providing a major impetus to the implementation of
Government policies on environmental protection, the promotion of agroforestry and the
development of integrated forestry, agriculture and livestock strategies in the Gishwati
forest.
4.    Project Financing. The project was financed by an IDA Credit in the amount of
SDR 11.0 million (US$14.1 million), covering about 70 percent of project costs. For
implementation purposes, three separate Special Accounts were opened and maintained
in the name of the UGZ 3, DGF and Gishwati Project Units. At the closing date of the
Credit, the undisbursed balance was about SDR 6 million.
5.    Achievement of objectives. The project was plagued with problems throughout
its implementation. Firstly, the Credit did not become effective until October 13, 1988,
due to strong disagreements regarding the implementation of the Gishwati livestock
component. These disagreements persisted during the first project years, thus compelling
the Association to phase out its participation in the Gishwati livestock component. As a
result, an amount of SDR 1.6 million was suspended from the Credit on February 28,
1989. Furthermore, the outbreak of civil war in 1990 seriously undermined the project
since the Government delayed provision of local funds needed to cover its share of
operating costs, counterpart investment capital and expropriation fees. As a consequence,
project units suffered from increasingly acute financial problems and relations with the
Bank deteriorated. The financial situation of the Gishwati component became such that
suppliers not only stopped delivery but initiated legal actions against the Government in
order to obtain payment for goods and services. Consequently, operations in Gishwati
came to a virtual standstill after the resurgence of the 1993 civil war.
6.    Results. The main consequence of implementation problems, policy flaws and
poor management capacity was that agroforestry and plantation management objectives
were not achieved and the institutional strengthening of forestry and livestock institutions
involved in the project fell substantially short of the envisaged goals. First, a large
proportion of the GBK industrial plantation, which was unused and unintegrated into
local economies, was virtually transformed into an open-access resource following the
1990 civil war. As such this became an easy target for being illegally harvested for
charcoal, cleared for agriculture or burned. Second, with the collapse and subsequent



Evaluation Summary                                                         iii
discontinuation of the UMUGANDA system' in 1991, most of the forest seedlings in
subsidized nurseries were produced for wealthy farmers and local officials. Third, the
Nyungwe and Gishwati buffer plantation program was continuously disrupted by land-
use conflicts with the local population, which had not been involved in management
activities or in defining the boundary location. Fourth, the Gishwati industrial plantation
management objectives were never met, in view of their low economic viability due to
site distance, low standing quality and lack of market outlets caused by the limited
purchasing power of urban end-users. Finally, because of reluctance to hire consultants
from the credit, the training and technical assistance programs were inadequate, thereby
curtailing institutional strengthening objectives. As a result, the Forest Department
remained ill-prepared and incapable of gradually transferring the management
responsibility to local communities and the private sector as had been anticipated and
resolving the numerous implementation problems. In that respect, the motivations and
attitudes of the staff involved in the project conflicted with the project's objectives.
7.    With regard to the Gishwati livestock component, the Government decided to go
ahead with the clearing of the remaining natural forest, pasture extension and purchase of
dairy equipment, despite the Association's withdrawal. In early 1994, more than 12,000
ha had been cleared and 10,000 ha of pastures had been stocked with 12,600 heads of
cattle. The most disturbing effect of this situation was the high claims on Government
resources for the development and maintenance of pastures.  In addition, pasture
management faced numerous constraints: the livestock federation envisaged never
materialized and cattle owners did not contribute to management costs through adequate
pasture contracts. As no satisfactory land use solution was provided by the project, cattle
continued to graze and degrade the last remains of the natural forest. Other project
setbacks related to dairy activities included inadequate processing equipment, poor
milking and sanitation, and an inadequate transport system. Equally, selling prices and
output in excess of market demand led to considerable milk waste throughout the project.
Moreover, as a result of the war in 1990, work on the Mutara pasture rehabilitation
component came to a halt.
8.    Until 1994, the successful implementation of the Nyungwe forest conservation
component, was a contrast to the dismal results of the Gishwati livestock component.
Despite the forest's difficult security situation, the project component had: (i) built up the
national capacity to carry out a biodiversity inventory in other high-altitude forests in
Rwanda and elsewhere; (ii) established a long-term database for iteratively accumulating
knowledge on African high-altitude pristine forests and social systems, allowing for the
development of predictive monitoring and trends analysis, and the evaluation of
management scenarios; (iii) increased the knowledge of the biological status of the
Nyungwe forest. Besides a simple taxonomic inventory, the methodology used has led to
an in-depth analysis of the composition and structure of the communities, the diversity
factors, the evolutionary dynamics of individual taxa, the hydrological and climatic
Communal enforced labor.



iv                                                             Evaluation Summary
regulation functions of the forest ecosystem; and (iv) established a software tool (the
Ecobase) that will considerably increase research efficiency by making available a
database on the various species that form the biological communities of the forest
ecosystems of the Zaire-Nile ridge.
9.    Sustainability. As a result of the 1994 civil war, a large proportion of project
investments under the first and the second projects was lost.  Offices, buildings,
documents, and equipment were looted. All of the pre-war 12,500 pure-bred, cross-bred
and Ankole cattle in Gishwati were slaughtered or taken out of the country.
Deforestation and shifting cultivation are spreading rapidly in the Nyungwe and Gishwati
natural forests and buffer and industrial plantations are gradually being cleared for
agriculture. On the infrastructure side, bridges, segments of access roads and tracks built
under the project, particularly along the periphery of the Nyungwe forest, were destroyed.
However, ninety-five percent of the ecological information base, used to prepare the
Nyungwe forest conservation and management plans, has been safeguarded on CD ROM
and floppy disks. The Nyungwe Conservation Center remained protected by UJNAMIR.
10.   Lessons Learned. With regard to forestry, five lessons can be learned from the
project's failures. First, in countries like Rwanda, rural populations excluded from
decision-making and management of their forest resources will be deprived from their
potential benefits, and thus, will inevitably contribute to their destruction. Second, the
1985 forestry policy framework should have been reviewed at the project design stage to
include significant reforms more conducive to participation. Among such reforms as
decentralization of forest resource tenure, integration of resource utilization into the local
economies, decentralization of management responsibility, trade reforms, pricing and tax
incentives, etc. should have been included Third, buffer and industrial plantations
cannot simultaneously resolve fuelwood supply problems and protect natural forests.
Household energy problems could have been resolved by measures steering consumers
toward alternative energy sources, promoting rural afforestation and agroforestry, and
encouraging the sustained management of natural forests. In light of their productivity
and location, investment and recurrent charges from industrial plantation are too high at
the current urban-market prices. It might be possible to improve product value in the
future, for example, by increasing the production of construction wood and timber.
However, a number of issues would need to be resolved, such as improving low quality
materials which would require very expensive silvicultural tending; competition from
Zaire's natural forest production; and end-users' limited purchasing power. Fourth, in
order to ensure the success of sustainable forest management, conservation and
agroforestry related-strategies should have called for structural, institutional and
organizational changes that would have ultimately led to repercussions on the role,
responsibilities and functions of the Forest Department.  In particular, the DGF's
technical capacity should have been further strengthened and staff attitudes modified to
support local forestry initiatives. Other points of concern might have included the
realignment of mandate, institutional incentives, decentralization of the decision-making
process, better capacity to deal with sectoral issues as well as better sectoral background
information, particularly of mechanisms that govern the marketing of forest products.



Evaluation Summary                                                          v
And fifth, disbursements should have targeted recurrent expenses related to forest
management and conservation activities.
11.   While good technical choices might have been made on the Gishwati livestock
component, in a country like Rwanda, under extreme land constraints, such a space-
consuming ranch system should have been discarded in favor of dairy projects located on
the periphery of the main urban centers and based on intensive smallholder stable
systems. Land development and forest conversion costs would not have been incurred.
However, semi-extensive production was the only strategy left once the decision was
taken by the Government to clear the Gishwati forest to establish improved pastures, with
Bank endorsement during the first project.
12.   The setbacks experienced by the project components undoubtedly contributed to a
better understanding of the issues involved in forest --and natural resources--
management. This also helped the DGF to refocus its sectoral policy. Increasingly,
reform-minded technocrats within the DGF were requesting policy and institutional
changes to better integrate natural resource management into their mandate. In 1993, the
forest policy was being revised as a result of a better perception of sectoral issues. This
initiative, supported by Switzerland, was, however, interrupted by the 1994 civil war. To
date, most of the core cadre of sectoral specialists capable of dealing with sectoral issues
has disappeared.
13.   Recommendations for Future Operation. Six major recommendations could be
derived from the project experience. First, topography, soil and land use conditions in
Rwanda do not allow for cost-effective wood production in industrial plantations. Under
the current price system, fuelwood production is too expensive, as well as being
insufficient to yield enough to effectively satisfy the rapidly increasing urban demand for
fuelwood.
14.   Second, sustainable management of forest resources in Rwanda (including
fuelwood, buffer zone and industrial plantation resources) will depend in large measure
on the willingness of Rwanda's Forest Service to formulate a new integrated forest
policy, correct structural constraints and policy distortions and obtain the administrative
means and legislative tools to implement it. Policy reforms should be developed in
response to sector issues raised by the major forest users and institutions in advance of
the design of future detailed investment operations. They should include economic
policy reforms related to forest resource pricing and fiscal policies; and forest
management reforms related to the nature of state intervention for resource allocation.
Full recognition needs also to be given to the opportunities for rural population and
private sector participation in forestry, conservation and forest industry activities.
Appropriate policy reforms should require a strong focus on sector work to help identify
intersectoral policy flaws, and integrate forestry objectives in a wider economic and
environmental framework. The process of formulating forest policy should be open to all
stakeholders.



vi                                                           Evaluation Summary
15.   Third, because Government's role in forestry development and environmental
conservation will remain essential, greater attention needs to be paid to institutional
reform and capacity building, particularly human resources development, and the long
term horizon which this implies. The successful implementation of forestry and natural
resource management project will require not only considerable institutional reforms in
the structure and operations of the DGF, but also drastic changes in the very structure of
the present forest policy framework. Changes required from an institutional viewpoint
include: a stronger reorientation of DGF's mission towards social forestry and integrated
natural resource; organizational restructuring of the DGF; improved internal
organizational systems and procedures; decentralization and devolution of forest
management authority; and increased cross-sectoral coordination and collaboration.
Future projects should help restructure the sector's institutions (including the DGF and
other dependent agencies, training, research, etc.), define an appropriate policy
framework and a long-term human resource development program. As this was not the
case under this project, forestry and livestock institutions remain unprepared to achieve
their technical, legislative, judicial, and regulatory functions.
16.   Fourth, project preparation should fully take into account stakeholders' views
on project objectives and how they are to be achieved The principle is that local people
should be fully involved in issues concerning them and the environment in which they
live. Sustainability of project objectives will depend in the most part on the commitment
of all interested parties.
17.   Fifth, full advantage should be taken of opportunities to make forestry (and
conservation) activities self-sustainable on a financial basis, in order to avoid potential
difficulties with counterpart funding. Because the country's financial situation will
remain very weak in the future, alternative sources of funding should be identified (such
as GEF, Debt for Nature Swap, endowments for nature conservation, etc.) so that forestry
development and conservation recurrent costs need not depend entirely on Government
counterpart funds.
18.   And Sixth, improved Government/donor coordination in policy dialogue, project
design and implementation is essential to maximizing potential development impacts.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1811-RW)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identification
Project Name:            Second Integrated Forestry Project
Credit No.               181 1-RW
Operational Responsibility: Africa Region, Central Africa and Indian Ocean
Department, Agriculture and Environment Division
Country:                 Rwanda
Sector:                 Agriculture
Subsector:               Forestry
A.   Project Objectives, Responsibilities and Standard Steps
2.1   Sector Background and Issues. In the past, Rwanda has had a long standing
commitment to forestry and natural resource management and biodiversity protection.
According to the latest estimates, forest vegetation covered an area of 668,000 ha or 28
percent of the country land's area, including agroforestry and dispersed trees. Though
densely populated, it was also one of only a few African countries with nearly 13 percent
of its surface designated as protected areas containing a remarkable variety of unique
habitats and species. They include the four remaining Afromontane natural forests that
play an important ecological and hydrological role (Nyungwe, Mukura, Gishwati and
Birunga protected forests) and the Akagera National Park with the adjacent Mukura game
reserve. All are, however, under permanent threat through resettlement, illegal felling,
poaching, mining and pit sawing. In addition, erosion control and reforestation programs
were successfully  conducted until 1990.   Agroforestry, meanwhile, expanded
significantly; on-farm production met some 70 percent of the country's wood
requirements in the early 1990s. Since 1985, increasing attention has been given to the
role of natural forest protection in Rwanda's socioeconomic development. In December
1992, recognizing the increasing environmental and economic threat posed by the rapid
destruction of natural forest cover, the Government of Rwanda (GOR), assisted by the
donor community, developed the Zaire-Nile Ridge Natural Forest Conservation Strategy.
This strategy aimed at achieving an equilibrium between demand and supply of forest



2                                        Part I: Project Reviewfrom the Bank's Perspective
products, while maintaining an optimum amount of natural forest cover for ecological
and watershed protection purposes.
2.2    Over the past decade, however, the ecological situation worsened due to a
combination of socioeconomic and demographic factors. They include the following:
Extremely high population growth and density. With a total population estimated at
about 7.5 million, increasing at a annual rate of 3.7 percent since the 1940s, Rwanda
is one of the most densely populated countries in Africa (290 people per square
kilometer). At this growth rate, 1992 projections indicated a population of 25 million
in the year 2030 or 1,373 persons per usable square kilometer. As a result, average
farm size continues to decrease while fallowing has virtually disappeared. Apart from
the increased utilization of land, unequal distribution of farmlands has pushed an ever
larger number of people onto ecologically sensitive areas, such as erosion-prone
highlands and the remaining natural forests.2 These trends were further exacerbated
by the development of governmental or parastatal projects that have appropriated
relatively large acreage for programs and that have produced few benefits for local
farmers or the state. In early 1994, about 70-75 percent of the rural population was
considered landless or nearly landless;
*  A decline in agricultural production and food availability. Since the mid-1980s,
agriculture alone was unable to support the rural population; some parts of the
country were either forced into a state of chronic food deficits or became highly
susceptible to minor climatic perturbations. Agricultural intensification programs
introduced few new profitable techniques, improved varieties or agricultural inputs,
while soil degradation lowered the productivity of many farms. Government and
project efforts to control soil erosion through terracing and agroforestry were ill
adapted and insufficient to increase production enough to match the high population
growth. Moreover, prices paid to farmers for agricultural products stagnated at low
levels due to the unfavorable terms of trade (particularly for coffee on the
international market since 1988) and limited national market outlets; and
*  Limited off-farm opportunities in rural areas outside the low-paying agricultural
labor market. Very few non-agricultural programs to create rural employment
opportunities were developed by the Government or the donor community, despite
common acknowledgment that the future of Rwanda's rural areas could not depend
solely upon agriculture. In addition, restriction of migration to cities, coupled with
lack of economic opportunities, did not offer alternatives for young rural people. With
few non-farm options, people had no other alternative than converting nearby pasture,
valleys and natural forests into extensive cropping (or long distance migration to the
East to settle on former pasture lands).
2 cf. Evaluation of the Zaire-Nile Forest Conservation Strategy, Kigali, November 1992.



Part 1: Project Review from the Bank's Perspective                         3
2.3   Project Objectives and Components. The Second Integrated Forestry Project
followed a First Integrated Forestry and Livestock Project (GBK Project; Credit 1039-
RW), which was implemented from 1980 to 1987. Both projects were financed by IDA.
The first project's loan of US$21.0 million was fully disbursed at its closing date on June
30, 1987. The Second Integrated Forestry Project, as appraised in 1987, was within the
1985 policy and priorities and responded to the views of most of the donor communities.
2.4   The first project --known in Rwanda as the GBK project-- had two distinct
objectives: (i) to strengthen institutional capacity for policy formulation and to initiate an
industrial plantation program for urban energy needs; and (ii) to support integrated
forestry and livestock development in and around Gishwati to destock the natural forest
reserve. Although effective in achieving physical targets for plantation and pasture
establishment, the project suffered many shortcomings. Plantation site and species
selection was inadequate, thus limiting the economic potential of the industrial plantation.
In addition, work to encourage agroforestry was limited. In the Gishwati area, pasture
establishment costs after natural forest clearing were higher than anticipated and the
management of the dairy facility was hampered by higher operating costs due to poor
choice of equipment and diseconomies of scale. Moreover, the destocking of cattle from
the Gishwati natural forest has been met with only limited success due to the takeover of
many pastures by members of the President's family and high government officials and
project staff.  Furthermore, project management was deficient, which resulted in
misprocurement and misuse of funds. In addition, the focus on intensive forest clearing
and pasture development in Gishwati prevented the development of surrounding
communes and forest Batwa (Impunyu) were cut from their traditional way of life. As
there was no resettlement program under the project, they migrated to other regions,
Kigali in particular.
2.5   The Second Integrated Forestry Project was prepared by the FAO/CP in 1985 and
appraised by the Bank in 1987. It was aimed at correcting problems arising from the first
project; providing a major impetus to the implementation of Government policies for the
protection and conservation of the remaining natural forests in Nyungwe and Gishwati
and the promotion of agroforestry to increase fuelwood supply. The project was also
expected to complete and maintain the investments in industrial plantations and pastures
made under the first project on the assumption that project implementation
responsibilities would be gradually transferred, where suitable, to the private sector and
communes. As appraised, the project was to:
*  Develop an ecological inventory to complete the information base needed to
sustainably manage and monitor the Nyungwe and Gishwati natural forests, create
about 1,100 ha of buffer plantation at their periphery and establish a Forest
Conservation Center to coordinate all forestry activities on the Zaire-Nile Ridge;
*  Manage about 3,600 ha of productive fuelwood plantation established under the first
project and expand on-farm and agroforestry activities through the rehabilitation of 60
sector nurseries and the promotion of collective and private nurseries;



4                                     Part 1: Project Reviewfrom the Bank's Perspective
* Support integrated forestry, agriculture, and livestock development in Gishwati by
maintaining industrial plantations (2,100 ha) and pastures (1,600 ha) established
under the first project and developing an additional 2,000 ha of new industrial
plantations based upon the recommendations of a land-use study to support an
integrated approach to land management in the degraded areas of the Gishwati forest;
* Intensify agricultural extension services in five communes located on the northwest
border of the forest; and
* Support the rehabilitation of 1,500 ha of pastures established under the Second
Mutara Rural Development Project (Credit 937-RW), which was closed December
31, 1986.
2.6   The project also included a capacity building program aimed at strengthening the
Forest Department's (DGF) managerial, technical and monitoring capacities, as well as
an applied research component to respond to problems directly linked with the
implementation of the above components.
2.7   The project was financed by IDA Credit 181 1-RW with an amount of SDR 11.0
million (US$14.1 million). Under the Development Credit Agreement, the GOR was to
provide about US$6.0 million, or 30 percent of project costs, including taxes. The credit
was extended by a year to June 30, 1994 to: (i) complete the ecological inventory in the
Nyungwe forest; (ii) launch pioneering actions to test new participatory plantation and
forest management and buffer zone development options; (iii) formulate a new forest
policy framework; and (iv) prepare a follow-up Natural Resources Management and
Environment Project, integrating the recommendations and proposals of the National
Environmental Strategy for Rwanda ("Strategie Nationale pour l'Environnement au
Rwanda" or SNER/NEAP) as well as lessons learned from the project.
B.   Majors Factors Affecting the Project
3.1   The project was plagued with major implementation problems, due to a number of
factors, among them: (i) specific disagreements between the Bank and the Government
regarding the Gishwati component; (ii) the decreased availability of counterpart funding,
which was exacerbated by higher military spending; and (iii) the upheaval and destruction
that followed the outbreak of civil war.
3.2   Effectiveness and Suspension of the Livestock Component.  The Credit
became effective fourteen months after Board approval because of strong disagreement
between the Bank and the Borrower regarding the scope and the content of the Gishwati
component. From the Bank's perspective, a major bone of contention arose from the
allocation of pastures and related issues of milk-pricing and cost recovery under the first



Part 1: Project Review from the Bank 's Perspective                        5
project. As mentioned in paragraph 2.4, most of the pastures developed under the first
project were allocated to small groups of beneficiaries belonging to the President's
family, high government officials and project staff, in spite of the project objective to
destock the local Ankole cattle from the Gishwati forest in exchange for higher yielding
Brown Swiss dairy cows. In addition, as a result of land use conflicts between the local
population, new immigrants and the project, the Bank decided that no further pasture
development would be financed until the completion of both a land use and livestock
sector study. This study would answer fundamental questions about future patterns of
development and integration of small livestock owners. In spite of these disagreements,
the Government decided to go ahead with further pasture extension using its own funds.
As a result, the financing of the pasture management component and dairy activities was
discontinued in February, 1990, when it became evident that the Government did not
intend to undertake the proposed land use study. In spite of the recommendations of the
Bank supervision missions,3 12,000 ha were fully developed from degraded natural forest
stands and stocked with about 12,500 cattle units in early 1994.
3.3   1990/93 Civil War Impacts. The repeated conflicts of the civil war of the 1990s,
and the difficult public finance situation had three major consequences for the project.
First, the consequences of the civil war were a worsening of an already difficult public
finance situation. As a consequence, the performance of externally-financed projects
deteriorated and disbursements dropped dramatically, particularly because of inadequate
budgetary allocations for counterpart funds. Moreover, the civil servants' commitment
was weakened by lower salaries and expenses. Second, with the creation of new political
parties opposed to the ruling party, the Government's power was reduced. For many
farmers, this situation meant that they no longer owed allegiance to Government-
designated officials. As a result, in 1992, farmers began to refuse enforced communal
labor and, consequently, UMUGANDA was officially abandoned by the Government in
late 1992. Resentment was such that some farmers even destroyed anti-erosion ditches
that they had dug under communal labor and burned government-owned plantation and
woodlots planted on communal (and private) lands. And third, about 900,000 people were
displaced by the successive hatreds and forced to live in refugee camps located in the
periphery of Kigali. As a result, a large part of the GBK fuelwood plantation was further
encroached or illegally exploited by charcoal makers to supply the refugee camps with
wood fuel.
4.4   Impact of the 1994 war.  During 1994, a large majority of the project
investments made under the first and the second projects was destroyed.  Offices,
buildings, documents and equipment were looted. All of the pre-war 12,500 pure-bred,
cross-bred and Ankole cattle existing in Gishwati were slaughtered or taken out of the
country. Deforestation and shifting cultivation are spreading rapidly in the Nyungwe and
Gishwati natural forests, and the gradual clearing of immature buffer and industrial
plantations for agriculture is increasing. Many bridges and segments of access roads and
3  See: Post appraisal mission's BTO of October 31, 1986.



6                                            Part L: Project Reviewfrom the Bank's Perspective
tracks built under the project, particularly along the periphery of the Nyungwe forest,
have been destroyed. However, ninety-five percent of the ecological information base
established to prepare the Nyungwe forest conservation and management plans have been
safeguarded on CD ROM and floppy disks.
4.5    Financial Management, Accounting and Disbursements. Throughout project
implementation, the quality and rigor of the financial management were largely
inadequate as highlighted by the successive supervision missions. Major delays occurred
in either disbursements, procurement or replenishment of the three Special Accounts.
Furthermore, the project was seriously undermined by govermnent delays in providing
local funding needed to cover its share of operating costs, counterpart investment capital
and expropriation fees. As a consequence, project units suffered from increasingly acute
financial problems, and relations with the Bank deteriorated. The Gishwati component's
financial situation became such that suppliers not only stopped delivery of supplies but
undertook legal action against the project unit causing a virtual standstill of operations
after the resurgence of the civil war in 1993. At the Credit's closing date, an amount of
SDR 5,998,383 was canceled effective October 31, 1994. As a comparison, it is
worthwhile to note that the first project loan of US$21 million had been fully disbursed at
the project closing date.  Table 5 of Part III shows the detailed breakdown of
disbursements by financing category and component, which is summarized as follows:
Category                         Credit      Disbursed at    % Disbursed
Allocation   Closing Date   at Closing Date
PASP Il/ Nyungwe                2,950,000     2,142,843         72.5
PASP II/DGF                     1,277,000       516,352         40.4
GBK/Gishwati                    3,398,000     1,416,796         39.6
Suspended Gishwati              1,604,000
PPF                             1,166,000       635,369         54.0
Unallocated                      605,000      290,2574                   |
Total                          11,000,000     5,001,617         45.5
4   The amount of SDR 290,257 is the difference between the SDR value of the initial deposits and the
SDR value of the accounts at closing, adjusted for any recoveries of the initial deposits.



Part l: Project Reviewfrom the Bank's Perspective                             7
C.    Achievement of Objectives
4.1   Ecological Inventory in the Nyungwe and Gishwati Forest. The Nyungwe and
Gishwati forests were among the richest remaining high altitude pristine natural forests of
the eastern rift and major centers for endemism, both at the regional and continental
levels. Before the Bank's intervention, a number of research activities on forests were
carried out over the years in the Nyungwe forest, but no real consensus on viable
management and conservation options was ever reached. In particular, the knowledge of
the forest ecosystems was insufficient to justify overall conservation as an alternative to
unprofitable and unsustainable forest exploitation. The ecological inventory, carried out
under the project, was able to provide information not only on the forest ecosystems'
diversity, floral/fauna composition, structure and functions, but also on the spatial
complementarity of the biota among habitats within sites. As a result, the project
component has: (i) built up a national capacity that will be able to carry out biodiversity
inventory in other high-altitude forests in Rwanda, in neighboring countries and
elsewhere in Africa; (ii) established a long-term database for iteratively accumulating
knowledge on African high-altitude pristine forest and social systems, allowing for the
development of predictive monitoring and trends analysis, and the evaluation of
management scenarios; and finally (iii) established a software tool (the Ecobase) that will
considerably increase the efficiency of research by making available a large amount of
data on the various species that form the biological communities of the forest ecosystems
of the Zaire-Nile ridge.
4.2   Extension of the ecological inventory to the Gishwati forest reserve never
materialized because of security reasons after the resurgence of the civil war in 1993.
4.3    The Buffer and New Industrial Plantation Program.   The project achieved
240 percent of the target for buffer plantation in Nyungwe, and 66 percent in Gishwati as
shown in Part III, Tables 6A to 6C. Since the beginning of the project, however, damage
to young trees was widespread due to inattentive intercropping patterns, land tenure
and/or expropriation conflicts and/or because farmers had no long-term rights to the land
or trees (as they do in true "taungya systems")5. As a result, all buffer plantations were
suspended in January 1993.  From  observations made during the December 1994
mission, the gradual clearing of immature buffer plantations located at the periphery of
the Nyungwe and Gishwati forests for agriculture, already experienced since 1990, had
dramatically increased as a result of the 1994 civil war. It is now estimated that about 60
percent of the buffer plantation in Nyungwe and 90 percent in Gishwati must be counted
as a loss and subtracted from project benefits. In the first Gishwati project, industrial
plantation, indiscriminate pruning and heavy thinning to open the plantation to livestock
grazing, drastically reduced its wood production potential. In the absence of benefit
5  Lease of forest land to farmers for a maximum of three years.



8                                      Part 1: Project Review from the Bank's Perspective
sharing arrangements and market outlets, most of the wood remained in the plantation,
thereby increasing fire hazards.
4.4   These gloomy results are due to a number of factors which hampered
implementation of buffer and industrial plantation. They include: (i) lack of local
counterpart funds to pay expropriation fees; (ii) the unwillingness or the very limited
ability of the project unit staff to solve the numerous conflicts with the local population;
(iii) the failure to design and implement a comprehensive participatory strategy as
outlined in the SAR; and (iv) the conflicts posed by the eviction of the resident
population after the plantation of trees and the termination of taungya agreements.
Despite the numerous recommendations of supervision missions, no tangible progress
toward resolving these problems took place during project implementation.  This
situation led to persistent disagreements with the Bank, as well as, more recently, the
systematic destruction of the buffer plantations and a dramatic increase in forest
conversion for agriculture.
4.5   The Nyungwe Forest Conservation Center. The construction of the Nyungwe
Conservation Center at Kitabi started in 1992, and was finished in 1993. It now includes,
in addition to the Conservation Center and the project office, 23 houses, one barrack for
forest guards, and one health center. Because of the 1994 civil war, work on electricity,
telephone and water was interrupted, as were site development works, landscaping,
access roads and fencing. No decision was ever taken with regard to the management of
the Conservation Center, or on how to finance operating and recurrent costs of such a
compound, despite the recommendations of Bank supervision missions and discussion
with other donors involved in forest conservation activities. During the 1994 civil war,
the Conservation Center was occupied and protected by the UNAMIR.
4.6   Agroforestry and Rural Afforestation. On average, about 2 million seedlings,
mostly eucalyptus, grevillea and pines, were produced per year in the sixty
sector/Government nurseries. Around mid-1993, the privatization of sector nurseries was
officialized as a result of a Ministerial decree. In early 1994, the production of
agroforestry seedlings started in 20 pilot private nurseries around Kigali and 12 around
Butare. The resurgence of the civil war, however, disrupted all plant production activities
after April 1994.
4.7   It was expected at appraisal that only 20 percent of the seedlings produced in
sector nurseries were to be sold.  The rest was expected to be distributed to the
UMUGANDA members in return for their labor. However, the achievements of the
component fell short of expectations. The distance of nurseries from farms prevented
smallholders from getting seedlings for their own use. As a result, most of them were
planted on communal land or sold to government employees, officials and/or large-scale
land owners at subsidized prices. Furthermore, the lack of technical packages able to
stimulate grassroots involvement in the proposed program was undoubtedly an important
additional constraint. In particular, an assessment of farmers' attitudes towards trees and
species as well as factors affecting the adoption of agroforestry innovations by small



Part L: Project Review from the Bank 's Perspective                       9
farmers would have been needed to shape the packages in such a way that they could be
adapted to the traditional cultural systems and local constraints. Moreover, it would have
helped the project to identify more suitable species. Studies carried out in the project area
by other projects showed that more than 100 species (75 percent native) are used in the
traditional agroforestry systems while the species extended by the project represented
only 15 percent.
4.8   Because of these shortcomings, small land owners and the rural poor did not
perceive the need for getting trees from sector nurseries. Nor did the mutual mistrust that
characterized relations between the forest technicians and the rural population foster
increased grassroots involvement in private nursery development. In hindsight, however,
in a country like Rwanda with so many land tenure problems, a more pragmatic approach
to influencing farmers to accept agroforestry in their farming systems would have been to
build on their traditions and, where necessary, attempt to adjust them gradually, without
introducing drastic changes or new species.
4.9   Management and Maintenance of the Kigali-Butare Fuelwood Plantation.
Management and maintenance of fuelwood plantations included tending operations,
firebreaks cleaning and maintenance of access tracks. They were executed in conformity
with project objectives until 1991 (3,400 ha). After 1990, however, political disturbances
associated with counterpart funding problems led to an increasing incidence of forest
fires, encroachments, and illegal felling for charcoal-making, which negatively affected
the production potential of the GBK plantation. Another consequence of the political
situation was the interruption of the plantation inventory and the completion of
management plans.
4.10  In 1991, political, socioeconomic and budgetary factors affecting the management
of the GBK fuelwood plantation prompted supervision missions to recommend the
development of a new management strategy involving local groups in silvicultural
activities under management contracts. To implement this strategy, the DGF decided to
subcontract the preparation of participatory management plans to local consulting firms.
However, the importance of illegal felling prompted the DGF to launch a salvage
operation to control the supply of woodfuel from the GBK plantation to some 600,000
refugees established around Kigali. This initiative was taken in full accordance with the
guidelines provided by the supervision missions. The Swiss Cooperation financed the
transport of fuelwood and charcoal produced under "controlled" exploitation.
4.11  Implementation issues experienced under this component cannot be explained by
budgetary issues and political disturbances only. In the past two decades, Rwanda's
forest policy has focused on protecting a forest resource on land seized from the rural
population and on a hypothetical development of new wood resources through industrial
plantation. In the process, any grassroots initiative was stifled. The very fast spread of
fires, encroachments and illegal felling for charcoal-making showed that the forest
governance framework was no longer adequate. Most of the mature plantations in
Rwanda, in competition with private and communal plantations and agroforestry also



10                                         Part : Project Reviewfrom the Bank's Perspective
experienced wood marketing problems and land tenure conflicts with farmers and
pastoralists.6 As a result, wood fuel prices remained far below actual costs of plantation7.
Addressing these forest management and pricing issues had required governance reforms
to promote decentralized decision-making, revenue-sharing arrangements and incentives
to foster local participation and private sector involvement.
4.12   Monitoring of Rural Forestry Activities.  The creation of a Rural Forestry
Monitoring Unit was requested by the Bank in order to: (i) define qualitative monitoring
and evaluation criteria to assess the impact of rural forestry activities; and (ii) formulate a
national rural forestry strategy. Although the DGF drew up some preliminary proposals
from the consultant's recommendations, the unit, set up in 1993, was never really
operational in spite of numerous supervision recommendations.
4.13   Applied Research Program.  The applied research program  proposed at
appraisal was expected to play a decisive role in the choice of management strategy and
technologies in improving the knowledge of technical, financial and socioeconomic
constraints affecting the management of GBK fuelwood industrial plantation. The
contract with the National Research Institute of Rwanda was never materialized because
of conflicting priorities, internal constraints and lack of staff and capacity. The program
fell short of expectations, thereby curtailing prospective yield improvements through
better selection of plant material, silvicultural treatments and management intensification.
4.14   DGF Strengthening. The main activities included the establishment of a seed
center in Kigali and the training of five high level personnel in forest engineering (1),
agroforestry (2), rural development (1) and remote sensing (1). Other activities included
participation in seminars abroad and short-term training in forest management,
legislation, agroforestry, nursery techniques, charcoal-making (in association with the
UNDP/Bank Energy Program) and silviculture for DGF's staff, MINAGRI's agricultural
monitors and communal authorities. To help manage and define project priorities during
implementation, two basic studies were carried out by international consultants: a wood
marketing study to enhance the value of existing plantations and a study to identify
implementation modalities of the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit as well as DGF's
training needs. Both studies were inconclusive and were not adequately followed up.
4.15   Livestock Development. On February 28, 1989, a partial cancellation of this
component was proposed to the Government in view of its reluctance to meet the
condition for disbursement. The conditions required an appropriate milk pricing policy
that would ensure efficient production and marketing of milk. Another disagreement was
6   The supervision missions noted that forest fires might have also been initiated as a reaction against
"umuganda" used to establish woodlot and plantation under the GBK project.
7   The low market price for woodfuels reflected the combination of generally low purchasing power of
consumers relying on fuelwood for cooking, limited markets for commercial fuelwood and charcoal,
and supply from free sources or sources where the total cost of the wood was not fully perceived by
the supplier.



Part I: Project Reviewfrom the Bank's Perspective                          II
related to the allocation of pastures and the terms of reference for the land use study.
Since the Government never officially responded to this proposal, SDR 1.6 million was
unilaterally suspended from the Credit allocation. As a result, the Government, without
support from the Association, decided to go ahead with deforestation, further pasture
extension and equipment of the dairy. From 1990 onwards, all supervision missions
related to livestock activities were discontinued. By early 1994, 12,000 ha were cleared
and 9,900 ha fully developed and stocked with 12,600 heads of cattle as detailed in Part
III table 6E and F.
4.16  Pasture management was affected by many constraints throughout the course of
the project. The livestock federation never materialized and cattle owners did not
contribute to management costs through adequate pasture contracts. As a result, the
Government continued to subsidize land development and recurrent costs. Since no
adequate land use solution was provided by the project, local cattle continued to graze
and further degrade the remaining natural forest. Attribution of pastoral units remained
unregistered. There was no concern about the fate of the forest Batwa.
4.17  Other project setbacks were related to dairy and slaughtering activities. With the
purchase of additional equipment by the Government, the dairy processing capacity was
upgraded to 8,000 liters per day. However, inadequate and aging processing equipment
purchased under the first project, poor milking and processing sanitation, and an
inadequate transport system as well as high producer prices, low consumer prices and
output in excess of market demand led to considerable wastage of milk throughout the
project. The major constraints to cattle fattening and meat marketing included irregular
supply of agricultural by-products (cattle cake, molasses), low selling prices of carcasses,
transport difficulties and lack of market outlets in spite of meat export expectation and
reduction of illegal imports from Uganda. In practice, government staff and military
camps were the only regular customers.
4.18  In view of these poor achievements, another disturbing result of the component is
related to the high claims on the budget to develop and maintain the pastures unplanned
at appraisal. Between 1987 and 1991, an average of about Frw 200 million per year, or
12 percent of MINAGRI's total development budget, were allocated to the Gishwati
component.
4.19 Agriculture Extension (APEF). The APEF extension program focused on three
main activities in the three communes of Rwerere, Kanama and Mutura on the northwest
border of the Gishwati forest: (i) extension of proven themes such as stall feeding of
cattle goats and sheep, use of farm yard manure and composting, erosion control through
on-farm terracing, improved techniques for potato cultivation, fodder edges, agroforestry
and woodlot planting;  (ii) support to animal health and nutrition by developing
additional waterpoints, cattle crushes and bull sheds; and (iii) development of new
themes focused on on-farn testing and introduction of multipurpose agroforestry species
with some assistance from ISAR. Management responsibility of this program was
transferred to the Agricultural Services Project (Credit 2026-RW) in 1992, two years



12                                     Part 1: Project Review from the Bank's Perspective
behind schedule. The program fell short of expectations in the absence of monitoring and
evaluation activities that not only prevented the evaluation of the impact of the program
but also deprived the project unit of a management tool which might have enabled a more
integrated approach focused on farmers' needs and constraints.
4.20 Mutara Pasture Rehabilitation. Past Bank experience in establishing ranches in
the Mutara region has been hampered by the lack of organization of beneficiaries, and
agreement with the livestock owners on user fees to cover recurrent costs. As a result,
this component was first designed to compare the cost of manual versus mechanical range
rehabilitation and maintenance over 1,500 ha; and second, to help develop range
management associations and mobilize livestock owners to manage their own resources.
To achieve these objectives, the project purchased two four-wheel drive tractors and one
crawler. Due to the 1990 invasion of the region by the Rwandese Patriotic Front, these
vehicles remained in Kigali and all activities were halted.
D.    Project Sustainability
(i)    Forestry
5.1   Economic Assessment. No economic analysis was calculated for comparison
with the appraisal assessments due to the lack of reliable plantation productivity data and
an adequate cost accounting system. From the above, it is obvious, however, that the
actual economic rate of return is far below appraisal projections because of: (i) higher
than estimated development costs; (ii) much lower plantation productivity; (iii) lower
wood prices; and (iv) widespread illegal felling, forest fires and conversion to agriculture.
In theory, it might have been possible to improve plantation value (for instance by
increasing the production of poles and timber). This would, however, have required very
expensive silvicultural tending to improve standing material.  At the same time,
competition from on-farm and communal forestry activities, low timber import prices
from Zaire and low purchasing power of urban end-users were important limiting factors.
5.2   Buffer Plantations and Protection of Natural Forests.  Despite buffer
plantations, external pressures from the periphery continued to constitute the primary
threat to the remaining natural forest. At the border of the Nyungwe forest, population
densities have continued to rise due particularly to a high imigration rate.  The
socioeconomic study carried out in 1992 as part of the biodiversity assessment
highlighted the contradiction that prevailed between alleged participatory strategies using
the taungya method and actual repression-oriented field activities. As a result, buffer
plantations remained an area of conflict between protection needs and local interests. In
spite of the fact that project activities generated significant employment for thousands of
local people, land expropriation related to the establishment of the buffer plantation have
caused great resentment, reflected in the widespread damage and/or eradication of trees
planted under taungya agreements. In the Gishwati area, where the Government
completed the conversion of nearly two-thirds of natural forest into pastures between



Part 1: Project Reviewfrom the Bank's Perspective                                     13
1987 and 1990,8 buffer and industrial plantation sites were systematically encroached and
seedlings eradicated by the local population for the production of potato seeds.9 By
project's end, a population of about 10,000, mainly composed of local farmers, was
employed by the project for forest clearing and expansion of pastures, and new
immigrants were living in a narrow buffer zone between the forest and the pastures
without clear land tenure rights. Supervision missions' proposals to provide the local
population with clearly defined land-use rights associated with the development of a
comprehensive soil conservation and agroforestry program were never seriously
considered by the project unit.
5.3    However, the successful implementation of the Nyungwe ecological inventory
contrasted with these gloomy results. The creation of a long-term ethno-ecological base
would permit the future development of forest management and conservation activities
and predictive monitoring and trend analyses if the present deforestation trends could be
controlled.
5.4    Wood Supply from  Fuelwood Plantation and Agroforestry.  As a result of
implementation constraints, including a very difficult political situation, institutional
weaknesses, policy failures and design flaws, the components' objectives were not
achieved. Unused and not integrated into local economies, a large proportion of the GBK
fuelwood plantation, virtually transformed into an open-access resource following the
1990/93 civil wars, was illegally harvested for charcoal, cleared for agriculture or
burned'0. Moreover, the agroforestry component fell substantially short of goals with the
collapse and subsequent discontinuation of the UMUGANDA in 1991. Most of the forest
seedlings produced in subsidized sector nurseries were absorbed by wealthy farmers and
local officials.
(ii)    Livestock Development in Gishwati.
5.5    Pasture development.  While the technical choices were good in theory as
regards cattle breeds (with the exception of the Frisian), composition of pastures and the
management strategy focused on dairy production, and beef as a by-product, the semi-
intensive grazing production system on artificial pastures was economically
unsustainable. In a country like Rwanda, under extreme land constraints, such a space-
consuming range system should have been discarded in favor of dairy projects located at
the periphery of the main urban centers and based on intensive smallholder stable systems
without land development costs. It was, however, the only possible choice, since semi-
8    Leaving not more than 4,500 ha of military reserve in the north (Bigogwe), and an equal area of
proposed nature reserve in the south (Kayove).
9   A large potato seed farm was established in the project area by ISAR in 1987, thereby attracting a
large amount of migrant workers who remained in the project area after privatization in 1992.
10  A large amount of plantation programs supported by other donors experienced the same level of
destruction. In 1993, the GBK fuelwood plantation around Kigali supported the bulk of the fuelwood
and charcoal supplied to the refugees fleeing the northern battlefields.



14                                           Part 1: Project Review from the Bank 's Perspective
intensive production was the only strategy left once the decision was taken by the
Government and the Bank to clear the Gishwati forest and establish improved pastures.
5.6    Commercial Dairy. Furthermore, the choice of commercial dairy, with modem
technologies, implying a central processing plant with modem equipment, efficient
collection system, adequate road network and transport facilities, efficient veterinary and
health services, hygiene, energy and, lastly, imported inputs for the packaging of the final
product, is also questionable.  In Rwanda, the dairy market is extremely limited,
particularly for sour milk (80 percent of the project sales), a short conservation product
requesting a low processing technology that cannot be sold far away from the processing
plant. As a result, most, if not all, dairy and cheese processing facilities existing in
Rwanda are facing financial difficulties, particularly because of the lack of market
outlets. Again, in a country like Rwanda, where costly and lengthy transport should be
avoided, the development of smallholder stable system with the dual purpose of
producing milk for consumption and marketing, and manure for crop fertilization should
have been preferred.
E.    Performance of the Association and the Borrower
6.1    Project Preparation  Cycle.  Project Preparation/Appraisal started with an
FAO/CP mission and was completed in February 1986. A series of two appraisal
missions with Bank staff and consultants finalized the appraisal document in May 1987 in
line with 1985 forest policy. In retrospect, project design did not, however, pay sufficient
attention to structural and institutional issues. While project justification and design were
well elaborated, it is evident that forest, livestock and dairy productivity assumptions and
price projections were over-optimistic. For the plantation components, the scarcity of
basic data when the project was being prepared may explain the under-estimation of
species selection and soil constraints on plantation yields. Not enough attention was paid
during appraisal to (i) effective property and land use rights in the Gishwati area; and (ii)
the problems affecting the marketing of plantation products, meat and milk. As regards
project management, the capacities of the three project units to act on structural and
sector issues and to adjust to the changing political, socioeconomic and budgetary
situations were substantially over-estimated. These facts largely explain the setbacks
recorded in each component. It should be noted, however, that (i) difficult negotiations
took place during the preparation phase when the Bank team started to raise the right type
of issues; and (ii) the appraisal report recognized the possibility of these setbacks, given
the main sector issues identified at appraisal,"  despite the encouraging results recorded
l The main issues included: (i) the lack of means to implement the 1985 forest sector policy as well as
the delineation of responsibilities for the management of the sector; (ii) the limited capacity of DGF
to monitor, evaluate and coordinate sector activities; (iii) the critical shortage of agricultural land; (iv)
a very weak information base on the supply, demand pricing and commercialization of wood
products, in particular regarding a possible over-supply of pine used as sawnwood in the medium
term.



Part L: Project Reviewfrom the Bank's Perspective                               15
by the first project. The Bank's error was to believe that the Government was open to
progressive reform.
6.2    Supervision.  The Bank generally did not respond adequately to GOR's
development and budgetary constraints that affected project implementation. This is
undoubtedly due to the lack of comprehensive sector work at appraisal addressing
structural constraints, policy distortions underlying forest resource degradation and
institutional weaknesses. Most of the problems faced by the project could have been
overcome if an overall framework for sector development had been put in place before
appraisal, clearly recognizing non-sector consideration in forest and pasture development
(e.g. macroeconomic crisis, impacts of population growth and national migration policy,
decrease of agricultural productivity, and other sector policies, especially the land tenure
security needed to resolve forestry development issues).  In spite of the major
implementation issues having affected project development, the project was allowed to
continue because of the importance of natural resource conservation in sustainable
development of the country. In 1992, in an attempt to redress the situation, the Bank
proposed a new pilot program to better integrate forest management and agroforestry into
local economies. This program was, however, disrupted by the 1993/94 political events.
A total of 11 supervision missions took place during the seven years of the project. On
the Bank's side, two of the five task managers were forestry or livestock specialists.
6.3    Technical Assistance and Training. Considering the wide support allocated to
the forestry sector by other bilateral donors, Switzerland in particular, project
management was generally reluctant to recruit consultants from the credit allocation.
Nonetheless, the performance of the expatriate technical assistant involved in the
development of the ecological inventory12 was good due to both his technical capacity
and his commitment to training and operational management. The quality of other TA
varied considerably. Short-term consultancies utilized in the ecological inventory were in
general fully satisfactory. The performance of technical assistants hired to implement and
supervise financial accounting was, however, defective because of inadequate
qualifications (Nyungwe) or unwillingness to live in remote areas (Gishwati).
6.4    Executing Agencies.  Implementation responsibility was spread among three
project units with compartmentalized mandates and competing interests. This situation
led to inefficiency and waste of public resources. The fact that most project objectives
were not achieved is due to the entrenched position of the Rwandese staff assigned to the
project and the reluctance to adopt alternative participatory solutions. In retrospect,
institutional strengthening was limited to vehicles, constructions and to providing some
training and technical assistance. The strengthening of the MINAGRI was further limited
by the low integration of the project components in its technical services.
12 He deserves a special mention for his initiative, his adaptability and his dedicated interest in forest
ecology and participatory forest management problems.



16                                      Part 1: Project Reviewfrom the Bank 's Perspective
6.5    Donor Coordination. Coordination with other donor-funded projects was also
limited. This situation led to duplication in the donor effort supporting the sector and
compromised the potential development impact of external assistance. Although attempts
were made to better coordinate investment activities in the Nyungwe forest, there was no
overall consensus to guide investments and ensure maximum impact on protection.
Communications between the Bank, the Government and/or other multi- and bilateral
agencies was also disappointing on policy dialogue, institutional reforms and capacity
building, and country-based coordination. In early 1993, two correlated policy initiatives
were independently initiated at the same time under DGF responsibility: the formulation
of a new sector policy framework supported by the Swiss Technical Assistance and the
Tropical Forest Action Program under FAO financing. These initiatives narrowly
focused on: (i) the value of natural forest, plantation and agroforestry as mere wood
reserves; (ii) cross-sector policy and market failures; land tenure issues and land use
conflicts; public participation in forest resource planning and management; and issues
pertaining to private sector resources and skills;  (iii) innovative institutional
arrangements and financing mechanisms able to enhance private and community-based
participation in forest management; and (iv) capacity building and institutional reforms
given the precarious nature of the DGF, both in terms of its weak financial position and
poor skills base. Unfortunately, little attention was paid to the comparative advantage of
DGF, the private sector and local communities, given the unstable conditions of public
expenditures to cover recurrent costs.
F.    Assessment of Outcome
7.1   For the past two decades, Rwanda's forest policy has focused on protecting its
natural forest heritage on a hypothetical development of additional wood resources
through fuelwood, buffer and industrial plantation. In the process, structural constraints
and policy distortions that created negative consequences for forest resources were
largely neglected. All grassroots involvement in forest and plantation management was
disregarded. Moreover, the need to obtain land for plantation led to continuous conflicts
with farmers, exacerbated by the Government's inability to pay for expropriations. Under
these circumstances, the rural population was excluded from the decision-making
concerning plantation management and from the benefits forests could yield. This could
not help but contribute to forest destruction. The institutional weaknesses, both financial
and technical, and the repressive attitudes of forest officers exacerbated these trends.
7.2   The project's failure demonstrates five things. First, in a densely populated
country such as Rwanda, excluding rural population and private sector involvement in
sector activities in favor of Government control ultimately undermined project
sustainability and, moreover, created a dependence on an overstretched bureaucracy
lacking the financial and staff resources required to maintain large plantation estates.
State control also worked negatively by limiting the prospects of cost effective
management behaviors and private entrepreneurs' involvement. As a result, plantations
established under the first and the second projects became a continuous drain on public
finance. Second, the 1985 forest policy flaws should have been assessed at the project



Part L: Project Reviewfrom the Bank's Perspective                                   1 7
design stage and significant reforms made more conducive to participation. Such reforms
should have been introduced as conditionalities: decentralization of forest resource
management; integration of resource utilization into the local economies; decentralization
of management responsibility; trade reforms, pricing and tax incentives; etc. Third,
ensuring the success of sustainable forest management, conservation and agroforestry
related-strategies would have called for structural, institutional and organizational
changes that ultimately would have led to repercussions on the role, responsibilities and
functions of the DGF. In particular, the DGF's technical capacity should have been
further strengthened and staff attitudes enhanced to support local forestry initiatives.
Other points of concern might have included: realignment of mandate; institutional
incentives; decentralization of the decision-making process; better capacity to deal with
sector issues as well as better sector background information, particularly of mechanisms
that govern participation and marketing of forest products. And fourth, disbursements
should have targeted recurrent expenses related to forest management and conservation
activities.
G.    Lessons Learned and Recommendations for Future Operations'3
8.1    Sustainable management of forest resources in Rwanda (including fuelwood,
buffer zone and industrial plantation resources) will depend in large measure on the
willingness of Rwanda's forest service to formulate a new integrated forest policy,
correct structural constraints and policy distortions and obtain the administrative means
and legislative tools to implement it. The project's set-backs contributed to a progressive
understanding of the policy and institutional issues involved in forest resource
conservation and management. The development of the new forest policy, under
consideration since 1992 was, however, discontinued by the recent civil war. A synthesis
of the above discussion suggests that the Bank and the Government should take note of
the following key points when designing forestry and natural resource management
operations in the future:
*  The need for a cross-sectoral approach which addresses constraints and policy
distortions underlying the natural resource degradation andforest depletion. Policy
reforms should be developed in response to sector issues raised by the major forest
users and institutions in advance of the design of detailed investment operations.
They should include economic policy reforms related to forest resource pricing and
fiscal policies, and forest management reforms related to the nature of state
intervention for resource allocation. Appropriate policy reforms should require a
strong focus on sector work to help identify intersectoral policy flaws, and integrate
13  This chapter discusses lessons learned and recommendations from a pre-1994 situation. It is based on
the hypothesis that the strong synergies and causality chains linking overpopulation, poverty,
decreasing agricultural productivity and food security, lack of employment opportunities, and
unadapted land tenure system were accelerating the process of environmental degradation and
contributed to the violence that followed the death of the President on April 6, 1994.



18                                        Part 1: Project Review from the Bank's Perspective
forestry objectives in a wider economic and environmental framework. The process of
formulating forest policy should be open to the participation of all stakeholders;
* Because Government's role in forestry development and environmental conservation
will remain essential, greater attention needs to be paid to capacity building,
particularly human resources development, and the long-termn horizon which this
implies. To date, both, the DGF and the private sector are ill-prepared to face the new
challenges of forestry development and conservation. Successful implementation of
any project will, therefore, require strong externally-financed institutional support to
DGF, local communities and the private sector that the Government is not in a
position to offer.'4 Development and conservation of forest resources will also
require drastic changes in the very structure of the DGF. As a result, there is an
urgent need for a detailed institutional study'5 covering all sector institutions
(including the DGF and other dependent agencies, training, research, etc.), in order to
define a new governance framework and a long-term human resource development
program to prepare the forestry staff to assume its new functions. With regard to the
human impact of the recent civil war, this study should pay particular attention to
existing capacities at the central and local level, cross-sectoral coordination, policy
planning, programming and financial management capacities;
* Full recognition needs also to be given to the opportunities for rural population and
private sector participation in forestry, conservation and forest industry activities.
This means fully taking into account stakeholders' views on project objectives and
how they would be achieved starting with the preparation stage. By enhancing
stakeholder participation, the aim would not only be to strengthen local ownership,
but also reduce the risk of failure;
o Full advantage should be taken of opportunities to make forestry (and conservation)
activities self-sustainable on a financial basis, in order to avoid potential difficulties
with counterpart funding. Because the country's financial situation will remain very
weak in the future, alternative sources of funding should be identified (such as GEF,
Debt for Nature Swap, endowments for nature conservation, etc.) so that forestry
development and conservation recurrent costs need not depend entirely on
Government counterpart funds; and
* Improved Government/donor coordination in policy dialogue, project design and
implementation is essential to maximizing potential development impacts. In
particular, project implementation would benefit from: (i) a joint evaluation of policy
distortion and agreement on policy reforms; (ii) donor agency participation in joint
14 Institutional strengthening activities required for project implementation should clearly be
differentiated from the long-term institutional development program.
1  In-depth analysis of institutions' ability to respond to sector policy objectives should be a
prerequisite for the design of all capacity building programs.



Part 1: Project Reviewfrom the Bank's Perspective                          19
field reviews, monitoring and evaluation works; and (iii) increased exchange on
thematic and technical matters.
8.2   Given the difficult political and economic situation prevailing in Rwanda at the
time this report was written, considering rural poverty, rapid depletion of natural
resources, natural forest resource management and agricultural sector development in an
integrated fashion will be absolutely critical to promote sustainable development (the
NEXUS approach). But in the Rwandan context of rapidly increasing population, limited
resources, ethnic problems and lack of economic development opportunities, achieving
both economic growth and reducing environmental degradation will require removing
desincentives to sustainable management and developing specific sector reforms and
projects to: secure land tenure, develop urban markets and access to them, enhance the
distribution of agricultural inputs and appropriate technologies, improve access to health
and education facilities (particularly for women) and family planning, develop off-farm
and urban employment opportunities, and increase remittance from urban employment.
Under such assumptions, integrated watershed management, agroforestry, and joint
sustainable forest management are still promising ways to promote sustainable use of
forest resources for the poor in Rwanda.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1811-RW)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
No comments have been received from the Borrower






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
(Credit 1811-RW)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of Objectives                     Substantial          Partial           Negligible       Not Applicable
Macro Policies                                                 l
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                               .                                        V
Institutional Development                                      lV
Physical Objectives
Poverty Reduction                                                       V
Gender Issues                                                                   _
Environmental Objectives                                                                                              .
Public Sector Management
Private Sector Development
B. Project Sustainability                          Likely            Unlikely           Uncertain
State-owned Fuelwood Plantation                                                             V
Industrial Plantation on the CZN Ridge                                  V          __
Buffer Plantation                                                       V
Agroforestry                                         V
Extensive Livestock Development in Gishwati                                                 V
Dairy/Meat Production in Gishwati                                                           V
C. Bank Performance                                Highly           Satisfactory        Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal
Supervision                                                             V
D. Borrower Performance                            Highly          Satisfactory         Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                                             V
Implementation                                                                             V
Covenant Compliance                                                                        V
Operation                                                                                  V
E. Assessment of Outcome                          Highly           Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory         Highly
Satisfactory                                            Unsatisfactory
Nyungwe Biological Assessment
Indigenous People - Resettlement                                                                               V
All other Components                                                                                           V



22                                                                       Part III. Statistical Information
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit       Credit Title                Amount  Purpose                            Year of   Status
Number                                    (US$                                     Approval
million)
Cr. 0439-RW   Mutara 1                     3.8      Area Development                 1973     Completed in 1979
Cr. 0656-RW   Cinchona                      1.8     Perennial Crops                  1976     Completed in 1983
Cr. 0668-RW   BGM 1                        14.0     Area Development                 1976     Completed in 1982
Cr. 1039-RW   GBK (Agro-Sylvo 1)           21.0     Forestry/Livestock               1980     Completed in 1987
Cr. 1283-RW   BGM II                       15.0     Area Development                 1982     Completed in 1991
Cr. 1546-RW   Agricultural Research        11.5     Research                         1985      Completed in 1991
Cr. 1669-RW   Gitarama                     12.7    Extension and related services    1986      Completed in 1991
Cr. 2026-RW   Agricultural Services        19.9    Extension and related services    1989      In progress
Cr. 2547-RW   Agricultural Research II     15.0     Research                         1993      Withdrawn in 1995



Part III: Statistical Information                                                                     23
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned         Revised Date         Date Actual
Identification (EPS)                                                            March 1985
Preparation                                                                     October 1985
Appraisal                                                                       March 1986
Post-Appraisal                                                                  October 1986
Negotiations                                                                     April 1987
Board Presentation                                      _   _                    May 1987
Signing                                                                         August 1987
Effectiveness                        December 1987          March 1988          October 1988
Credit Closing                          June 1993           June 1994            June 1994
Project Completion                   December 1994          June 1995           March 1995



24                                                                       Part 11.1 Statistical Information
Table 4: Credit Disbursements
A. Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$'OOO)
FY87      FY88      FY89       FY90      FY91       FY92      FY93       FY94
Appraisal Estimate          1,100     2,250     4,700      7,750     10,950    13,500    14,100    14,100
Actual16                              829.5    1,895.0   3,371.3   4,341.6   5,069.2   6,692.9   6,776.7
Actual as % of Estimate     n.a.       36.8      40.3      43.4       39.6      37.5       47.4      47.1
Date of Final Disbursement: July 1, 1994.
B. Estimated and Actual Quarterly Disbursements
900
800
700
__600
500
cl  400
- 300
200
|  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a  a ~~~~a   a   a  aY a  a  a
|~~~~~-   cos   co   a)   a>   0    0    _                   N    N    e    M    st   V 
1~~~C 0    0             0    0    a)   0    a)   0)   0    0    0    0    0)   0)   0          1
|   i            I Estirrrated Dsbursement*Actual Dsbursenent
16  Including unrecovered Special Accounts



Part III: Statistical Information                                                                      25
C. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
16000.00                                                                              l
14000.00
12000.00
10000.00
4ft~
    6000.00
4000.00
2000.00
0.00
X  ce _ n _ n _ n _co                             _  _v
a      aa      aaa   a  a CY               a CY    a  Ca  a
aS   aD 0      0 0     0   0   _- _         C'4 (N X
CO  0c  0c   0   0   0   0)  0   0             0   0         C)
0P   0 CD  CD 0 0 0   0)  C   0C 0D           00   0   0C           
|   r_ .Cuniul. Etrruted Disbursenuant .   Currul. Actual Disbursement



26                                                                          Part III: Statistical Information
Table 5: Disbursement Profiles per Component and Category
Item                                     Appraisal Estimates                               Actual Estimates
(SDR millions)                                  (SDR million)
Initial Credit    Amount          Credit      Actual               Actual       % disbursed
Allocation     Suspended       Availability    Disbursed       Undisbursed
1. Nyungwe Component
Civil works (IDA: 70/GOR:      995,000                         995,000         680,028         314,972           68.3
30)
Equipment and Materials, (F:   497,000                         497,000         385,033         111,967           77.5
100; L:90)
Consultants (IDA: 100)         926,000                         926,000         631,517         794,483           68.1
Training (F: 100; L:90)        186,000                         186,000         157,932         28,068            84.9
Operating Costs (IDA:          346,000                         346,000         288,333         57.667            83.2
60/GOR: 40)
Total Nyungwe                 2,950,000                       2,950,000       2,142,843        807,157           72.6
2. DGF Component
Civil works (IDA: 70/GOR:      48,000                          48,000          103.551         (55,551)         214.6
30)
Equipment and Materials.       313,000                         313,000         50,450          262,550          161.0
(F: 100; L:90)
Consultants (100)              144.000                         144,000         41,095          102,905          28.5
Training (F: 100; L:90)        689,000                         689,000         185,325         503,675          26.8
Operating Costs (IDA:          83.000                          83,000          135,931         (52,931)         163.8
60/GOR: 40)
Total DGF                     1,277,000                       1,277,000        516,352         760,648          40.4
3.Gishwati Component
Civil works (IDA: 70/GOR:     2,327,000        905.000        1.422,000        941.347         480,653          66.2
30)
Equipment and Materials,      1.130,000        205,000         925,000         327,629         597,371          35.4
(F: 100; L:90)
Consultants (IDA: 100)         260.000         160,000         100,000         73,006          26,994           73.0
Training (F: 100; L:90)        117.000                         117,000         28,503          88,497           24.3
Operating Costs (IDA:         1.168,000        334,000         834.000         46,311          787,689           5.6
60/GOR: 40)
Total Gishwati                5.002,000       1,604,000       3,398,000       1,416,796       1,981,204         39.6
4. PPA                        1,166,000                       1,166,000        635,369
6.1nallocated                  605,000                         605,000         290,257
1TOTAL                       11,000,000       1,604,000       9,396,000       5,001,617       5,998,383         45.5



Part lll: Statistical Information                                                27
Table 6: Summary of Project Achievements
A. Nyungwe Buffer Plantation Record
Species              1989     1990      1991      1992     1993      Total   Percent
Pines                          290      246       292       180      1,003
A. melanoxylon        18       22       277       353        70       740
Eucalyptus                     40        55        1         -        96
Other exotics                  60        66        23        -        149
Other locals                   46        26        96        5        173
Total                 18       458       670      765       255      2166      240
B. Gishwati Buffer Plantation Record
Species           |  1988      1989      1990      1991    1992/93    Total   Percent
Pines                 10       80       200        6         --
A. melanoxylon        78       325       400      345
Total                 98       405       600      351                1 ,454     66
C. Gishwati Plantation Management Record
Operations (ha)      1988     1989  -  1990       1991  | 1992  |  1993w
Pruning              n.r      1,150     900      1,000      n.a       n.a
Thinning              n.r      250       630      1,000     n.a       n.a
Total                n.r      1,400     1,530    2,000      n.a       n.a
D. GBK Fuelwood Plantation Management Record
Year                        Uni | 1987 | 1988 | 1989 | 1990   1991   1992 | 1993
Weeding                      ha   1,485   1,500 T 2,000    --    50    42 0    n.r
Thinning/pruning             ha    --      --     20      --     50      --     n.r
Beating-up                   ha    375     --    220      6       --    300    n.r
Road maintenance            km     70     100    60       179    164    228    n.r
Firebreak maintenance       km    755    800    360    200    620    740    n.r
Construction of logging tracks  km    3.5    --    8      5      24      27     n.r
Forest Fires                 ha    15      --      --    1,000    --    725    200
Transfer of mgt. responsibility  ha    --  | 2,574  1,870 1 1,165  1,817 |  --  |  --



28                                                         Part III. Statistical Information
E. Gishwati Pasture Development
Classification of Pastures             Area          Area         Pastoral   Development
Developed in  Developed in  units in 1993  Costs in 1993
1987 (ha)     1993 (ha)                    (million
RFw)
Pastures developed and stocked         3,164         9,896          292        667.2
Pastures not yet developed              --            560            13         16.6
Pastures under development              236           872           30          13.7
Total Pastures                         3,400        11,328          335        697.5
F. Gishwati Cattle Stocking Rate
Breeds               Number    Number   Percentage  Category            Number   Percentage
(1987)      (1993)       (1993)                   (1993)       (1993)
Swiss Brown            865         3,001        23.8     Dairy Bulls      139          1.1
Frisian                            1,034         8.2     Cows            5,610         44.5
Yersey                              101          0.8     Heifers         2,597         20.6
Sahiwal                              63          0.5     Heifer           1,916        15.2
calves
Ankole Crosses         1,483       6,177        49.0      Bull calves     1,841        14.6
Ankole                 3,400       2,331         17.7    Yearlings        340          2.7
Steers          164           1.3
Total                  5,748       12,607        100     Total           12,607        100
G. Gishwati Milk Processing and Marketing
Year                           1987       1988       1989       1990        1991      1992/93
Milk collected (liters)      1,548,373   1,733,406  2,500,000  2,659,000  1,468,500     n.a.
Loss (in liters)             294,810    198,995    786,106    627,528      19,480       n.a.
Loss in %                      19.0       11.5       31.4        23.6        1.3        n.a.
Milk purchases (FRw 000)       n.a.       n.a.      90,454      83,869     44,498       n.a.
Milk sales (FRw 000)           n.a.       n.a.      81,899      78,682     58,107       n.a.
H. Gishwati Meat Marketing
E Year                          1989    |   1990    |   1991    |   1992    |  1993/94  ||
Carcass (nb)                   1,056        2,801       2,905         601          n.a



Part III: Statistical Information                                            29
I. Government Budgetary Allocations
Year           1987      1988       1989      1990      1991      1992      1993
Ordinary      935,879   848,727   677,726   666,526     n.a.      n.a.       n.a.
Budget__                                                _ _ _   __ _ _ _  __ _  _ _
Development  479,880  2,398,755  2,307,711  1,617,661    n.a.     n.a.       n.a.
Budget                                                                             l
Gishwati      259,360   215,000   160,403   185,481              16,490      n.a.
DGF             --        --       23,179    6,991     6,093      5,000      n.a.
Nyungwe                            24,856    26,161    13,973    13,500      n.a



30
Table 7: Project Costs and Financing
Category               Credit      Disbursed at   %  Disbursed at
Allocation    Closing Date    Closing Date
PASP II/ Nyungwe                2,950,000     2,142,843           72.5
PASP II/DGF                      1,277,000      516,352          40.4
GBKJGishwati                    3.398,000     1,416,796           39.6
Suspended Gishwati               1,604,000          --            --
PPF                              1,166,000      635,369
Unallocated                       605,000     290,25717           --
Total              11,000,000     5,001,617          45.5
17  The amount of SDR 290,257 is the difference between the SDR value of the initial deposits and the
SDR value of the accounts at closing, adjusted for any recoveries of the initial deposits.



Part lll: Statistical Information                                                                                                                           31
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreemen Section   jCovenant Type Present Status            JDescription of Covenant                                                 Comments
Credit    2.02 (b)                                           The borrower shall, for the purpose of the Project, open and maintain in dollars
181 1 -RW                                                    three special accounts in the name of the Nyungwe Project Unit (Special Account
Accounts      Complied with             A), DGF (Special Account B), and the GBK Project Unit (Special Account C), in
its Banque Nationale du Rwanda on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, Special Accounts A, B and C
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
3.03      Institutional    (a) Complied with.     For purposes of coordinating the execution of Part A of the Project and without    (b) An Ecologist and a Forester have
limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this agreement, the Borrower shall:  been recruited as counterpart to the
(a) establish and maintain a Project Unit (the Nyungwe Project Unit) headed by a   expatriate ecologist.
qualified and.experienced Project Unit Manager; and (b) appoint and maintain a
qualified and experienced ecologist and forester.
3.04                                              For purposes of financing the costs of goods and services required to canry out the  Difficult fiscal and budgetary situations
Project not financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Borrower shall: (a) open since 1990 due to increasing military
(a) Complied with.       and maintain in Frw an account (the counterpart funds account) at Banque  expenditures.
Nationale du Rwanda, with three sub-accounts, in the name of the Nyungwe Project
Counterpart   (b) Complied with.        Unit, DGF and the GBK Project Unit, respectively; (b) deposit into such
funding                                 counterpart funds account an initial deposit of Status of Frw 38,000,000; (c)
.c) Complied with.  apportion such initial deposit among such counterpart funds sub-accounts as
(c) Complied with.       follows: Frw 10,000,000 for the Nyungwe Project Unit counterpart funds sub-
account; Frw 3,000,000 for the DGF counterpart funds sub-account, and Frw 25,
(d/e) Not complied after    000,000 for the GBK Project Unit counterpart funds sub-account; (d) thereafter
1990                     deposit quarterly in said counterpart funds account an amount equal, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, (e) use such fimds to finance the local currency
cost of such goods and works necessary for the Project. Such counterpart funds
account shall be managed by the chairman of PMC who shall apportion the
counterpart funds among the three counterpart funds sub-accounts.
3.05      Legal          Complied with.           For purposes of establishing the legal boundaries of the Nyungwe buffer  Commission report not translated from
plantations and the demarcation of such boundaries under Parts A. 1, A.2 and A.B   Kinyarwanda.
of the Project, the Borrower shall appoint an ad hoc commission.



32                                                                                                                            Part 111: Statistical Information
3.06      Institutional    Not Complied with.     The Borrower shall take all necessary measures satisfactory to the Association to   Credit allocation to Parts C.3 to C.6
ensure that: (i) the number of staff employed by the GBK Project Unit, GBK'Beef suspended in 1989.
Implementation                          Fattening Facility, Gishwati's Dairy Operation, GBK's Veterinary Pharmacy and
arrangements                            CAT for purposes of carrying out Parts C.3 to C.6 of the Project is reduced to a
level satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association; and (ii) that such level is
maintained.
3.07      Institutional    Complied with after delay.  For purposes of carrying out Part C. 10 of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) not   Transfer effective in 1992.
later than December 31, 1989, prepare in agreement with the Association a
Implementation                         timetable and an action plan with the measures to be taken to strengthen its
arrangements                            institutional framework for agricultural extension at the level of the Gisenyi
Prefecture; and (ii) not later than January 1, 1990, ensure that the agricultural
extension unit of GBK be transferred out of the GBK's Project Unit and become an
autonomous unit under the supervision of the Gisenyi agricultural extension unit
and be granted responsibilities satisfactory to the Association.
3.08      Implementation Complied with             For purposes of carrying out Parts A.3 and C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall   Contracts not effective and not
arrangements                            cause the GBK Project Unit and the Nyungwe Project Unit to each enter into  respected by the farmers.
contracts satisfactory to the Association with farmers participating in the practice
of Taungya in the Gishwati and Nyungwe plantations to ensure the proper practice
and supervision of Taunguya.
3.09      Implementation Complied with partially.    For purposes of carrying out Parts C.3 and C.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall  credit allocation Parts C.3 and C.4
arrangements                            cause the Gishwati management of the GBK Project Unit to furnish assistance to   suspended.
the livestock owners in the preparation of their applications for agricultural credit
from commercial banks.
3.10      Implementation                          The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 31, 1987, carry out a study of the  (a/b) Not applicable; credit allocation to
arrangements                            Borrower's livestock subsector and not later than February 29, 1988, carry out a   part C.8 suspended.
land use study in the Gishwati forest, in accordance with terms of reference agreed
upon with the Association; (b) based on the recommendations of each such study,
(c) Not complied with.   furnish to the Association for review and comments: (i) a draft action plan for the
reorganization of the dairy products processing, pricing and marketing in the
Borrower's territory; and (ii) a draft action plan for future land use and
management of the degraded portion of the Gishwati forest; and (c) based on such
review and in agreement with the Association, finalize such action plans and
promptly take all necessary measures to carry out each such action plans.
3.11      Studies and    (i) complied with; but (ii)   The Borrower shall: (i) in accordance with terms of reference agreed upon with the Fuelwood,, charcoal and industrial
Technical                               Association, carry out a study on wood supply an demand, pricing and marketing;  wood pricing system still under



Part III: Statistical Information                                                                                                                                33
Assistance     never finalized.          and (ii) not later than February 1, 1988, based on the recommendations of such  discussion in early 1994 pending
study, furnish to the Association for review and comment a draft action plan on    National Forestry Funds regulations.
wood pricing policy. The finalization of such action plan in agreement with the
Association will allow the establishment of a wood and charcoal pricing system
satisfactory to the Association.
3.12      Implementation Partially complied with    For purposes of establishing accounting systems, within the Nyungwe Project Unit Difficulties in finding qualified
arrangements                             and DGF, the Borrower shall: (a) select candidates in accordance with criteria  accountants and resignations due to
agreed upon with the Association; and (b) make all necessary arrangements to  misappropriation have made the
retain the services of such candidates upon completion of their training.  fnancial control ineffectual.
3.13      Implementation (i) Complied with.         For purposes of establishing accounting systems within the Nyungwe Project Unit
arrangements                             and DGF, the Borrower shall: (a) within the Nyungwe Project Unit: (i) appoint
(ii) Complied with partially  and thereafter maintain for a period of 18 months an experienced and qualified
accounting and financial management expert with such responsibilities as shall be
(b) Complied with.        satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) not later than 6 months after the
effectiveness of this agreement, appoint and thereafter maintain an experienced and
qualified chief accountant as counterpart to such accounting and financial
management expert; and (b) within DGF: appoint and maintain a qualified and
experienced chief accountant with such responsibilities as shall be satisfactory to
the Association.
3.14      Implementation Not Complied with          For purposes of keeping and managing the accounting system within the GBK  The national chief accountant has been
arrangements                             Project Unit, the Borrower shall assign an qualified and experienced accountant   fired due to misappropriation. A new
with such responsibilities as shall be satisfactory to the Association.  junior accountant has been appointed
but never confirmed
3.15      Implementation (a) Complied with after    The Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1988, take all necessary measures  The forest conservation center was still
arrangements   delay                     for the creation of a forest conservation center in the Nyungwe forest with  under construction with CFD co-
responsibilities agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association; (b) not    financing in early.
(b) Not complied with    later than December 31, 1992, or such other later date as the Association may
agree, take all necessary measures to ensure the transfer of the Nyungwe Project
(c) Not complied with.    Unit with its management and supervision responsibilities to the forest
conservation center; and (c) cause the forest conservation center to take over such
responsibilities.
3.16      Implementation (a) Not complied with.     The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that: (a) not later than    Reluctance from the respective staff of
arrangements                             December 31, 1992, the management and supervision responsibilities of the GBK   the Gishwati and DGF component to
(b) Not complied with.    Project Unit for the Gishwati plantations under Part C. I of the Project are  comply with the covenant.
transferred to DGF, and the management and supervision responsibilities of the



34                                                                                                                             Part III. Statistical Information
GBK Project Unit for the Kigali-Butare plantations under Part D. 1 of the Project
(c) Not complied with.   and the staff necessary for the maintenance of such plantations are transferred to
DGF according to a transfer schedule satisfactory to the Association; (b) starting
not later than December 31, 1988, DGF enters into management of certain
plantation blocks by the communes in the territory of which such plantations blocks
are located; and (c) not later than December 31, 1992, the GBK Project Unit be
dissolved in accordance with an action plan satisfactory to the Association.
3.17      General        (a) Complied with (often    The Borrower shall: (a) not later than December 15, in each year, review with the
conditions    after delay)              Association the progress achieved in the carrying out of the activities under the
Project; and (b) based on such review take all necessary measures to improve such
performance.
3.18      Implementation Not complied with.        For purposes of managing the pastures under Part C.3 of the Project, Gishwati's   Credit allocation to the Part C.3
arrangements                            Dairy Operation, GBK's Veterinary Pharmacy, GBK's Beef Fattening Facility and  suspended.
CAT, the Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1989, furnish to the
Association for review and comments, draft bylaws for the organization of a
federation of livestock owners in Gishwati and proposals for: (i) the participation
of pasture owners in the operating costs of the federation; and (ii) the structure and
management of GBK's Dairy Operation, GBK's Beef Fattening Facility, GBK's
Veterinary Pharmacy and CAT under such federation of livestock owners; and (b)
based on such review and comments not later than December 31, 1989, take all
necessary actions to finalize such proposals.
3.19      Implementation Not complied with.       (a) In order to recover part of the investment cost for the establishment of  Parts C.3 to C.7 of the Credit
arrangements                            Gishwati's Dairy Operation, CAT, GBK's Beef Fattening Facility and GBK's  suspended.
Veterinary Pharnacy, the Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1989, enter
into reimbursement agreements with each terms and conditions which shall include,
inter ali the principle terms and conditions set forth in Part A of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement; (b) For the purpose of this Section "investment cosf' means all direct
investment costs related to the establishment of Gishwati's Dairy Operation, CAT,
GBK's Beef Fattening Facility and GBK's Veterinary Pharmacy such as labor and
labor equipment, all infrastructure investment related to the establishment of such
entities, technical assistance costs of purchasing cattle. The terms of such
Reimbursement Agreements may be amended in agreement with the Association.
3.20      Implementation Not complied with.       (a) In order to recover part of the investment costs for the establishment of the  Part C.3 of the Project suspended.
arrangements                            pastures in the Gishwati area and those being maintained under Part C.3 of the
Project, the Borrower shall modify the lease agreements with the farmers utilizing
such pastures to include, inter ali the principal terms and conditions set forth in



Part III: Statistical Information                                                                                                                                       35
Part B of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. The terms of such lease agreements may
be further amended in agreement with the Association.
3.21       Studies and     (i) Complied with.         For purpose of carrying out Parts A.I and A.7 of the Project, the Borrower shall not All field as well as information
Technical                                  later than February 1, 1988: (i) carry out a design study for the forestry and  processing works completed. Report
Assistance      (ii) In progress at the    faunistic inventory in UGZ3 which will also establish a solid basis for      writing interrupted by the 1994 civil
uprising time (Complied    complementary hydrological and soils analysis studies in the natural forest, and  war
with partially)            establish a natural resource monitoring and evaluation program; (ii) on the basis of
such study, prepare a natural resources monitoring and evaluation program for the
Nyungwe forest and a plan for the forestry and faunistic inventory; and (iii) futmish
these to the Association for its approval.
3.22       Studies and     (i) Complied with          For purpose of carrying out part B.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall not later than Study completed, but the
Technical                                  February 28, 1988: (i) fumish to the Association for review and comments the  recommendations were never
Assistance     (ii) Not complied with.     proposed design of the DGF monitoring and evaluation program for rural       implemented. A monitoring unit was
afforestation; and (ii) based on such review and in agreement with the Association, officially set up in late 1992.
finalize such program and take all necessary measures for its prompt execution.
3.23       Implementation (i) Complied with.          The Borrower shall not later than February 1, 1988 furnish to the Association a  Coexistence of private nurseries with
arrangements                               schedule identifying: (i) the sector nurseries to be assisted under the seedling  State-controlled/sector nurseries
(ii) Complied with after   production and distribution program under Part B. I (a) of the Project; and (ii) the   damaged annihilated the development
delay                      first twenty groups of farmers selected for the establishment of collective private   of private nurseries.
nurseries under Part B. I (b) of the Project.
3.24       Implementation Not comply with             The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to establish a milk price      Not applicable; Parts C.3 to C.8 of the
arrangements                               mechanism ensuring efficient milk production and commercialization.          Credit canceled.
(a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts
4.01       Financial      (a) Complied with partially.  adqaet-elc nacrac   ihsun  conigpatcsteifrain   Financial records badly maintained.
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the information,
resources and expenditures in respect of each part of the project of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for cariying out the Project or any part
thereof.
Inefficiently enforced as records not
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph   well maintained in the Gishwati
(b) For (i) and (ii): Complied (a) of this section including the Special Accounts for each Fiscal Year audited, in   component.
with partially.            accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
(iii) Complied with partially. as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, for such
scope and in such details as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning said records,



36                                                                                                                                         Part III: Statistical Information
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
(c) For (i) Partially complied
with.                       (c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account
or payments out of the Special Account were made on the basis of statements of    Inefficiently enforced as records not
(ii) Complied with.         expenditures, the Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in  well maintained in the Gishwati
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such component.
...i) Complied with.       expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after completion of the audit for the
(iii) Complied with.        Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of
the Special Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
(iv) Not applicable for FY    receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the
1994 as Audit reports not    Association's representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such
received yet.              records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditures submitted during such Fiscal
Year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.



Part 111: Statistical Information                                                                                                                             37
Table 9: Bank Resources
Staff Input (in staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                                FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88   FY89   FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95                  TOTAL
Pre-Appraisal                                          0.2     48.5      85.6                                                                                       134.3
Appraisal                                                                54.3    95.6                                                                               149.9
Negotiations                                                                       5.2                                                                                5.2
Supervisioon                                                                       3.3    14.6    11.7    11.9       11.0    13.4      9.9      12.4      2.4       90.6
Project Completion                                                                                                                                        9.9         9.9
Total                                                  0.2     48.5    139.9   104.1    14.6       11.7    11.9      11.0     13.4     9.9      12.4    12.3       389.9



38                                                                                                                       Part III: Statistical Information
Table 10: Bank Resources
Missions
Stage of Project Cycle             Month/Year        Number of      Days in Field    Specialized Staff         Performance Rating              Types of
Persons                      Skills Represented                                         Problems
Implementation     Development
___________________________________JlN;~nber  [___________ ______ _  Status  ]    Objectiveses
Appraisal
Preparation I                         03/85              5         11               Forester, Livestock,
Agriculturist,
Economist (2)
Preparation 11                        06/85              2         3                Forester (2)
Preparation III                       09/85              6         12               Forester (2),
Livestock,
Agriculturist (2),
Economist
Preparation IV                        03/86              2         10               Economist (2)
Appraisal 1                           05/86              9         25               Forester (3),
Livestock Ag. (2),
Agriculturist,
Economist (3)
Supervision
Supervision 1                         02/88              6       II                 Economist (2),            3                 2          Gishwati
Livestock (2),                                         Condition for
Forester,                                              Effectiveness,
Agriculturist                                          Milk Price Policy



Part 111: Statistical Information                                                                                                                                    39
| Supervision 11                           08/88                14Agriculturist                                           3                    3           Gishwati TOR
for Land use
study
Supervision III                            10/88               4          7                  Economist (2),               3                    3           Gishwati Cost
Forester. Livestock                                          recovery issues
Supervision IV                             06/89                           12                Economist                    2                    2           Forestry,
Financial
Supervision V                              02/90               2          7 and 10           Livestock, Forester          2                    2           Cancel livestock
component
Supervision VI                             08/90                          10                 Livestock                    2                    I           Financial
Supervision VIl                            06/91                          ?                  Forester (FAO)               2                    2           Policy
Economist
Supervision Vill                           05/92                           15                Forester, YP                 2                    2          Financial delays
Supervision IX                             01/93               I          14                 Forester                     3                    3          Forest Policy,
Political
Supervision X                              07/93               I          13                 Forester                     3                    2          Political
Supervision Xl                             11/93                          13                 Forester                     2                    2






IBRD 20055
29i00'                             R W A N D A                                                   2930'
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY, AGRICULTURE
AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                      /
DEUXIEME PROJET AGRO-SYL VO-PASTORAL
GISHWATI SUB-PROJECT                                                                        N   UGANDA
SOUS-PROJET DE GISHWA T                                            ZAIRE
*  *i Gishwati Forest Reserve
Reserve Forestitre de GlshwGoti                                                                             Kobo_le
Zone of Extension Activities
Zone de Activit/s Vulgarisation
Forest reserve development sector boundaries
I imites des secteurs de developpement de Io reserve forestiere
-________ Military zone
Zone mi//toire
-        Main roads
Routes principsG/es                                           /
Secondary roads
Routes secondo/res                                        /
Rivers
1'30'                               Yiv/eres                                                                          -
Prefecture capitals                                                                          Ruhengeri
Chef -lieu dle pre'fecture
Commune boundaries
Z A nes de commune
Prefecture boundaries
iCirntese de priTecture
International boundaries g
Front/ores /nternot/onole       S 
Ktarogo 
ZA R 'S0                                                                                                Kaay                  K   ,   l
,.  29'     j       3'         -         1-5'is                                                               J;
C"pI'.e'o. TM   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rAT
z A  I R E UGANDA_   Rusrj; 
i, jIv  LII,>y                                                                                          \ 
9 _ SII.08M*  , ,r I, )~                 ~                          >       t   '  '       (           x   *                               |-
2I,S                                    Ji                             ',     k                                             s
, UGf A N D A.,~i'                                         (   Ruteiro
Mo- (.  _m j0
Z 1 A I      R URW ANDA_              >utsir
.',AREAOF MAP1
KILOMETERS 9                 9      I           9     25      30
'4  J                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES 6lb1'5                              26
DECEMBER 19i






IBRD 20057
LAKE
KIVL)
T
22       ~SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY,                             \           
AGRICULTURE, AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT                                     \    8 
$0           ~~Nyungwe Forest Reserve                                            X 
j          -        ~~~~~~Nyungwe Forest Reserve_                            
j t               _  ~~~~~Proposed Forest Zone Boundaries\                  r          I
4            ---  ~~~~~Proposed Reserve Boundaries* 
2     ~Forest Zone Management Agencies:\                                                ' 
J       ~~~1 Swiss
2 FED~~~~~~~~~
2   FED                 ~~~~~~Natural Reserve Unit -R      
3   World Bank)                                                            , 
4   Caisse Centrale                                               < +\
RiversC
Prefecture Boundariese
Internationol Fores n Boundary i
0              10p                    20                   aJ
KILOMEIERS                                  
DECEMBER 1 986






IBRD 20054
29'                                                                         30_
I          - zA '4DA                        lj                \                  -      . /
R~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~                                               A A N        A A  (   ,                                l'bO/6
N~~~
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY,                                                                                                       /' 7;
AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT                                                    )  4                           "                ft -                          T A N1 I A    .;
7 'ARE
PR FOJECT :REFECTURE BOUNDARIES                                                                 ,
-    RAIr RCZDS                                       7'..,s,    U'-                           i
j AKAGERA
COMMULE BOUNDARIES                                                                                 B,                                       NATIONAL
--NTERNAT ON-.I  t A'1z., B  l_-,,,<G_ OUNDl__<- ARIES 
--           /               I,                                                                                                         2'ORES .)
.  sv ,-  \t1, ,-p,          >.                    >S,  . -      so-roc  - k
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'   4 -'}/-',4>X, 
L%,
SMA                       ;                       .~      '    L ; ;              , I J Z -'~  "7                              /' '_
FORWANST >_   3            S                       I                                         J                A,'r  A  N  'Ac-  j  L_l 
/4',~~~~~~Y
Z A 1 R E t - ;~~~J77^f '   ., *SSR   (   \   Ri    , pA r-fX   t,  x                       (lLCMETER3     2      70    RO    G ?0  O  50050    600 '0     8
. <8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \                                                              A         t\|        +0 20  30  80         50
(Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AMI 0'l,o. \$d r  J4. DO, Sne  ,,tP,a4;, . (4' ca.',.4'. e/ 
> s1 LMZAM81CLE                  29t \                                           '   0 nzerarve8 oro cole !s1 ~
-'9    AAW'                                                                                                                                                                               1
Z R E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEBR18






L            ~~~~SOMALIA
K1GND, IENYA
RWANDA                                             RWANDA 7~jK.
SECOND  INTEGRATED  FORESTRY,                                  P, ,.'
AGRICULTURE  AND  LIVESTOCK  PROJECT                                       \IURUNDI             INDIAN
GISHWATI FOREST                                       ZAIRE        IANZANIA         OCAN
1  i       T /COMOROS
CZZAMBmQIJE\
L     ZAM,BA -I
MILITARY ZONE                                   I
_ G'5LlWtI O :~~~>                                               __J-,
PIAN IAU 1 tS HUI\
NON I ORt511[)  kASL|fv                                       e|      U
-    0FIN SI IF N/ 0
-M Ih OAD5                                   }  I.Hl)<
GI't'  ~ ~  F -
< 1 ..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  d  El                h    
,.'          X                                          aKF.'
.1~~~~                                                    ~ ~ ~ 1 J4 
C:
' :                                          , ''-,,                         /t~~~~~~~N
~~Z~J \   t   . .1  { ?   C   \       ( bolPrbo  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~/~/









IMAGING
Report No:       15329
Type: ICR



