Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C' R  /X"'-    ,
Report No. 6586-RW
STAFF APPRAISAI. REPORT
RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORFSTRY PROJECT
May 6, 1987
Rpgional Pro ,'c ts T. partment
Fastern  and  ;outhjthrn  Africa  Regional Office
1 his document ha% a restricted distribution asid mna be used bs recipients onil in the performance tit
their ,ifficial duties. Its contents mna  nJal olher*ise be di%clo%ed *ithout 'Aurld  Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Franc Rwandese (RF)
US $1.00        =  RF 83
RF  100         -  $1.20
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric                              British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                         =  3.3 feet
1 hectare (ha)                      =  2.47 acres
1 are (100 m2]                      =  0/02 acre
1 kilometer (km)                    =  0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)            =  0.39 square mile (sq. m.)
1 kilogram (kg)                     =  2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                            0 0.26 US gallon (gal.)
1 metric ton (m ton)                =  2,204 (lb.)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIPTION,
APEF          -  Actions a l'Exterieur de la Foret
BA            -  Forestry Promotion/Bureau d'Animation
3R            -  Rural Afforestation Office/Bureau de Reboisement
hIS           -  Statistics Office Bureau d'Inventaire et Statistique
CAT           -  Technical Support Center/Centre d'Appui Technique
CCCE          -  Caisse Centrale de la Cooperation Economique
DCE           -  Department of Control and Evaluation/Direction
Controle et Evaluation
DGF           -  Forestry Department/Direction Generale des Forets
ERR           -  Econoranic Rate of Return
FDLO          -  Federation of Livestock Owners/Fonds Europeen de
developpement
GBK           -  Gishwat{-Kigali-Butare Project Unit
GOR           -  Government of Rwanda
IDA           -  International Development Association
ISAR          -  National Research Institute/Institut des Sciences
Agronomiques du Rwanda
MINAGRI       -  Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry/
Ministere de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et des Forets
ORINFOR       -  National Information Service/Office Rwandais d'information
OVAPAM        -  Office pour la Valorisation des Produits Agricoles de
Mutara
PACZN         -  Natural Forest Conservation and Management Plan/
Plan d'Action pour la Conservation et l'Amenagement
des Forets Naturelles de la Crete Zailre-Nil
PMtC          -  Project Management Committee
-rJlite de 'estion de Zone
FISCAL YEAR
G-ver;rnent -  January 1 to December 31



RWANDA                           FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
Credit and Project Sunmmary
Borrower:                  Government of Rwanda
Beneficiary:               Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forests
Amount:                    SDR 11.0 million (US$14.1 million equivalent)
Terms:                     Standard IDA terms
On-lending Terms:          Up to 20% of the proceeds of the *. edit would he on-lent to four
project revenue-earning entities, namely the CAT, Veterinary
pharmacy, Beef fattening facility. and dairy to consolidate
investments begun. in the first project; to pasture beneficiaries
to complete pasture establishment and herd constitution; and to
farmers in Gishwati to develop the degraded parts of the Gis:lwati
forest. The funds would be onlent at the IBRD rate for 20 years
including five years grace. The beneficiaries of the on-lending
will bear the fo .-ign exchange risk.
Project Description:  The Projecc's ol.jectives are to: (a) protect and conserve two of
Rwanda's remaining natural forestc of the Zaire-Nile divide; (b) promote agroforestry as
a cost-effective means of inc.reasing fuelwood supplies; (c) consolidate investments made
in the first forestry project in plantations and pastures and, (d) continue to reinforce
the capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture to plan, supervise and monitor forestry
sector programs. The project would assist the Ministry to better integrate project
activities into its normal framework; to improve management of the first prcject's
investments in pastures and plantations and, where suitable to transfer such management
to the private sector.
The project would be implemented over a six-year period including a one year
baild-up phase and would comprise: (a) protection and conservation of the Nyungwe and
Gishwati natural forests through the development of buffer plantations, an ecological
itnventory and a natural resources monitoring and .valuaticn program; (b) promotion of
farm fotestry and rural afforestation tirroLgh the strengthening of seedling production
and distribution, implementation of a rut.l afforestation mssonitoring and evaluation
program, and training of higher level foresters and other forestry workers;
(c) inte?-ited forestry, agric.,lture and livestock development in Gishwati including
consolidation of investments in pas':ures and plantations made under the first project
and incre*ased private sector participation in management of the livestock activities;
development of an additional 2,000 ha o' protection plantations on denuded forest
slopes; sjpport for a land use stud; and for new approaches to land management on
degraded forest areas and intensification of extension services around the forest;
(d) maintenance of fuelwood and pole short rotation plantations developed In the first
project; (e) applied forestry and animal nutritfoni research; and (f) pilot pasture
rehabilitation in the Mutara region.
Bcneftrs and Risks. The project would provide economy-wide ecological and hydrolog-
ical benefits from protection and conservation of the Nyungwe and Gishwati forests.
There would be institutional development benefits from Improved ministry lev2l plan-
r.ing, monitoring and evaluation of forestry programs. The project would produce
incremental fuelwood and industrial wood, meat, dairy products and foodcrops with a vi'ce
distribution of benefits to over 75,000 farm families, mnost of them In absolute poverty.
The primary risk relates to Governmenti's abilitv to carry out proposed management
reforms in Glshwati including a greater role for the private sector.  The Government has
shown its corinitment by having begun mreasures to implement these reforms.
This document has a restricted distribution and mav be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization,



Estimated Project
Copts                                     Local           Foreign      Total
--USS$ million__
Nyungwe Natural Forest Protection and           2.1          2.5          4.6
Conservation
Agroforestry and Rural Afforestation            0.8          0.8          1.6
Integrated Forestry, Agriculture                6.9          3.6         10.5
and Livestock Development
Applied Research                                0.1          0.2          0.3
Mutara Pilot Pasture R,ehabilitation            0.1          0.3          0.4
l'otal Baseline Costs                          10.0          7.4         17.4
Physical Contingencies                          0.4          0.2          0.7
Price Contingencies                             1.2          0.8          2.0
TOTAL PROJECI COSTS 1/                         11.6          8.5         20.1
Financ inPlan
Government 2/                                   6.0           -           6.0
IDA                                             5.6          8.5         14.1
Totai                                          11.6          8.5         20 1
1/ Includes direct taxes of about US$1.0 million and PPF expenditutes of US$1.5
million.
2/  Includes the US1.O million in taxes.
Estimated Disbursements:  (US$million)
IDA fiscal year:             1988    1989    1990        1991    1992   1993
-U,                ; S$ mlllion-----------------
Annual                       1.70      1.85    2.6        3.20    3.00   1.75
Cumulative                   1.70      3.55    6.15       9.35   12.35  14.10
Rate of Return:  Rates of return calculated for four components comprising
33% of project cost range from 16-45%.



-iii -
RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REP"RT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Credit and Project Sumsnry .......... ... ........ ... ..   - ii
Table of Contents ................  ........... ...............  iii - vi
I.   BACKGROUND
A.  Project Background.  ..*. ............... ........   .     1
B.  Economic and Agricultural Setting.   .2
C.  Government's Agricultural Sector Strategy .......          3
D.  IDA's Assistance and Strategy ........ .........           4
II.    FORESTRY SECTOR
A.  Background and Role in the Economy*.-*.  ..-               7
B.  Consumption, Production and Marketing of Wood              8
C.  Government's Forestry Sector Polic$es                     10
D.  Sector Organization and Management         ..             10
E.  Sector Funding...... 0.  ..11
F.  Main Sectoral Issues. ..................12
III.    THE PROJECT
A. Rationale ........ ...... ...... ................. ...................  13
B. Suimmary Project De ocriptn ...13
C.  Geographical Coverages.      ....                  .     ........   , ...   14
D.  Detailed Features,.......os ...... ......... .            14
E. Project Costs ...... .......... ....... ....               23
F. Financing..                                                23
G.    Procurement   ........... o0 . . . .. of . ........... .  25
H.  Disbursements ............................... .           26
I.  Accounts and Finr.cial Management and Audits.....         27
This report is based on the findings of on appraisal mission which
visited Rwanda in April/May 1936.  The mission comprised of
Mesdames N. Okonjo-Iweala, K. McNamara and C. Mukongiliye
Messrs. Steengaard, Legrain (IDA); A. Speich, H. Speechly, J. Toft,
M. Barnaud and Savary (consultants). A post-appraisal mission
comprised of Ms. N. Okonjo-Iweala, Messrs. S. Steengard,
X. Legrain, M. Grut, and D. Aw (IDA) and Mr. J. Toft (consultant)
visited Rwanda in September/October 1986. Ms. J. Collier-Von Eden
and Ms. S. Bazinet assisted with preparation of the report.



- iv -
Pate No.
IV.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.  Project Management ..............................               29
B.  Annual Work Plan ........  ...                ..............    32
C.  Annual Review .......                .     ............         33
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation ......... ..........                  33
E.  Project Completion Re           p    o     r    t ....................  33
V.      PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A.    Production ...................... 000#0*....................  33
B. Marketing                  .        .........  3;
C.  Prices ........................... . ........O$*....            35
D.  Financial Analysis of Revenue Earning Entities ...              37
E.  Farm Level Financial Impact ..................... .             37
F.  Cost Recovery and Fiscal Impact ......... .........             39
VI.       BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A.  Benefits and Justification. .                                   40
B. Economic Analysis..                                              42
C.  Risks               .................43
D. Environme'ntal Impact              .       . .44
E. Impact on Women.                            .                    45
VII.     AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                         46-49
TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table 2.1:   Areas of Natural Forest .........................                 8
Table 3.1:  Project Cost Summary                   ..                         24
Table 3.2:   Financing Plan ....... 0. 25   ...........                       25
Table 5.1:   Financial and Economic Prices ...................                36
Table 5.2:   Indicative Farm Models ...........................               38
Table 6.1:   Results of Economic Analysis .....................               42
Table 6.2:   Sensitivity Analysis ...........................                 43



-v 
Pare No.
SUPPORTII4G ANNEXES, CHARTS AND MAPSt
Annexes:
Annex  1 - Implementation Schedule ................ ...........          50
Annex  2,  Table 1 - Technical Assistance Requirements                   51
Table 2 - Procurement Procedure, Nyungwe Unit**.#            52
Table 3 - Proc'-rement Procedures, DGF... ,,                 53
Table 4 - Procurement Procedures, 
GBK Project Unit ............... ... ...           54
Table 5 - Procurement Procedures, All Units.                 55
Table 6 - Proceeds of the IDA Creditd............
Nyungwe Component ............... .                56
Table 7 - Proceeds of the IDA Credit,
DGF Component...                                  57
Table 8 - Proceeds of the IDA Credit,
GBK Component ............         ....            58
Table 9 - Schedule of Disburseaents                          59
Table 10 - Staffing Plan    ...60-63
Annex  3     Natural Forest Protection, Consezration and
Management ......               ..      ... ......         64
Annex  4    Agroforestry and Rural Afforestatinan                         78
Annex  5    Integrated Forestry, Agriculture and
Livestock Development Gishwati.                            89
Annex  6    Schedule of Transfers Kigali-Butare Plantations              107
Annex  7,   Table I - Summary Accounts Cost Sumary. .110
fable 2 - Summary Accounts By Year .111
Table 3 - Breakdown of Summary Accoutt         ts           112
Table 4 - Project Component By Ye         a r .........    113
Annex  8 -  Financial Analysis .................                        ... ...........  114
Annex  9 -  Economic Analysis ................................           147
Annex 10 -  Selected Data and Documents Available in the
Project   File ...............            ... ..          176
CHARTS
1.   Organigramme Debut Projet          .    ...............              177
2.   Organigramme Fin Projet ........................ , .                 178
3.   Organigramme Volet Forets Naturelles. .                              179
4.   Organigramme Volet Agro-Forestiere et Afforestation
Rurales ......B..Ges..on ,.........Ag.o.....oe                     180
5.   Organigramme GBK Gestion Activites Agro-Sylvo-Pastorale
Integres ....... . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . .            181



- vi -
Pate No.
6.   Organigramme Volet Recherche..............................              182
7.   Organigrasme du Service Foreatier National ...............              183
8.   Orgat.igramne Ministre de l'Agriculture, Eievage
et des Forets. . ......#......                                        184
MAPS
IBRD 20054 - Project Prefectures
IBRD 20055 - Gishwati subproject
IBRD 20056 - Gishwati Forest
IBRD 20057 - Nyungwe Forest



RWANDA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01     'he proposed project would be the second in support of integrated
forestry developmenz in Rwanda. The objecti es of the first project
(Credit 1039 RW) due to close June 30, 1987 4ere to: (a) develop an
institutional capacity for policy formulation and implementation in the
forestry sector of Rwanda, (b) initiate a reforestation program to provide
fuelwood, poles and saw timber for the country and (c) develop and sustain
the exi.ting livestock industry in the Gishwati forest area ill western
Rwanda for dual purpose meat ar.d milk production. This development was to
follow an integrated approach involving conservation of forest resources.
1.02     Implementation of the first project has not been without its
problems. Along with support from other donors, principally the S, 'ss, the
project has laid the groundwork for forest policy formulation in Rwanda and
succeeded in achieving physical targets for plantation and pasture
development. It has, however, had less success in attaining some of its
.onservation end production objectives.  Uncontrolled livestock and human
activity continue to be a problem in the undegraded portions of the
Gishwati forest. There are alsc problems with growth rates in the Kigali-
Butare fuelwood plantations where, as a result of the poor sites, projected
wood output will fall below expectations. Managerial and institutional
issues have moreover arisen as a result of the inadequate superv4Aion of
the project unit by the project management committee.
1.03     At tbC start of the first project, Government's thinking on
forestry sector policy issues was at the initial stages. Since then, a
numDer of important developments have taken place. With funding from the
first proJect and assistance from other donors, the Governmert has
developed a forest policy and laws which provide a framework within which
specific actions can be implemented. The Natural Forest Conservation and
Management Plan (Plan d'Action pour la Conservation et l'Amenagement des
Forets Naturelles de la Crete Zaire-Nil, PACZN) adopted in 1984 spells out
a policy and management action plan tc protect the rapidly diminishing
natural forests of the Zaire-Nile Crest in the west. The Forestry Law
("Loi forestiere") soon to be promulgated, sets out the legal framework for
future forest, development including strengthening of the policing powers of
the Forestry Department (DGF) and establishment of a Forestry Development
fund (Fonds Forestier National, (FFN). The Governmant is also formulating
(in t:he context of its 1987-1991 4th national development plan) a forestry
su;b-sector plan and investment program which will provide the basis for
future donoc support to the sector. Concurrent with these developments in
the forestry sector there has also been an increase in farm forestry
through spontaneous planting of farm trees. Farm forestry has thus become
one of -he fastest growing and most promising avenues for future fuelwood
procut() .1  so:



- 2 -
1.04     The proposed project would build on these developments and on the
experience gained in the first project. It would: (a) consolidate and
maintain investments in plantations and pastures made in the first project;
(b) support the development of new activities in forest protection and
rtvral afforestation; and (c) continue to reinforce the Ministry of
Agriculture by improving its planning, supervision a..d monitoring capacity
in particular, of forestry sector ?rograms, and gradually phase out
management and implementation of project activities by the existing proiect
unit. The main thrust of the project's new activities would be the
protection, conservation and management of Rwanda's remaining natural
forests. The project would also support the development of farm forestry
as a more cost-effective way of increasing fuelwood supplies. Through the
proposed project activities, the Government would be assisted in
implementing and further developing its forest policy.
1.05     The project was prepared in the course of thrr  missions, the last
in September 1985 by an FAO/CP team with the input of Rwandese officials.
The present report is based on the findings of IDA missions which visited
Rwanda in April/May 1986 and September 1986. During appraisal, the scope
and orientation of the project w4as substantially changed from the proposals
in the preparation report to: (a) strengthen institution building within
DGF and the ministry; (b) encourage farm forestry; (c) expand the scope of
natural forest protection and management; (d) reorient the approach to
integrated forestry and livestock development in Gishwati with a view to
correcting problems arising Dut of the first phase; and (e) encourage a
more rational approach to the delivery of extension services in the
communes around the Gishwati forest. A new component to rehabilitate
deteriorating pastures in the Mutara region was added.
B. Economic and Agricultural Setting
1.06     RwanJa has a solid record of development achievements in the post-
independence period but faces deep-seated problems mostly related to the
pressures of population on scarce land resources. Located far from major
transportation routes in the very heart of Africa, and with a poor natural
resou.ce base, its per capita income is less than $300 a year. Average
annual rural family income (1985 prices) is about US$600 or $80 per capita.
Agriculture is the backbone of Rwanda's economy, contributing about 46% of
GDP at current prices and 83% of the total value of export.s. As much as
95% of the population is in the rural areas and is engaged in smallholder,
rainfed agriculture. Agricultural production is directed mainly toward
meeting domestic food needs. Of vital importanLe, however, is production
of export crops, notably coffee, tea, and cinchona which supply most of
Rwanda's foreign exchange and rural cash income. Until recently, growth of
agricultural output was relatively strong (5.8% per annum in the period
1974-80) and food production appears to have kept pace with population
growth.  Between 1980-83, agricultural output growth slowed down to an
average annual rate of about 3.5% less than the estimated population growth
rate of 3.7%. After the 1984 drought in which Rwanda experienced
substantial crop failures, growth of agricultural output appears to have
picked up and is now estimated at about 4% per annum. Some food is
imported commercially, mainly wheat, rice, oils, salt and sugar. Food aid



- 3 -
flows in recent years have been in the order of 10,000 to 15,000 tons of
cereals, beans, powdered milk and vegetable oils. Total food imports in
1985 amounted to about US$56 million or 16% of the total value of
merchandise imports.
1.07     With its population of 6.0 million or 250 persons per km2 (400 per
kmZ of arable land) Rwanda is the most densely settled country in
continental Africa. The high population growth rate means that densities
are inexorably rising. There is no longer much scope for increasing the
area under cultivation. Expan~sion and intensification of cropping without
adequate management is posing an increasing threat to soil fertility now
regarded as among the most important constraints to increasing agricultural
productivity in most areas of Rwanda. A measure of the mounting pressure
of people on land is the decline of fallow land: only 12.5% of arable land
is in fallow, down from 16% only 10 years ago. Rwanda is overwhelmingly a
country of small farmers: over half the one million farm holdings are less
than two hectares. The fragmentation of holdings (and the attendant desire
for more land) coupled with overgrazing by lives-.ock, have contributed to
severe deforestation and some soil erosion. Although the effects of the
latter are mitigated by a nation-wide drlve to introduce soil protection
measures, deforestation is a source of grave concern as it threatens
watersheds, land and soil resources. A high priority must therefore be
placed on arresAing deterioration of the natural resource base upon which
development will ultimately depend. The Government and the farmers are
taking some action to stop soil erosion, and protect natural resources,
through planting of trees and other measures. The will exists to do more.
This can be harnessed in the short to medium term ty applying solutions
that are pretty well proven in the fields of agro-forestry and natural
forest protection. Longer term solutions must, however, rely on results
emerging from applied agricultural and forestry research even thougi
dividends may well not pay off for at least a decade.
C. Government's Agricultural Sector Strategy
1.08     The focus of Government's agricultural sector strategy continues
to be the increase of farm level production in order to achieve food self-
sufficiency and balanced development of the export crop sector.
Government's objectives and strategy are spelled out in a recent (May 1986)
strategy paper on the reorientation of agricultural projects. The paper
outlines the framework for a Food Strategy, the major objective of which is
the achievement of food self-sufficiency based on production not only for
subsistence but also for the market. Production increases in the food and
export crop sectors would come through the intensified use of inputs -
fertilizer, selected seeds, mane:e, and careful management of the natural
resource base.
i.09     Another important objective of the strategy is the need to ensure
more coherence among the multiplicity of donor-financed development
projects which serve as the main instruments for implementation of Rwanda's
agriculture sector programs. The inconsistencies in approach and thc
different structures of intervention introduced in the projects are cited
as an important reason for their poor performance. Government aims to put
greater emphasis on adoption of instituLional structures that are
sustainable after the project and on affordability of project investments.



- 4 -
1.10     Gover,ment has had a tradition of relative non-intervention in the
food crop sector but has been rather "dirigiste" with regard to the e;port
crop sector and to other subsectors such as livestock and dairy
development. There are also temptations to intervene more in areas such as
marketing and input supply. However, the drive to have affordable and
sustainable investments is recognized as ar important check to the degree
of Government invovement.
1.11     The Government has made important progress over the last few years
in defining a sector strategy. It recognizes that in order to achieve
sectoral objectilves, it will have to improve its planning and management
capacity; reorient agricultural research to serve the traditional farm
system; and strengthen the links between reseaLr'a and extension. It will
also have to improve the organization of field extension services; increase
the availability of agricultural inputs and facilitate the involvement of
the private sector in their supply; strengthen the agricultural marketing
system and increase the supply of technical and managerial manpower.
Effective actions wculd also have Lo be taken to address issues of land
conservation and management, including soil erosion prevention and
protection of natural forests which are increasingly being depleted for
fuelwood and sawlogs.
1.!2     A policy framework hes beeni developed for the forestry sector,
but refinements still have to be made and concrete actions  o implernent the
policies have to be fully worked out. Past Government eff zts in the
forestry sector have focused on the development of state plantations to
serve urban energy and industrial wood needs. Although the need still
remains to find solutions to urban energy requirements, there is a greater
willingness to emphasize development of farm forestry and promotion of
private and communal initiatives in rural afforestation.  New directions
are also now being pursued to protect and conserve the ccuntry's natural
forests and to find solutions to the high levels of human and livestock
activities in some of these forests. The Government recognizes the
important interaction at the farm level of forestry, livestock and cropping
activities and the need to develop these in an integrated nanr-!r.
D. IDA'S Assistance and Strat!gy
1.13     Since 4.ts start in 1973, IDA lending for Rwanda's agricultural
sector has amounted to US$92.4 million for eight operations, of which five
are ongoing. Briefly, these operations are: (a) four area development
projects In the eastern Savannah zone (US$42.2 million); (b) two area
development projects in the Lake Kivu and Zaire-Nile Divide zones (US$36
million); (c) a Cinchona Development Project ($1.8 million); and (d) an
Agricultural Research Projec.t, (US$11.5 million'.  A US$22 million project
to support agricultural institutional development and field level extension
services (GitaramlLMinagri Project, Credit 1669 RW) was recently signed.
1.14     IDA (like other donors) has tended in the past to support projects
of an "integrated rural development" nature. Completion repozts have been
prepared for the first Mutara Agricultural Development Project (Credit 439
RW), the Bugesera-Gisaka-Migongo Pha,? I project (Credit 668 Rw) and the



- 5 -
Cinchona Project (Credit 656 RW). Experience from these and other on-going
projects highllght a number of issues affecting project performance,
namely: (a) poor iderntification and adaptation of appropriate technical
packages due to ir.sufticient knowledge of Rwanda's complex farming systems;
(b) inadequate mrlonlitorinig of project progress; (c) project complexity and
lack of training and experience of Rwandese management and
staff; (d) excessive diversity of pLoject institutional and organizational
systems mace un-;-anageable by weak agrihultural planning, project
preparation, financial curoJ.Lo  and weak technical central ministry
departmet:ts; and (e) scar:city of technical messages for agriculture
improvemtnt at *'he farm level.  Other imnportant constraints relate to
inadequatc Governru.ucnt upe!t ug budget allocations to agriculture, non-
existent ozr  scItrs  uD,sector. policies and Investment priorities and
poorly   t   rlcc ee' donor uupported ac tivities.
"lhe PI:ase ' Ir.te'r 1t- c'_ Ycus tr ran!kd  Livestock Pro   _ct.
1.15      ;he t  Lrst  I L  CJeCt (C-redit: 1039 RW) had two distinct components:
(a) to cdvelop torut,;  po,icy and services through the strengthening of
'nst t i. ct ria  , l 1  ,y for policy formulation and the initial development
of fuelwoo oo plint_i in re; for urban etiergy needs;   and (b) to support
integrated foLcl-i-y arc iivcstLcs. development in and around the Gishwati
natrer3.a Il-.:A: for e' rvo  li wentern Rwarda.  The project was part of a long-
terl!: pr   n:l"       Wp t:he iorest tCsoUrces of Rwanda for fuelwood, poles
and       t r.         .ientu.  An im.portarnt. objective of this project was
the protectiol  aru4 cOV.servat!on of the Gis}-shwati reserve by limiting
2lvcu',O.. 0r ari  ui-Sl1. er;( ' ..':kc:2:At Se t-n .() be causing forest degradation.  At
tue *'.,e te;.r  e t Was: Ca, i;' c,(   I ,f; tis ut I lns to nanage forestry proj cats
were  whi !.w.s no:t yet prepared to embark on rural
affore!t.it jerS   rneme   .n a signlticant scale.   In additiorn,  approaches to
properly ;girg n   agr ecult;;re, livestock and forestry activities were not
yet cleaJ  ',' z  i`F.;h,'ht Out..  In rrdur to cope with the institutional problems
i t w S (C d.ed  e, set u!p a pruect il-e i:montation unit while strengthening
lninti.rt "+L' 1;'.pO;at y  f-    lt I a  'o:  copaci fy  *n the ministry.
1.1.6     ICunut    :;.tn ,        ther do_rnors the first project has been
succe s.'    :t .  4 -.g tiSe 6overrfl(erlt to lay the groundwork for forest
policy roriwat I-n.  Tne pro,ect un't has been effective in achieving
physi    *atFct-- *D D-i.:nt in and pa5stute establishment and has even
exceH cKnd th.-c narie s.   niHwever, the quality of work has been inadequate.
'l he pooI S  r e  or  _ct   an .'suew.;lwood plartations mean that up to 30% may
not be ccmrnc-rr.:;  v  rcn±ct ve ,l>ho;h they would retain their
"protective  ftunr.e  i,or.  Furt)hermore, extension work to encourage
agccrf a:; cc:    V-  'c ',-.   l . i '.:.. r  edl 
1.17     .I     . ` _        foi,tI   the cost of establishment of pastures has
bc e.< *..e*i      1  't', ;i.L(S2,6%  per ha rompared to TIS$2,000 per ha).
This has bee1)007.  pat       L t.o unforecef-r: circumstanices such as rapid weed
Infect-it .i''  '.t  ,_'i +. '.:e use tfi;2. ' i',!;!i tcwt materials for the work.   The
objet  {.             : .r    Pr on: t ts  torest reserve on to the pastures
to             .+- ';..i                          . t    nucc'eSS duLe to: (a) take over of
mlanly 'c!...                                      -t ..e in the forest; (b) in-
Dlly,t Z 1; - > .. -  . {iF,..:.S (C p 7roblems withi the
av al -. ': .  '  . .  : .   -,  ..    ->X, ; n  w.;ith the local Ankole.  The
hlgh i g`i   :-                        -  ; : .    >    nan.ial returns to



- 6 -
pasture owners very attractive, leading to acquisition of the bulk (over
60Z) of pasture land by influential people. The subproject's dairy
facility has operated with high unit costs due to poor choice of equipment
and diseconomies of scale. On the institutional side, the project unit in
Kigali has enjoyed a high degree of independence. This has allowed rapid
project implementation with the minimum of bureaucratic interference, but
the limited supervision of the project unit by MINAGRI has resulted in
misprocurement and misuse of funds and in interference by the Kigali
Coordination Office in the technical management of key project entities in
the Gishwati component such as the project dairy, technical support center
(CAT), and veterinary pharnac7. In addition, the focus of the project unit
on intensive pasture development inside the Gishwati forest has left the
integrated development of agriculture, forestry and livestock activities in
the connunes surrounding the forest a poor relative. One of the key
objectives of the second phase project is to serve as a vehicle to correct
problems arising out of the first phase. The proposed project would
introduce measuces to address these problems. The project would support
higher levels of cost recovery for pasture investment and operating costs
and the acquisition of appropriate equipment for the dairy. Managemeibt of
pasture and dairy activities would be decentre_ized to improve efficiency.
A land use study to address environmental problems would be supported.
IDA's Sectoral dialogue and Lending S_tratgy
1.18     As a result of lessons emerging from the first project and
experience from other projects IDA's sectoral dialogue and lending strategy
has evolve<. In-depth discussions with the Government have led to
recommendations to a mole away from dependence on project implementation
units and exclusive focus on integrated rural development type projects.
GOR and IDA have agreed to focus more directly on the development of
national approaches to sectoral probl.oms, by improving the policy framework
and investment strategy, including investment planning and management.
Attention would be given to institution-building to strergthen ministry
level capacity for planning, monitoring and evaluation, financial budgeting
and control, and training. Other priority areas retained for medium-term
focus and lending include development of the Government's agricultural
services essential for agricultural intensification; development of private
sector services for marketing, input supply and agricultural processing;
and identification and implementation of technical training priorities.
1.19     IDA has recently financed two oper  s4.ons which will fully support
the above sector strategies as they address .y issues of agricultural
services - extenslon and research, and sectoral management. The
Agricultural Research Project (Credit 1546 RW) is designed to address
research issues at the national level.  The Gitarama/Minagri Project
(Credit 1669 RW) will be a key instrument for reinforcing the ministry's
capability to stimulate agricultural production, employment and income
through the strengthening of extension and other agricoltural services and
the promotion of private sector initiatives. Similarly, the proposed
project would reinforce the implementation of national forestry policy
focusing on key areas of forest protection and prr,iotion of agroforestrv.
The project vould strengthen DGF's capacity to plan, monitor and evaluate



- 7 -
forestry sector programs and modest beginnings will be made to rationalize
extension activities in some of the commiunes covered b' the project along
the lines of efforts underway in the Gitarama/Minagri Project.
II. FORESTRY SECTOR
A. Background and Role in the Economy
2.0:     Rwanda's forests play a vital role in the economy and farming
systems. Wood provides about 95% of total energy requirements. The
natural forests play an important role in protection of upper watersheds
for a large part of the country as well as being important reserves of
Afrc-montane flora and fauna. At the farm level, trees form an important
part of traditional agro-forestry farming systems. They provide fruits,
tree fadder, building poles, mulch, fix nitrogen and reduce soil erosion.
Trees planted along farm boundaries reduce wind velocity and improve soil
moisture retention, both of which have a positive impact on crop yields.
Data on Rwanda's forest resources are weak due to the lack of a
comprehensive national survey. However, according to the latest (end 1984)
official estimates, forest vegetation covered an area of 656,000 ha or 25%
of the country's 'and area. If dispersed tre-s planted on farms and fallow
land and equivalent to a forested area of 68,300 ha are added, total forest
vegetation comes to 724,000 ha or 28% fo Rwanda's land aria.1
2.02     There are four remaining natural forests situated at elevations
between 1,700 and 4,500 meters above sea level along the Zaire-Nile Divide:
Nyungwe (97,000 ha), Mukura (2,000 ha), Gishwati (21,900 ha), and Birunga
(15,000 ha). The importar.t ecclogical and hydrological role of these
forests has led the Government to declare them reserves with the aim of
controlling activities such as mining, pitsawing, firewood gathering and
farning. In some of the forests population pressure coupled with heavy
livestock activity and ineffective protection has resulted in their
increased exploitation, degradation and reduction in size and quality
(Table 2.1). With the 6Aception of the Akagera National Park (267,000 ha),
and the adjacent Mutara nature reserve (L.,000 ha) the savannahs which
cover slightly more than half of the country's forest land are rapidly
disappearing mainly through illegal cutting to supply Kigali with charcoal.
The Government accepts that at the current rate of extraction, the
savannahs outside of these two reserves will probably disappear in the next
3-5 years and is trying to prevent si.,i±ar exploitation of the remaining
natural forests.
1/ Other estimates have put dispersed trees at a much higher figure - at
an equivalent forested area of up to 200,000 ha - for example, see
Winterbottom, Robert, "Rwanda Integrated Forestry and Livestock
PLoJect", Pre-preparation Mission, August 1985.



- 8 -
Table 2.1: Areas of Natusral Forest (ha)
-Y-----__---___-  __.._- year ------------------------
Forest               1958            1975            1980             1984
Savannah and 2
Gallery Forest       -          233,700          90,200          70,000
Nyungwe           114,100         103,300          99,(00          97,000
Gishwati               -           28,000          27,100          21,900
Birunga            34,000          15,000         1i5,000          15,000
Mukura                -             3,000           2,100           2,000
Source:  Draft 4th National Plan Forestry Subsector.
B. Consumptpon<_Product otn and Marke i_, of Wood
2.03     According to Government statistics total wood consumption at the
end of 1981 amounted to 4.9 mlllion m3 per annum or 0.91 m3 per capita per
year.  About 95% of this was for domestic energy consumption.  Estimates of
annual wood production from the different forest types are uncertain due to
different assumptions about yield and area.  Official estimates indicate a
figure of about 2.1 million m3 implying a deficit in production of about
2.8 million m3 per year.  Other sources put production figures much higher.
For example, the Winterbottom report3 on the incidence and potential of
farm forestry in Rwanda (based on surveys and estimates) indicates
production figures pos3ibly as high as 4.7 million m3. Most of this
nroduction is for fuelwood.  The wide divergence between produc*ion
estimates underlines the naucity of hard information in this area. There
is reason to believe that Gov:ernment estimates are on the low side because
of inadequate accounting for produc:ion fromn farm forestry.  The success of
farm forestry means that production deficits as estimated above tray be much
lower underlying the need for caution with programs aimed at establishing
new state fuelwood plantations pa ticularly since the latter are much less
cost effective than farm forestry. Production deficits are usually made up
by overcutting of plantations and natural forests and use of crop residues
at the expense of maintaining soil fertility.  With projected rapid
population increase and the attendant i-,crease in domestic ener,;y
requirements, measures should continue to intensify rural tree planting
while protecting the natural forests. These reasures should, however,
focus on encouragement of agroforestry, as proposed under the project.
2/ Excludes the Akagera and Mutara Parks.
3/ Winterbottom, Robert, Rwanda Integrated Fcrestrv and Livestock
Project", Pre-preparation Mission.



- 9 -
Measures shoul.d also be taken to establish a better database on fuelwood
production and -onsumption to guide policy.  This will be done in a study
to be supported under the proposed project (para. 2.04 and Annex 4,
Appendix 1).
2.04     Ve-y little of the wood cons:-,ed in Rwanda is traded.  Most wood
is gathered Locally by rural households for their own use.  Accordingly,
the market for wood is poorly developed, with very little information on
supply, demiand and prices.  The price of wood cut in state and coimmunal
plantatiorns is fixed by a ,ainisterial decree issued in 1983, but this
applies orly to a small part of current prouction (para. 5.06).  The
pararmeters that. entter into the calculation of official prices are not
clear.  As part of the build-up phase for the proposed project a study on
woed s;tpp1y, demziand and pricing issues including the rationale, methodology
and neces;i.ty for setting official prices would be carried out.   Effective
s;tart-iip of tie study would be a condition of board presentation.
Asst2raneces have beer obtained fr.'m GOR that by February 1, 1988, the study
would be cot,mploted and a draft action plan to improve wood pricing
devel  ped l,ased on the study s reconmendations. Thereafter a definitive
set of cr-it epria for determining wcod prices would be established jointly
withl 1DA  pi-. promptly iriiplemented.
2.05     Tir.p,otts of wood are small and limited to industrial purposes.  In
1983, t.c_al import-s amounted to 2,500 tons valued at RF 159 million or less
than V- c'i the total value of imports.  Not inicluded in these statistics is
an 1nr'c v.'V' ;:-lime of sawnwood which is pitsawn in Zaire and Uganda and
br ouglt "'lo" eciallv into Rwanda.  Market developments with regard to all
categ-grie  cue wood will need to be monitored.  Such monitoring is envisaged
:der r   ' r~oposed monit:,ring and evaluation program to be established .n.
A (,    ' :. ^(.  3j
2.t(6    Due rto Rwanda's landlocked position, alternative petroleum-based
domestic fuels are very expensive and are used only to a limited extent by
the privileged few. In addition, kerosene, gas and electricity require a
high lriitial investment for stoves, lamps, etc., beyond the budget of the
average hcuseihold. A recent Bank Improved Charcoal Cookstove Strategy
Paper ccmpared the characteristics and prices of different fuels in Rwanda,
showing that kerosene is six times more expensive than charcoal and over 30
times more ex-ensive than wcod for an equivalent amount of energy.  The uise
of peat, which i5 relatively inexpensive, is ruled out because of serious
tcchnologlcal a.id lhousehold preference problems. The development of
papyrui  hri:.ct:t_es, another alternative, is promising, but is at the early
sg  aopeills, therefore, that wood will continue to play a major
role !, rrla in the foreseeable future, underlining the importance of
cQ!:wb>i.~ sr .' iegies of prctection and conservation of natural forests with
t: ose C  of je,  p! pLcd-zction to serve energy needs.



- 10 -
C. 3overnment's Forestry Sec.or Policies
2.07     The Government's sector objectives and strategy are spelled out in
the draft forestry sector's five year development plan paper (1987-91) and
in the May 1986 strategy paper on the reorientation of agricultural
projects. The broal.. objectives are to achieve an equilibrium between the
demand and supply of forest products while maintaining an optimam amount of
forest cover for ecc.ogical purposes. The strategy for achieving these
objectives includes: introduction of a system of protection, conservation
and management of existing forest resources, continued reafforestation and
encouragement of agroforestry; improved maintenance of already reforested
areas, better integration of trees in agriculture and livestock farming
systems, iwiproved energy efficiency, better market.,g of forest products
and '.ncreased training of forestry personnel and entrepreneurs.
2.08     The policy framework for implementing the above strategy is
provided by PACZN and the "Loi forestiere" PACZN cjalls for the
establishment of reserves in the remaining natural forests, development of
buffer plantations and other protective measures, implementation of a
forest inventory and implementation of forest management activities. The
"Loi Forestiere" provides guidelines for the development and implementation
of all forestry activities including the enforcement of protection
regulations, control of the harvesting and exploitation of wood, procedures
for the classification and management of forest lands allocated to the
state, cormnunes (local government), and private sector; provision for the
development of national and communal forestry plans t:o define sectoral
goals and the organization of an FFN to finance forestry activities. The
Loi Forestire emphasizes the need for communes and the private sector to
play an increasing role in the development of the forestry sector. The
capacitv of the communes to participate in the forestry sector is, however,
at present severely limited by the lack of funds and techn.4cal expertise.
A World Bank study on the role of Rwanda's communes in rural 2evelo ment
should shed some light on how to involve conmnunes more effective-y.
2.09     Rwanda has made tremendous strides in setting out a policy
framework, strategy and specific targets for developzent of the forestry
sector. In this regard Rwanda is far ahead of many African countries.
Still more could be acliieved by refining action plans and focusing on cost
effective solutions to forest production, protection and conservation.
D. Sector Organization and Management
2.10     DGF is in charge of forestry activities.  It is quite new having
been established in 1983 with funding from the first phase IDA project
Credit 1039 RW and assistance from the Swiss. DGF's general
responsibilities are: the formulation and application of national forest
policy; the preparation and implementation of national forestry plans; the
preparation, monitoring and control of forestry projects and forest
4/ The study, begun September 1986, is being carried out by the Programs
division.



- 11 -
legislation and regulation of harvesting. DGF faces a shortage of trained
personnel. There are at present 23 forest engineers, 50 forest technicians
and 120 village level forestry personnel. This is less than a quarter of
the staff estimated by the agency as necessary to enable it to effectively
carry out its mandate. Local training of forest technicians by the Swiss
and training of higher level foresters through the proposed project should
help to improve the situation.
2.11     In additicn to DGF, other important actors in the forestry sector
include co munles (local goverrunents) which own and man..ge over 40,000 ha of
plantations. The Rwandese Tourism Office controls over 300,000 ha of
national parks and the tea and pyrethrum parastatals (OCIR The, Office du
Pyrethre) and other companies have established fuelwood plantation to
supply thefr energy and other wood needs. Of great importance are the
actions of over twenty donozr-assisted development projects that either have
a forestry component or are focused mainly on forestry.  About 35,000 ha of
state plantations have been established through these projects. The
projects play an important role in integrated forestry development and in
institutional development of the forestry sector. Among the many
multilateral and bilateral donors the Swiss have had the greatest impact on
the forest sector particularly in training and policy fornulation. Non-
governmental organizations such as CARE International and Africare are also
beginning to assume some importance. The natural forest protection
component would involve four external aid agencies:  CCCE (France), Swiss
Aid, FED and IDA in parallel financing of the component.
E. Sector Funding
2.12     Government funding for forestry sector activities has only been
clearly separated from funding for other agricultural sector activities
from 1984. About 12% of the US$14 million agriculture sector budget is
allocated to forestry on the average each year. Annual appropriatior.s 'rom
the recurrent budget (budget ordinaire) amount to about RF 115 million
(US$1.4 million) and from the development budget RF 32 million (US$0.4
million). This is in contrast to financing from external sources estimated
- average about RF 605 million (US$7.3 million) per annum and channelled
for the most part through the various development projects. External
funding is the driving force behind the development of the forestry sector
and will continue to be for some time to come.  The Government is however
becoming increasingly aware of the :.eed to develop local sources of
financing and has (with Swiss assistance) created the FFN, as an
extrabudgetary mechanism to channel receipts from exploitation of
Government plantations along with other monies accruing to the forestry
sector. Such monies could be increased by introducing appropriate policies
regarding stumpage fees and a measure of direct cost recovery for seedlings
in the 1,500 government and project-supported village nurseries. The
proposed project would assist DGF to initiate a gradual and modest program
of cost recovery focused mainly on beneficiaries who do not contribute to
nursery establishmient costs_



- 12 -
F. Main Sectoral Issues
2.13     The lack of a rational forest policy was regarded in the past as
the main constraint to development of the forestry sector. Now, a broad
policy framework is in place along with necessary instrumients. However,
the means to implement the policies are still a major problem, as is the
delineation of responsibilities for management of the sector. Key
questions relate to the role of the regular line agency DGF in sector
management, the role of Government parastatals, donor-assisted developmernt
projects and the private sector. With these various actors and with DGF's
limited capacity to monitor, evaluate and coordinate project activities,
there is a danger of disparate and conflicting policies. Clearly, there is
a need to strengthen DGF's monitoring and evaluation capa ;ity and thereby
its analytical and planning capability.
2.14.    Another major problem facing the forestry sector is the general
critical shortage of agricultural land and how to manage the competing
demands of forestry, agriculture and livestock activities. Livestock
rearing has increasingly encroached on forest land while the planting of
farm trees competes with the need for agricultural land. Recent studies
suggest the possibility of building on traditional agro-forestry techniqaes
to better integrate forestry with agriculture and livestock rearing. The
present densities of less than 50 trees per ha of farmland are relatively
low and could be increased by up to 300Z with selected species that perform
multiple functions including prevention of soil erosion, improvement of
soil nutrient content, provision of fodder for livestock and wood for fuel.
The challenge facing the forestry sector is the development and
dissemination of these relevant species through appropriate nursery
development policies and improved agro-forestry research.
2.15     The very weak information base on the supply, demand pricing and
commercial,zation of wood is an important issue for the forestry sector.
The reliability of official estimates of wood production and consumption is
often called into question and very little information exists on wood
pricing and marketing (para. 2.04). There is limited monitoring of the
changing dynamics of wood supply and demand. The situation may be more
serious for some categories of wood than for others. For example, there
are suggestions of a current and projected oversupply of pine (used for
sawnwood) in the medium term. While the production of sawnwood can be
estimated with some accuracy due to known plantation establishment rates,
the picture is unclear with regard to demand. There is clearly a need for
improvement in the collection of information. The proposed scudy on wood
pricing and marketing would improve the information base for policy
decisions related to forest products. Future monitoring of market
conditions for various categories of wood would be included in the proposed
monitoring and evaluation program for rural afforestation.



- 13 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale
3.01     The project would provide a major impetus to the implementation of
Government policies for the protection and conservation of Rwanda's
remaining natural forests and the promotion of agro-forestry to increase
fue.wood supplies. The project would build on the experience accumulated
during the first phase to assist the Government in carrying out difficult
but innovative institutional reforms involving the progressive phasing out
of project implementation by project units and assumption of this function
by the ministry structure or, where suitable, by the private sector. The
project would further serve as a means for improving management and
implementation of programs begun in the first project.
3.02     The project would consist of (a) completion and maintenance of
investments in plantations and pastures made in the first project; (b)
continuation and strengthening of activities which have proved successful
in the first project and reorientation of others which have experienced
implementation problems; and (c) development of new activities in forest
protection and agro-forestry. A summary description of proposed project
activities is given below.
B. Summary ProJect Description
3.03     The project would include:
(a) protection and conservation of the Nyungwe and Gishwati
natural forests through the development of buffer
plantations, support for an ecological inventory and a
natural resources monitoring and evaluation program.
(b) support to agroforestry and rural afforestation through the
strengthening of seedling production and distribution,
support for a modest cost recovery program for seedlings,
implementation of a rural afforestation monitoring and
evaluation program, and training of higher-level foresters
and other forestry workers.
(c) integrated forestry, agriculture, and livestock development
in Gishwati comprising completion of investments and
maintenance of pastures and plantations developed in the
first project; development of an additional 2,000 ha of
protection plantations on degraded slopes; support for a land
use study and for new approaches to land management in the
Gishwati forest, and intensification of extension services
around the forest.
(d) maintenance of fuelwood and pole short rotation plantations
around Kigali and Butare developed in the first project.



- 14 -
(e) support for applied research (principally on-farm and on-
plantation trials) on animal nutrition, forest plantation
development, agroforestry and natural forest management; and
(f) support for a pilot pasture rehabilitation operation in the
Mutara region.
C. Geographical Coverage
3.04     The majority of the project's activities would be implemented in
the Nyungwe forest in southwest Rwanda and in the Gishwati forest in the
northwest. IBRD Map 20054. The Nyungwe forest straddles three
prefectures: Gikongoro, Cyangugu and a small part of KiLuye. The forest
has been divided into four zones, Unite Gestion de Zone (UGZ's) for which
protection activities are to be financed by IDA, CCCE, FED and Swiss Aid in
parallel. IBRD Map 90057. IDA-financed activities would be in UGZ3, a
25,000 ha. area southeast of the forest in Gikongoro prefecture in the
communes of Mudasomwa, Kivu and Nshili. The Gishwati forest is located in
Gisenyi prefecture. Pasture and plantation maintenance and development
would take place inside the legally designated area of the forest where
conversion of degraded forest has occurred and is planned while extension
activities would be concentrated in the communes surrounding the zorest,
namely Rwerere, Mutura and Kanama. Other project activities i.e.,
maintenance of fuelwood plantations would take place around Kigali and
Butare, the two largest cities while the small pilot pasture improvement
component would be carried out in Mutara in the north east of Rwanda.
Agro-forestry programs would be concentrated ir. the communes around Kigali
and Butare. However, support for monitoring and evaluation of rutal
afforestation would be national in scope.
D. Detailed Features
Natural Forest Protection and Managoment (US$5.5 million)
3.05     The technical aspects of natural forest protection and management
are summarized in Annex 3. Details can be found in the project's
Implementation Volume. The component would include principally the
protection, conservation and management of the Nyungwe and Gishwati
forests.
3.06     Protection of Nyungwe Forest.  PACZN provides the basis for the
protection of the Nyungwe forest. PACZN calls for setting aside 40% of the
area of Nyungwe (i.e., 39,000 ha) as a natural ecosystem reserve and
carrying out management activities on the remaining 60%. PACZN also calls
for the development of a management structure and an applied research
program. The most important management activities would be a forest
inventory and establishment of buffer plantations. Other activities could
include silvicultural operations, enrichment plantings, timber stand
improvement and production pLantations of native species. Their exact



- 15 -
nature would be determined and agreed upon by Government and the donors
after the forest inventory but would exclude commercial timber extraction
which would be environmentally unsound on the steep slopes of Nyungwe and
economically unjustified. The four donors (para. 3.04) would follow the
guidelines set out by PACZN and subsequent modifications to these
guidelines discussed and agreed upon by the donors and DGF from time to
time5 .
3.07     On this basis, the project would establish about 900 ha of buffer
plantations to serve as a "zone of control" between agricultural areas and
the natural forest. The plantations of exotics, e.g. Pinus patula C.
Lusitanica and A. melanoxylon and lndigenous species, e.g., Polysciars
fulva, would consist of a strip of up to 200 meters wide along a 45
kilometer forest boundary located in Mudasomwa, Kivu and Nshili communes.
The practice of taungya (i.e. growing of crops between trees in the
plantation) would be allowed in a carefully supervised manner to reduce
site preparation and weeding costs and to involve the local population in
project activities. Before detailed planning of the buffer plantations can
proceed, it will be necessary to establish a legal boundary to conform with
the current state of the forest, The final choice of the boundary line and
the extent to which buffer plantations should extend outside it would be
made by a commission consisting of representatives of DGF and local
officials. Constitution of the commission and demarcation of legal
boundaries for the buffer plantations would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. The project would finance the construction of an
implementation unit near Tangabo or Busenyi and two outstations at Kivu and
Nshili communes. About 65 km of roads would be established to provide
access to the presently inaccessible forest boundary. A system of forest
guards and guard posts would be supported.
3.08     The project would support an ecological inventory designed to
complete an iaformation base on the biological and ecological composition
of the Afro-montane forest in Nyungwe and to improve the capability of
Rwandese personnel and institutions to deal with natural resource
assessment surveys. The inventory would include vegetational surveys,
compilation of a faunal list and surveys of endangered animal species.
Other aspects would include analyses of forest ecosystems, studies of soil
formation, for.hst hydrology and forest vegetation dynamics. To ensure
consistency in approach, the inventory would be implemented in all four
sections of the forest supervised by the donors. It has been agreed by DGF
and the donors that proposed project-supported inventory activities outside
the IDA zone (UGZ3) vould complete and complement those being carried out
by the other donors.
3.09     The project would also support the establishment of a natural
resources monitoring and evaluation program for Nyungwe but with potential
for extension to Gishwati and other natural forests. Activities to be
monitored would include the effectiveness of protection activities and the
5/ Two of these donors, the Swiss and the FED have already begun work in
Nyungwe forest. They have each established about 2,000 ha of pine
plantations including a buffer zone, and the Swiss have carried out a
series of experiments and trials in UGZ1. The CCCE plans to begin its
protection and management activities in 1987. Further details are in
Annex 3.



- 16 -
incidence and the impact on the forest of the fzllowing: illegal wood
extraction, agricultural encroachment, livestock grazing, harvesting of
non-industrial wood products, mining, wildlife poaching and highway
construction. Areas of key concern would be the impact of the above on
species composiLion of the forest, loss of topsoil, soil fertility,
disruption of stream flow, total water yield, sediment load, impact on
wildlife populations, loss of biological diversity and impact on forest
dwelling populations. The specific design of the natural resources
monitoring and evaluation program and the ecological inventory will be
firmed up during project start-up activities in 1987. Terms of reference
for the studies are included in Annex 3. Start-up of the design studies is
a condition of board presentation. During negotiations assurances were
obtained on the satisfactory completion of the design studies by Februery
1, 1988 and prompt execution of the designs thercsfter.
3.10     Protection of the Gishwati forest would be along the lines
described for Nyungwe.   The project would finance 200 ha of buffer
plantations to protect the 5,000 ha largely undegraded reaerve6 . The
buffer plantat 'ons would be established over a distance of 9 km. of the
north and east boundaries of the reserve where clearing has taken place for
potato cultivation. Another 9 km of buffer plantation would be made up of
the 2,000 ho of sawlog plantations to be established on steep denuded
slopes in the forest. The project would upgrade 10 km of trail along the
northern border of the reserve and employ additional forest guards to
strengthen patrolling of the forest. It is expected that once the natural
resources monitoring and evaluation program for Nyungwe is established its
activities will extend to Gishwati. Monitoring and evaluation would focus
on the incidence and impact of potato cultivation, livestock grazing, and
other agricultural activity on loss of topsoil, soil fertility and
hydrology in the forest.
Agroforestry and Rural Afforestation (US$1.8 million)
3.11     The project would promote agroforestry and rural afforestation
through the strengthening of seedling production and distribution programs.
This would involve the upgrading of 60 sector (village-level) nurseries in
eight communes to serve as training grounds for farmers in agroforestry
techniques and for production and dissemination of a wide variety of
agroforestry species. Beginring in the third project year, and depending
on the availability of interested farmer or village groups, efforts would
be initiated to privatize these nurseries. The project would also support
private sector initiatives in seedling production focused primarily on the
deve.opment of collective private nurseries managed by farmer groups.
About 20 new groups per year producing about 5,000 plants each would be
supported. The plants would be destined primarily for their own use.
Other initiatives in seedling production involving schools, private farmers
or non-governmental organWzations (NGOs) could also be supported according
to demand. Funding would be provided to DGF to establish a seed storage
center to facilitate seedling distribution.
6/ The original area of Gishwati forest was 2R,000 ha consisting of an
8,000 ha. military domain, 5,000 ha reserve and 15,000 ha degraded
area. During the first phase project about 5,400 ha of the degraded
portion was converted to pastures and plantations. Additional areas
have been cleared by potato growers leaving about 21,900 ha of forest
Table 2.1.



- 17 -
3.12     The project would assist DGF to initiate direct cost recovery for
seedlings produced in the sector nurseries. About 50Z of the cost of
seedling production is currently recovered through communal labor
(umuganda). The project would initiate payments for plsnts by
beneficiaries not participatinig in umuganda at a rate equal to the unit
cost of production of the plants.  Those contributing labor would receive
an initial number of plants free after which they would have to pay for
additional plants at about a third of their cost. It is expected that if
this pilot effort succeeds in the 60 nurseries proposed for project
support, it would be extended to other nurseries country-wide.  Careful
monitoring of the progress, weaknesses and strengths of the component would
be an important objective of the monitoring and evaluation program for
rural afforestation (pa a. 3.13).
3.13     The project would strengthen the implementation and management of
forestry sector programs through the training of higher-level foresters
(para. 3.28) and in-service training of forest technicians. Local
administrative personnel, educators, extension agents and others carrying
out forestry-related work would also be trained through short workshops and
seminars.  A monitoring and evaluation program would be supported to
improve DGF's supervision, planning and management capacity. Several
important programs and policies would be monitored such as seedling
production and distribution, forestry extension, market developments for
wood and wood products. The wood pricing and marketing study proposed
under the project would help develop important indicators for monitoring.
During the project build-up phase, a Rwandese cadre would be supported for
three months to study similar programs in Bank-assisted foLestry projects
in othev East African countries. He would develop the detailed design for
the monitoring and evaluation program on his return to Rwanda.   Assurances
were obtained from GOR that the draft detailed design would be discussed
with IDA by February 1, 1988 after which it would be finalized and promptly
implemented.
Integrated Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Develop,nent in Gishwati
(US$10.0 million)
3.14     Support for integrated forestry, agriculture and livestock
aevelopment in Gishwati would comprise five activLties: maintenance of
plantations developed in the first project, comapletion of investments and
maintenance of pasture and dairy activities developed in the first project,
a land use study of the Gishwati forest and support for new approaches to
land management; development of new industrial protection plantaticns; and
intensification of extension services around the forest.
3.15     Maintenance of Indust:ial Plantations developed in the First
Proiect (US$0.3 million). The project would support the maintenance of
about 2,100 ha of industrial (largely pine) plantations established in
Phase I including upkeep of 50 km of plantation roads.  Maintenance
activities would inc',ude weeding, low pruning, some thinning and
supervision of tau..gya cultivators. The practice of taungya would be
permitted, as in Nyungwe, to reduce weeding costs and allow an additional
source of income for the local people. . rotation of different crops which
cause less disturbance to the soil, such as maize and peas, would bf



- 18 -
encouraged until plantations reach at least 18 months after which potato
cultivation (popular in the area) may be permitted. The taungya system
uvuld be rigorously supervised by pro4 act staff. A contrac~t would be drawn
up between each participant and the Gishwati subunit stating clearly the
obligations of the cultivator and penalties for non-compliance. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from GOR that the contracts would be
rigorously enforced.
3.16     Completion and Maintenance of Pasture and Dairy Activities
developed in the first prolect (US$2.8 million). The first project
developed 3,400 ha of pastures and some revenue-earning entities namely a
dairy, livestock technical support centre (CAT), a beef fattening facility
(Zone d'embouche), and a veterinary pharmacy. The proposed project would
finance the maintenance of about 1,600 ha of pastures for a period of two
years or until milk production reaches a break-even level of 30 liters per
day whichever comes earlier. Funding would be provided for pasture upkeep,
and administrative costs of the Gishwati livestock unit. The project would
finance the establishment of 30 ha of quarantine zones, a slaughter slab at
the beef fattening facility, and the purchase of dairy equipment to make
the dairy functional at 5,000 litres per day processing capacity.
Additional funding would be included to bring dairy processing capacity up
to 10,00o liters per day but use of these funds would be condit'oned on
joint IDA-GOR agreement on dairy processing recommendations of a livestock
subsector study financed under SPPF (para. 3.20). The project would
introduce the use of artificial insemination to optimize the number of
cattle on the pastures and reduce the Dossibility of disease. The purchase
of pure breed cattle from Kivu would nevertheless continue to complete
charging of Phase I pastures (including those for CAT). This would be
financed through loca, commercial banks. Agreement has been reached that
as of February 1, 1987 credit would no longer be extended to pasture owners
at subsidized rates for cattle purchase.  The Gishwati project unit would
assist groups of livestock owners in an equitable manner to prepare the
necessary papers for loans. Assurances were obtained to this effect.
During the course of project preparation, a number of agreements were
reached on the technical aspects of pasture and dairy developments. These
are summarized in para 7.0).
3.17     The project would assist GOI to create a Federation of Livestock
Owners (FDLO) to take over management of the pasture activities including
the revenue earning entities. This is in line with the objective of
pri"atizing management of the Gishwati pasture activities and gradually
diminishing the role of the GBK project unit (para 4.11). FDLO would be
constituted with the help of local and foreign technical assistants during
the first three years of the project and is expected to assume its
management role by end ;989. Federation members and officials wculd
receive training and study tours to develop their managerial capacities.
Pending the formation of the Federation, ranagement of pasture activities
would be decentralized from Kigali to Gishwati. The revenue-earning
entities would be run as commercial enterprises from the beginning of the
project.
3.18     Support for New A  roaches to Land Management and a Land Use Study
_S$1.8 million). The project would include a sum of US$1.8 million to
implement new approaches to land management in the degraded areas of the
Gishwati forest based on the recommendations of a land use and management



- 19 -
study which would be carried out starting during the project build-up
phase. The study (estimated cost US$0.3 million) would explore new and
more cost-effective approaches to management of land resources in the
Gishwati forest, particularly the remaining, 9,000 ha degraded area
scheduled for conversion. A further important objective of the study would
be to address environmental concerns stemming from increased livestock and
human encroachment, in particular in the 5,000 ha undegraded reserve.
Environmental problems are complicated by the premature clearing by potato
growers of a large part (Lp to 3,000 ha.) of the degraded forest area (some
of this on steep slopes). The land use study would be carried out in two
phases. In the first phase (about 6 months) the study would:
(a) determine currer. land uses; and (b) evaluate the relative suitability
of the study area for various possible land uses and identify sites
suitable for development of forest protection plantations and other types
of development. In the next phase (about 6 months), the study would (a)
explore how to involve the local people more closely in the development of
the area; (bhl select the most suitable combination of land uses for the
study area which, in conjunction with forest protection measures, would
also provide solutions for destocking of cattle and (c) produce a detailed
management plan including investment proposals for future land/livestock
development. Terms of reference are attached in Annex 5.
3.19     Completion of the study would take a maximum of 12 months.  It
would be carried out by a team of technical assistants in collaboration
with the Rwandese beginning February 1987. About USSl1S million (of which
US$1.05 million IDA-financed) would be used to implement new approaches to
land development including the possibility for pastu.-e establishment by
farmers (rather than by the Gishwati unit) in combination with some
cropping and agroforestry activities. A small amount of the funds
(US$35,000 IDA-financed) would be used at the beginning of the project to
increase supervision of potato growers and to intro. -ce alternative
techniques of cultivation and other crops (e.g. peas, beans and maize) that
are more ecologically beneficial. About US$300,000 (of which US$210,000
IDA-financed) would be used for a limited amount of pasture establishment
in 1988 to absorb pure-breed cattle that will become available from Zaire
and to experiment with increasee levels of farmer participation in pasture
establishment. The remaining funds US$1.2 million (of which US$800,000
IDA-financed) would be used to continue land development after GOR and IDA
have reached agreement on an action plan for future land use in Gishwati
based on the recommendation of the land use study. Disbursement of the
US$800,000 in IDA funds woulc be conditioned on GOR-IDA agreement on the
action plan.
3.20     A livestock sub-sector study financed under SPPF and scheduled for
completion by December 31, 1987 would provide complementary information on
appropriate types of dairy processing, pricing of dairy products, marketing
and distribution channels for milk production in Gishwati and elsewhere in
Rwanda. This would address problems of processing, pricing and marketing
arising out of the first project. The results of this study would also be
an important element in the consideration of future land use for livestock
cevelopment in Gishwati,
3.21     SUPrt for New Sswlog Plantations (US$1.7 million).  The project
would finance the establishment of 2,000 ha of sawlog plantations to
protect denuded forest areas where there is environmental damage caused by



- 20 -
the excessive forest clearing and poorly implemented potato cultivation.
Plantations would be established principally on areas vith average slopes
over 400. The plantations would also complete the buffer zone to be
developed as protection for the 5,000 ha forest reserve (para. 3.10).
Specific sites would be identified during the first phase of the land use
study (para. 3.18). The plantations would be established over a four-year
period and would comprise principally Cypressus lusitanica and Acacia
melanoxylor with cypress on the better site classes. About 40 km. of new
plantation roads would be constructed.
3.22     Intensification of Extension Activities.  (US$3.4 million) After
many years of uncoordinated extension activity, Government is currently in
the process of establishing a national extension policy and working out an
extension structure. As part of the process a national extension seminar
was held in February 1987 in which IDA staff participated as observers.
Ideas emerging out of the seminar indicate an extension policy and
structure along the lines being pursued in the IDA-financed
Gitarama/Minagri Project (Credit 1669 RW). Proposed project extension
activities would be carried out within the framework of the latter project
but the extension structure proposed should be sufficiently flexible to
allow for fit into the national structure when this is finally articulated.
The project would continue and intensify the delivery of extension services
begun in the first phase in the communes of Rwerere, Kanama and Mutura on
the northwest border of the Gishwati forest. Support would also be
provided to improve coordination of extension activities in the Gisenyi
prefecture and to initiate the streamlining of extension ser.ice delivery
along the lines being pursued in the Gitarama/Minagri Project.
3.23     The project would support the extension of already proven and
successful themes and packages focusing on stallfeeding of cattle and
goats; use of composting and farm-yard manure; erosion control through on-
farm terracing; improved techniques for potato cultivation including use of
fertilizer and insecticides; and development of woodlots. Increased
communitl participation in forest nurseries through contribution of labor
and direct cost recovery for nursery plants would be introduced. Support
would be provided for the development of new themes and packages focusing
on on-farm testinig and introduction of multi-purpose woody species known to
be beneficial for erosion control, fertilization, fodder and fuelwood;
development of better terracing techniques for erosion control and soil
conservation; optimum methods of integration of livestock on small farms
without sufficient space for fodder production and limited fallow land.
Other areas would be the introduction of themes on the value of the natural
forest and improved animal nutrition and health care.
3.24     The project would support in-country training of extension agents
and subject matter specialists. The current system of one extension agent
and one "aide veterinaire" per sector (group of ten villages) will be
gradually replaced by a system of one extension agent per sector assisted
by three sublec'. matter specialists at the commune level. The project
would provide vehicles and equipment to make the extension agents and
specialists more effective in this work. Agreement has been reached that
payment for the vehicles wouild be deducted monthly from the salaries of the
personnel at a rate to be determined by Minagri. The project would promote
the privatization of input supply and delivery through groups of farmers
and/or private merchants who would be encouraged and ass4sted to take over



- 21 -
distribution of certain inputs. At the prefecture level, the project would
support the development of a core unit of three AOs under the "prefecture
agronome," to coordinate extension activities, and to assist with the
development of new themes and packages. The unit would also assist in the
training of extension agents dna in -onitoring and evaluation of extension
activities over the prefecture. The core unit could later move to the
sous-prefecture level if it is so decided under the emerging national
extension structure. Changes in the project's proposed extension
organization should be discussed and agreed with IDA by December 31, 1989.
Assurances were obtained from GOR to this effect. Extension service
delivery, currently the responsibility of several donor-financed projects,
would gradually come under the supervision of the core unit.
Mainrtenance of Kigali-Butare Fuelwood and Pole Short Rotation Plantations
(US$2.0 million)
3.25     About 7,000 ha of plantations were established in Phase I around
the major towns of Kigali and Butare to supply fuelwood (for charcoal) and
building poles to the urban population. About 2,000 ha of these
plantations are not expected to be productive due to poor sites but will be
important for protection purposes (para. 1.16). The project would support
the maintenance of about 3,600 ha of the productive plantations,
maintenance of 700 km of firebreaks, 60 km of access tracks, and
construction of 32 km of extraction tracks for harvesting of the older
plantations. In carrying out maintenance operations overheads would be
kept to the minimum possible level. In this regard, only stands four years
and younger (planted after 1983) would be weeded and only those which on
average have a stocking greater than 40% (640 stems per ha). Tl'e project
would finance labor, small tools and a tractor trailer for extrac.ion
activities.
Applied Research (US$0.3 million)
3.26     Applied research would involve mainly on-farm and on-plantation
t.rials designed to respond to problems directly related to project
implementation. Support would be provided for on-site experim.ents and teed
trials on the Kikuyu grass pastures of Gishwati and the use of concentrate
feeds and minerals. Adaptive research on the intensification of stall fed
animals would be carried out in close collaboration with the extension
services.  This would be closely linked to agroforestry research trials_on
the use of tree and shrub fodder in animal husbandry. Other agro-forestry
trials would involve on-farm selection of leguminous trees that contribute
to soil fertility, the impact of various tree management systems such as
pruning and pollarding on crop yields, and studies of the interaction
between trees and farm-crops. In relation to fuelwood, a particularly
important research area would be close spacing trials of fast growing
species. Applied research on forest plantations would include monitoring
of some permanent sample plots in project plantations to help answer
fundamental questions on choice of species and provenances for specific
locations. Other support would be provided for analysis of existing data
on sample plots, establishment of f rtilizer trials, and establishment of
species tests for new plantation areas in Gishwati and Nyungwe and on
methods for protection against rat damage of cypress plantations. As
information develops from the Nyungwe ecological inventory ISAR would
assist with natural forest management research (para. 4.12).



- 22 -
Mutara Pasture Rehabilitation (US$0.5 million)
3.27     The project would fund a pilot experimental effort to rehabilitate
pastures developed under the IDA-financed Mutara II Rural Development
project (Credit 937 RW) closed December 31, 1986. Although project
implementation has been satisfactory, the sustainability of the project's
impact is in doubt because of the continuous deterioration of pastures
resulting from the beneficiaries' inability to eradicate noxious shrub and
grass species. Recent consultant reports proposed bush clearing, ploughing
and pasture re-seeding by tractors on the most degraded parts covering
about 10,000 ha or a quarter of total pasture area. The efficacy of the
technique proposed has, however, not been proven in the project area's
conditions. To overcome the aJove problems, the proposed project would
support experimentation with rehabilitation of 1,500 ha of pastures over a
two year period. The experimentation would test the technical, financial
and economic feasibility of the pasture rehabilitation methods proposed in
the consultants' report and compare this with pasture rehabilitation mainly
through labor intensive methods presently being tried. The project would
finance some equipment and labor costs. GOR and IDA would review results
of the pilot operation at the end of two years and draw conclusions on
whether to extend rehabilitation by this method to the rest of the Mutara
region. During negotiations, the methodology for evaluating results from
pasture rehabilitation was discussed and agreed.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.28     Provision has been made for inclusion of technical assistance and
training in several components. A summary of these requirements is
included in Annex 2. The project would finance a total of 10.5 manyears of
long-term technical assistance and 72 man-months of short term
consultancies for project implementation and management. Key long-term
positions would be five years of an ecologist and one and a half years of a
financial management expert for the Nyungwe component and three years of a
zootechnician for the Gishwati pasture component. About 43 man-months of
consultancies would be for initiation of activities and studies during the
project build-up phase. It is expected that about 15 man-months of the
short-term consultancies could be provided by locally available experts.
Assurances were obtained that the terms of reference and conditions of
employment of technical assistants would be acceptable to IDA. The project
would finance 23 man-years of regional and overseas training and study
tours. The bulk of this (18 manyears) would be for graduate training of
about eight higher level foresters. Candidates must have a minimum of a
bachelor's degree in forestry or agronomy and must sign a bQnd of service
to GOR on completion of training for a length of time to be decided by GOR
but in no case less than twice the period spent in training. Assurances
were obtained to this effect. During negotiations GOR and IDA agreed on
criteria for selection of candidates.



- 23 -
E. Proiect Costs
3.29     Total project cost (including direct taxes of about US$1.0
million)7 is estimated at US$20.1 million (RF 1,660.2 million), of which
US$8.5 million or 42% is foreign exchange. Costs are based on quantity and
unit price estimates prepared by DGF, the GBK project unit, ISAR and other
Government agencies. Unit price estimates for vehicles, equipment and
civil works are in line with past project experience and recent civil works
contracts.
3.30     Price contingencies amount to 12% of total base costs plus
physical contingencies and have been calculated on the basis of foreign
inflation rates of 3% in 1987, 1% in 1988-90, and 3.5% in 1991-92 and local
inflation rates of 3% in 1987, 6% in 1988, 5% in 1989 and 3% in 1990-92.
Prices are as of mid-1986, updated to May 1987. Physical contingencies of
102 have been included for selected project items such as civil works and
building construction where there are sources of uncertainty. Expatriate
consultant costs have been estimated on the basis of US$10,000 per man-
month (inclusive of salaries, fees and travel). Project costs are
summarized in Table 3.1. Details are presented in Annex 7 and in the
Implementation Volume.
F. Financing
3.31     A financing plan by major project components is presented in Table
3.2. The proposed IDA Credit of US$14.1 million would cover 70% of project
costs and would be provided to GOR on standard terms and condit'ons. The IDA
Credit would finance the following: all technical assistance co;ts and the
costs of overseas and regional training and studies, 70% of the cost of civil
works (consisting mainly of land preparation for plantations, road construction
and pasture maintenance), equipment and vehicles, and 60% of operating costs
excluding salaries and per diems. IDA financing includes a PPF, refinanced
under the credit, of US$1.5 million for build-up of project activities. GOR
would provide US$6.0 million or 30% of project costs including taxes. GOR's
contribution would finance all staff salaries and per diems, 30% of civil works
costs and 40% of operating costs other than salaries and per diem.
7/ Import duties have been excluded since the Government has indicated
that these would be waived.



- 24 -
r= rosRnv rmm-cr
m SXC. COOT ~1rY
(rUN   000                        (US$ '0)ta
Locl    roc,n          ot.l         Lac,   ,'mO gn TLote]    Exchue    Coiti
..RRNosmus    etoan    ............ as anganssaxa   xxotss:s  somacm:
A. DMVTAL rMT  TM8i    NY1C
D11TI:  6WITATII1ON                                                                   224UY.6 6 C#962.9   212.005  .1i4o0,  1,uZ.S            2,5:.:,            42        :l
rJST ECOLOGY ! I1TS   AOJ¢ T )UAL.T CMrTROL M11O(OA3 :.  1271074.0 vOI   :                                                    .,..1  1.41:20  2.C1 2.     : '     0   ;     2
S T-ToUl VATt2A  TOKCT DWMaCC     NrJIEs                                                173p.`2.8 20',157.7   38ci520.5    MCC.) 2,4"5s   454.4, 'v
to AGWORMTRY AND =AL AMEoSTATION C B 
T PRoAJ¶ TO D, 4.4M5.0 v.4:  . 415.0                                                                                          U.0 4   5'^.2  1p2'1,7            4u          7
='IST TO   .V(rMY I  ITAT10.Ct '.IMCC ,'1  IMIATMINC  I EVALIATI1N                    12371.6  19,s00.5   132.2. .            4Sa    2ll". 1.0607              "u2          2
U-TotUl' AWO;XTDY N OIAL AFTUrSTAT1ON C'fI                                               IV IV I 01A5 *.¶LP 2                    w If.AE Cv 7,7, 4.,4 nA                       0
c. txINIATro rMSTRY.PAMCID( AN  JIM.='rt     KWL0F11EH'TC
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C.                                          .        .     .       . .I  ... 
KICALI   EXTSAIPAWIAHON r     mANTWIL                                                89,438&3  44.5=0           4 2 IU 4*49A.5 .404        1       vel          77          A
ssswor:~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~L  *AAtll                         if   4 re4.if *§ve    1. 4| |ut  *  77  57 if  7     w  n9           C LA
GISHMATI NEW KMATN N EISTAOL13hIN"T                                                  '.''.31`  3  32,200.3    977431.5         1      300,C   170.0 3 3                     7
CI:IMATI Ur rI AMTATION ESTAILISUNT                                                    T,740.0   1,753.4        141722,2     12v4      211        1 4.2          15
C tUXt~~ ISt                                                                                             *j4ULll; vRCA*   t3UL    .lIDVI    u               7uvva w 0  L- ousvj 
CGMATI MNT3AL  AflXISCTTRATION                                                        27-.57.4.    .057.       47. 403P.     331.7   240M5    572-2             42         '3
LvTEoIN A c .,VJTIrO                                                                 `51 341.2'  X', 474     2 I    S I5,w  '1.0234   V20,2      i               31 *5
GX COkPINAt:N Corinr                                                                 n-,l60.5  166 - 3 .      4E 17,I M,     3 7J .    ,C 4.4:1    z        
Si  Totl: S TCOATED FMESTIrAMIAMA ULf           AC  L!'wCTD0= D1MWLDi`(T(6X)            WIA A.* *Ao4 ,3._            A         '4 Ai4 O . 63.9 3 w,. l4  5    v,530.4    ..   ', 
D. UM¶tE MSMV
ra0T nDCAfl@1                                      O,70.7.9  12 1,0:  21.:.C .0                                              104     :''.0   15.W4 2-  A
v    ol RCMATR  ItBRI                                                                 utC^|   :.t8                               I              IusO v*   6+ w.@u
D~Totsl ArTULZ  RESEM1                                                                   0.706.9  12I "1.2    21.lA.0           14.01S~4           2.                 
C. MTAPA rILOT "A             MJ0IL1TATAMN                                              12.322.0  21:0'2.C   3"374.0            14:0.5   253       4C0 .: I                   2
Total: MCLIc  C4TS                                                                        030040.A0  :.015.3 1.U:.' '74 .Z   10,11:.4 .371.3 1.302.'                  42       :OC
; A .;c u                                                                              *AA A9i;icF  7  tAOAt 4 AuuiA   A *   4OsO^Eb  A7s A n**   -, A *    ,      4         4
* AI     , II A5 C   *0  "tI   I tv                  it       LLu
UV33003 25355S3  *3If Sg    :32.033. *329fl; 330330  *33*flZa   .3:...
.n S. :^,G' :::57



- 25 -
Table 3.2: Financing Plan
Financing Plan
US$ million
Component                                   GOR              IDA            Total
Integrated forestry, Agriculture
and Livestock Development in              4.38             7.77           12.15
Gishwati, Kigali and Butare
Natural Forest Protection and
Management Nyungwe                        1.29             4.04            5.33
Agroforestry and Rural Afforestation        0.18             1.;.             1.83
Applied Research                            0.07             0.23             0.30
Mutara Pilot Pasture Reha'ilitation         0.08             0.41            0.49
TOTAL                                     6.00            14.10           20.1
G. Procurement
3.32     Project procurement would be managed through three main implementation
units: the GBK project unit, DGF, and Nyungwe project unit. Prior IDA review
of project procurement procedures (draft tender documents, bid evaluation,
award and contract signature) would be required for all civil works contracts
and all equipment contracts estimatee to cost over US$50,000. It is estimated
that about 70% of the contract's vaJ3ie would be subject to prior review. Given
the small size of the various civil works contrvcts, they are unlikely to
attract an intecnational contractor. For this reason, all civil works (US$6.20
million) would be expected to be procured following LCB procedures acceptable
to IDA, although international contractors would not be excluded. Contracts
for vehicles and equipment (total cost US$2.80 million) estimated to cost over
US$100,000 would be procured through International Competitive Bidding
following the Bank's guidelines. All equipment contracts estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 (an aggregate not to exceed US$0.6 million) would be
procured through local shopping with price quotations from at least three
suppliers. All IDA-financed expatriate staff would be internationally
recruited following procedures acceptable to IDA. IDA financed training
feli-cwships (estimated to cost US$0.9 million) would be awarded following
procedures acceptable to IDA. Operating cost expenditures, e.g., spare parts,
fuel (estimated at US$3.4 million), other than salaries and per diems would
require price quotatAonp from at least three suppliers if in amounts exceeding
US$1,000, while expenditures costing less than US$1,000 could be made by direct
purchase from one supplier only. Studies to be financed under the project
amount to US$0.73 million. They would be carried out by firms selected in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines.



- 26 -
3.33     The GBK project unit, DGF and Nyungwe project unit would prepare
yearly budgets and programs for each set of activities under their management
including research activities carried out in collaboration with ISAR.  The
Office pour la Valorisation des Produits Agricoles de Mutara (OVAPAM) would
prepare the budget and program for the Mutara pasture rehabilitation componment
and this would then be grouped as part of GBK's submission. Such programs
would include detailed procurement proposals for each year. IDA would review
the programs and would ensure that items be grouped to the extent possible to
encourage bulk procurement in order to promote competitive bidding. 1Whenever
international competitive bidding procedures are used, domestic manufacturers
of furniture and equipment would be allowed a preference of 152 or the existing
rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the CIF price of competing
foreign suppliers. Tables showing the expected amounts to be covered under the
various procuremant procedures are given in Annex 2, Tables 2-5.
H. Disbursements
3.34     All disbursement requests w-uld be fully documented with the
exception of statements of expenditures (SOEs). All project related
disbursement applications would be signed jointly by the manager or
supervisor of each group of activities and the person responsible for the
financial management of that group of activities. The managers are: the
Coordinator of GBK, the Head of the Nyungwe Unit, and the Director General
of DGF. Disbursement applications for the Mutara component would be jointly
signed by OVAPAM's Director and the Financial Director at GBK. From past
experience in the first project of rapid disbursements, a six and a half
year disbursement period is considered reasonable for the project.   The
allocation of the proceeds of the IDA Credit is presented by component in
Annex 2, Tables 6-8. The project disbusement schedule is presented in Annex
2, Table 9.
3.35     In order to limit the flow of documentation between the borrower
and IDA and to decrease time spent on the review of documents, certain
disbursements would be made against statements of expenditures. The
supporting documentation for such disbursements would be kept by each
component and would be reviewed by the auditors (para. 3.41). In addition,
this documentation should be readily available for review by IDA
representatives during the course of project supervision. Assurances on
these procedures were obtained at negotiations. Each component would be
able to claim reimbursement on the basis of statements of expenditures for:
(a) civil works contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent;
(b) vehicles, equipment, goods and operating cost for single
items or contracts costing less than US$15,000 equivalent;
and
(c) consulting services contracts costing less than US$50,000
equivalent.
3.36     In order to ensure that funds for the project would be made
available when needed and to reduce the number of small withdrawal



- 27 -
applications to be processed, three special accounts including a new
account for GBK would be established in US dollars at the National Bank of
Rwanda. Upon credit effectiveness, IDA would deposit an amount of
US$650,000 in the special account for the GBK component, US$250,000 in the
special account for the Nyungwe component and $90,000 for the DGF
component. These amounts correspond to about four months of expenditures
for each component. All checks written on each component's account would
be jointly signed by the component manager and Finance Director, or those
acting for them, except that checks on the Mutara compo.ent will be jointly
signed by OVAPAM's director and the GBK Finance Direct)r.   Each
component's manager would group claims for reimbursement and submit
withdrawal applications of not less than US$20,000. The special accounts
will be used to pay: (a) foreign currency expenditures including salaries
of expatriate staff; and (b) local expenditures for investment costs or
operating costs (excluding local salaries and per diems). Transactions for
all expenditures will be effected using the exchange rate of the day.
3.37     To ensure that Government counterpart funds would be made
_vailable when needed, the Government would establish a counterpart fund
account within the National Bank of Rwanda with three subaccounts in the
name of the GBK, Nyungwe and DGF implementing units. The Government would,
at the beginning of each quarter, deposit in these accounts its share of
project costs. The Minagri secretary general would be responsible for
managing the counterpart fund account including the allocation of funds
into the three subaccounts. Each implementing unit would manage its own
subaccount. The initial amount to be deposited in the counterpart fund
account would be RF 38.0 million. This would then be allocated to the
subaccounts as follows: RF 25.0 million to GBK, RF 10.0 million to Nyungwe,
RF 3.0 million to DGF. These amounts correspond to approximately four
months of expenditures for each component. Establishment of the
counterpart fund account and three subaccounts and deposit of the above
initial amounts is a condition of Credit effectiveness. Procedures for
sigining checks on these accounts would be the same as outlined above for
the special accounts.
I. Accounts, Financial Management and Audits
3.38     Given the serious shortage of qualified accountants in Rwanda, an
accounting and financial management expert would be recruited for the
Nyungwe component for a period of 18 months. The expert would be
responsible for establishing and supervising implementation of the Nyungwe
accounting system. He would be assisted by an AO chief accountant (his
counterpart) and two A3 accountants, one of whom would be responsible for
doing the bookkeeping for the ecological inventory and natural resource
monitoring component. Recruitment of the accounting and financial
management expert is a condition of Credit effectiveness. Assurances were
obtained that the AO chief accountant would be recruited no later than six
months after Credit effectiveness. Since the accounting systems
established during the first project for the GBK project unit are
satisfactory and have operated for the last five years, it is proposed that
the system be kept and operated by a qua$ified Rwandese accountant.
Assurances were obtained to this effect. In addition, since several of the
GBK enterprises (dairy facility, technical support center, "zone



- 28 -
d'embouche," and veterinary pharmacy) will be directly managed from
Gishwati (paras. 3.17 and 4.08), the GBK Kigali accounting function will be
reduced. It will therefore be able to handle the accounting for the Mutara
component. It is proposed that given the small size of the DGF component,
its accounting system be ertablisned by the Cellule de Gestion of .IINAGRI.
Once established, this system would be operated by an AO cnief acccuntant
and two A3 accountants. Establishment of the DGF component accounting
systems and recruitment of the AO chief accountant is a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
3.39     The accounting and monitoring function of the dairy, technical
support center, veterinary phArmacy and "zone d'embouche" will be entirely
decentralized to Gishwati.   Short-term technical assistance will be
provided to each of these entities in order to establish a simple
accounting and management information system and to prepare related
manuals. The PPF includes funds for two man-months of technical assistance
for the dairy facility and one man month for the three other enterprises.
Once established, these accounting systems will be operated by a small
accounting unit located in Gishwati. This unit would be managed by an AO
chief accountant assisted by one Al accountant and four A2 accountants.
This unit would be responsible for collecting all the relevant data from
each of the four enterprises in order to maintain adequate accounts and to
prepare at the end of each fiscal year all necessary financial statements
to be subsequently audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
This unit would also be responsible for the accounting function of the
extension comp3nent. To this end, the unit will be reinforced by an Al
accountant.
3.40     The accounting function of the GBK coordination unit in Kigali and
of Butare-Kigali and Gishwati (other than that described above) would
remain centralized within the coordination office located in Kigali.
Operation of the systems would be supervised by a qualified Rwandese
financial director.
3.41     Project accounts, SOEs and the special accounts would be audited
by ir.dependent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audited accounts would be
submitted to IDA within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
Assurances on these conditiont were obtained at negotiations. Detailed
terms of reference for the auditors would be submitted for IDA's approval
by December 31 of each year.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01     The project would be implemented over a six-year period comprising
a one year build-up phase (1987) financed by PPF and a five-year
implementation phase (1988-92). Work during the build-up phase would
include principally the completion of a wood pricing and marketing study
(para. 2.04) a study and design of the ecological inventory and natural
resources monitoring and evaluation program (para. 3.09), and a land use
and management study for the Gishwati forest (para. 3.18). Other
activities would include priority maintenance for Phase I plantations, the
installation of urgently needed equipment to improve dairy processing
capacity in Gishwati, construction of a slaughter slab at the cattle



- 29 -
fatteniing facility and increased supervision of potato growers. A project
implementation schedule is included in Annex 1. About 31 incremental
higher-level staff would be required. They would be recruited locally. A
staffing schedule is presented in Annex 2.
A. Project Management
4.02     The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forests and within it,
thc office of the Secretary General, would be responsible for overall
project implementation and management. A Project Management Committee
(PMC) chaired by the Secretary General with representation from the
Ministries of Finance and Plan and including the Directors-General of
Livestock, Forests, Directors of Agricultural Promotion, Project Control
and Evaluation, and ISAR, the GBK project coordinator, and the head of the
Nyungwe implementat.on unit would be responsible for project coordination
and supervision. Prior to negotiations GOR established the PMC by
ministerial decision. The terms of reference of the PMC were agreed with
IDA during negotiations. The managers of all project components would
report directly to the PMC which would also be responsible for reviewing
and approving annual work plans, budgets, and monitoring project progress
through periodic meetings. The PMC would delegate day-to-day project
implementation to three main agencies or units, DGF, the GBK and Nyungwe
units (Chart 1). Since a key project objective is to better integrate
project implementation into the ministry structure, it is expected that by
the end of the project, all activities managed by temporary units such as
GBK and Nyungwe would be fully integrated into the normal structure of the
ministry or transferred to private sector management (Chart 2).
4.03     The NyunKwe Proiect Unit (UGZ3) would be responsible for
implementing the Nyuingwe natural forest protection component (Chart 3). It
would liaise with local extension parsonnel to "sensitize" people on the
value of the natural forest. The main unit would be headed by an AO
project manager responsible for overall implementation. The subunits would
be manned by A2 foresters. Supervision of field activities at each
location would be the responsibility of three A3 foresters.
4.04     Implementation of the ecological inventory and natural resources
monitoring and evaluation program would be the responsibility of an
ecologist assisted by a socio-economist and 16 months of short-term
consultancies in various fields of expertise. The ecologist would have an
AO Rwandese forester as a counterpart and the assistance of three A2
foresters and a team of field staff. ISAR would provide guidance on
research aspects of the inventory and the monitoring and evaluation program
(para. 4.12). Some facilities for visiting researchers would be provided
at UGZ3. DGF would have oversight responsibility for the technical quality
of activities undertaken at UGZ3. This would be achieved through the PMC
and through on site visits of DGF's Director or his designate. The unit
woule maintain close contact with the Conservation Center through donor
coordination meetings. The Conservation Center is to be established by GOR
(with CCCE financing) mid-1988. The center will coordinate donor
activities and scientific research programs (with ISAR) and train forest
guards. Terms of reference for its operation should be satisfactory to
IDA. Assurances were obtained to this effect. Assurances were also



- 30 -
obtained that, at the end of the project, thi Nyungwe project unit would be
absorbed as part of the operations of the Conservation Center. The
recruitment of an AO project manager for the Nyungwe unit, an ecologist and
an AO forester is a condition of Credit effectiveness.
4.05     DGF would implement the agroforestry and rural afforestation
compozant through its rural afforestation office (BR), the forest promotion
office (BA) and its statistics office (BIS). The Director-General would
have overall management responsibility (Chart 4). BR would implement the
seedling production and distribution program. It would identify the 60
sector nurseries to be assisted and would oversee the training of farmers
at the nurseries. It would prepare a schedule for the gradual transfer of
the nurseries to private farmers starting in the third project year. BR
would also prepare a schedule of farmer groups to be assisted in developing
private nurseries and would provide the technical assistance, supervision
and distribution of inputs required for the program.   Assurances were
obtained that the 60 sector nurseries to be assisted and the first 20
groups of farmers for the collective private nurseries would be designated
by February 29, 1988. In implementing the component BR would be assisted
by the field personnel of the GBK Kigali-Butare unit who are already on the
ground in the communes of interes . The GBK ?ersonnel would help to
supervise work at the nurseries and form farmer groups. They would assist
in distribution of inputs furnished by BR. BR would also (together with
BIS) collaborate with ISAR in the analysis of data from plantation trials.
DGF would contract ISAR no later than January 31, 1988 to do the work. The
contract would spell out the responsibilities of DGF (specifically BR and
BIS) and ISAR in the assignment. Prior to negotiations agreement was
reached that ISAR would sign accords with the implementing agencies for
field research and analysis.
4.06     BA would implement the training of trainers program.  It would
design and conduct various seminars and training courses for over 2,000
people including local forestry personnel, extension agents. teachers and
professionals. BIS would implement the rural afforestation monitoring and
evaluation program. It would be assisted by an agro-forestry
specialist/monitoring and evaluation expert. BIS would work closely with
DGF's other departments and other donor-supported forestry projects in the
implementation of the program.
4.07     The GBK project unit would be responsible for implementing
forestry, livestock and agricultural activities in Gishwati and maintenance
of plantations in Kigali-Butsre. This would be accomplished through its
Gishwati subproject office which has silviculture, livestock and extension
units and its Kigali-Butare Plantation unit in Kigali (Chart 5). The
Gishwati subproject Office would be headed by a director to whom all heads
of units in Gishwati would be answerable. An experienced subproject
director acceptable tc IDA would be recruited for this post. The
silviculture unit would maintain industrial plantations developed in the
first project, and establi h the 2,000 ha sawlog and 200 ha buffer
plantations. It would recruit forest guards. Management c; all
plantations would be transferred along with the silvicultural staff, from
GBK to DGF by 1992, after completion of plantations to be developed under
the proposed project.  (Annex 1).   Assurances were obtained to this
effect. The silviculture unit would work with ISAR to establish and
monitor various plantation trials and permanent sample plots. (para 3.26).



- 31 -
4.08     The livestock unit would manage pasture and dairy activities
pending the formation of a Federation of Livestock Owners to take over
their management in project year 3 (para. 3.17). The Gishwati subproject
director would be directly responsible for implementing livestock
activities. He would also supervise the running of CAT, beef fattening
facility, dairy and veterinary pharmacy, each of which would have its own
director answerable to the sub-project director. These revenue-earning
entities would be run on a commercial basis starting in the first project
year with individual project accounting systems (paras. 3.17 and 3.39).
Each enterprise would open an account at a commercial bank operated by two
signatories -- that of the enterprise director and Gishwati subproject
director. To increase the efficiency of the pasture and dairy operations,
the total number of personnel for the pasture component should not exceed
33, the CAT 27, beef fattening facility 17. Gishwati administrative service
22, and the dairy 29 persons. This latter should decrease to 23 persons
after the proposed acquisition of a packaging machine. Assurances were
obtained to this effect. The CAT would implement proposed experiments and
feed trials on the Gishwati pastures (para 3.26) in collaboration with
ISAR.
4.09     The extension unit (APEF) would implement extension activities.
It would also (working with ISAR) carry out on-farm trials of agroforestry
species and fodder trials with stall-fed animals. The unit, headed by an
AO agronome, would oversee all field personnel. An Al accountant would be
added to the accounting team in Gishwati to keep separate accounts for the
component (para. 3.39). By 1990, when management of pasture activities
have been taken over by the Federation of Livestock owners, the unit will
move to Gisenyi. Personnel would consist of the unit chief, accountant,
typist, a storekeeper and two drivers. In Gisenyi, the unit will be
supervised by the prefecture level extension coordination unit to be
constituted by 1989 under the "prefecture agronome" (para. 3.24).   Upon
its move to Gisenyi, the extension unit would assume responsibility for
preparation of its annual work plans which it would submit to the Project
Management Committee through the "prefecture ag,onome."   Assurances were
obtained on these arrangements.
4.10     The Kigali-Butare plantation unit would continue maintenance of
the fuelwood plantations and construct extraction tracks. It would also
collaborate with ISAR in establishing and monitoring fertilizer and other
trials on the plantations. Its operations would be gradually transferred
over the project period to DGF and in a limited number of cases, the
communes. Plantations would be transferred from GBK after the completion
of regular maintenance operations, normally before reaching age five. Irn
the Kigali area, small isolated blocks of less than 50 ha would be
allocated to communes, with the remainder to DGF.  Because Butare
plantations form large contiguous blocks and are general'ly of poorer site
quality which would pose management difficulties for the communes, all
Butare plantations would be transferred to DGF. Transfers should be
completed4 by 1991. The timetable of transfers for project activities is
reflected in Lhe imDlementation schedule (Annex 1). A detailed transfer
schedule of plantaitionis and staff is shown in Annex 6. During the
transfers, a considerable number of staff would be let go resulting in a
57Z reduction in staff over the project period. Assurances were obtained
that the staff reduction would follow an action plan agreed between GOR and



- 32 -
IDA during negotiations. Assurances were also obtained that the agreed
scheduile of transfers of plantations would be folluwed. Plantation blocks
for transfer to communes would be jointly identified by 0BK and DGF. For
each block, a management contract would be drawn up between the commune and
Minogri (DGF) stating the commune's responsibilities in protection ^nd
management of the block. This would guarantee that the land be kept as
forest land and harvesting guidelines observed.  4ssurances were obtained
to this effect.
4.11     The  GBK Kigali Coordination unit (headed by the GBK project
coordinator) would be responsible for coordinating planning and preparation
of annual work plans for activities under GBK's jurisdiction, supervision
of work plan realizations and assistance to the Gishwati subproject on
personnel and disbursement matters. IL would assist with the recruitment
of personnel for the prefecture-level extension coordination unit. It
would also assint in the establishment of the Federation of Livestock
Owners and once this is done in the orderly transfer of activities to the
Federation. The coordination unit would be responsible (with input from
its subunits) for preparing the contractual agreements with ISAR on the
farm and plantations trials in the GBK component. The contracts (to be
signed no later than January 31, 1988) should spell out the
responsibilities of the Kigali-Butare and Gishwati silviculture units vis-
a-vis ISAR for the plantation trials and similarly the APEF unit and ISAR
for the agroforestry trials. Since GBK's forestry activities would be
gradually transferred to DGF and pasture activities to the Federation,
GBK's role would be considerably reduced and the Kigali office should begin
to wind down its activities by 1990. By the end of 1992, the Kigali office
should be completely phasec out. Assurances were obtained to this effect.
4.12     OVAPAM would implement the Mutara pilot pasture rehabilitation
component with some assistance from ISAR.
B. Annual Work Plan
4.13     Implementation of all project components would be carried out on
the basis of annual plans and budgets prepared by subproject managers by
mid-September each year and approved by the ministry-level Project
Management committee. The annual plan and budget would include (i) an
evaluation of the previous year's performance and a discussion of how the
new program builds on that experience; (ii) a statement of specific
objectives (quantified) to be pursued during the year in question and a
description by component of the activities to be undertaken in order to
achieve those objectives. This should be cross-referenced to the relevant
sections of the Development Credit Agreement and the Staff Appraisal
report. Deviations in the work program from provisions in the latter cwo
documents should be 2lagged with supporting justification.  (iIi) detailed
investment and operating budgets by component, showing the human,
financial, and physical resources required to carry out the proposed annual
program; (iv) staffing and training plans; (v) a financing plan which
indicates the source of funds for items in the investment and operating
budgets (IDA credit categories, Government counterpart funds, sales, etc.);
and (vi) procurement plans for purchases a..d works scheduled in the annual
work program, including type of bidding and timetables. The draft work
program should be presented to the Project Management Committee in
September. The final document would be sent to IDA by end October of each



- 33 -
year. Quarterly progress reports relating budgets to work plan
achievements, analyzing problems encountered in implementation and proposed
solutions, should be sent to the PMC for review and then to IDA for
comment. Assurances were obtained on these arrangements.
C. Annual Review
4.14     GOR and IDA would meet no later than December 15 of each year to
review project progress and discuss problems. A mid-term review would be
held at the end of 1989 focusing on transfer of the management of the
Gishwati pasture and dairy activities to the Federation of Livestock Owners
and the winding down of the GBK project unit. Assurances were obtained on
these arrangements.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15     Overall monitoring and evaluation of project activities would be
the responsibility of DCE. DCE is in charge of Monitoring and Evaluation
for all MINAGRI projects. DCE would develop appropriate key indicators for
monitoring of project activities In collaboration with sub-project
managers. Since the project would finance two Monitoring and Evaluation
programs, one for rural afforestation and one for natural resources
protection and conservation DCE could summarize available data under these
programs and group this with information on other activities in an annual
progress report to be discussed by IDA and GOR at the yearly review
meetings (para. 4.14). Assurances were obtained to this effect.
E. Project Completion Report
4.16     Physical implementation of the project would be completed by
December 31, 1992. Assurances were obtained that MINAGRI staff under the
supervision of DCE would prepare a Project Completion Report. DCE would
take primary responsibility for this task. The report would be reviewed by
the Project Management Committee and submitted to IDA no later by the
closing date, June 30, 1993.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. Production
5.01     Although a major thrust of the project would be in activities
where direct production benefits are difficult to quantify, a significant
number of activities would yield readily measurable outputs. The project
would result in the production of an incremental 1.2 million m3 of
industrial wood and sawlogs from the Gishwati plantations. Maintenance of
the Kigali-Butare fuelwood plantations would result in an incremental 0.8
million m3 of wood, representing about 10% of those cities' charcoal
requirements by 1999. The project would increase fuelwood production



- 34 -
through its farm forestry activities. As a result of seedling production
and promotion of agroforestry through training programs, it is estimated
that an incremental 0.4 million m3 of fuelwood could be produced over a 25-
year development period.
5.02     An incremental 59 million liters of milk and 3,390 tons of meat
would result from the livestock activities. Some export of meat to
regional markets is being explored and could earn additional foreign
exchange (para 5.05). Intensification of extension activities is expected
to result in th4 additional production of food crops, mainly maize, peas
and potatoes (Annex 9). Most of the additional production would be
marketed bringing in extra income.
B. Marketing
5.03     Incremental project production from the fuelwood and pole short
rotation plantations would find a ready market. Most of this wood is
destined to be converted to charcoal to supply the towns of Kigali and
Butare. The rest is for use as construction poles also in the towns.
Fuelwood produced through farm forestry activities is expected to be used
primarily for home consumption by the farm households, although some amount
may be sold for charcoal production as the rural wood market develops.
,.04     The market for industrial wood may present a problem.  There is
very little information on this market, but it appears that there is a low
preference for pine which makes up the majority of industrial wood
currently planted in Rwanda including wood from the first phase Gishwati
plantations. Demand for industrial wood estimated at 28,000 m3 in 1981 is
far below its potential. GOR believes that the potential can be tapped and
is working with Swiss assistance to develop projects that would utilize
pine. The proposed project supports a wood pricing anc marketing study
(para.2.04) to explore potential avenues for commercialization of pine and
to provide more information on the market for industrial wood. Proposed
second phase plantations are for protection of denuded slopes in the
Gishwati forest (para. 3.22). The plantations would consist of preferred
species such as acacia melanoxylon and cypressus lusitanica for which the
market is prepared to pay a premium thus providing the option of future
marketing of the wood.
5.05     The current market for meat and dairy products is largely in the
urban areas. Incremental meat and milk p >r4uction would be marketed mostly
in Kigali where project milk output will most likely substitute for
imported powdered milk. Distribution and marketing of dairy products in
Rwanda is underdeveloped, and there are several bottlenecks along the
production distribution chain. Processing facilities for dairy products
are generally small in size and some like Gishwati have operated
inefficiently. Transportation is a problem ard distribution channels are
few. Partlv as a result of this, but also because of a high administered
producer price of milk, the price to the consumer at $0.8 to $1.0 per liter
is very high.  The market appears to absorb all available output at this
price at the present time, but the capacity to absorb future quantities of
output at current prices is an issue. In the course of project preparation
agreement was reached with GOR to review the milk pricing mechanism and
adjust producer prices in line with demand.   As a condition of credit
effectiveness, GOR will develop a iricing mechanism for milk acceptalle to



- 35 -
IDA. The objective of the pricing mechanism will be to encourage efficient
production and marketing of milk and other d&iiry products. Decisions on a
pricing mechanism would be based on the findings of the livestock subsector
study financed under SPPF (para. 3.20) which will review dairy pricing,
processing and marketing problems in depth and make recommendations for
future policy. The study is scheduled for completion by December 31, 1987.
The study would also review meat marketing and pricing in relation to dairy
products. GOR is currently in the process of negotiating meat export
contracts with neighboring countries. This, coupled with the reduction in
illegal meat imports trom Uganda is expected to open up new channels in the
meat market.
C. erices
5.06     Project financial and econoinic prices are sunmmarized in Table 5.1.
Estimation of these prices, some of which, like fuelwood, are for goods not
traded internationally, are explained in detail below by product. The
price of fuelwood (used primarily for charcoal), from state and communal
plantations is set by a min_.sterial decree of February 1983 at RF 500 per
stere or RF 800 per m3 solid. The market (stumpage) priee for fuelwood
ranges from RF 0-500/m3 in areas far away from urban concentrations. Near
the urban areas such as Kigali and Butare the stumpage price is between RF
500-1,000/m3. Based on the average prices near these two towns, the
financial price of fuelwood from the Kigali-Butare plantations has been
taken at RF 750/m3. The economic price of fuelwood is based on the assumed
response of urban dwellers to a situation in which charcoal from the
plantations was no longer available. From the various alternative energy
sources available, the burning of briquets has been taken as the "base
case" alternative to charcoal. Other sources of energy would be gas,
electricity, and kerosene. However, el.ctricity and gas are obtainable
only at very high cost and household preferences in Rwanda appear to be
markedly against use of kerosene. Use of the replacement cost of the GBK
plantations as the basis for the economic price would have resulted in a
price of RF 2,700 per m3 solid. The GBK plantations are however probably
unrepresentative of costs. Farm forestry is another potential source of
supply for urban charcoal. In the absence of new fuelwood plantations and
given the reduction in the supply of free wood from the rapidly
disappearing savannah regions, an increase in farm forestry activity would
be likely in light of the scarcity of, and high prices for charcoal.
However, this source of fuelwood supply for charcoal making would, in the
short to medium-term, be both insufficient and unreliable to fulfill urban
needs because increases in supply would go primarily towards mak-ng up for
existing deficits in the rural areas. In the longer term, however, farm
forestry could be expected to contribute significantly to fulfilling urban
needs and as it becomes a more important source of supply for the urban
areas evaluation of the economic price of fuelwood would be more
appropriately based on the replacement cost of wood produced through farm
forestry. It is expected that future fuelwood projects will use this mode
of production as the relevant yardstick for the economic cost of fuelwood.
In the meantime, for this project, use of papyrus briquets, the manufacture
of which is being developed in Rwanda, has beer. assumed to be the mos
plausible alternative to plantation based charcoal. On this basis, the
economic price of fuelwood (converted to charcoal) is estimated at RF 1,835
per m3 solid. This is arrived at by comparing the cost, thermal efficiency
and calorific value of briquets to that of charcoal for producing a given
amount of energy. Details of the calculation are provided in Annex 9.



- 36 -
Table 5.1: Financial and Economic Prices /a
Financial Price (RF)    Economic Price (RF) lb
1986           1996        1986         1996
Fuelwood (per m3 solid)              750            750        1,835 /c      1,835
Industrial Wood
- sawlogs per m3 solid            3,504         2,863        2,978         2,433
- poles per m3 solid              4,000         4,000        3,400         3,400
Milk (per liter)                       41            41           24.2          24.2
Meat (per kg live weight)              55            55           93.2          93.2
/a Mid 1986 constant prices.
/b For details, see Annex 9.
/c RF 1835 represents the price used to value plantation fuelwood. For the
purposes of analyzing the returns to farm forestry, fuelwood was valued
at its estimated rural replacement cost of RF 225 per m3.
5.07     Industrial Wood.  The present market price of sawnwood is on
average RF 3,000 per m3 standing and poles RF 4,000 per m3 standing. This
compares with an "official" price of approximately RF 5,700 and RF 4,700
per m3 solid for sawnwood and poles, respectively.
5.08     The financial price of poles has been taken at its market value
while that of sawnwood has been adjusted to reflect a possible decrease in
its real value over the medium term (para. 5.04) For the economic
analysis, market prices for the two categories of industrial wood have been
adjusted to reflect a 2% real price decrease per year from 1987-96. After
that, present Government efforts to expand demand, coupled with a slowdown
in the present rate of supply expansion, is assumed to cause prices to
stabilize.
5.09     The producer price of milk is fixed by the Government.  The basis
on which this price is determined is unclear. The present farm-gate price
is fixed at between RF 40 to 45 per liter and results in a retail price of
between RF 65 and 80 per liter, depending on location. The present
producer price has been retained for the financial analysis but adjusted
downwards by RF 10 for farmers producing by more traditional methods in the
communes outside the Gishwati forest (para. 5.13). For the purpose of the
economic analysis, the price of milk has been based on the import parity
price of powdered milk. Imported milk in powdered form is currently a
significant source of supply, and in the absence of the Gishwati project
would remain so. The import parity price is estimated at RF 24 per liter.
Details are presented in Annex 9.



- 37 -
5.10     The price of meat is also set by the Government.  The present
farmgate price is fixed at an average of RF 55 per kg., which is low
relative to the price of milk. This probably reflects the depressing
effect brought about by illegal imports from Uganda during the time of its
recent troubles (para. 5.05). Given that this source of supply is
diminishing and that GOR is negotiating meat export contracts with
neighboring countries, the economic price of meat has been taken at its
export parity value estimated at RF 93 per kg (live weight). Details are
provided in Annex 9. Details of input prices are also given in Annex 9.
D. Financial Analysis of Revenue-Earning Entities
5.11     Financial projections (income statement, cash flow, balance sheet)
have been prepared for the revenue earning entities in Gishwati namely the
dairy, technical support center (CAT), the beef fattening facility (zone
d'embouche), and the veterinary pharmacy. These projections together with
assumptions are in knnex 8. Due to improper management and a heavy
financial burden in the first phase which has affected the financial
viability of these entities, it was considered that the entities would be
unable to repay GOR their full investment cost as a long term debt. About
60% of the cost on average was therefore considered as equity contribution
from the Government specifically, RF 53.9 million for the dairy, FRW 11.0
million for the beef fattening facility RF 2.77 million for the veterinary
pharmacy and FRW 50.0 million for the CAT. The balance between the full
establishment cost and the equity contribution has been considered a long
term debt bearing a 7.92% annual interest rate, a grace period of five
years and a 20-year repayment period including the five-year grace period.
Unpaid interest during the grace period was calculated for each year and
added to the principal and to gross fixed assets. Each of the above
entities would in the future keep separate accounts in a corporate manner.
By mid 1989 the government should make proposals to IDA, concerning the
specific modalities for the management structure and ownership of the
dairy, CAT, zone d'embouche and veterinary pharmacy under the proposed
Federation of Livestock Owners. The entities would reimburse the
Government in Rwandese francs. The foreign exchange risk and interest
rate risk would be borne by the entities. Assurances were obtained that
the onlending arrangement would apply to the proposed project and be
retroactive to the previous one.
E. Farm level Financial Impact
5.12     A 30 ha pasture model was developed to look at the financial
impact of the livestock activities on an average pasture block in Gishwati.
Details are presented in Annex 8. The financial analysis is based on the
assumption that pasture owners will bear the full cost of investments made
in Phase 2 but only 50% of Phase I investment costs. Poor management in
phase I resulting in higher than anticipated pasture establishment costs
makes it difficult to fully recover these costs para (5.15). Based on the
above, the financial rate of return to an average pasture over a 20-year
period is estimated at 65%   By sub-project full development (year 9) net



- 38 -
revenues on the pasture would equal about RF 492,000. With about 15
farmers per pasture, an average farmer would experience a net income
increase of about RF 33,000 representing about a 60% per annum increase in
family income. Sensitivity analysis was carried out to see the impact on
returns of a decrease in the producer price of milk. The analysis shows
that the financial rate of return (FRR) would remain satisfactory at 51%
and 36% respectively, should the milk price be decreased by 10 or 20%. The
FRR would fall to 17% with a 30% decrease in price. These results depend
on the availability of pure treed cattle and crosses. The project would
assist farmers to obtain commercial bank loans to purchase the cattle and
would introduce artificial insemination to optimize pasture use. (para.
3.17)
5.13     Three indicative farm models were developed to look at the
financial impact of the project's extension activities. Estimates in the
models are necessarily tentative since they involve a measure of
experimentation with new practices, e.g., introduction to multipurpose
woody species. The models are summarized in Table 5.2. Details are
presented in Annex 9.
Table 5.2: Indi:ative Farm Models
Model I               Model II             Model III
Without    With       Without   With       Without   With
Protect    Project    Project   Project    Proijct   Project
Farm area (ha)                  0.8        0.8         0.8       g.e       i.3        1.3
Gross value of production (RF)    43,346  69,300      62,128     77,690   118,710   209,636
Production costs (RF)          17,608     21,686      24,860      29,021    49,194    74,9W6
Not Income (RF)                25,837     37,740      37,278     4e,669    69,516    134,630
The "with project" situation for Model 1 describes a farm family with 0.6
ha of farm area engaged solely in cropping activities and growing 100
trees.  In model II, the farm family crops 0.8 ha of land and owns an
average of three goats. In model III, the cropped area is 1.3 ha, the
number of trees grown is 150 and the family owns a cow.  About 22% of
families fall under model I, 6b% under model II and 10% under model III.
The models show that by project year 7, families adopting extension
recommendations would experience annual income increases in the order of
RF 12,000 for model I, RF 11,000 for model II and RF 65,000 for model III
over the "without project" situation.



- 39 -
F. Cost Recovery arid Fiscal Impact
5.14     The project would have a positive fiscal impact on the
Government's budget through: (a) cost recovery from the Gishwati pastures
(b) some cost recovery from the Gishwati revenue-earning entities; and (c)
sales of wood from the forest plantations. A modest amount of revenues
would also be generated from sales of seedlings in the agroforestry
nurseries. Details of projected Government cash flow are contained in
Annex 8. Government cash flow would be negative in the first four years
of the project. Major outflows during these years would consist of the
costs of the project, which together with debt service charges would reach
RF 204 million by year 6. In the ensuing years recurrent cost
expenditures to sustain project activities would amount to an average RF
90 million per year. These recurrent costs would be balanced against
revenues of an average RF 310 million per year from all the sources above,
thus resulting in a positive net cash flow.
5.15     Cost recovery from the Gishwati pastures has been reviewed in
some detail. The cost of establishing the 3,340 ha. of pastures under the
Phase 1 project amounts to RF 767.0 million (Annex 8) up to the end of
1986. Rapid weed infestation, poor management and use of high cost
materials resulted in higher than anticipated pasture establishment costs
in phase I. These costs cannot be fully recovered from the pasture owners
without jeopardizing the financial viability of the pastures. As a result
50% of the pasture establishment costs from the first project will be
considered a subsidy. The remaining 50% will be recovered on the
following terms: a repayment period of 20 years including a grace period
of 5 years and an interest rate of 7.92%. This corresponds to a yearly
repayment of RF 44.4 million for 3,340 ha or RF 13,200 per ha per year.
This amount of recovery corresponds to approximately 30'* of a pasture's
revenues which is considered a reasonable level of cost recovery. The
five-year grace period originally included in the rental agreement signed
between the beneficiaries of the pastures and MINAGRI has been kept since
pastures require about this long to constitute their herd. It is
estimated that another RF 120.0 million will be spent between January 1,
1987, and December 31, 1989, to complete the establishment of Phase I
pastures in Gishwati. This will be fully recovered on the same terms as
above, resulting in a yearly repayment of RF 14.0 million for 3,340 ha or
RF 4,200 per hectare per year. Since pasture beneficiaries will share the
operating costs of the Federation of Livestock Owners in early 1990, it is
not expected that the Government will continue to finance any costs of the
Gishwati livestock component as of December 31, 1989. The level of cost
recovery proposed here represents a five-fold increase over that proposed
by MINAGRI in the existing rental contract. Agreement has been reached
with GOR on the new cost recovery levels and on the revision of the old
rental contract. During negotiations, GOR and IDA agreed on the substance
of the revision to the rental contract and on the phasing of its
execution. The proposed cost recovery would apply to investments made in
the first project as well as those proposed in the second project.
Assurances were obtained to this effect during negotiations. As a
condition of credit effectiveness GOR would, as a first step, prepare a
modified rental contract acceptable to IDA and, as a second step, present
evidence satisfactory to IDA that pasture beneficiaries on already
established pastures have si2ned the rental contract.



- 40 -
5.16     Sales of wood from the plantations would represent a significant
contribution to Government revenues. Beginning in 1991, about RF 85
million would be realized annually on average from the Kigali-Butare
plantations. By the year 2000, contributions from wood sales in both the
fuelwood and industrial plarntations would reach an estimated RF 400
million per annum. It is proposed that the annual yield from each
plantation be sold standing (stumpage) to the highest bidder, rather than
at some fixed statutory stumpage rate which would be the same for all
plantations irrespective of their accessibility and which may 'Aso tend to
lag behind tne development of the free-market price. Only if the sale of
the standing wood does not attract sufficient bids, e.g. if entrepreneurs
generally do not have the means of doing the logging, should DGF consider
doing this operation itself and then sell the wood at roadside in the
plantations.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
6.01     The project is justified by:
(a) the econ3my-wide ecological and hydrological benefits stemming
from the protection and conservation of two of Rwanda's
remaining tropical high altitude natural forests;
(b) institutional development benefits arising from improved
planning, monitoring and evaluation of forestry sector
programs.
(c) the production of an incremental 2.4 million m3 of fuelwood and
industrial wood valued at $45.3 million and the incremental
production of 2.3 million liters of milk and 136 tons of meat
per annum at full development valued at $0.55 million and 0.13
million, respectively;
(d) the employment generation of about 2,150 man-years per annum
during the project investment period; and
(e) the wide distribution of benefits covering over 75,000 farm
families, most of them in absolute poverty.
6.02     The major project benefits would stem from protection and
conservation of two of Rwanda's remaining natural forests of the Zaire-Nile
Divide, the Nyungwe and Gishwati forests. Quantification of the benefits of
natural forest protection and conservation is often difficult due to
methodological and data problems. In Rwanda's case this is exacerbated by
the paucity of "hard" information on the ecological impact of the afro-
montane forests. It is, however, generally accepted that Rwanda's forests
play an important biological, hydrological and ecological role, which in the
absence of protection would result in adverse environmental and economic
consequences. The Bank's recent OPN 11.2 on wild lands management lists
Rwarda's Afro-montane forests as one of the wild lands of special concern



- 41 -
internationally recognized to be "exceptionally important in conserving
biological diversity or perpetuating environmental services". Rwanda's
Afro-montane forests play a very important regulatory role for the country's
river system. The Nyungwe forest, in particular, is a major catchment area
for the Nyabarongo River system of the region and the nation as a whole.
The eastern side of Nyungwe consists of a series of water catchments which
eventually feed into the Akagera basin for which an important hydroelectric
project has been designed. The remaining undegraded forest in Gishwati is
similarly an important catchment area for the Sebaya system which feeds the
hydroelectric plant in Gisenyi. The rivers flowing out of Nyungwe and
Gishwati provide drinking and irrigation water for farmers residing below
the forested area. The forests play a similarly important role in
mitigating soil erosion acknowledged as one of the primary factors in
decreasing soil fertility in Rwanda's hilly landscape. Their elimination
would, therefore, lead to disruption of streamflow, substantial increase in
soil erosion and a massive increase in sedimentation.
6.03     The forests also serve to maintain biological diversity.  Nyungwe
as the richest block of natural forest left in Rwanda is an extremely
valuable conservation area. Although its faunal components have been little
studied, its diverse plant life constitutes a reserve of gene pool material
that has future potential for maintaining agricultural production. The
forest harbors a great variety of animal species, including some endangered
primate species.  Given the probability that many large mammals currently
existing in smaller forest relics will become extinct, the large size of the
forest distinguishes it as a refuge where such animals may be able to
survive in the long-term. The Gishwati forest also contains a significant
diversity and density of lower Afro-montane primary forest species. It
harbors various wildlife species. Some of this wildlife, as is the case in
Nyungwe, are endangered species. The project's investments in forest
protection and conservation coupled with enactment of stronger forest
protection laws would help preserve this wildlife.
6.04     Other benefits difficult to quantify would stem from the proAject's
institutional development activities. The project would serve as an
important instrument for implementing the Government's forestry sector
policy and would further refine the scope of that policy. The project. would
strengthen DGF's planning and supervisory powers through the implementation
of the monitoring and evaluation programs and the training of needed
technical and managerial personnel. Through its wood pricing and marketing
study, the land use study and complementary livestock sector study, the
project would result in the definition and implementation of more
appropriate policies on the pricing and marketing of wood and dairy
products. The project would help initiate GOR's policy of integrating; the
project approach to development more firmly into sectoral programs. It
would further increase private sector involvement in the implementation of
investment activities which would have a significant impact on the
Government's recurrent cost budget.
6.05     Direct project beneficiaries would total over 75,000 farm families.
An estimated 30,000 families would benefit from project extension and animal
health care act vities. About 1,300 families would benefit from pasture
activities. An additional 45,000 families are expected to benefit from
seedling production and distribution and promotion of agro-forestry through
training. Many project activities in plantation establishment,



- 42 -
infrastructure development and pasture and plantation maintenance are labor
intensive. These activities would generate about 9,000 man-years of rural
employment over the project investment period.
B. Economic Analysis
6.06     An overall ezonomic rate of re&urn (ERR) has not been estimated for
the project because: (a) the majority of project investment (67%) 's in
activities whose benefits are difficult to quantify such as natural forest
protection, and institutional development or where the speed of accrual of
benefits is uncertain, e.g., extension; (b) although focussing on forestry
development, project activities are varied in nature and difficult to lump
together ranging as they do from plantation and pasture maintenance to farm
level extension activities aimed at integrating forestry, livestock and
agriculture. Rates of return have, however, been calculated for those
activities whose benefits are more readily quantifiable. The ERRs are
presented in Table 6.1 and range from 162 for Gishwati new plantations to
45% for Gishwati phase I pasture maintenance. Details of the analysis are
given in Annex 9.
Table 6.1: Results of Economic Analysis
Component                                     % of Base Cost       ERR (%)
Kigali-Butare fuelwood Plantations Maintenance    8                        40
Gishwati Phase I plantation Ma3ntenance              1                     28
Gishwati new plantation establishment                6                     16
Gishwati Phase I Pasture Maintenance                18                     45
6.07     The cost-benefit analysis (ignoring the without project scenarios)
for the maintenance components show a 36Z ERR for the Kigali-Butare
fuelwood plantation maintenance component, 25Z for Gishwati plantation
maintenance and a 12% ERR for the Gishwati pasture component. The
differenre between the incremental and cost benefit analysis for the latter
component is based oz. the assumption (for which there is field evidence)
that the pastures would be overstocked with low productivity Ankole cattle
and would deteriorate rapidly.
6.08     The cost streams used in estimating the ERRs include all project
investment and incremental operating costs and recurrent costs needed post-
project to sustain project activities. Project benefits include all of the
incremental project output above the estimated "without project" situation for
each activity. Economic prices of project output are shown in Table 5.1.
Prices of inputs are given in Annex 9. Prices of non-traded goods were
adjusted by the standard conversion factor (0.85) or by specific conversion
fac-ors. The opportunity cost of labor was estimated at RF74 (74% of the
stipulated minimum wage).



- 43 -
6.09     For the extension component (142 of base costs) where the speed of
accrual of benefits is uncertain, a judgment on the soundness of the
investment was made by carrying out an indicative calculation of the order of
magnitude of benefits nLeeded to produce a 15% ERR and the likelihood of
attaining those benefits.  If the net incremental production from extension
activities were to reach $1.0 million per year by subproject year 12
discounted economic benefits would equal discounted costs and the ERR would be
15% (Annex 9).  An average 5% per annum production increase (over 7 years) and
an average 3% yearly adoption rate would ensure attainm.nt of the Lequired
level of benefits.  These production increases and adoption rates w,uld be
readily attainable.
Sensitivity Analysis
6.10     The sensitivity analysis of project investment in directly productive
activities was carried out in terms of switching values for benefits and costs
that would reduce the ERR to 10% (the estimated opportunity cost of capital in
Rwanda) or make the NPVs zero at a 10% discount rate. Results are presented
in Table 6.2 and indicate the robustness of the ERRs:
Table 6.2: Sensitivity Analysis
Investment and
Incremental Operating
Production                  Costs
Switching                 Switching
Value                    Value  a
Kigali-Butare fuelwood
Plantations maintenance              -76%                       +321%
Gishwati Phase I plantation
Maintenance                         -84%                       +541%
Gishwati new plantation
development                         -42%                        +92%
Gishwati Phase I pasture
maintenance                         -33%                        +50%
La The percentage change in the value of production/costs required to set the ERR
equal to 10%, the estimated opportunity cost of capital in Rwanda.
C. Risks
6.11     The major risk associated with the project is institutional and is
related primarily to the Gishwat4 pasture component. The project will
attempt to correct implementation and management errors arising from Phase
I. Part of this will involve searching for new approaches to pasture



- 44 -
development and to prevention of encroachment of cattle in the forest
(para. 3.19). It will also involve putting in place appropriate policies
for dairy processing, marketing and pricing. The project will assist the
Government to implement an ambitious pasture cost recovery program and to
privatize the management of investments in Gishwati. As part of the
process of carrying out the above institutional reforms, the project will
also assist GOR to phase out the well-established GBK project unit. These
are difficult reforms that require the Government's commitment and will to
succeed in the face of probable social and political pressure. GOR has
expressed a commitment to the institutional reforms. Assurances were
obtained on reorienting management of the Gishwati component (para. 4.08,
4.11), on implementing the new levels of cost recovery (para. 5.15) and on
gradual transfer of the management of GBK's activities to other agencies
and private entities (para. 4.11).
6.12     Another important area of risk relates to the capacity of DGE to
provide adequate t lchnical supervision for the protection and conservation
activities in Nyungwe and to assist the Conservation Center (when this is
set up) to coordinate donor activities. DGF is a relatively new department
with a limited number of staff of managerial calibre (para. 2.10). To
minimize the risk of inadequate techkdical supervision, the project would
provide technical assistance during the project build-up period to assist
DGF in designing a sound ecological inventory and natural resources
monitoring and evaluation program. During project implementation, a full
time ecologist would be retained to implement and manage the protection and
conservation activities and to train Rwandese foresters to carry on after
the project period (para. 4.04). With regard to coordination of external
aid agencies in Nyungwe, assurances were obtained on donor coordination as
part of the terms of reference of the proposed conservation center. (para.
4.04).
6.13     The project will require substantial supervision by GOR and IDA to
monitor the effectiveness of the reforms being proposed. Strengthening of
monitoring and evaluation has been built into project design to generate
the information necessary for effective planning and supervision.
Supervision should focus on the managerial and technical aspects of the
Gishwati pasture component, the implementation of the extension component,
and the technical soundness of the natural forest protection and management
component. Supervision of the financial aspects of the project will also
be important.
D. Environmental Impact
6.14     The proposed project would have a highly beneficial environmental
impact. Virtually all components are designed with environmental concerns
as an important objective. The natural forest protection and conservation
component would assure conservation of Rwanda's remaining Afro-montane
forests which harbor important wildlife including some endangered species.
It would also help decrease soil erosion and sedimentation and assure
continued availability of drinking and irrigation water for farmers
residing below the forested areas. The proposed land use study in the
Gishwati component would focus on decreasing encroachment and degradation
in the natural forest. Establishment of plantations on denuded hilltops
would help mitigate soil erosion while the development of extension themes
on the ititegration of forestry into the agriculture and livestock farming
systems would also assist in efforts to prevent soil erosion and maintain
soil fertility. A small amount of insecticideswould be used for plant



- 45 -
protection in the extension component. These would be restricted to those
which have proven effective in the local context and have no known negative
environmental effects.
E. Impact on Women
6.15     The project would have a positive impact on women through its farm
forestry and extension activities. Women and children currently bear the
burden of searching for fuelwood and fodder when on-farm supplies are
inadequate. By promoting the integration of multipurpose agroforestry
species in the farming systems and providing appropriate seedlings the
project would help to increase the availability of fuelwood and fodder
close to home and would lessen the amount of energy spent by women on these
tasks.



- 46 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01     Prior to negotiations agreements were reached on the following:
(a) For Gishwati, mandatory destocking by June 30, 1987 of Ankole
cattle in partial exchange for pure breed cattle in the ratio
of three to one (para. 3.16);
(b) The GBK project unit would as of February 1, 1987 no longer
extend credit to livestock owners or CAT at subsidized rates
(para 3,16);
(c) Maintenance of a permanent herd of 150 pure breed cows at CAT
by December 31, 1987 (para. 3.16);
(d) Proper sanitary control (quarantine) of animals destined for
the Gishwati pastures by December 31, 1987 (para. 3.16);
(e) Autonomy for the Gishwati sub-project director in the
technical management of subproject activities and
decentralization to Gishwati of the management of CAT, "zone
d'embouche", veterinary phatmacy and dairy by September 30,
1987 (para. 3.17);
(f) Housing provided to higher level staff would be subject to a
rental fee sufficient to enable the project to cover the
maintenance cost of buildings. Motorcycles provided to
extension personnel would be paid for through monthly salary
deductions to be determined by MINAGRI with the funds
collected going for the purchase of new vehicles (para 3.24);
(g) GOR - IDA review end 1989 of the results of pilot pasture
rehabilitation in Mutara (para. 3.27);
(h) Not later than January 31, 1988 the GBK project unit and DGF
would sign contracts with ISAR on implementation of applied
research activities. These contracts should clearly spell out
the responsibilities of each party (paras. 4.05 and 4.11);
(i) Periodic review and adjustment of the milk producer price in
line with demand pending completion of the livestock sector
study (para. 5.05) and enlargement of the distribution and
marketing channels for Gishwati milk;
(j) An increase in the level of cost recovery on pastures and
revision by credit effectiveness of old rental contracts in
line with the new cost recovery schedule ,para 5.15);



- 47 -
7.02     The following agreements were reached during negotiations
(a) Completion of the wood supply, demand pricing and marketing
study and preparation of a draft action based on study
recommendations on wood pricing by February 1, 1988.
Thereafter, preparation with IDA and prompt implementation of
a definitive set of criteria for wood pricing (para. 2.04).
(b' Contracts for the practice of taungya in the Gishwati and
Nyungwe plantations would entered into between farmers and the
Gishwati and Nyungwe project units and be rigorously enforced
(paras. 3.07 and 3.15).
(c) Completion of the study and design of the Nyungwe ecological
inventory and natural resources monitoring and evaluation
component by February 1, 1988. Preparation and prompt
execution of an acceptable natural resources monitoring and
evaluation program and a plan for the ecological inventory
(para 3.09).
(d) The draft detailed design of the rural afforestation
monitoring and evaluation program would be completed and
discussed with IDA by February 1, 1988 and thereafter
finalized and promptly implemented (para. 3.13).
(e) The Gishwati subunit of the GBK project unit would assist
livestock owners to prepare the necessary papers to obtain
loans from commercial banks on standard terms (para. 3.16).
(f) Pending the completion of the proposed Gishwati land use scudy
by February 29, 1988 and agreement by GOR and IDA on an action
plan for future land development based on this study, no
plantation or pasture development would take place in the
Giahwati forest (para. 3.19). The proposed 2,000 ha sawlog
and 200 ha buffer plantations and 150 ha pasture extension in
1986 are exempt.
(g) Changes in proposed project extension organization will be
discussed and agreed with IDA by December 31, 1989 (para
3.24).
(h) Criteria for selection of candidates for regional and overseas
training; and arrangements to retain the services of such
candidates upon completion of their training (para. 3.28).
(i) The AO chief accountant for the Nytungwe project unit will be
recruited no later than 6 months after Credit effectiveness
and the GBK accounting system established in the first project
will be maintained and operated by a qualified Rwandese
accountant (para 3.38).
(j) Statements of expenditures and supporting documentation woult.
be reviewed by auditors and be available for review by IDA



- 48 -
mission during supervision. Project accounts (including the
separate accounts of the dairy facility, veterinary pharmacy,
Ozone d'embouche,H and CAT, SOEs and the special accounts
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
The audited accounts would be submitted to IDA within 6 months
of the close of the fiscal year (paras. 3.41 and 3.35).
(k) The composition and terms of reference of the project
management committee (para. 4.02).
(1) The project implementing unit at Nyungwe would be absorbed by
the conservation center as part of its operations at the end
of the project. The conservation center would operate with
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.04).
(m) The 60 sector nurseries and the first 20 groups of farmers to
be assisted in the seedling production program would be
designated by February 29, 1988 (para. 4.05).
(n) The scheduled transfer of plantations from GBK to DGF would
take place (para 4.07).
(o) The number of personnel in the Gishwati livestock component
will be maintained at levels satisfactory to IDA (4.08).
(p) The extension unit (APEF) would become autonomous beginning
1990 and would be supervised by the prefecture level extension
service (para 4.09).
(q) The schedule of transfer of the Kigali-Butare plantations and
staff to DGF and the programmed staff reductions would be
maintained and for plantation blocks transferred to communes,
a management contract would be drawn up between the communes
and Minagri clearly stating communes' responsibilities and
assuring that plantation land be kept as forest land and
harvesting guidelines observed (paea. 4.10).
(r) The GBK project unit would be completely phased out by the end
of 1992 in accordance with an action plan acceptable to IDA
(para 4.11).
(s) Arrangements on annual work plans, annual review, quarterly
and annual progress reports and the project completion report
would be followed (paras. 4.13, 4.14, 4.15 and 4.16).
(t) For purposes of cost recovery, agreements satisfactory to IDA
will be entered into between GOR and the revenue-earning
entities and GOR and pasture beneficiaries (paras. 5.11 and
5.15).
7.03     The following is a condition of board presentation:
(a) Start-up of the wood supply, demand, pricing and marketing
study and the study and design of the Nyungwe ecological



- 49 -
inventory and natural resources monitoring and evaluation
program (paras 2.04 and 3.09).
7.04     The following are conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) Constitution of a local commission to demarcate legal
boundaries for the Nyungwe buffer plantations and demarcation
of the boundaries (para. 3.07);
(b) Establishment by GOR of the counterpart fund bank account and
three subaccounts in the National Bank of Rwanda in the name
of GBK, Nyungwe and DGF implementing units and deposit of
intial amounts corresponding to approximately four months
expenditures for each component (para. 3.37);
(c) Recruitment of the accounting and financial management expert
for the Nyungwe project unit, establishment of the DGF
accounting system and recruitment of an AO accountant (para.
3.38);
(d) Establishment of the Nyungwe project unit. Recruitment of an
AO project manager, an ecologist and an AO forester for the
unit (para. 4.04);
(e) Reduction to a level satisfactory to the Association in the
personnel of the GBK project unit and the revenue earning
entities according to an action plan agreed with IDA (paras.
4.08, 4.10);
(f) Development by GOR of a pricing mechanism for milk acceptable
to IDA (para 5.05);
(g) GOR would, as a first step, prepare a modified rental contract
for the Gishwati pastures acceptable to IDA, and as a second
step, present evidence satisfactory to IDA that pasture
beneficiaries on already established pastures have signed the
contract (para 5.15).
7.05     The following are conditions of disbursements:
(a) Joint GOR-IDA agreement on a course of actiox, for dairy
processing based on the recomnendations of the livestock SPPF study. No
funds would be disbursed for development of the Gishwati dairy beyond 5,000
liters per day processing capacity without such an agreement (para. 3.16).
(b) Disbursement of US$800,000 for new approaches to
land/livestock development in Gishwati would be conditional on
joint GOR-IDA review and agreement on a course of action for
land development based on the recommendations of the land use
study (para 3.19).
7.06     With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$14.1 million to the Government of
Rwanda.



- 50 -
Annex 1
1.  Key Oates                                                Project      1907        19"          19011'9    1990       1991         1992       199S
Ntrt i a t one                                         -          neFT  TFFI TT XTF I I   111  M
Constitution Project Man.ge.ent                                    X
Ccint t.te
Stissi-ion Annual Work Pl6no                                     K     X           X           X                X           X           X
Sujbimilon Annual Proagreni Rrport                                           Y           X          x                       x           x
Annual Proj.ct Progress Revie .                                              X           x                      X           X           X
Cl oei no 
2   Froiget Staffin
Monegement
Head  l4ungwa Lnimt                                                                             -          ---
Diroct eu  Ceneral Dt                                                               -_
Cocrdimn torr -m
Oi r.ctor   ISAR                                                                                           -                       -
Nyunnw. P,roJ jct  n it_
Om  ProjactLt                                                                                   --nit
Technical Asoe.tants                                          _                                  ____-_-
Vocdir.icing *nd Marketing Study
lyunGwDUs! r  of Ecolooical Inantory
anm Notar. RReource*4 knitor,ing and
ECyl.ataio.
Giaheati Land Uto Stwdy
Sti,dy *md Doeien R.rel Afforattioi_ _
MEonitoring and Enelot,o.. Program
4 Ovarbi                 a Lt irt LCZ
Contr'.ct.on Project Unl.M.
B.uffer Plentmtion -m_
Ecoloqical Inonmtory
Natural Roesorce. Monaitoring *nd
EiaIuetion Program
R.seerch Studios with ISAR
atnlatiton  D
ULg.,adint Sector Nursries                                                                                        ----- ---------
De-*lropent ColIeetin*  Pr inat  Nuhsor;.     e
Construction Seed St.rs
Iuwloontatirn  R,ral Affor..tot;w                                                            _    _
M0A-itor-ng end E,oli.iotom Progree
Reseereh Analysis  ith ISAR
He 'nti no                                                                                                 -
Plentatio,n  rosarch  trell l      th, ISARM
Ci bhdat
Phase I Plantatone
"pi mtoen^ce 
-  H5rne5tingt
Phtl, II Plntst0on  Estlbl, h_ent                                                                          -  _
C.ffor Pes'ta          -ono                                                                    -
Ph... I Pastre0 and Dar,y Coltiwn
end hbmnt.nXenc
Creatio    Fderation  of Likntoci. Dvnmr.
Ph&** II now 000roeth    to tL L      LI Uo and                                            ---------- __ ____ _ _             ---------
'Snege.ent
E,tenion Acti- te
Plentation A  rofar.tr,  end Aneel                                                  -
mosneorch tre           vith ISAR
8   OA
Nutora P lot Potu,r Rohab  ltvtion
ilTr6mn$! fi;e %no MunbaD"ti of FrRoje
Tren.f.r Kjoel i-S'trr  Plentation and
staff f,o- OB  to D0F and th. colmsee
Transfor C0,eht, Plantatims from Cltt
to Ot
Tranfer tera9'ean, Ceheeti feature end
do ry act;  t.     froe OAK to Federation
of Liv'ntioca  Own.'O
Phase. Ot K .g*.l  Coordnmation C.eter
T'a"fer Ago.f-0'0 try  sector n-rse,                 to-                                                    _
P-, to  eree, or V I le..  rcups
Establh   hin  Prefoctrer L*o,l E.tenoe,o
E-t.n.,on (Coordineot or Unit)
Trenofor A1"'F * te r  on Ln t to Cs eri,



- 51 -                         Antiex 2
Table I
RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY, AGRICULTURE AND
LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Natural Forest                                   Short Term           Long Term
Protection and Management                           m/m                 m/year
Ecologist                                                                  5
Soclo-economist
Short term consultancies                            16
Financial Expert                                                           1.5
Ecologist and Socio-economist                        5
for PPF design of inventory and
natural resource monitoring and evaluation
system
Agro forestry and
Rural Afforestation
Agroforestry/Monitoring
and Evaluation Specialist                           12
Forest Economist and Wood Marketing                  4
Specialist for PPF Study on Wood Pricing
and Marketing
Integrated Forestry
Agriculture and Livestock Development
Gishwati
Zootechnician                                                              3
Federation Adviser                                   5
Financial Expert                                     3
Land Use Specialists
Gishwati Land Use Study                             17.5
EAtension Specialist                                 3
Applied Research                                     6
Short term consultancies forest plantation
development
otal                                               71.5                  10.5



- 52 -
Annex 2
Table 2
Procurement Procedures
NYUNGWF UNIT
Disbursement Catexory           ICB     LCB    Other   Not APplicable 1/  Total Cost
-________------US$ Million------___________________
I.  Civil works               -        1.88       -             -             1.88
-       (1.33)      -             -            (1.33)
II. Vehicles and               0.31     0.45       -             -             0.76
Equipment               (0.29)   (0.43)       -             -            (0.72)
III. Technical                  -        -          -             1.19          1.19
Assistance                 -        -          -            (1.19)        (1.19)
IV.  Training &                -        -          0.24                        0.24
Studies                  -         -         (0.24)         -            (0.24)
V.  Operating Costs           -        -          1.19          -             1.19
-        -         (0.49)         -            (0.49)
VI. Refunding PPF              -        -          0.07          -             0.07
(0.07)                     (0.07)
Total Costs                     0.31      2.33      1.58          1.19          5.33
(Total IDA)                    (0.29    (1.76)    (0.80)         (1.19)        (4.04)
1/ Includes TA Services to be obtained in accordance with IDA guidelines.



- 53 -
Annex 2
Table 3
Procurement Procedures
DGF
Disbursement Category         ICB        LCB      Other   Not Applicable 1/   Total
Cost
-----------------US$ Million------------------------
I.  Civil works                         0.13       -             -             0.13
(0.09)     -             -             (0.09)
II.  Vehicles and                        0.40       0.08                        0.48
Equipment                       (0.36)    (0.07)                        (0.43)
III.  Technical                                                    0.19          0.19
Assistance                                                  (0.19)        (0.19)
IV.  Training i                                    (0.92)                       0.92
Studies                                      (0.89)                       (0.89)
V.  Operating Costs                                0.21                        0.21
(0.12)                      (0.12)
VI.  Refunding PPF                                  0.07                        0.07
(0.07)                      (0.07~
Total Costs                               0.53       1.28          0.19          2.0
(Total IDA)                              (0.45)    (1.15)         (0.19)        (1.79)
1/ Includes TA Services to be obtained in accordance with IDA guidelines.



- 54 -
Annex 2
Table 4
Procurement Procedures
GBK Prolect Unit
Disbursement Category           ICB       LCB       Other   Not Applicable 1/   Total
Cost
----US$ Million--------
I.  Civil works               -         1.00       3.63                             4.63
-       (0.70)    (2.68)           -                (3.38)
II.  Vehicles and              1.00      0.37       0.25                             1.62
Equipment              (0.95)   (0.35)    (0.24)                             (1.54)
III.  Technical                                                    0.33               0.33
Assistance                                                (0.33)             (0.33)
IV.  Training and                                   0.18                             0.18
Studies                                     (0.16)                          (0.16)
V.  Operating costs                                4.65                             4.65
(excluding salaries)                       (1.50)                           (1.50)
VI. Refunding PPF                                   1.36                             1.36
(1.36)                          (1.36)
Total Costs                      1.00      1.37      9.58           0.33             12.77
(Total IDA)                    (0.95)   (1.05)    (5.94)          (0.33)             (8.27)
1/ Includes TA Services to be obtained in accordance with IDA guidelines.



- 55 -
Annex 2
Table 5
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
ALL UNITS
Disbursement Category           ICB      LCB         Other   Not Applicable 1/ Total Cos
US$ MILLION
I.  Civil Works               -         3.01       3.63        _                 6.64
(2.12)    (2.68)                        (4.80)
II.  Vehicles & Equipment    1.31    (1.22)    (0.33)           -                (2.86)
(1.24)   (1.14)    (0.31)        -                (2.69)
III.  Technical Assistance    -           -          -           1.71              1.71
_ -       -           (1.71)           (1.71)
IV.  Training & Studies                             1.34                          1.34
1.29                         1.29
V.  Operating Costs                                6.05                          6.05
(2.11)                       (2.11)
VI.  Refunding PPF                                  1.5                           1.5
(1.5)                        (1.5)
TOTAL COSTS                      1.31     4.23      12.85        1.71             20.1
(TOTAL IDA)                    (1.24)   (3.26)    (7.89)        (1.71)           (14.1)
1/ Includes TA Services to be obtained in accordance with IDA guidelines.



- 56 -
Annex 2
Table 6
NYUNGWE Component
Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Credit amount         % of expenditures
Category                                   US$              to be financed
I.   Civil works                        1,280,000               70%
II.  Vehicles & equipment                 640,000               100% foreign; 90% local
III. Technical Assistance               1,190,000               100l
IV.  Training and Studies                  240,000              1002 foreign; 902 local
V.   Operating Costs
(excluding salaries & p.d.)          445,000              60%
VI.  Refunding of PPF                       71,000
VII. Unallocated                           174,000
Total                                    4,040,000



- 57 -
Annex 2
Table 7
DGF Component
Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Credit amount    % of expenditures
Catezory                              US$           to be financed
I. Civil works                       62,000              70%
II. Vehicles & equipment             403,000              100% of foreign expenditure
90% of local expenditure
III. Technical Assistance             186,000              100%
IV. Training and Studies             886,000              100Z foreign
90% of local expeniiture
V.   Operating costS
(excluding salaries p.d.)        107,000             60%
VI.  Refunding of PPF                  68,000              -
VII. Unallocated                      78,000
Total                               1,790,000



- 58 -
Annex 2
Table 8
GBK Prolect Unit Component
Proceeds of the IDA Credit
Credit Amount         X of expenditures
Category                                    US$              to be financed
Civil works
A.  Kigali Butare                    220,000
B.  Gishwati Plantations             618,000
C.  Gishwati Pastures I              233,000
D.  Gishwati Pastures II           1,060,000               70%
E.  Extension                        812,000
F.  Mutara                            50,000
II. Vehicles & equipment
A.  Kigali Butare                    231,000
B.  Gishwati Plantation              306,000
C.  Gishwati Pastures                263,000               100% of foreign
D.  Extension                        390,000               expenditures
E.  Mutara                           262,000               90% of local
expenditures.
III. Technical Assistance
A.  Gishwati                         303,000
B.  Extension                         32,000               100%
IV. Training and Studies
A.  Extension                        147,000               100% of Foreign
B.  Mutara                             4,000                 Expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures.
V. Operating Costs
A.  Kigali Butare                    349,000
B. Gishwati Plantation and
pasture                        840,000
C.  Extension                        266,000               60%
D.  Mutara                            47,000
VI.  Refunding of PPF                    1,361,000
VII. Unallocated                           476.000
Total                                   8,270,000



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Table 9
RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
US$000                Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year                            Quarterly             Disbursement
and Quarter                             Disbursement         At end of Quarter
1987 March 31 1/                              200                      200
June 30                                 300                      500
1988 September 30                             300                      800
December 31                             300                    1,700
March 31                                300                    1,400
June 30                                 300                    1,700
1989 September 30                            400                     2,100
December 31                             450                    2,550
March 31                                500                    3,050
June 30                                 500                    3,550
1990 September 30                            550                    4,100
December 31                             600                    4,700
March 31                                650                    5,350
June 30                                 800                    6,150
1991 September 30                            800                     6,950
December 31                             800                    7,750
March 31                                800                    8,550
June 30                                 800                    9,350
1992 September 30                            800                    10,150
December 31                             800                   10,950
March 31                                750                   11,700
June 30                                 650                   12,350
1993 September 30                            600                    12,950
December 31                             550                   13,500
March 31                                350                   13,850
June 30                                 250                   14,100
Total                                    14,100
1/ Disbursements under PPF.



Annex 2
Table 10
RWANDA                                                       Page 1
Socond Integratod Forestry Projict
Staffing Plan
Kigali-Butare                  Existing                        Incrm_ental Staff Recruitment                        Full Staffing
Plantations  Mint_n_n_c         198-        1967          1988         1989      1990       1991          1992          Capacity
2            *                                                                           I 9  e  o  e  1
A2                             9            o            9            9         9            O            *             4
AB                             9                                      £         9 09                                    7
A4                            19            e                         a o                    e f                       1 
Office Staff                     8            e             9           e         9            9                          2
Drivers                          4            0             0                0           0        e         9             2
Office Guards                    4            °9                                  9 *  *                                  2
Plantation Cuards               47            *             9           9         0            0 9                       25
Cishsati Ne
Plentations including
A                     ~      ~      ~      ~~1  *  *          O         *            *            *             1
A2                             4                                                                          a 9  9  9  *  9  4
Foremen                        5            7            99                                               a            12                      0
Tractor Operator              24                         9                                   9            9            24
A4                             2            *            9            *         *            9            0             2
Plantation Cuards                1            0             6           6         6            S            6            27
Gishwati
Existing Plantations
Maintenance
Foremen
s            o            *            e         e           9             9             2
Plantation Guards               is            0            *            O         e            9            e            19
Use. Staff from New Plantations
/  Includes staff working on Gishwati buffer.
b 7 foremen buffer plantations



page 2
Existing                        Incremental Staff Recruitment                          Full Staffing
1988        1987          1988          19S9      199        1991           1992    _aPaC;ty
Gishasti existing
pasturs  maintenance
AO                                2            1             e            o         e            o             o             2
Al                                0             1            e            o         0            o             o             1
A2                                8            0                          0         0            0             0             0
A4                               20            0                          0 e                    0 o  o
A3                                2            0             0            0         0            0             0             2
Gishwati Dairy
AS                                1            0             e            e         a            o             S
Al                                1            e             e            o                                    S             1
A2                                3            e             o                                                               a
AS                                6            e             e            o         o            o             a             s
A4                                2            0             0            S         *            *             0             2
Workor.                          17            0             0            e         e            o             o
Gishmati CAT
AO
Al
A2                              1            0                                    5 O  O                                   1
A3                              1                                                                  0  0  0
A4                             a             *                                                                             3
Workers                          1             6             0            5         6            1             0            1i
Bouvier*                         12            e0                        0                 0            0      5            12
Cihsti * Zone d'emboucho
AS
Al
A2                              1            *             *            *         0            e             0             1
S4                              3            0             t            O         O            O                           I 4
4                                arr  1              0            0      e                0            04
W'ersr                           155                                                a            I                          11
GCshwti
Vetoinary Phermacy
AJ
Al
A2
A3                             1             0             t           O          O            O                           I 1
A4                             2             0             0           e          o                          S             2



page 3
Existing                        Incremental Staff Recruitment                         Full Staffing
1988        1987          1988          1989      1990       1991         1992        Capacity
Giahuati Contral
Admoniatratov.
As                             1                           O
Al                             2                                                     O                                    2
A2                             7             0                         0 O                    0 O           *
A3                             6             6             I           0          0           0             e             6
A4                             C             I             6           0          6           O             0             6
Kioal; Coordination
Center
AO                             2             0             6           0          o            0            0             2
A2                             4             6             a           0          *            *            *             4
A3                             6             a             o           9          O           o             6             a
A4                             2             e             O           9          e           9             e             2
"tung" Natural
Forest Management
Buff-r Plantations
AS                             0             *             2           0          6           0                           2
A2                             6             0             2           6          0           0                           4
AS                             *                           7           0          0           0                           7
A4                             0                                       0          0            0                          9
Typist                           O                           I           0          O            0            0             1
Tractor Operator                 O             0             1           *          a            0            e             1
Plumber/Electrician              O             o             1           0          a            *             0            1
Storekeepr                       *             *             1           *          *            *             0             I
Foret Guard                      *             O            is           6          a            *             a           is
Workrer                          0             *             3           2          0            0             9            S
Inventory
AO  Scientific Staff           e             e             1                      e1
A2                             *             0             3                      e            e            e
A3                             0             1             2           e          0            0                          2
Drivero                          *             9                                    e e  e                                   1
Fild Staff                       *             *            16          16          e            e            6            30
Agro-for*utry and
Rural Afforestation
AO                             9 e                         2           0          0            e            e             2
Al                             0             6             1           0          * 9                                     1
A2                             *             6             1           1          e            O            e             2
A3                             a             e             1           e          e           e             e             1
A4                             e             6            16           o          o           0             0            is



page 4
Existing                         Incremental Staff Recruitment                          Full Staffing
1988        1987          1988          1989       1990      1991           1992       Capacity
Extension
Ad                              1             0             0            3         0            O             0             4
A2                              6             *             1            2                         o                        3
Al                              e             0             1           O          O            e             o             1
A3                             12             0             0           0          3            0             e            1S
A4                             E2             e             o           o          o           oe                          a4
Cw



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
PROTECTION OF THE NYUNGWE AND GISHWATI NATURAL FORESTS
This annex and the following ones of the other Gishwati components
and on the farm farestry component provide a degree of detail which is
interm.ediate between the working papers and the Detailed Features section
of the Project chapter of the main test.
The Government of Rwanda has asked IDA and other development
agen_ies to help it protect the Nyungwe forest, and it has asked IDA to
help it protect also the Gishwati forest. The reason why the Government
wishes to protect these forests rather than allow farmers to clear them for
agriculture, as they cleared most of the forest which once covered Rwanda,
is that it considers the potential agricultural value of the remaining
natural forests to be less than their scientific, cultural, soil and water
conservation, and gene pool values. The forests also have a potential
value for tourism, including scientific tourism. Their potential timber
production value, however, is slight.
T. PROTECTION OF THE NYUNGWE FOREST
At present 100% of the Nyungwe forest is a Reserve, although the
resources of the Government does not allow effective protection. In an
"Action Plan for the Conservation and Management of the Natural Forests on
the Zaire-Nile Divide" published by the Forestry Department in September
1984 it was proposed that the forest be divided for protection purposes
into four zones or units, and that the support of a different agency be
sought for each unit. The following agencies have now agreed to support
the protection of the various units: the Swiss PPF project would support
the protection of Unit ("Unite de Gestion Zone", UGZ) 1, In the north; the
European Development Fund (FED) - Unit 2, in the northeast; the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique - UlnIt 4, in the southwest. It is now
proposed that IDA, through the Forestry II project, should finance the
protection of Unit 3, situated in the southeast of the forest. See Map No.
A Swiss project, "Project Pilote Forestier", has been active in
Rwandf for more than a decade. It has agreed to help protect the northern
sector of the Nyungwe forest, Unit 1. Its main activities in 1986/1987
will be to put in place the administrative -.ructures for Unit 1, to begin
the construction of the Unit 1 center at gisovu, and to initiate their
management-oriented inventory ("inventaire pour l'amenagement"). The FED
project, "Projet Crete Zaire-Nil (CNZ)", has been active in its zone for
the last 4 years, and has already established 3,000 ha of buffer
plantation, mainly of Acacia melanoxylon and Pinus patula. The Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique has agreed to lend Rwanda 40 million
French francs to finance the protection of Unit 4.  Disbursement is
beginning now, Rnd will last three years. Part of this loan will be used
to construct the conservation center.
The proposed conservation center would be situated approximattly
in the middle of the forest, along the Butare-Cyangugu road where the four



ANNEX 3
Units come together. The main objective of this center would be
protection, and scientific research would be an important secondary
objective. There would be houses for forest guards, for a forest
conservator, a police officer, and visiting scientists. There would also
be offices and a meeting room. The Caisse Centrale loan would finance the
investment costs, including training, while the Forest Department would
finance the operating costs.
The Action Plan furthermore proposed that 40% of the forest should
remain as a Reserve, while 60% should be opened up to management. In a
position paper distributed during the post-appraisal mission in September-
October 1986 to the Government and to the other agencies involved in the
protection of the Nyungwe forest, the IDA mission made clear its strong
conviction that the management should be of the lightest possible kind, anid
that in particular the contruction of internal roads should be limited to a
minimum. The mission has been assured by the Government and by the other
donors that commercial exploitation is not envisaged in any part of the
forest. (In any case, such exploitation would probably not ev?n repay the
cost of roads and logging, let alone leave a net surplus for stumpage.)
The only exploitation that will be allowed would be some controlled
customary harvesting of fuelwood and building poles from the forest fringe
areas, by the population immediately atround the forest.
A. Establishment of Forest Station (Implementation Unit)
The unit to be protected by the project has an area of about
25,000 ha, i.e. about a quarter of the total forest. The project would
establish a station near the southeastern sector of the Nyungwe forest
(Unit 3), for the implementation of its various activities in connection
with the protection of the forest: :he 900 ha buffer strip plantation, the
patrolling of the plantation and the forest by guards, the ecological
inventory, the inititation of the research and monitoring program, and the
extension work among the populatior, adjacent to the forest. The estimated
cost of the two main Nyungwe components - the activities related to the
buffer plantation, and the activitles related to the ecological inventory -
are set out in Tables            of :he Appraisal Report.
The forest station would be situated for example at Tangabo in
Kivu Commune, or at Busenyi, Wingugu Sector, Mudasomwa Commune. Busenyi,
about 2 km from the forest and about the same distance to the south of the
Kitabi tea factory, would probably be cheaper to supply with electricity
and water. It would also have better communications to the University of
Butare, which could provide useful support to the ecological inventory,
especially with regard to species identification. Busenyi would also have
better communications to the proposed Conservation Center to be financed by
the Caisse Centrale and to be situated inside the forest, along the Butare-
Cyangugu main road.
Besides the main station to be established near the northern part
of the Unit, smaller outstations would be established in the Commune of
Kivu, near the central part of the Unit, and in the Comm.une of Nshili, near
the sourhorn part.



- 66 -                           ANNEX 3
B. Buffer Plantation
A strip of plantation 200 m wide and 45 km long, i.e. with a total
area of some 900 ha, will be established along the border of the natural
forest to demarcate the latter and to serve as a psychological barrier to
encroachment.  The soils in the area are generally poor, and Pinus patula
is one of the few species that can be grown successfully on most of the
sites. On the better sites Cupressus lusitanica and Acacia melanoxylon
should be grown.
The indigenous species Polyscias fulva ("Umwungo") should also be
planted.  It is a very fast-growing local pioneer species with an excellent
form, and producing a good matchwood for which there is a ready market at
the match factory in Butare, 70 km away.  ISAR has recently sold Polyscias
logs with a diameter of 30-40 cm on roadside in its arboretum for FRW
12,000/m3 to the match factory, but for standing timber at Nyungwe the
price will be much less. Although Polyscias yields an excellent matchwood,
there would probably not be a market for its thinnings.  To nllow it to
grow as rapidly as possible to diameters where it can be sold as matchwood,
it should therefore be planted far apart (about 3.5 to 4.0 meters), and the
weed growth should be kept down by allowing taungya intercropping. For the
farmers to be interested in intercropping, the soil would have to be
reasonably good. And for the match factory to be interested, the trees
should be grown in reasonably accessible areas in the northern part of the
buffer strip. Polyscias should therefore be planted on relatively good and
accessible sites.
With a target stocking at planting of 1100 seedlings per hectare
for most species, a 20% allowance for culling and another 20% for replacing
dead trees, and 900 ha of buffer plantation plus the equivalent of 25 ha of
roadside plantation, altogether about 1.5 million seedlings would be
needed. When these seedlings can be produced more cheaply by private
contractors than by the project itself, this activity will be privatized.
Besides entrepreneurs, sector nurseries a,-d group nurseries, schools should
also be approached in this connection. The vocational (CERAI) schools in
particular could produce seedlings, as practical agricultural work is an
Important part of their curriculum. Each Commune has at least one CERAI.
One possible problem is that the CERAIs are closed for the vacation from
July until the middle of September.
As the climate of Nyungwe is favorable for tree-growing, exotic
seedlings should be raised as bare-rooted stock using the Swaziland system,
which is used in the FED project next door, and which reduces the cost per
seedling from FRW 3-4 to FRW 1. Only for the more delicate indigenous
seedlings would the traditional plastic bags or pots be used.
The following plantinig schedule is envisaged:
1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   Torta
Bufret plantation, ha                          150    300    300    150    900
Roadside plantings, ha-equivalent   _ 8    _ 6           6      5    _         25
Totals:                    8    156    306    305    150    925



- 67 -                             ANNEX 3
The total direct cost of establishing these 925 ha would be FRW
33,450,000 (see cost table), i.e. FRW 36,162 (USS 425) per ha. This would
comprise seedling production, nursery material, site preparation, planting,
replacing dead plants, weeding and road construction. Although road
construction would be kept to a minimum of 60 km (along the edge of the
forest, not inside the forest), it would amount to as much as 45% of the
total direct cost. Labor intensive methods would be used, requiring
altogether 310,600 man-days, and only about 8% of the total direct cost
would be represented by non-labor items such as nursery materials and hand
tools.
The following wood production from the buffer plantation has been
assumed in the economic analysis:
1997-  2003-  2008-  2013-  2018-  2023-  2028-
2002   2007   2012   2017   2022   2027   2031
Cubic meters    2250   4500   9000  15750  27000  45000  58500
This volume production corresponds to a total of 162,000 m3 over the 35
years harvesting period or che 45 years total growing period.  This in turn
corresponds to 8 m3/ha/year on the 50Z of the 900 ha which are considered
productive. The reason why the other 50% of the area would not be
considered productivo., would generally be steep slopes or inaccessibility.
On such sites the function of the buffer plantation would thus be purely
protective.
C. Ecolopical  Inventory
In October 1986 the Forestry Department published a provisional
direct've for the proposed inventory of the natural forests of the Zaire-
Nile divide. It states that topographical maps with contour lines will be
available in a year's time, with a scale of 1:10,000 or even 1:5,000.
Aerial photographs from 1980 and 1982 are also available. Five
stratifications are proposed for the vegetation maps. It is proposed that
the inventories be carried out in two stages; a pre-inventory for planning
purposes, and the main inventory. Sampling percentages are suggested.
Variables of forest, soil and fauna to be inventoried are outlined.
Personnel and equipment required for the inventory are described. Although
these inventories would thus take note also of soil and fauna, they would
mainly be conventional timber inventories.
As the purpose of the Nyungwe component of the proposed IDA
project, is to protect the forest, one would wish to have a more complece
knowledge of what It Is that *he project would protect. Such know.edge
shouid comprise far more than could be provided by a conventional timber
Inventory. The latter gives information by species on heights, diameters,
volumes and stem form. Such information is useful for loggers, but not for
forest protection. Instead, the project therefore proposes to finance an
ecological inventory of the plant and animal species of the forest, the
factors which threaten it (mining, poaching, agr.cultural encroachment,
road-buildirig, fires, etc.), and of the forest dynamics, i.a. of the



A8Nf:X 3
principles which govern changes in the forest, either away from the
original climax vegetation, or back towards that ultimate goal. Another
important objective of the ecological inventory would be to quantify as far
as possible the benefits yielded by the natural forests, to provide a
rationale for their protection.
To undertake this ecological inventory, the project would finance
an ecologist for five years. The post-appraisal mission was Liformed by
the FAC represtentative in Kigali that FAC will probably be able to finance
this post, i.e. to cofinance the ptoject. Besides the ecological
inventory, the ecologist would set up an ecological monitoring and
evaluation system to follow the later development of the forest, and draw
up a research program for the Nyingwe forest in close cooperation with ISAR
in Butare. When the project would come to an end in 1992, the monitoring
and evaluation would become the direct responsibilty of the Conservation
Center, which would report on this matter to the Forestry Department's
Bureau of Forest Inventory and Statistics. The research program would be
arried out by ISAR. The ecologist would undertake a similar work program
in the smaller Gishwati natural forest (Section II below).
There have already been a number of studies of the Nyurngwe forest.
In order not to waste resources by re-doing what has already been done, the
ecologist's first task should be to undertake a thorough literature study.
Part of this can be done already outside Rwanda. The rest can be done with
the guidance of ISAR, the University of Butare, and the Swiss forestry
project in Rwanda, as most of the studies have bhen carried out by those
three organizations.
The proposed ecological inventory would cover not only the areas
earmarked for maniagement in the Forestry Department's previously mentione(d
1984 Action Plan for the natural forests, but also the areas earmarked as
Reserves. Furthermore, the project would be prepared to finance such an
inventory not only in its own Ut,i- 3, but also - if the Forestry Departmeent
so wishes - to fill possible ecological information gaps not covered by the
inventories which will be carried out in the other Units.
As the threats to the forest are closely linked to sociological
factors, the ecologist would be supported during his first year by a socio-
economic adviser, who should have a good knowledge of local rural sociology
and of the local language, Kinyarwanda. Hopefully, a local expert could be
found for the latter post, e.g. at the University of Butare. In the
costing for the ecological inventory, 16 consultant-months are also
Included. This would allow further inputs by the socio-economist during
years 2-5.
The detailed work plan for the ecologist and the socio-economist
will be drawn up by a 2/3-month mission by an ecologist and a socio-
economist in early 1987, to be paid from Pre-Project Finance (PPF).
Suggested profiles of the ecologist and the socio-economist have been sent
to the Government. The same profiles can be used for recruiting the above-
mentiorned PPF mission.
Inventory is not research, and although proximity to ISAR and t.0
the University of Butare would have been useful for the ecologist, the



- 69 -                            ANNEX 3
post-appraisal mission came to the conclusion, after discussions with
relevant ISAR and Forestry Department officials, that proximity to the
forest and its scheduled Conservation Center would be even more useful. It
is therefore proposed that the ecologist be based at the station which the
project would established near Unit 3.
One of the first requirements for the ecological inventory would
be to acquire good recent aerial or satellite photographs or imagery. FRW
16.9 million has been included in the project for this purpose, but it can
hopefully be done for considerably less, as the Forestry Department
document "Directives (Provisoires) pour l'Inventaire des Forets Naturelles
de la Crete Zaire-Nil", October 1986, states that topographical maps with
contour lines, at a scale of 1:10,000 and even 1:5,000 will be available
within one year, and that aerial photograophs taken in 1980 and 1982 can be
put at the disposal of the Units.
D. Other Actitivities to be Carried out trom the Unit 3 Station
The project would finance ten forest guards to patrol the buffer
plantation and the natural forest. As the project would not finance any
roads inside the forest, the guards would have to patrol the latter on foot
or, if and where the quality of footpaths allow it, on bicycle. (In
tropical areas with high population pressure, such as Rwanda, forest roads
eventually and inevitably become conduits of destrution, even if they were
originally constructed for protection.)
The technical staff at the station - one AO forester, two A2, and
two A3 - would also be responsible for liaising with the local extension
services staff to sensitize the population living near the forest. This
population has a customary right to take fuelwood and poles from the forest
for their own use. This can continue, but under the control of the
forestry staff, who should advice the local population on which species to
take and which to leave alone, on the necessity to avoid wasteful
exploitation, and on the value of the forest to them in particular and to
the country in general.
Due to the scientific interest of Nyungwe forest, it can be
expected that scientists will wish to visit it, and the proposed forest
station would be able to provide some limited accomodation to such
visitors, whose work could be valuable for the project.
IT. GISHWATI FOREST
The 1980 Staff Appraisal Report for the first phase of the
Integrated Forestry and Livestock Development Project reported that only
about 5,000 ha of relatively untouched natural forest remained of the total
25,000-28,000 ha of the Gishwati "Forest" Reserve, and six years later the
forestry consultant participating in the appraisal mission for the second
phase stated that this area "is thotught to be still largely intact". In
fact the line of Eucalyptus maidenii trces which was planted already in



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Colonial times to indicate the boundary of the natural forest seems to have
been generally respected. The forest is nevertheless under considerable
pressure, both from within and from without. Within, it is being degraded
by some twenty thousand cattle which graze there, ard for which there seems
to be nowhere else to go. From without it is threatened by large-scale
clearing of the degraded bamboo and scrub forest whiclh has taken place
during the last two years or less, by forest workers and by independent
farmers, mainly for the cultivation of potatoes.
The first phase pastures and forest plantations were established
at some distance to the northeast of the natural forest, but the 2,000 ha
of additional industrial ,lantation which has been proposed for the second
phase would probably be established along part of the natural forest
boundary, and would provide protection for that part.   For the protection
of the remainder o' the boundary, with an estimated length of about 9 km,
the project would .'inance the establishement of a 200-ha buffer plantation.
The project would also finance 6 additional forest guards to
patrol the natural forest, besides the 19 additional guards for the
proposed new 2,000 ha of industrial plantation. As it is expected that
part of the latter would be adjacent to the natural forest, the guards
patrollirng the plantations would also strengthen the protection of the
natural forest.
The soils at Gishwati are considerably better than at Nyungwe, and
more demanding species can be used. It is proposed that the 200 ha of
buffer plantation be comprised of 70 ha of Cupressus lusitanica, another 70
ha of Acacia melanoxylon, and 60 of indigenous species (see Appendix II of
working paper for a list of potential indigenous species). It is further
proposed that the buffer plantation be established over the five years
1988-92 at an average rate of 40 ha/year. Funds have been included to
allow the production of traditional potted seedlings, but considering the
excellent planting conditions at Gishwati it would be sufficient to use
bare-rooted seedlings which can be produced by means of the Swaziland
sustem at about a third of the cost. The project staff can learn this
method from the FED-funded project which is supporting the protection of
the northeast Unit of the Nyungwe forest.
As indicated in the cost table for the Gishwati buffer plantation,
the total direct cost of establishing this plantations is estimated at FRW
9,569,200, i.e. FRW 47,846 (US$563) per ha. This would comprise seedling
production, nursery materials, site preparation, planting, replacement of
dead plants, weeding and road construction. The last item would account
for 26% of the total. Of the total direct cost, 95% would be for inskilled
labor.
The main purpose of the buffer plantation would be to prot,act the
natural forest, and any possible production would be purely incidental.  It
has been assumed that 50% of the plantation would not be harvested, mainly
due to inaccessibility, and that the other half would yield 17,000 m3 of
sawlogs and 5,500 m3 of poles over a period of 30 years. Due to the
relatively small Irvestment involved, the rate of return of the Gishwati
buffer plantation was not calculated.



Annex 3
ApThiEix 1
Page 1
Activit s devant_ tre financees au titre du mecanisme PPF
Gestion des forets naturelles
Mandats de l'_cologiste specialise dans les forets naturelles et du socio-
6conomiste
1.        Les mardats qui suivent concernent une equipe consultative de deux
personnes chargde d'elaborer le Programme de gestion des forets naturelles
inscrit au projet, de concert avec les institutions rwandaises campetentes
(a savoir 1'INRS, 1'ISAR et l'Universite de Butard).  L'equipe comnprendrait
un bcologiste specisalise dans les forets naturelles pour une prestation de
3 mois et un socio-6conomiste pour une prestation de 2 mois.
2.        Pendant une p riode de deux a trois mois ccmTenant en janvier
1987, les consultants charges de coop6rer avec deux homologues rwandais
aideront la DGF a concevoir un procgramme d'evaluation, de contr6le et
d'apprdciation pour la foret naturelle de lyungwe. A la faveur d'une
collaboration dtroite avec 1'INRS, 1'ISAR et l'Universite de Butare,
1'6quipe examinera les informations scientifiques disponibles et les besoins
en produits forestiers de la r6gion.  L'equipe proposera ensuite un
programme de 10-15 ans caprenant: (1) les directives particulieres au
contr6le; (2) un plan de recherche, y compris l'expdrinentation n&cessaire a
l'exploitation contr6l6e de la zone forestiere & gerer; (3) un inventaire
des ressources naturelles initiales.
3.        Ce programe d'dvaluation des ressources naturelles prendrait en
ccmpte la n6cessitd de fournir des produits ligneux aux populations qui
vivent aux alentours de la foret.
4.        Les sujets de recherche etudies par l'equipe devront inclu-e:
o    L' identification des especes rares, renacees et vulnerables.
O    Les dtudes sur la dynamique et 1' cosyst6me des forets.
O    Les etudes sur les incidences Ii6es a l'exploitation miuniere, a la
production de grumes (y corpris l'imnortance du d6frichement) et a
l'utilisation des terres adjacentes.
O    Propagation des especes i.ridigenes.
O    Besonr-s en produits fcrestiers- non ligneux,
5.        EThfin, l'quipe devra identifier et l-,fini:- les couts, le
personnel et les besoins de formation particuliers a la mise en oeuvre du
plan d'evaluation, de contr6le et d'apprc.iation des ressources naturelles.



- 72 -                           Annex 3
Appendix 1
Page 2
A long term, le rdsultat vise est de renforcer la capacite de gestion des
for6ts naturelles de la DGF, de l'INRS et de 1'ISAR.
6.        Les informations relatives au cadre g4neral du projet figurent en
annexe.



Annex 3
Appendix 1
Page 3
Cadre qondral
1.        La Banque envisage de financer un programm  de conservation et de
gestion des forets naturelles visant a proteger la Foret de Nyungwd dans le
cadre de la Phase II du projet de foresterie/dlevage integre (FEI).
Justification du soutien de la nque
2.        Etant donne la reduction constante de la superficie de la Foret de
Nlyungwe et son importance pour la productivite agricole en aval, le soutien
de la Ranque concernant ce volet se justifie tout d'abord par le besoin
d'aider les autorites a introduire une protection plus efficace des
ressources en eau, sol, faune, flore et reserves g4k.ttiques que contient la
Forkt de Nyungwe. En second lieu, l'aide de la Banque est parallele au fait
que le gouvernement reconnait que les methodes adoptees anterieurement pour
prot6ger la for6t naturelle n'ont pas donnd les rdsultats esccmptes.  Ainsi,
les zones r6gulatrices cr6des en 1933 (par exemple une seule rangee de
cypres) n'ont pas suffi & emp6cher les empietements. Ont galement 6choue
les modestes affectations de gardes forestiers devant assurer la protection
de la foret moyennant une gestion quasiment d(tpourvue d'appui juridique ou
administratif.  Les plaantations de zone tampon crd6es sur la frontiere nord-
ouest de Nuyengw  n'ont pas rnussi a freiner l'envahissement agricol.e.
3.        la troisiem  raison pour laquelle la Banque devrait appuyer ce
programmne r.side dans le fait qu'aucun de-s autres bailleurs de fonds
contribuant a la protection et a la gestion de Nyungwe n'a propose de plan
de contr6le et d'evaluation exhatustif pour l'ensemble des ressources de la
foret naturelle. La tutelle de la Banque A cet 6gard pourrait contribuer &
doiner 1'elan catalytique n6cessaire & un progra=me de controle de la
qualite des ressources natuzrelles de MNuygwd; elle pourrait en outre
constituer utn moyen d'amhliorer la coordination dfv l'aide apport6e a
l'inventaire &coloique.
4.        Enfin, au titre de 1'OPN/NO 11.02 danis r6cemnent (2 juin 1986; le
Dtcuntment de politique generale de la Banque sur les terres incultes), il
convient de noter que la Banaue est tenue d'inscrire ces programmes dans la
conneption des projets dont ils fonrent une paitie int6grante.
Ob ectifs
:`nvestissement de la Banque comprendra:
U.n inventaire ecologique de la Foret de NyurMwO
o    Tr. progra=me de contr6le des ressources naturelles
o    Des plantations r6gulatrices.
6.        En tant que partie int6grante du projet de Phase II, il est
c.cnnvenu avec le qoir:ernenent rw-aIai s que les volets citds plus haut
deva>.en.t etre realists.



Annex 3
Appenldix
Page 4
Inventaires dco-l-oiqLe
7.        L' inventaire est destin6 & compi6ter une base d' minformations
existante concernant la composition biologique et dcologique de la foret
afromontane de Nyungwe. Ce faisant, le projet est cense am6liorer la
capacite du personnel et des institutions du Rwanda & realiser des eriqu6tes
d'evalution des ressources naturelles.
8.        Le projet inclura des inventaires biologiques de la zone
forestiere qui crpleteront ceux qui sont effectu6s par d'autres chercheurs
ou d'autres projets. I1 se chargera de mener des enqu6tes sur les vegetaux,
de compiler des listes de la faune et d'effectuer des etudes sur les especes
animales menacees, le cas 6chdant.
9.        Le projet comprendra des analyses relatives aux ecosystemes
forestiers.  Y sont 6galement inscrites des etudes sur la formation des sols
et sur l'hydrologie forestiere, de meme que des etudes sur la dynamique de
la v6gdtation forestiere (par exemple l'ouverture de trou6es, la nouvelle
colonisation et le role des especes dans le processus de succession en tant
que cr6ateurs de trouee, de colonisateurs, de pollinisateurs et de
distributeurs de semences). Les especes r6v6latrices de changement feront
l'objet d'une attention particuliere. Ces etudes serviront a andliorer les
connaissances sur la composition de la foret naturelle et fourniront une
base utile pour ameliorer les methodes de corservation. De surcroit, les
activites d'inventaire pourraient deboucher sur 1' identification d'especes
vegetales offrant d'autres possibilites d'utilisation. Par exemple, la
foret naturelle contient de nomibreuses plantes qui pouLraient se preter a
des usages alimentaires, m6dicinaux ou autres; par ailleurs, elle renferme
une reserve de ressources genetiques qui pourraient contribuer a maintenir
la resistance aux parasites et la productivite des cultures agricoles.
Volet relatif au contr6le des ressources naturelles
10.       Le projet financera la creation d'un programme de ccntr6le qui
doit se situer & proximite de la For6t de Nyu'gwd. et lui ac=zrder une
importance sp6ciale; ce programme pourrait s 'tendre A Gishwati et dlautres
forets naturelles.
11.       Les activites qui seront contr6l6es comprendront les kncidences
excercees sur la fordt par les elements suivants:
o Extraction illegale du bois
o   mpietent de l'agriculture
o  Paturage du b6tail
o R6colte de produits ligneux non ixnistriels
o Exploitation miniere
 Braconnage des anizaux sauvages
o Construction routi6re
12.       Par rapport a tous les points 6voquys plus haut, les dazaines
d'inter6ts craciaux r6sideront dans le controle des incidences sur la
ccmT)ositior- des esp&;es de la foret, les pertes; d'humLs, la fert.ilite du
scl, l'r,'pact sLr les popuiations d'ani aux sauvages et les pertes relatives



- 75 -                        Annex 3
Appendix 1
Page 5
& la diversitA biologique, & quoi s'ajoute l'incidence des interventions qui
seraient opdr6es & 1l'gard des populations vivant en milieu forestier.
13.       L'inventaire ecologique et le volet de contr6le prdvus ont pour
but de donner au gouvernmnt l'owcasion de mieux   prendre la valeur
econcmique des ressourses propres A la for6t naturelle et de contribuer &
evaluer l'linportance quantitative des incidences qu'elles exercent sur le
maintien de la productivite agricole et la fourniture 1'une source
essentielle et durable de vivres, de fibres, d'dnergie hydro-electrique et
d'autres produits de subsistance destin6s A la consomnation humaine.  Ces
etudes peuvent contribuer & assurer que la conservation des fordts
naturelles bdrdficiera d'un appui constant de l.a part du Plan de
develcppement national et qu'elle contribuera & dtablir la justification
6conamique de 1'augnentation des dopenses consacr6es aux gardes forestiers,
& la protection contre les incendies et au d6veloppement des plantations de
la zone tanpon.  L'objectif sera en outre d'identifier les possibilit6s de
gerer les forets d'une maniere durable (par exemple la collecte organis6e du
miel et la recole du bois de feu).



- 76 -
Annex 3
AppendiX I
Page 6
SOCI>ECOSrt
Qualifications nrcessaires
Au moins une nzitrise en sociologie rarale.
Au moins trois anndes d'experience en la matiere.
Connaissance des techniques de sondage et des methodes statistiques.
Certaines connaissances d'6o,oomie rurale, notamnent en ce qui concerne la
production familiale et les structures de mons4rnation, l'utilisation
xnergtique, la comnercialisation et la fixation des prix des produits
frais.
Connaissance parfaite du milieu rural rwandais.
Bomne oonnaissance du kinyarwanda et du frangais.
(Le socio-6concriste doit soit etre un employd travaillant & temps complet
avec 1'1oologiste perdant la premiere annre du projet, soit ftre  n
chercheur de l'universitd travaillant au projet A temps partiel.  )ans le
przemier cas, cette personne devra 6tre disponible pour des prestations
consultatives & court terme durant les quatre annmes suivantes du projet, le
cas 6chdant.)



- 77 -
Annex 3
pTpendix 1
Page 7
SECOND 1 7JFr DE SYLVICLULTJE Er D' EEVAGE INEGRES
PROFILS DE L'ECOLOGISTE ET DU SOCIO- EXtO4STE
11.6.86
Les profils qui suivent ooncernent essentiellement
l 'cologiste et le socio-bconaotiste qul seront recrutds dans le cadre du
projet pour les dur6es respectives de cinq et un ans. L'6oologiste et le
socio-dconaniste qui seront finances dars le cadre du m6canisme PPF afin
d'4laborer les directives et les ten- de r6f6rence de l'inventaire
ecologique et de la recnerche sur la foret naturelle doivent presenter des
profils sinilaires.
ECOLOGISTE SPECIAIISE DANS LES FORETS TROPICAIES
c.allifications n6cessaires
Au moins une maitrise en 6cologie, 6cologie forestiere ou 1'euivalent.
Au moins cinq annees d'expdrience relative aux forets naturelles, de
pr6fdrence les forets tropicales de montagne, notamment en ce qui concerne
l'inventaire ecologique et la recherche sur la foret naturelle.
Connaissance de la gestion et de la planification appliqu6es des ressources
naturelles, en part,cul.er concernant les effets 6cologiques des projets de
developpement.
Connaissance des methodes statistiques, notanment la conception des sondages
et l'analyse des donn6es.
Connaissance informatique.  (Le projet firanera un ordinateur pour le volet
Nyungwe, qui servira & constituer une banquo. de donn6es et & effectuer
l'analyse des dor,ines.)
Bonne connaissance du franrais.
Doit etre capable de vivre dans une zone relative..ent isolee proche du
secteur sud-est de la foret de Ny.ingwX et doit etre capable de diriger le
personnel et la main-d'oeuvre devant contribuer & linventaire 6cologique
puis aux recherches dans La fordt de Nyurnwq.



- 78 -                             Annex 4
RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
AGROFORESTRY AND RURUAL AFFORESTATION
The proposed project would support tree planting by farmers for
fuelwood ard other purposes rather than the plantation approach to fuelwood
development pursued in Phase I. The tree planting by the farmers could be
on a communal or an individual basis, and in either case it could be in the
form of single trees, lines of trees or bushes (hedges, windbreaks, road
trees, boundary lines, etc.), or conventional plantations. Some of these
forms of tree planting, even the plantations, could be in close association
with crops (agroforestry), or with crops and grazing(agrosilvo-
pastoralism', or with grazing only (silvopastoralism). Such combinations
are traditiornal in Rwanda. The possible permutations of these various
forms of tree planting are virtually innumerable. They will here be
designiated under the umbrella term "farm forestry".
The project would support farm forectry in sixty Sectors
("Sec.eurs") in the Kigali and Butare prefectures, where the project would
in any case be active in the maintenance of the Phase I plantations, and
where other projects ("DGB" in Butare Prefecture, "Kigali Nord", "Kigali
Est", "Project Shyorongi" etc. in Kigali Prefecture) are not already
supporting farm forestry.  The 60 Sectors would be situated in the Communes
of GIshamvu and Maraba in Butare Prefecture, and in Bicumbi, Gikomero,
Gikoro, Mbogo, Mugambazi and Rutongo in K'gali Prefecture.
The support to farm forestry in the 60 Sectors would take two main
forms: support to seedling production and support to tree planting. The
support t-? seedling production would again take two main forms: support to
the traditional Sector nurseries, and support to group nurseries
('pepinieres ce groupement") and other private nurseries.  Each of these
will be dealt with in turn.



-79-                               Annex 4
A. Sector Nurseries
In the Sector nurseries the Forestry Department traditionally
provides seed, plastic bags, watering cans and other implements, and one
nursery worker per nurse;y, while the local community provides the
remaining labor, and the land on which the nursery is situated. Sector
nurseries in the Kigali and Butare Prefectures generally produce 30-40
incentives which get the local communities involved in seedling production.
These inputs, and especiilly the presence of the nursery workers also allow
the Forestry Department to introduce new species which tne rural population
would not become acquainted with if left to its own devices. The most
popular species with farmers in the Kigali and Butare Prefectures is
eucalyptus, followed by Grevillea robusta. The farmers should also be
introduced to nitrogen-fixing, soil-improving species like Leucaena
leucocephala, an excellent fodder and fuelwood species, and Acacia mearnsii
(Black Wattle) much maligned because of its profuse growth, but excellent
for fuelwood and charcoal.
B.  grouNurseries and Other Private Nurseries
In certain Sectors a Proup of farmers may wish to estaLlish their
own nursery. Such nurseries would generally be smaller than the sector
nurseries, each producing about 5,000 seedlings a year, and would therefore
not justify the presence of a nursery worker. The other inputs given to
the sector nurseries, however, would also be given to the group nurseries.
For the purposes of costing, ;t will be assumed that in the 60 Sectors, 20
such groups would express an interest in establishing their own nurseries
during each of the five project implementation years, so that at the end of
the period 100 such nurseries would have been established, producing about
500,000 seedlings a yeir.  This may be an op.imistic estimate, and the
project funds that will be allocated for this purpose should therefore
suffice to support also other private ir.itiatives that may be encouraged in
the field of seedling production.
Where there is a market for seedlings, for example where the
Forestry Department can guarantee such a market, schools may be interested
in producing seedlings. This will be explored for the project's
reforestation components, but none of these is situated in the Kigali and
Butare Prefectures.



- 80 -                            Annex 4
C. Total Proposed Seedling Production
The total proposed seedling production from Sector and Group
nurseries would be as follows:
Table 1: Proposed Seedling Production, '000
Type of Nursery                                    Project Year
1      2       3      4       5+       1-5
Sector                        420    840   1260   1680   2100    6300
Group                         100    200    300    400    500    1500
TOTAL                       520   1040   1560   2080   2600    7800
D. Su2port to Tree Planting
So far the proposed project ntpport to seedling production has
been discussed. As regard the support to tree planting, this will only
take the form of extension services, to be provided mainly by the nursery
workers, especially during the season when there is no wcrk in the
nurseries, hut also by the staff which has been retained for the
maintenance of the Phase I plantations and by the two A2 foresters who will
be added for the implementation of the nursery program.
III. COST OF NURSERY PROGRAM
A. Sector Nurseries
It will Le assumed that the 60 sector nurseries will be
established at a rate of 12 p.a. over the five project years, and that the
annual production will be 35,000 seedlings/nursery. The di act costs are
estimated to be as follows, without overheads and without contingencies.
Table 2: Estimated Direct Base Costs of Sector Nurseries, FR '000
Project Year
1    2     3      4     5    Total
Costs to be borne by projl ct 1/
Hand tools 2/                            420  420   420   420   420   2,100
Tubes and seed                           349  697  1096  1394  1743   5,229
Nursery and extension workers 31         300  600   900  1200  1500   4,500
Subtotal                         1069 1717  2366  3014  3663  11,829



- 81 -                             Annex 4
Opportunity costs to be borne by
local community       I
Land                                      1     2    3      4     5      15
Labor other then nursery worker         825 1650  2475  3300   4i25 12,375
Poles used for shading, sheds,
etc.  2/                              200  200   200   200    20C  1,000
Subtotal                         1026 1852  2678  3504   4330 13,390
Total, project + Sector costs          2095 3569  5044  6518  7993  25,219 4/
1/  Supervision of nursery/extension workers will be done by staff
responsible for maintenance of the Kigali and Butare Phase I
plantations, plus two additional A2 foresters.
2/  r  y in year of nursery establishment.
3/  At FR 25,000/nursery worker/year.
L/  As total production of seedlings would be 6.3 million, the mean cost of
production per seedling would be FR 4.
Of the total cost of FR25.2 millivn, only FR 11.8 million or 47%
would thus be carried by the project. As most of the local community
support would be represented by Umuganda labor, non-umuganda members would
be required to pay FR3 per forest tree seedling (the approximate marginal
cost) and FR1O per fruit tree seedling, and the same would apply to
seedlings requested by umuganda households in excess of 20 seedlings per
year.
The Forestry Department has identified 1000 ha of afforestable
communal land in the Kigali and Butare prefectures. The very poor lands
which are available for afforestations in these densely populated
Prefectures can only support about 1111 trees per ha (3 x 3m planting
espacement). About 1.3 million seedlings would therefore suffice for the
1000 ha, including replacement plantings. This is only one fifth of the
seedlings that would be produced by the 60 Sector nurseries.
The nurserl-s should not produce only seedlings of the Eucalyptus
saligna/grandis, as the early GBK plantings in Kigali and Butare showed
that this species is not suited to the very poor soils in this region.
Instead, less demanding eucalypts like E. camaldulensis, E. paniculata and
E. maidenii shouild be produced, besides the previously mentioned
agroforestry species. Guidance on suitable plantation species is best
obtained from existing good stands on similar sites in the region.



- 82 -                             Annex 4
B. Group Nurseries and Other Private Nurseries
As already mentioned, it will be assuaned that 20 new "pepinieres
de groupement" and other private nurseries will be supported by the project
in each year of the implementation period.
Table 3: Estimated Costs of Private Nurseries FR '000
Project YeaL
1       2       3      4       5       Total
Costs to be borne by project
Hand tools                          100      100    100    100    100          500
Tubes and seed                       83      166    249    332    415        1,245
Subtotal                    183      266    349    432    515        1,745
Non-prolect costs
Land                                 1        2      3       4       5          15
Labor                               168      484    800   1116   1432       4,000
Poles                                48       48     48      48      48       240
Subtotal                    217      534    851   1168   1485        4,255
Total, project and non-project   400        800   1200   1600   2000         6000
The main difference between these nurseries and the ones dealt with
in Table 2, is that the project would provide a nursery worker to each of
the former.
Most of the group nurseries are likely to produce seedlings for own
use only. There is virtually no market for seedlings in the rural areas of
Rwanda, not so much because of subsidies, as because of the self-help
tradition. In Kigali there is an incipient market for seedlings, but no
more than incipient.
The nursery program will be managed by the staff responsible for the
maintenance of existing plantations in the 60 sectors, but with the
assistance of two additional A2 foresters, with an annual salary each of FR
245,000 p.a., plus FR 60,000 p.a. in per diem. They will have a pickup van
each, to be replaced in Year 4.
IV.  COST RECOVERY
Cost recovery will be limited to the Sector nurseries, as the
Forestry Department's input in tne Group and other private nurseries will
be small. It will be assumed that:
a. 20% of the seedlings will be sold, either to non-umuganda members
or to umuganda members who want more than their quota of 20
seedlings per family per year;
b. 10% of the sales will be fruit trees, the remainder forest trees;



-83 -                            Annex 4
c. the following prices will be paid:
Bv                        For                      FR/seedling
Umuganda                     Forest trees                            1
Umuganda                     Fruit trees                             3
Non-umuganda                 Forest trees                            3
Non-umuganda                 Fruit trees                             10
The cost recovery will then be:
Project                                  Estimated cost
Year                                    recovery, FR 000
1                                          205
2                                          412
3                                          617
4                                          823
5 and following                              1029
Total, years 1-5                             3086
f1ysx4a, pc, REPORTS Nursery Pro&c-eet-



-84 -                              Annex 4
RUiRAL AFFORESTATION MONITORING
AND EVALUATION PROGRAM
BACKGROUND
One of the objectives of the second project phase would be to
continue the institution-building of the Ministry of Agriculture begun
under the first phase.  In line with this objective the project would
strengthen the existing management information system.
PURPOSE OF A MONITORING AND EVALUATION PROGRAM
The purpose of an MIS is to provide feedback of information to
management, to help the latter in its decision-making.  Existing accounts,
annual reports etc. are all part of the MIS.  Today, however, the advent of
computers has greatly increased our ability to store and retrieve data, and
thereby to provide management with up-to-date and relevant information.
IMPLEMENTATION
It is recommended that a Rwandese professional forester (AO) with
a good knowledge of English be sent to Kenya and Malawi for two months to
study the MIS which have been introduced at the forestry departments there
with the support of the World Bank and FAO. He should then be given
siother month to write a report on his findings, with recommendations on
how a similar system could be introduced into the Rwanda Forestry
Department. The total duration of his assignment would thus be three
months.
To ensure that his knowledge is not lost, a post should be created
for him in the Forestry Department's Bureau of Forest Inventory and
Statistics, where he would be in charge of the MIS. He should prepare a
list of data proposed for inclusion in the MIS. As the objective of the
MIS is to provide relevant fevd back information for the decision-makers,
the latter should vet the liL._ to ensure that valuable resources are not
used for collecting irrelevant information.
When the UNDP/FAO project for the strengthening of the Ministry of
Agriculture is in place, that project should be asked to help develop the
MIS further.
INFORMATION ON FARM FORESTRY
Due to the large number of projects involved in farm forestry
("Arborisation Rurale"; Including agroforestry, village woodlots etc.), and
the different approaches followed by these projects, this would be a
particularly important field for the MIS to collect information on. Such
information should cover for example: different approaches to cost
recovery, proportion of farmers who undertake treeplanting in different
sectors, preferred species, survival rates, annual volume growth of free-
growing trees and of stands, and prices of fuelwood, charcoal and poles.



- 85 -
Annex 4
REQUIREMENTS
Although the detailed list of requirements will have to await the
forester's study tour to Kenya and Malawi, and the recommendations of the
UNDP/FAO project, it is clear that at least the following resources are
required to set up and operate an MIS within the Forestry Department:
One AO Forester to head the unit.
12 field enumerators to collect the basic information.
One or two Al or A2 foresters to supervise the field enumerators.
A computer for data storage and retrieval.
A secretary/typist to feed the data into the computer, and to do other
secretarial work.
Typewriter, stationery, office equipment anl furniture.
A vehicle for the foresters and bicycles for the field enumerators.



-86 -                               Annex 4
RWANDA FORESTRY II - RECURRENT COSTS AFTER 1992
SUPPORT TO DGF
The major part of this component consists of one-time inputs. Only the
nursery pro6cui will need continued support.  As regards the overheads for
this program, during the build-up phase the project provided fot two A2
foresters and two pick-ups, but for the continuation phase one should be
able to reduce this by hals.
1986 RF '000 p.a.
60 sector nurseries
60 nursery/extension workers at RF 25,000 p.a.                  1,500
Seed and plastic tubes                                          1,743
Group nurseries and other private nurseries
Seed and plastic tubes                                            415
Overheads
One A2 forester with an annual salary of RF 245,000,
plus RF 60,000 p.a. in per diem                                   305
One pick-up van to be replaced every 3-4 years, plus
the corresponding operating costs                                 700
Total                 4,663
SUPPORT TO THE BUREAU FOR INVENTORY AND STATISTICS. FORME (MIS)
Salaries
One AO forester at RF 465,000 p.a., plus RF 48,000 p.a.
per diem                                                         513
Ten A4 field enumerators at RF 115,000 pa.                      1,150
Typist                                                           200
Vehicles
1 pick-up, replaced every 3-4 years, plus operating costs    700
6 bicycles, replaced every 3 years                                100
Other
Office supplies                                                  200
Total                  2,863



- 87 -                               Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 1
Termes de Reference
Etude de Commercialisation et de marche du bois
1.       Pendant une mission de 2 mois debutant le ler janvier 1987,
l'economiste forestier et le specialiste en comm,iercialization
entreprendront une etude de l'offre et de la demande du bois, la fixation
de prix et le commercialisation du bois au Rwanda. L'objectif de cette
etude sera de rassembler une base solide de donnees necessaires pour des
decisions en ce qui concerne la politique du commercialisation, prix et
marche du bois.  L'etude se concentrera sur le bois de feu charbon de bois,
les perches, le bois scie et le bois industriel et, pour ce dernier,
specialement le pin.
2.       L'economiste et le specialiste en commercialisation travailleront
en etroite collaboration avec la DGF et le Bureau d'Inventaire et
St3tistique de la DGF sera leur point de contact. Ce bureau leur assignera
des homologues devant travailler avec eux en plein temps. Ils
travailleront aussi en etroite collaboration avec l'unite: de projet GBK,
les ministres techniques concernes, les projets forestiers finances par
d'autres bailleurs de fonds, les projets des ONG et le secteur prive. Ils
devront rester en liaison avec la Mission Residente de la Banque Mondiale.
La DGF leur fournira tout le support logistique necessaire (transport et
travaux de secretariat). A la fin de leur mission, ils remettront un
rapport complet au MINAGRI avec une copie a l'IDA.
3.       Specifiquement, les deux specialistes auront a accomplir les
taches suivantes:
a) collecte et examen des statistiques existantes sur l'offre et
la demande de categories diverses de bois en tenant compte de
l'impact de la foresterie paysanne
b)  resume des etudes deja faites sur la fixation de prix du bois
et sur sa commercialisation
c)  identification de la provenance (sources de l'offre
interieur et exterieure) et les sources importantes de la demande
pour les differents types de bois
d)  !es projections de l'offre et cG  la demande pour le bois de
feu, les perches, le bois scie et le bois industriel (dans cette
derniere categorie, specialement le pin) jusqu'en l'an 2000.
e) identification des sources potentielles de demande de bois
industriel qui pour.aient etre elargies incluent la possibilite
des exportatr.ons de bois de pin sci  au Kivu, Zaire.
f) collecte et analyse des donnees sur les prix de differents
types de bois et de produits derives du bois sur les marches
prives et analyse des mouvements futurs de prix.  Identification
et etude des circuits de commercialisation de ces produits.
L'analyse des prix et les circuits de commercialisation devraient
inclure un examen detaille de la structure du prix par exemple, le



-88 -                              Annex 4
Appendix 1
Page 2
prix d'origine du bois, les frais de transport, les coats de
transformation et la marge beneficiaire etc...
g)  etude des prix du bois sur pied dans les boisements de l'Etat
et comparaison aux prix du secteur prive pour les mimes categories
de bois.
Une analyse critique de la methodologie de determination du prix
du bois sur pied et de la necessite pour l'etablissement de ces
prix.
h) analyse des taxes existantes (au niveau local et national) sur
le bois et ses produits derives, particulierement le charbon de
bois.
i) Determination d'une methodologie appropriee pour
l'etablissement du prix economique du bois, specialement le bois
de feu, charbon de bois, et le bois industriel. Cet exercice
devrait inclure une analyse du coat de remplacement du tois dans
les boisements de l'Etat et du coat de remplacement dans le
secteur prive (agro-foresterie) et pour le bois de feu - coats de
sources d'energie alternatives par exemple, les combustibles
derives du petrole. En ce qui concerne le bois de feu, l'etude
devrait egalement comprendre un examen de la necessite d'instaurez
une taxe sur le charbon de bois dans le but d'elever le prix du
bois et l'emmener a son niveau economique si il est necessaire
d'instaurer une telle taxe , l'etude devrait egalement determiner
les mecanisme pour introduire -t effectuer cette taxe.
j)  estimation des elasticites de la demande du charbon !e bois et
les effets d'une taxe sur le charbon de bois sur la demande et
l'offre et par consequent du bois de feu.
k) determination des indicateurs appropries i suivre et a evaluer
de l'offre du bois, la demande et des prix dans le systeme propose
de suivi et d' valuation du programme afforestation rurale dans le
DGF.
1)  Recommandations, de point de vue commercialisation sur les
especes a utiliser dans la deuxieme tranche de 2,000 ha de
reboisement industriel prevue par le projet GBK i Gishwati: pin,
cypres (bois de construction); Acacia melanoxylon (bois de
meubles), etc.?
4.       L'etude fournira les statistiques de base et une analyse de
l'offre, la demande, la commercialisation du bois ainsi que les projeotions
de demande et de l'offre. L'etude fournira egalement les recommandations
pour une politique appropriee de commercialisation du bois en particulier
dans les boisements ctatique, la necessite d'une taxe sur le charbon de
bois et les indicateurs de l'offre et de la demande de bois a suivre dans
le programme suivi et evaluation de la DGF.



- 89 -                              Annex 5
RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
GISHWATI PHASE II PASTURE DEVELOPMENT
1.       The first phase project developed an estimated 3400 ha of
pastures. These pastures are not all at the same stage of completion: 680
ha has been cleared a:d remains to be pla.ited with Kikuyu grass in April,
May. June of 1987.  This activity will be financed with government
c~ounterpart funding. An additional 920 ha of pastures has already recently
been planted with Kikuyu grass but requires high maintenance during the
next two years. This cost will be born by the GOR in 1987 and shared by
IDA (70%) and the GOR (30%) in 1988. Galculations made on a 30 ha farm
model indicate that a pasture can generate sufficient reveniues to Lover its
operating costs i7hen its milk production reaches 30 liters per day. On
average this prcduction can be reached within the two years following the
first stocking with cattle. For this reason the project will only continue
to finance pascure maintenance costs until a pasture reaches a daily milk
production of 30 liters or two years after the date of first cattle
stocking whichever comes first. The veterinary personnel will consist of
mne A2 level veterindrian per 15 pastures (450 ha) and 2 assistant
veterfnarian per 5 pastures (150 ha'. The A2 Veterinarian personnel will
be financed by the project for a period of 3 years following the date of
first cattle stocking in order to ensure that qualified personnel will be
kept during this period. rhe two assistant veterinarian per 5 pastures
will be project financed until pastures reach a daily mi±k production of 30
liters a day or two years following the date of first cattle stocking
whichever comes first. Given the complicated nature of managing a herd cc
pure breed cattle and .he inexperience in Rwanda of such management,
technical assistance will be provided and IDA financed for the recruitment
of a very experienced zootechnician/veterinarian who will be the director
of the Gishwati compc-nent. Technical assistance will also be required 'o
assist in the establishment of a federation of cattle owners by the end of
1989. This assistance would consist of a locally recruited expert in 1987
and 1988 and of an internationally recruited expert in 1989 whose role will
be to recommend an organiz- ional structure and set up for the federation
and to draft its statutes.
2.       During the first phase were established a dairy processing plant
(capacity 5000 liters per day) a 230 ha technical support center (CAT), a
106 ha fattening facility and a small veterinary pharmacy. Management of
these entities has so far not been satisfactory. It had been envisaged
that these farilit4es would be managed by the director of the Gishwati
component. Systematic interference in this management by the Kigali
coordination office of the first phase project has been very detrimenta&.
The dairy facility originally established no process 5000 liters a day is
barely capeble of processing 2500 liters per day due to poor technical
choices of equipment, poor organization and poor ,udgement of the Kigali
coordiratiorn office.  The IDA credit will therefore finance under PPF the
equipment necessary to bring the dairy's Lapacity to 5000 liters a day. A
secor.d sEage investment to increase the dairy's capacity to 10.000 liters a
day has also been included in the credit and will be conditional to the
result of -he lives-tork study.  -he only further investments foreseen for



90-                              Anrex 5
the fattening facility is a small siaughter elab to be financed under PPF
in order to improve the current sanitary conditions of slaughtering. Also
poorly managed has been the technical support center (CAT) whose role was
to develop a herd of high quality pure breed cattle arnd to undertake
experiments on the viability of supplemental feeding on its herd. The
CAT's herd which should have remained constant at 150 pure breed cows has
been systematically sold to influential pasture owners. No further
investments have been included under the project for the CAT. The CAT,
given its financial viability with an optimum herd will howexer purchase
100 pure breed cows in 1987 through a loan from a Rwandese commercial bank.
In l.ght of the prob,ems encountered above agreement has been reached with
GOR that the management of the dairy, the CAT the fattening facility and of
the fattening facility be entirely decentralized to Gishwati under the
direct responsibility of the director of the Gishwati component. The
accounting function of these entities being prepared on a corporate basis
in Gishwati. A further condition linked to the project concerns the
maintaining of a herd of 10 pure breed cows on the CAT.
Phase I - Pasture and Dairy Development within the Forest
3.       The primary goal of pasture development within the forest zone in
Phase I was to accomodate surplus livestock estimated at 25,000 head of
Ankole cattle, grazing in the forest and causing degradation. High
productive Kikuyu grass and white clover would be established and the
existing Ankole cattle would progressively be replaced with high yielding
Brown Swiss dairy cattle. Farmers would be organized into pastoral
associations assisted by the sub-project's livestock service.
4.       By the end of Phase I more than 3,400 ha forest have been cleared,
a much larger area than the 2,000 ha envisaged at appraisal. As of
04/30/86, a total area of 3,164 ha forest have been cleared and divided
into pastures of about 30 ha each; these have been allocated to ,roups of
farmers. Of the 3,400 ha cleared forest about 3,164 ha have been planted
with Kikuyu grass and .are being stocked with cattle. In addition to the
3,164 ha pastures, there are about 336 ha pastures belonging to CAT (230
ha), and to the fattening unit (106 ha). These pastures are stocked with
about 865 head of Brown Swiss dairy cattle, 1,483 crosses between Ankole
and Brown Swiss and 3,400 Ankole cattle. This gives a total area of 3,500
ha pastures, grazed by a total herd of 5,750 head of cattle ab of September
1986. The carrying capacity for the first year's pastures is estimated at
0.3 UBT per ha, in the second year's pastures 1.5 UBT and in the third
year's pastures 2.0 UBT per ha. The total carrying capacity of Phase I
pastures is about 6,600 UBT by 1989.
5.       Pastures are developed in grazing units (blocs) of ]50 ha, each of
which are divided into 5 pastures of approximately 30 ha; a pasture of 30
ha can carry 60 b'T (1 UBT is equivalent to 250 kg live-weight), and
therefore, a grazing unit can carry 300 UBT or between 300 and 400 head of
Ankole cattle, In principle, pastures should have been allocated to a
group of farmers living In the 8 surrounding communes (Karago, Giciye,
C-aseke, Ramba, Mutara, Kanama, Kayovre and RutsIro) in accordance to the
number of cattle in each commune. However, preferences were given to
better off beneficiaries and only recently small farmers from the communes,
organized in zroups, have been allocated pastures. Pastures of the better



- 01 
- 91 -                          Annex 5
off benenficiaries are stocked mainly w:lth cows of Brown Swiss and crosses,
and pastures belonging to small farmers' groups are stocked with Ankole
cattle. The pastures were allocated by project management througn a
commission and the beneficiaries who mainly (for 60%) consists of higher
Government officials and other influential individuals including project
staff, and not small subsistence farmers, who had cattle in the forest.
Further, as these individuals in general are not owners of Ankola cattle,
it only contributed a little to the destocking of Ankole cattle, an
activity w'"ich was envisaged at appraisal. So far, destocking of Ankole
cattle has been far 'ess than anticipated and it is estimated that
aporoximately the same number of Ankole cattle remains in the forest as
before project implementation.
6.       The basic infrastrlucuture for a grazing unit consists of a
veterinary dispensary, a house for an A3 veterinarian, a cattle crush and a
bull service center. Also, pastures have been delimitated, marked and
fenced, and water points and access roads being constructed. Finally, each
grazing unit has been given a stcck of veterinary products.
7.       At the onset of the project there was no experience in the c(untry
with developing pastures in higher altitudes by planting of Kikuyu grass.
However, in northern Kivu (Massisi) this type of pasture was successfully
established 20 years ago and resulted in high yields of between 3,000 to
4,000 feeding units per ha or equivalent to a carrying capacity of 750 kg
or 3 UBT per ha which is somewhat higher than at Gishwati. The
introduction of Kikuyu grass was also successful in Gishwatl and resulted
in pastures of high productivity and of a high nutrition value for dairy
cows. It is estimated that these pastures can carry 2 UBT (Unite du Betail
Tropicale) per ha or 500 kg liveweight or equivalent to one Brown Swiss
dairy cow. In comparison, many tropical pastures have a carrying capacity
which is more than 10 tlmes lower. Furthermore, tha grass, with its deep
root system (up to 5 m), is well suited as erosion control. Also, the
climate in the high altitude of Gishwati, between 2,200 and 2,800 m, is
free of tsetse flies and ticks, thus allowing the introduction of exotic,
high-yielding dairy breeds, which are nmobt susceptible to trypanosomiasis
(a disease transmitted by tsetse flies) and tick-borne diseases. The main
drawback to establishing Kikuyu grass is the high cost due to lack of
farmers participation in land clearing and planting. Therefore, the high
cost must be offset by an intensive dairy production using exotic breeds;
this is hampered by the lack of exotic dairy cattle in Rwanda; however, the
supply of dairy cattle can be provided by import from the neighboring
northern Kivu, which has a herd of about 20,000 Brown Swiss dairy cattle.
However, the import is limited and maximum 300 breeding heifers are
available for export per year. This breed has adapted well to northern
Kivu and is also being adapted well to the Gishwati forest area; the main
problem facing the import of breeding stock from Kivu is the high incidence
if brucellosis and tuberculosis, thus a strict sanitary control is needed.
8.       Investmen!. costs for the establishment of Kikuyu pastures vary
according tD the vegetation of the forest; in the beginning land clearing
required 200K man-days per ha, plowirng 300 man-days, planting of grass 260
man-days and maintenance of pastures required 160 and 80 man-days in the
first and second year respectively. Total labor requirements amounted to
1,000 man-days per ha or RWF 100,000 (US$1,200).  Due to thie high labor



- 92 -                              Annex 5
cost, project management allowed the cultivation of potatoes previous to
planting of Kikuyu grass in order to reduce weeding costs. The labor
requiremert was then reduced from 1,000 man-days to 700 man-days.
9.       By comparison, in northern Kivu the equivalent labor requiremdent
for establishing one ha pasture is lower, about 500 man-days: 25 man-days
for land clearing, 200 man-days for plowing, and 80 man-days for planting
of grass and 200 man-days for maintenance (in year 1 and 2). Furthermore,
maintenance of pastures in northern Kivu required only one man on
permanence on 20 ha or 15 man-days per ha.
10.      In order to offset the high cost of pastures, dairy cows of high
milk potential must be stockci on these pastures. To facilitate the
purchases of such dairy cows, mainly imports from Zaire of high yielding
Brown Swiss dairy cows, the project introduced the purchase of dairy cattle
on credit. The credit period was 24 months at 4X p.a., and the ceiling per
dairy cow or heifer was set at RwF 60,000. Payments are deducted from milk
sales. So far, about 260 Brown Swiss dairy heifern have been imported from
Zaire, most of them on credit. Dairy heifers from Zaire should be
carefully selected before imported to Rwanda and a health certificate
should be a prerequisite as well as quarantin¢ of the animals.
1l.      There are only a few animal diseases which threaten the dairy
herd3 in Gishwati due to the high altitude where most tropical parasites
are .bsent. However, a major problem is bloat, which is an excessive
accumulation of gas in the ruminant stomach; it causes great discomfort and
is frequently fatal if not discovered in time.  Bloat occurs in cattle on
highly productive pastures and the incidence is high on clover-dominant
pastures which are growing rapidly, such as the case on the Gishwati
pastures.



- 93 -                                Annex 5
RWANDA
Forestry and Livestock II
Pasture and Dairy Developmer.t - Phase I (as of 04130186)
Pasture       Area                     Cleared
Blocs     Allocated   Past res        Forest
(ha)         (ha)         (no.)        (ha)
Kayove                      2          240             8          240
Rutsiro                     1          120             4           90
Ramba                       1           90             3           90
Gaseke                      i          270             9          270
Giciye                      7          750            25          750
Karogo                      3          480            16          480
Mutura                      5          780            26          780
Kanama                      4          600            20          600
TOTAL                   24        3,380          112        3,340



-94 -                             Annex 5
Append;x 1
Page 1
DRAFT OVERALL TERMS OF REFERENCE
Gishwati Land Use Study And Plan
Objectives and Products
1.       The principal objective of this study is to determine the best
land uses and produce a detailed management plan for those degraded
portioas of the Gishwati forest area designated for conversion and
management. A secondary objective is to determine the extent and nature of
land development activities that have occurred during Phase I of the
Integrated Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock Project.
2.       To achieve these objectives, the project will consist of the
following specific stages'
a. Produce a map showing current land uses in the study area;
b. Produce a map showing the physical capabilities of the study
area for the various possible land uses;
C. Produce a socio-economic analysis and description of current
and potential land uses in the study erea;
d. Evaluate the relative suitability of all parts if the study
area for the various possible land uses and produce maps showing the
possible locations of various uses;
e. Select the most suitable combination of land uses for the
entire study area, and produce a detailed management plan to implement and
manage the selected land uses; and,
f. If the selected land uses are acceptable to IDA and the
Governmnent, prepare a program of further investments by IDA and other
donors to assist in manLgement of the Gishwati forest area.
3.       The study schedule calls for completion of the entire study not
later than June 1988. The phases are given below. Funding will be
p:ovided under the Project Preparation Facility for the proposed Second
Integ.ated Forestry, Agricultuire and Livestock Project.
Prolect Phases
Phase I
Phase I. Detailed Criteria and Terms of Reference.
4.       Specify Criteria.  Thc first task is to hire a consultant under
PPF financing to prepare criteria and detailed teams of reference for the
study based on the outline contained in this document. The consultant will
specify clearly the entire set of objective criteria that may be used by
the various parties for event.'ally deciding on the most suitable land uses
for the project area. These criteria will be used at the beginning of the
study as the basis for determining what additional data to gather and what
analyses and interpretation to carry out.  Criteria may include:
a. Increase milk production.
b.  Increase timber production.
c. Convert from indigenous cattle breeds to exotic breeds.
d.  Prote-t soil from erosion.



95 -                          Annex 5
Appr.ndi.x 1
Page 2
e.  Make pasture establishment cost effective.
f. Remove cattle from remaining natural forest.
g. Increase regeneration of natural forest.
h.  Increase agricultural or export crop production.
i.  Pr-ide additional pasture or agricultural land to local
residents.
J.  Ensure that local residents are the beneficiaries of further
development of the project area.
k. Develop a tourism industry in the area, based on the natural
forest and the scenic attractions of the surrounding area.
1. Protect and to the extent possible restore populations of wild
birds and mammals in the ne.tural forest.
5.       Develop Detailed Work Program for Study.  Not enough is known at
present about what information is available on the study area e.g.    _
maps, aerial photographs, satellite magery, etc. and what additional
information is required for the study. The consultant would review data
availability and determine what needed data already exists and what
additional data is needed. He would then develop detailed terms of
reference (work program) for the following.
a. Data Parameters. The task at this phase will be to specJfy
the parameters for data to be collacted on the following subjects:
-Land cover and land use (e.g., natural forest, degraded
forest/bushland, forest plantations, pasture, cultivated land, settlements,
roads/trails, livestock numbers and herd composition);
-Soils and Topography (e.g., slope, soil classification);
-Socio-Econoric (e.g., current uses of the project area,
attitudes toward changes in land use, population, family size, place of
origin;
-Farm Marketing and Pricing (e.g., market and pricing
information on major area products);
b.  Interpretation and E aluation Parameters.  The task at this
stage uill be to specify the criteria to be used in interpretation of data
and evaluation of results, for the following stages:
-Land Capability (e.g., erodibility of soils, erodibility under
various cover types and crops, *ields for various crops)
-Land Suitabilitv (e.g., cost-effectiveness of various
forestry, livestock or Dgsicultural products, ability of various land uses
to meet multi'le objectives such as efficient production plus soil
conservation, social acceptability of various land uses)
-Alternative Land Use Scenarios (e.g., maximizing the most
important of the objective criteria for deciding future land use of the
area, while minimizing undesired effects).
c. Determine Best Means o. Getting Additional Data Needed.
d. Determine Costs for Additional Data.
e. Draw Up Detailed Study Schedule.



-96 -                             Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 3
Phase II. Data Collection.
6.       Field work will be carried out to collect the data identified in
the first phase as necessary for the project. Parameters for the various
sets of data will be specified in the first phase. Data on the following
subjects will be collected:
a.   Land Resources
1. Land cover/land use
2. Soils and topography
b. Socio-Economic
c. lzricultural Marketing and Prices
Phase III. Land Capability Analysis
7.       The physical capability of land for various uses will be~ evaluated
on the basis of the criteria developed in the first stage of the project.
Phase IV. Land Suitability Analysis
8.       The suitability of land for various uses will be evaluated o;i the
basis o a combination of physical capability, economic, and social
desirability criteria, as defined in Phase I. The evaluation will be
organized in a hierarch-, of limiting factors, such that principal
constraints on land use (e.g., steepness of slope) will be considered first
and only those areas which are not eliminated from consideration for
particular uses will be evaluated further (e.g., steep areas suitable only
for forestry will not be further considered as sites for culi.vation).
Phase V. Evaluation Land Use Alternatives
9.       The task for this stage will be to prepare approximately three
area-wide land use packages for evaluation as alternative w&ys of
developing the region. Each will emphasize to different degrees the most
important of the management objectives identified in Phase I. Each will be
presented as a map showing where various land uses would occur, a brief
description of how the land uses changes would be implemented and all land
uses would be managed, and an evaluation of the degree to which various
objectives are met or not met. Economic consequences will be quantified to
the degree poss'ble.  Packeges of possible investments by IDA and other
donors will be part of the description of how the land use altern ives
would be implemented.
Phase VI. Choose Best Land Uses
10.      The task at this stage will be to organize and tead a workshop of
Government and Bank staff to choose the preferred combination of land uses
for the region. Staff responsible for the study present the resu'.cs. The
principal criteria for selection of the preferred land use alternative will
.e the degree of achievement of important objectives. The explicit
evaluaticn of consequences of alternative land uses may lead to new
rankings of objectives.



-97-                            Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 4
Phase VII. Prepare Detailed Manaaement Plan
A detailed plan to guide implementation of the land uses and
decisions zrade in Phase VI on management of the area will be prepared.
Important components will be maps designating allowei land uses, and
management guidelines to direct those uses.
Management and Investment.
Following completion of the study, the following actions are anticipated
by Government and the Bank:
Manage area according to management plan.
b. IDA and other donors possibly undertake additional investments
to support managemenc if agreement is reached on proposed investment
packages.



Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 5
Gishwati Lat.1 Use Study and Plan
Estimated Schedule, Costs, & Contractor nualifications
(see attached chart for cost details)
Phase I. Detailed Criteria & Terms of Refere.ace
Approx Timate Required = 1 l/2mm (4 wks in field, 2 wks report
writing), Technical Assistant
Basic Qualifications for Contractor
A. Expertise in land use planning, with strong background in some
of the following subjects: Forestry, soils, agriculture,
livestock husbandry, remote sensing, natural resource
inventories, natural resource economics.
B. Experience designing similar land use studies and plans and
either implementing them or monito:ing their implementatiorn.
Phase II. Data Collection
A. Land Resources
1. Land Cover/Land Use
Time: 2mm (T. A.)
Qualifications:
A. Expertise in inventorying and mapping vegetation and land
use types and censusing livestock, including interpetation
and use of aerial photographs and satellite imagery.
B. If additional aerial photography is necessary, contractor
also must have the capability for carrying out medium scale
aerial photography.
2. Soils and Topography
Time: 2mm (TA, 2 teams of 5 field assistants)
Qualifications:
A. Expertise in tropical soils classification, soils mapping
and surveying.
B. Socio - Economic
Time: 3mm (TA, Rwandese Researcher, interviewers 2 teams of 4
each)
Qualifications:
A. Expertise in desiging, conducting and analyzing the results
of similar studies.
B. Familiarity with local social structure, customs, types of
land use, and farming and marketing systems



- 99 -                            Annex 5
Appendix 1
Page 6
C. Agrlicultural Marketing and Prices
Time: lmm (TA)
Qualifications:
A. Expertise in designing, carrying out nd analyzing results
of marketing and pricing studies of similar agricultural
systems.
B. Expertise in agricultural economies, specializing in
marketing and pricing of similr agricultural systems.
Phase III. Land Capability Analysis
Time: lmm (TA)
Qualifications:
A. Expertise in interpretation of productive capability of
tropical soils and vegetation and of physical production
constrair,ts (e.g., erosion) capability to prcduce maps.
Phase IV. Land Suitability Analysis
Time: lmm (TA)
Qualification:
A. Expertise in analysis of Forestry, agricultural and
livestock production systems, integrating physical and
economics consideraticns capability to produce maps.
Phase V. Evaluation of Land Use Alternatives
Time: 2mm (TA)
Qualifications:
A. (as for rhase IV)
B. Expertise in presenting results of analysis and evAluation in
summary and easily comprehensible Forms that focua decision -
making on key issues.
Phase VI. Choose Best Land Use
Time: lmm (TA)
Qualifications:
A. Expertise in conducting productive decision-making workshops.
Phase VII. Detailed Management/Plan
Time: (TA, Technician)
Q-1alifications:
A. Expertise in all phases of preparation of land management
plans (organizing, designing, writing, graphics, mapping,
production).



- 100 -
Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 1
DIRECTEUR DE LA COMPOSANTE GISIWATI
Il sera directement responsable pour la gestion *m jour le jour
des activits do sa composante et devra en rend:e compto supris du
coordinateur.  Il devra participer aux reunions du comite d  gestion pour
rendre :ompte de l'avancement des trevaux do sa composanto, Il sora
directement responsable pour la supovision du fonctionnemoRt de la
laiterie, de la pharmacie, de la zone d'embouche et du centre d'appui
technique pour losquelles il devra directement rendre compte au comite do
gestioa. En particulier il devra;
-        Avoir toute responsabilite pour la gestion technique de as
composante y compris pour la gestion du personnel de sa
composante. Sont inclus dans cetta composanto Ise actions
pastorales * l'inzirieur *; i l'extcriour de la L ot.
I                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
Etr3 directement responsable pour la supervision do la gestion de
la laiterie, de la phariacie, de la zone d'emboucho ot du centre
d'appui technique, chacune de ces activites etant geree par son
responsab,le particuller. Le directeur de la comp0sante de
Gishwati devant superviser la bonne gestion de COS composantes,
collector los informations de base aupres de chaqua responsablo
dans le but de tinaliser le programme de travail annuel et lea
rapports d'avancement dL '..rivitis avant de presenter cos
documents au centre de coordination et au comite de gestion.
Maincenir un etroit contact avec leas autorites locales et les
autres projets de la region efin d'assur.r une int4gration
harmoniouso des activitis du projet dens l'effort rigional do
doveloppoment.
Etre responsable pour la formation do l'ensemble d4 personnel qul
est sous sa responsabilite.
Slassuror quo la saisie des ;liments comptobles do base oct
effectue par la collule do comptabilite do GZSHWATU et transmis ;
Kigali pour exploitation en co qui concerne les activites eutres
quo cellos de la laiterile, la pharmacie, la zone 4'embouche et 1.
centre d'appui technique.
S'assurer quo la saisie des *lements comptables do base at la
priparation des etats financiers correspondants (comptes
d'exploitations, bilan, tableaux de sources et d'mploi de fonds)
concernant la laiterie, la pharmacie, l, zone d'embouche ot le
centre u'appui technique so fass. entieremont par la ccllulo do



- 101 -                              innex 5
Appendix 2
Page 2
comptabilite de GISHWATI.
Co-signer les cheques bancaires et les 'ons de commandes do 1l
laiteris, de la pharmc.ie, de la zone d'embouche et du contra
d'appui technique avec chacun des responsables de ces qu&tre
ontreprises.
Exprimer les besoins d'approvisionnement et co-signer les demandes de
deboursement relatifs a sa composante avec le coordt.nateur et le
directeur financier du projet.
Participer i l'elaboration du calendrier de transfer des activitis
dt projet i la future federation Jes ileveurs pour 1l aOus
composante elevage i l'linrrisur de la foret et * la Direction
Generale des forets pour 1. sous composante foreatiers.
Assister a la formation dt'Une fideration de Gishwati on coordonant
le travail de l'assistance techniqua qui sera mise en place * cat
ffer..



102                               Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 3
RWANDA
EVL.lUATION DU DEUXIEME PROJET FORESTITR
DIRECTEUR DU SOUS-PROJET GISHWATI
TERMES DE REFERENCE
1.       QUALIFICATIONS
Diplome de l'enseignement superieur en zootechnie ou en
medecine vitirinsire. Bonne connaissance en hatiere
agronomique.
Minimum de 10 ans d'experience dans la gestion d'un projet
de production laitiere. De ces 10 ans au moine 5 ans
d'experience dans la gestion de troupeau dans la zone
d?altitude en Afrique, similaire a celle de 1. foret de
Gishwati au Rwanda.
Mit4imum de 5 ans d'experience dans l'administration d'un
projet.
Tres bonne connaissance de l'ecologie des zones d'altitude
en Afrique, des problemes de capacite de chargement des
paturages et capacite a determiner les capacites de
chargement optimales et les besoins de destockage de
paturages.
-     Experience dans l'insemina:ion artificielle et de..s la
gestion d'une unite de transformation du lait.
-     Experience dans l'experimentation du paturage d'altitude de
l'Afrique, de compliment alimentaire et de son effet sur la
production laiti$re.
-     Parfaite connaissance de la langue Franraise.
-     Experience dans lorganisation des elevturs, en particulier
de la formation et le fonctionnement d'une federation
d'lieveurs.
-     Tres bonne connaissance d'une agriculture paysanne en
matiere africaine. Bonne connaissance des techniques de
vulgarisation.
2.       DESCRIPTION DE LA POSITION
Le candidat sera directement responsable pour la gestion au jour
le jour de l'ensemble des activites de sa composante et devra en rendre



- 103 -                             Annex 5
AppendTx 2
Page 4
compte aupres di. coordinateur du projet et du comite de gestion. Cette
gestion inclue la gestion technique comptable et administrative. Il devra
habiter i Gishwati ou aux alentours de Gishwati. Cette position est prevue
pour une duree de trois ans et le renouvellement du contrat du candidat
retenu se fera annuellement en fonction de sa performance. Le candidat
retenu devra participer eux reunions du comite de gestion du projet pour
rendre compte de l'avancement des travaux de sa composante. Il sera
directement responsable pour la supervision du fonctionnement de la
laiterie, de la pharmacie, de la zone d'embouche et du centre d'appui
technique pour lesquels il devra directement rendre compte au comite de
gestion du projet. La composante de Gishwati comprend un volet forestier,
un volet d'elevage a l'interieur de la foret, et un volet de vulgarisation
dans les communes i l'exterieur de la foret. Le directeur de la composante
de Gishwati devra:
En ce qui concerne le volet forestier il sera responsable de
la supervision du bon fonctionnement du volet, Il d¢leguera
les aspects purement techniques au directeur du volet
forestier. Il sera responsable pou- les plans de travail
annuels et les rapports d'avancement des travaux du volet
qu'il transmettra ensuite au coordinateur du projet.
En ce qui concerne le volet vulgarisation dans les conmunes
autour de la forit il sera responsable pendant les trois
premiere annees du projet de la supervision du bon
fonctionnement du volet.  La gestion t,chnique et
administrative au jou: le jour de ce volet sera assure par
le chef de ce volet. Ce volet deviendra autonome debut
quatrieme annee du projet.
En ce qui concerne le volet elevage, il aura toute
responsabilite pour la gestion de I'encadrement de ce volet.
Sont inclus dans ce volet les actions pastorales a
l'interieur et a l'exterieur de la foret.  Il sera assiste
dans cette tache par le directeur du volet elevage et par
une equipe d'encadrement (veterinaire et assistants
veterinaires). II devra s'assurer que la capacite de
chargement des paturages n'est pas depassee. Ces paturages
ont un cheptel de vaches de race pure (brun suisse)
Decroises et d'Ankoles. Il veille:a a ce que l'insemination
artificielle soit progressivement introduite et au controle
sanitaire du cheptel. Il s'assurera que tout animal de race
pure introduit a Gishwati soit en bonne santi et fasse
l'objet d'un echange contre trois femelles de race ankole
qui seront engraissees par la zone d'embouche pour etre
vendues a la boucherie. Il veillera a ce qu'une assistance
soit donnie par ses services aux eleveurs ayant besoin de
credit aipres d'une banque locale. Le volet ile vage de
Gilshwati s'occupera de grouper les achats des demandeurs de
bites de race pure et sera responsable pour effectuer ces
&chats pour le compte des eleveurs. L. directeur de la
composante s'assurera qu'une distribution equitable du
betail de race amelioree soit effectuee aupres des
demandeurs de credit. Il sera egalement responsable pour
preparer les plans de travail annuels er les rapports



- 104 -                            Annex 5
Appendix 2
Page 5
d'avancement des travaux du volet qu'lil transmettra ensuite
au coordinateur du projet.
Etre directement responsable pour la supervision du bon
fonctionnement de la laiterie (qui traite 300 1/jour en 1986
et qui traitera 6500 1/j on 1989) de la zone d'embouche, du
centre d'appui technique et de la pharmacie vetirinaire.
Chacune de ces activltes ayant un eirecteur responsable de
leur gestion au jour le jour, le directeur de la composante
de Gishwati devant superviser la bonne gestion de ces
entites, collecter aupres des directeurs les informations de
base dans le but de finaliser le programme de travail annuel
et les rapports d'avanccment des activites de chaque entite
avant de presenter ces documents au comite de gestion et au
coordinateur du projet.
Maintenir un etroit contact avec les ratnritis locales et
los autres projets de la region afin d'assurer une
integration harmonieuse des activites de la composanto dans
l'effort regional de developpemont.
Etre responsable pour la formation de l'ensemble du
personnel de sa composante.
S'assurer que la saisie des elements comptables de base est
effectue par la cellule de comptabiliti de Gishwati et
transmis i Kigali pour exploitation en ce qui conrerne los
activites autres que celles de la laiterie, la pharmacie, la
zone d'embouche et le centre d'appui technique.
S'assurer que la saisie des elements comptables de base et
la preparation des etats financiers correspondants (comptes
d'exploitations, bilan, tableaux de sources et d'emploi de
fonds) concernant la laiterie, la pharmacie, la zone
d'embouche et le centre d'appui technique se fasse
entierement par la cellule de comptabilite de Gishwati.
Co-signer les cheques bancaires et les bons do comnandes de
I& laiterie, de la pharmacie, de la zone d'embouche et du
centre d'apgui technique avec chacun des responsables de ces
quatre entreprises.
Participer i l'elaboration du calendrier de transfer des
activites du projet a la future fedtration des eleveurs pour
la sous compcsante elevage a l'interieur de la foret et i is
Direction Generale des forets pour la sous composante
forestiere.
Assister a la formation d'une federation des ileveurs de
Gishwati en coordonant le travail de l'assistance technique
qui serA mise en place a cet effet.



- ]05 -                             Annex 5
Appendix 3
Page 1
COORDINATEUR DU PROJET
Le coordinateu. du projet sera directement responsable aupros du
comite de gescion en ce qui concerne la realisation des investissements
prevus pour la continuation des activites du projet GBK. A co titre il
davra:
Rassembler les donnees de base aupres des directeurs des deux
composantes dans le but de finaliser le plan do travail annual
qu'lil transmettra ensuite au comiti de gestion.
CoUlectev aupres des directeurs des deux composantes les *lements
necessaires a la preparation et a la finalisation des rapports
semestriels et annuels concernant le progris des rialisations sur
,e terrain.   1 transmettra ensuite ces documents au comite de
g stion et envoyes a 1'DA
Organiser ,es reunions rigulieres du comite de gestion *c
s'assurer que ces comptes rendus sont etablis et conserves au
bureau de coordination et a l'IDA.
transmettre aux directeurs des deux composantes las dicinions du
comite de gestion apres que celles ci soient approuvias par i'IDA.
Effectuer des visites de terrain afin de superviser la mise an
place des objectifs des plans de travail et des racommendations du
conite de gestion.
Assister les directeurs des deux componsantes en co qui concerns
la gestion du personnel dont ils ont la responsabiliti en co qui
concerne les demarches administratives pour le recrutement at le
iicenciement.
Assister avec le r..ponsable de la direction financiire et
administrative les d'recteurs des dteA composantes pour toutes los
questions de passation de marchi, do diboursement at de
financement.
Assurer la IAaison avec les ministires ou toute personne ou
organisme devant avoir des contautt  *vec lea deux directiona.
Co-signer avec le :esponrable administratif et financier et 1l
d recteur de la composante concerno tous les bons de commandes
cont.ats  et demandes de remboursement relatifs aux deponse*
engagees pour chaque composanto.



- 106 -                            Annex 5
Appendix 3
Page 2
Etre directement responsable pour la gestion au Jour le jour du
bureau do coordination.
Etre directement responsabla pour la preparation d'un calendrier
de transfer des activitis du projet (en coordination vec leas
directeurs des deux composantes) i d'autres organism.s, ccci dans
1e but d'assurer quo co transfer so fasse dans lea mei3llur*s
conditions possibles.



- 107 -
Annex 6
RWANDA
Second Integrated Forestry Prolect
KIGALI-BUTARE PLANTATION MANAGEMENT
Transfer of Staff Positions from GBK to DGF
including Staff Reductions
D G F                   1987         1988         1989         1990       1991
Position
DIRECTION (a)
Office Employee         -            -            1             1         1
Guard (office)          -            -            -            -          I
KIGALI PLANTATIONS
Foresters (A2)          1            1            2            2          2
Supervisors (A3)        1            2            2            4          4
Tractor Drivers         -            -            -             1         1
Drivers                 -            -            -             1         1
Foremen                 2            4            5            6          6
Forest Guards           -           11           20           19          7
BUTAP. PLANTATIONS
Foresters (A2)          1            1            1            2          2
Supervisor (A3)         1            2            2            3          3
Office Employee         -            -            1             1         1
Foremen (A4)            2            3           4             4          5
Drivers                 -            -            -             1         1
Forest Guards                        9           14           11          8
Guards (office)         -            -            2            2          1
Cumulative Transfers      8            33          54           58         54
(a) Additional staff needed for the Division Gestion Forestier
(i)     Present (1986) GBK staff =   97
(ii)    First project year         n   74
(iii)   Full staffing capacity   a   54



ANNEX 6
RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
PHASE I KIGALI PLANTATIONS
Proposed Schedule of Transfer to DGF and Communes
COmmUNE                     MASSIF                               TRANSFER to DGF                         TRANSFER to COMMUNES           COMMUNE
1988    1989   1990    1991   Total             1988   1989    1990   1991    :otal
------------- Hect.r.-       -       -       ------------Hctarew-----------  --
SHOYORONGI             Shyo--oni                         82.3       --       --       --    82.3 
RUTONGO                Jali-Museke-Bubango              241.0       --       --       --   241.0            --       --      --       --       ---
WBOGO                  Museke                              --       __   101.3                            17.3       --      --       --      33.8
Sakara                                                                    -        8.7       --       --       --       ---
Cyinzuzi                                              --                           9.8
Mugambazi                        161.3                    --         -- -  --                  -      -         -       --
MUCAMBAZI              Sakara                              --                               78.6         20.2        --      --       --      3j.I
Cyinzuzi                            --        --      --       --       --          7.1      --        -_
mus-mbazi                           --       --    78.5        --       --         6.7       --       --       __
GIKORO2                Shenga-Janjagiro                    --                --                             --     48.6      --       --      48.6
Rut.nm*-butmfriix                1396        --       --       --                    --       --      -- 
Fuabie                           139.2       --       --       --       --           --      --       --       --
Samaduha-Munini                  262.7       --       --       --       --           --      -_
Nyangataro-Kidogo                 66.4       --       --       --       --           --       --      --      --
GIKOMERO              Karsm-Bumbogo                     146.9            --           --       --           --           --   _               14.6
Munin;                           296.0       --       -    -  -       2.-            --      --       --      --
RUBUNGO               Karama-Bumbogo                     92.6      9. --              --    92.6            --      --       --       --       ---
8icumBi                NgizK  y-Nrusangs                   --    135.6       -             194.9            --                                 9 -  --  0.3   .o
Kabscizi-6.tunga8 --                                                    --                            --       --       --- -
Karam_                              --     69.3                     2                --       --      --       --       ---
BUTAMWA               Butamma                                  --  --    9.9                                --       --   _        _  
MUSASA                 Coko                                --       --    W.    284.1   284.1               --      --       --       --
RUTOBV Eyni                                               --    31           --   1.    437.9               --      --       --       --4378.
Mors                               --        --    8-.7        --       --           --      --       --    S-
RUSHASHI               Rushashi                                     --       --   259.8   259.8              ----
MURAMBI                Kayenzi                             ---               -    101.9  1818.z*-                    --               --    118.4
Gikoma-----                                                        --                --       -9-      ---
Mat,ere                            -                79.9                               -- --          -        -
Kiburar                             --       --       --       --       --           --      - --            36.6       ---
Nyabubar-                           --    188.6                                      --                        --
Kiziguro                           --      96.9       --       --       --           --      --       --       --
Bujoeo                                       --   337. 
Kanyangose                         --    118.0        --       --      --            --      --       --       --
Ikayibanda                         --        -- s-             --       --           --      --       --    23.         ---
Mbugo                               --     99.2       --       -         --                    ---             ----
MUHURA                Husur-                                        -- 92                  3e8.8            _       --    29.9        --      29.9
Kirns                              --        --       --   248.9        --                            -- ---
Ra_ero                             --        --       --    61.7        --           --      --       --
RUTARE                Nyabihu                             --      73.9       --       --   324.8            --      --                --
Bushwagara                          --    260.9       --                --           --      --       --       --
GITUZA                Kintu                               --        --   232.0        --   388.2           --       --       --       --      43.8
Rushashi                            -        --       --   134.2        --           --      --       --       ---
Nyagisozi                                    --       --       --       --                            --    43.8        ---
TOTAL                                            156.9  1370.8   909.9  1088.4  4925.8             91.4      48.5   29.9   162.2    332.0



- 109 -
Annex 6
page 3
Proposed Schedule of Transfer of Phase I Butare Plantations to DGF
Massif                                              Year
1988           1989        1990       1991         Total
Massif I                        926.1
Massif II                                     430.7
Nyamaraba                                      19.2
Huye                                                      224.9
Nyakizu                                                               567.0
Total                          926.1          449.9       224.9       567.0       2,167.9



:rA=                                                                                                                             Annex 7
==M =1 =.,=T                                                                                                                          Table
ftrlt 'Zloci
-t a:   %7i           ,t& ;    -Z             tz I' s
A. '.T::.ZLrs                                                                7,,L,-,.o      ?C,                       c7t.C   '.3T4.C              30          6
P. E Z., I M                                                        OU. 5  26,U,.!
=.V  -.-,"r--NT                                               3,594.3  32, 346. 0       r. - 74.1.                38' - 7    433.3             9.          2
1.          C
...                                                      204,871.0  22. 7M.    2:7. =4.                         '76,9  2,6T.4
cXEM                                                                 2-'..'   3,NC.' C       L. 1111. I     Allo      14        M-,.
Rmp.,=                                                                                  :0.645.0
Z
=M    TRAIKI96                                                          34,:           4,160. 0                 4:_6       421-
=X  rtAlKlic                                                                           39.3".0         4C.I.
MVE' ,                                                                   2,2-2.T       359r.:..'          3.2    339..      432.3            St
T'          =:' =KCr                                        '.3,391.0                   =.7104          141.1.        1.
3. mIrAL                                                                                             c         'Ili     Z.           .1          .1.1         .1
2. RESEAM         Sir.M.-C.                                                                                                       19.3           113           3
.7. -ILWIIALS                                                      2P454.0  Tt=4                -M4          --S
-P---ANM TIMMIZAL ASSMA=  An srz:.Is                                         21,no.c  79,                                                                      2
7. ----: TMALS SU MAMT.=                                                                             c
U. =WWS M- am=, MAL:                                                 "Z. S                           ,   :TX                     27.:             27          0
V. rm=         =,XI.                                              :,186.4        DM. 7          775. 0        26.3       9.7       36.:           117          c
=TS                                                        U7,=74    77.,219.7   b-=.2                              .4
:1.              COSTS
A. Ar..IAL ::XT::                                                :.5=.5    4,'-'1.5                                   54.2 7     7.2. 3          7t
584.4                        Z
rriEL                                                            4,79.3                    L7. Z 7
I                                                                                           MA"'.
=== : :,.TL                                                     854.7    71694.1                         1I       M  7      N-'
'NASC ZM=I=                                                  2,47:.,    :,M .6          6.31.,.5        41.3      34.2        76.1            ;l.         0
IICMDI=           M:C' C==                           :L,Z.'4.4  IZZ. =..        27.LX.C         :96.21   16C.I.      M.. I                         11
MM  2 WKMZ. W::T'-AlCr                                      19.976.4  29.90.L          A!.T4L-'        24C.'   3-61.:
Z .M=    1.             IMINTEIV=                                JAUA    S.154.6            DMI..,          11:.,               I 03. 3
I-                                                                              "2.4        2449.6         113.1                                              0
L .- AK IMmoo Wm,= me PAIN-amm                                   :,W.2                                                          1-9              25
N. =K  Z M-  M=                =--'AT=    A=  :%A'=%AMM         It,743.6    2,064.8        20.50.4         226.1    2".1        M11.1             I 1
X                                                                               ML
.. M=  I C.".1. V=    C-OUTUM MC IMAINTENNM                       ,2&C.4                                    MA    C.4   C3.8                     IC           0
C :XSE=l S"=                                                    11711-1-1                  .7,564.0
XSEARM rwpmm  WKTDK=                                            5D.I.  177.5                               .4                  C-6           .15          C
C. KSEWMI 'JOnaM   '.VAJNTtb;,=                                         3    3047.2         5-...,.C       .11.0      4C..S      67.6            60           0
--TS                                      12t4M.*  V,                N.               !.l. .1  .1 ". C         I           SC
%U:                =Ts                                              327,&U.2 144,= .4                                                                 11          S3
Tzu'. U=.,K                                                          = ,747..'                :-442,74,4.33  :' -2:1.4 7,37:..' ' .7,392.7              41,       loc
Moics;                                                              : . --: . I  Z= ........   !A.'--..'    .1?7.4          In.,   65?.C            43           4
Price Canti.Amits                                                1:2.137.7  68#041.2             M.= .'                -MV-'                        U,
T,;ta: M ECT CMT,.                                                               703,M.2 1.=.:76.0                       C.47C.' 2O.M      7            41,



WIW"                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Annex 7
rrue  rwSrnto  navl11                                                                                            TablIe  2
S.ia.Azzi-.ta N  Twa
IFb '000)
3o. wczusP.,.                                    32.043.   13.... ...43        .0.    340024402            9CC..
L 1: W-9                             3,%424.3 ~~~~~~2,24.3    .75    3M.0 319.         351.4-6,0   25.: 2254.5
32233 '.V~~~~~~~~~~~S ~~34.080.5  56 .2:3. C 34.2.7S  34-942.3  41,073.0 24,352.   22?7C.236.    .0.3  Z2.7,.
*  -: re~~~~~~z ~~~zzr               -25~~~:,200.0  50,4cc.0   342.                      .264=43
1. 7323                                                       43.3    81,3.3  1, 295. 0   1,722.3  2:53.3t- 711-.
2.fM.?3                                                     7.... 2' 5.        075.3      25.0             10.45.0    IS *'  4.770-3
7rn::~~~~~~~~~LS ~~~50.0    203.3    400.0                                3.    .253.3      .40I0-. C   TS-'  2,47C.3.
2. 22115  TItAlNNr                               1,660.0    M.-'5.   3,532 2.30         ,53.3  3.C25.t   34-60.3  103.3   414.
I. LCCK TRAEOIC                                             21%.....    11.n.. ..    1  11"71  :Ii1.1~7=
L. ST0[S                                          27,.Z:.0   22 2,2'.  003.2 W...   .      150.0  1,950.0   35.=331.:         ::  .' 
csislmr                     2~~~~~~~~~~3,330.0  9,2fl.C  1.2..... ICz.c.    I4t -. =:o.   133,~.o-   T..' 2---
-....... 33r5                                          3,630.0C  2.95.3    300.3  1,300.C    A.           450.0    7545.567.5
7.   EAC1W31 '*220.15,43.E4S.                                                                               5.775.0   02.0  4, n0. 0
It. AT.u12aLS-  6,150.C   2.430D.3                                                                  "C.0.3 73. 9C,  17.250.C   80.0  9,800.C
5.  7M2'  Nf1tAS1T             O 53Z2              .22:3.L.S.C  1,964.0    4=3-3  2.214L.3.            43...    . -.... :0.0  22.0
T.sXWonAA TRMS SUr r43z2AC:=                                           -Z. .      -      -. .I       .      4.023.:   V.2 ,080.:
C. O mrThv  52CM" r36.5  L3.                                          453.:    450.0     42.       4        -     *     *r-
2. ?3~~~~~~~~ lEtS                             569~~~~~~~~U.0  1.  569.    569.0    369.0    2,.99.    2.7.0    CX0.7 
74a3. IMC2 .7XVf 3STS                                07,82.5 JU. r3.0C  17,221.4  :4.7734058.5                 T-2.0 ¶1.237.7   443.2  .7.3
A. PAhL tK1::                                               197.0    224.0      ".33.   z.606.o    .:.      41:1.002  7!.0    .d.
M.MIES EX.' (8:71                                7.3'0.0  37.600,0  33.77'-.:n ..7...3 5.. 2    24,55.3  354.32.
3. ztIE5S    ! 47                                          ,7.33*3.    006.   0.4.   9,912.0   40.504.0    3.3                    .
rot ::oi                               - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,7122.   Z.-74.4 .08    24:6 .0.  2,0U6.C    333
13, U4.2  1-,4413  33,240.7  :4.5733.2  12.193.?  72.        3.   :8.
-.  .-.=ll                                                1,234.0   .SZ3-B   2,833.8   2.3223   1,=2.1    d,549.C   03C.3  7.604.1
rm. 151     2.3    mriit                                   .262..5  3.262.'   1.232'.5    N-.42.5  3. 2.2.5    4.32S
,.Urti&tdICE              - ~~~~~~~~7,451:.2  2.626A   4.301.4  4.121,3.  4.032.3   29,400'.0'   45.0  13.323..
~~           51183~~UKDW17-                          11i,ni1.o 122.   8,743.   8.968,0  0,563-   49.04.3.    43.-3  29.967.4
1. M=62   3800  flIKTE3AIC                                  4,303.0                           -              .3.573.0    3.X  5.154.6
L .rr::_---rRArr-- T.n i0 NAfl                                                  560.:    430C.5    a.c       2 449.6   25.0    44.4
!Z  CIVIL a;S WDATIC AC rxrtxt-A                     134      2.962,0     72.0      733      733      ;s.         :3.0    95. 4
r.    =:a rco:ncr  rn:rac                                   i.0.    ;".     .. . -..                         ..-... 
:%tsi KLaa1 1                                        7,170.0 1       CI..13.477.3 84,897.3  23,5723,122.3  471,544.4 .
3022BW'.    3T5,047.5 47,443.3 232,42-.7 226,664.6  3521-                                       ..74. 1.4.4' £.4 LI .,315.3
M-i& :.ti;ancm%ns                                   4.232.5  27,039.3  6,40.7'  44324.3   5.43.?  4. 352,2   54.532      42.6  23.211.7
Pr;~~a &.41;siclas                4,042.3  44.303,5  2~~~~Z-4,54.02,5.  3Z.935.4 2 4.40.:  370,83.?   37.3 .33.0.2
"W-Tr,8~  0732S                                   324.122.12 54,4.0  5,773.4 259,734.4 22,4-5.21:% CZ35.3 22  1'C.44t.0   42.1  5.02
3aa.                            - ...,..  .4 075.7  33.204,2  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7,997.4   NW2O,  1.0.  .6.  .        .0



:r=DA                                                                            A-nnex  7
Kcm rwsTRY MX.'T
KIAKM  OF StW=Y AC=X-,S                                                                       Table 3
(Z' =)
gas& Caiti                                                                                                                                             n:Wsizal
7;;Z+                                               'rc I  Cfwt.                :mt. rIus
LL-cr.                                                                                                             Price caat.
-,tiii                                     a         N",   Gc;,.,          D61,lfs Z                                      Sjtis
74_,;
rc;. -z",             'a.i;;                                                                                                                                            Zar".
A.  1;:.1CU111                                                 075.8   109.5    1.17.!  "CNIZ,   N.7   11.s           IC.L                           L.7      2.7   ;07.1        11.111..,                   184   I.M74             1.2.5
t. C=11"r-1Z                                                   =C. 1    .4.3        42.7    426.2   32.C    6.4          4.3  42.7   55.4            .14        ?.3    711.3        407.5           81.      4.3    542.8            49.3
C. WRY rcu.,PMEX7                                               3r. 7               43-1    17-1.C   :TIC        -            43.3   53.6            .1.1       I..,   11 1                                   33.6    M B              *.I
MM=                                                         '-".2   7A.C    M.' .  '. -4X.                7.,            :46.8   ?1.4           94.4      :1.S   : Is. 3       737.3         891.0    I.-:-0                    1.;. S
CII.I.. Mzr                                                       2-2:5.5,    76.?  2,70.4   26.0  20C.,                          11.4         37114      1.1.4   4n..
.111.111, = 11 1131i A:= .                                  "Ill,. I',-  Z             1. I 51. I..                                                                              11.1.3        U6.3              I InIt. I
C. SEECS                                                         39.3    31.2        7.9       C.,.  11.1    3.1         C.C           9.1                      1.11   :1.11        1-4             11.1          Z .    .03.2          9.4
121-1.  1- C    IS. 1.      1.3  'ZI:   1-7              6.5       :.1    17.2          727. 4         70.0      15.8    tu. 11           14.4
31.11  1. I 1  '. 2                                                        C
LOCAL 'PAI.'.=                                                       49C.3               49C.]                                                                                                                      $71.1
S1=11'r,                                                    M7.1    43.2                 U12-1                                      Li             ..D               3.8         39'.'                              4u. 1
TIMX.CAL                                                  . 1                           ,613.4                                    1-.4           .3.8               40.2      1,43I.S          172.1             :.LM.4
M. AN.ML                                                         2.7       1.7        .7      -3    1.4    C."          .1 - Z   1.7   1. .1          0.4       C.4    1-1           13.2            1.3       2.3    .12.8             2,i
C. WSE= . [2.11"rUT                                                       21.!                                 -3        0.9   9.C   114             .1. 1.       S      I.. 1.      35.11          11-1               :2.1            :.1.,
Zsrzlo: M;.Cirs                                              5".6      1.2       7.2      72.C    M                  '.7   7.2    C.'.                       I..   '10.7          72.1,           0.7       ?.C      89.?           9.2
J. KSEA:Z'--l SUM, IF'                                            7.1      1-                 17-1      .1    I.,.              :.1    IX             2. C               Z.3                        .2.6                -- C            2.3
C. ,J.=  I ALf"                                                 ;=14                                           1.5                   2M  I                              111.7                      1.1-4               157.3           I-.C
S. RESEAM    'MIN'tAl. "MMAWM                                                                r18.9                                                                       Z.5        362.5                              362.3
T. RESEAM    TKAL' , S=                                                                                                                Z
ZSEW-11 ltlxs                                   7.1    :7.8                 17.1                                      2.2           L.,                6.7          1S. 2         41.6                 U.9
1.1,                                          .1.L          23.5                 32.1
V. M=    "..ALS                                                   9.7    24-1.                                                          1.7           5.7                                           Z1.3
Twtz. DrZ,'7X:9T                                                5.636.2 5.3.92.7    672.1                                  65.2 657..'  :2:..          -00.3    W..,                 L.,,.C        6,335.'    945.4 13,61,'.'           755.2
11. RF---  cosis
A. AN.RAL MALIM                                                    2    .C..,       1-1      111Z                                                    I-L        .1.   11-3          Z.3            13.5       8.8      87.4
I                                                                    I
SXAIES Lx:-.Ikz "JIMT                                             11=4                1.                                                        V.6           -   IV.s                      NOX.4            -2,338.4
584.4              1194.4                                                                      65.7                       W. 1
D. PU  3.0                                                             1422.3               1411.2                                                  14.7               :4.7                                           157.3
E. JVXAM: M                                                                                  MC                                                      1.1                I.,                                            .4.4
736.                                                                 In.1                                           362.8            C.3      75.?    VB. 7
M. PWX 2 =IIL21xm  RAINTLNMM                                    '-2    41.8                                                           5.9            1.9               13.7         40.2           49.8                89.9
1. PI=  1. IXILCIMM  111AMM=                                  16C.S   194.2                TU. 7                                     '7.0           34.?               61.1        .87.5         231.1                418.6
j, PHA2  .1 VEHIM"'. 'Al'ITBMKCE                              361-1   24C.7                                                                                           1.04.4       42110          M. 11               708.2
K. M=    I            !A'C--AU                                 A2.1                         1C.1.s                                                                                                 4L.I.              II:-
L. PHhg  t EMUMEW  WEPATION ACO rAINY[NAr--                                                                                                                                                                            =.2
Ha  1. CIVIL 1--S MTRAT11ON An  MAIK-DIANCE                25.1   226.1                                                           4.6          411.3              52.4          27.7        2273.8                303.3
U. PHASE I C."'%  =M    WMATIMN Ar. A.'KrMKE                    9.4    15.4                 C3.8                                      1.3           12.2               13.6          II. 7         87.?                77.4
C. MSEARCr SALMM'.                                                      "N.L                II.:.4                                                  24.5              Im-.                        2.U. 1         -    2U. I
P. CESEUCH INUMMEK, ;,%1xTDVAME                                  2.j     f.4                  3.L                                     3.1                               1.6          2.5            7.7         -
0. RESEAlr-f           MA' NTEK=                                43..    '74                                                            1.0
17.2         47.6          311.2                ".9
mmlic =r.                                                                       30C..                                                                                                 177.T
.i,t.. REM    - X".                                            :1 M .,                9,-,                                             2"..,          48M.       111.4    ".a       2,*M.'                             4.481.:
7,171.3 ',239.6    M.C '.7-?Z2.;  2n.?  312.2             Z-' Z7.C  M C             11,1111.4          "M1.0        3.470.?       I.,S65.A    M2.2 20.M..'              'M.2



Annex 7
JKt C_                t                                                                       Table  4
mT  '000)
can toes                                 Toa
1707     1700     178      t9       tn2      1m 2        FRI  = '000)
A. NATM    r3T MA*ACEKT Sr=
m3F l*ITATl=                                                                 100327.5s 292.S  23.S3405 24#265,5 26,98.5    22.052.       2.5
t8T ECl.001 11513 *  PAUAT C3m I:        laS                          5,02.#0 02,70.0  13,573.8  7.270.  25.544  UA.W,    16760.    2.t0.1
CO Total 15t3*  FST   ALMMT ITIN2.0 171,115.5 48,2   4                                                   *3 492.14,3 4406w7.3   1005.5   4,54.6
e. AIM=    MS 31VAAL UFSTAT0 It    )
CWUT   FOXt  To IC                                                         - U,348.0 27*114.5  15.350  29,.5  12,074.0   100.215.7
E1=1 TO XflL    t I S1 U 1  OF=   M  NM IITNIX I        T fiLIZ      5 .450  9t.06g   5.#60  5,533.0  2.53.0  3,65.0    32,262.0          308.7
0i TtAlA  OAK 13   *fCSTATh u                                            S )  53.0 40 Vs,s.1  20,04.0  o.53.! 157M. ¢   3U2#0    604*M#4
C.14   FZsT MOC  WLMSt LZST000 cW DaT(UI
3S1M     3T3  f   TAT  WTIUNM                                        20,00.45 34.404   21,74T.  21,000.3 21,725.9 154,54   1R*34     5   141842
C52=  COI fIlMIATIUt  MThfC                                                -  6.6*00  4.4*0  4304.0  3#964.0  3,254.0    22= 23.            73.7
T1I n          L *TM   CBSTLtt                                              - 19,125.5  1713*3.5 204875 240,175  8.*97,5    77731.s   1,1794.
0IIt1 or 2       AUTEl tT*3                                                    3*24.s0   4205*4  2#256.0  1.4*,    11 04    II7M22         141.2
c333511 DISTIlS 9*1s=  F:Cnm                                         77.m.o  8,359.0 '521*10 50,40*0                     -   A  ,19%6.    3,520.4
=STt gU. AuhSlMtti                                                            13,131.0 17,540  5          5. SAN47     5,43W0    47.43     572.2
ISI 3119333                                                                - S51Z562 3,536.3 0,575*9 1bS0           t 472*40203  219,.    2,406
CIK U3IlMTU  002                                                      4 2ttt.9,715.0  1t1S2100  7151.0  tM11.   7.31.0    47,7*V00         575.
..   .-            -................  _.-                  __   -.........I
Ci Totd SlllE4 fImI     i*11UIot  *M13 1          IIwLOE NTtml)        03S,5MS,5 =3=S  72S20Tt 1U2#2644  W3SWNd  72,49.#6    44*17.0  1030,=4                                           -
3.*7 .13 0504
1=83 1VA14                                                                     6,450.0  4V"5*.0  2,.0  46540.0  2,04.0    21,00.0t    Z26.3
&SA Tal 9f1    F                                                                  16450.0  4725.0  2. t,  4,50.   2074.0    21688,            2461.3
Es ElMS PSI   P8W  IULItATI                                                      27,150.4  4,2160         -        -              3*,374.0    402*1
ToW2 WCO13C =oTO                                                          1504s.5 477,443.0 2 =42670.7 2U 4,6 1852     118.674,0 144764.3  1732t.=7
1iscal CmtlMclss                                                        4232.5 2      3  4600.7  6,314.1  s,413.f  485.3    54,032.3          W.0
hi"c C4A1iUcs                                                           442t 144,201#.5  26,574.0 2471.7 36754  34.470          170898.7   2,05.0
Total 700.ZCT 30213                                                      124,122,1 540>a.760 315,7734 25`734.4 444#51*2 15.03 2   ,6 U,19,0  200703.7
m    o*u.u,i   a i     -       - ---- ---   --M
TauS                                                                    6,833.2  34875.  10.20,2  er49,94  9265.?  8*4,04.7    79n.61.1      762.2
fes       ts                                                           75.47,5 272n.11, 115743 O: 3037 77,05.  X0053.1   70302   0.4470
St 5 178  11603



- 114
Annex 8
RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
30 HA. PASTURE MODEL
FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN 65%
Sensitivity Analysis
Decrease in milk price               Financial rate of returns
10%                                        51%
20%                                         36%
30%                                         17%
The results indicate that the financial rate of return would remain
satisfactory should the price of milk or milk production decrease by 20 to
30%. However, the farm model represents an average pasture. The financial
rate of return is very sensitive to milk production and therefore to the
speed at which pure breed cattle is introduced on each pasture. During the
first phase project some influential beneficiaries obtained preferential
treatment to receive pure breed cattle thus leaving less well-off pastures
beneficiaries without pure breed cattle. Assurances concerning equitable
pure breed cattle distribution will be sought during negotiations.



RWANDA
APPRAISAL OF THE
SECOND FORESIRY PROJECT
30 HA. PASTURE - BUDGET (FRW CONSTANT 1286 FINANCIAL TERMS)
1           2            3           4            6           8            7           8      9 to20
A. REVENUES
Mil. ProductAon                 8640.0     14904.0      25168.0     30768.0      30336.6     28800.0      28800.6     2886 6       34566.0
Milt Price                        41.0        41.0         41.6        41.0         41.0        41.6         41.0         41.0        41.0
Milk Rovenue                  364240.0    611064.0   1031888.6   1261488.0   1243776.0   1180800.0  1180866.0   1180800.0   1416966.6
Meat Production Kg.             3860.0      4866.6       1966.0      2666.6       8866.6      2260.0       2400.0      2400.0       2460.0
Meat price                          65           66         65            66          65           66           65         56           65
Meat Revenue                _ 198066.6    26406.6    1072560.0    1100006  0    484066.0    123760.0    132000.0    132666.0    1A2666.0
Total Revonues                      662240      876064      1139138      1371488     1727776      1304660     1312800      1312800     1648960
B.  COSTS
Credit 8.S.                      97116      215385       146916       44826        30602        14317           0            0           0
Ankolo Cattle                   747000           0            0            0           6            °           0            0           e
Fisture Upk-ep                       6      200000        66666       66066        6006  O                  66666       660000 666   36660
Salaries                        312000      361600       351600      368160       368180      368166       368166      368166       36886
Veterinary Products              12006       28666        32000       32666        38666       46066        54000 S66866              0066
Mineral Salt                      3900        9100        10400       16466        12360       14950        175560      18850        19566
Rental Fee                           6           O            6            0           0      676000       577000       67605 666
Comunal Cattle Tax               .FO6O       13600        10250         9760        4000         3760        3760         4660         4600
Total Cost                      - 11870.6       817686       611160       626136      513012      1082177     1078460      1084610     1067160
NET REVENUE                        -634770        67479      627978       848368     1214764       222373      234340       2282°4      491866



- 116 -
RWANDA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND 'ORESTRY PROJECT
30 HA PASTURE - ASSUMPTIONS
1.        The projection was made over a 20 year period and in constant
terms. It is based on a 30 ha pasture having a carrying capacity of 2 UBT
(250 kg) per ha.  The herd composition is the followlng:
Years
1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9-20
Ankole cows                      60   48   27   23   --   --   --   --   --  --
Pure breed cows                  0      6   14   16   16   15   15   18          18
2.        Milk Production.  The milk production was obtained as follows:
Years
1     2      3      4       S      6      7      8    9-20
A.Brown Swiss cows           0      6    14    16        16    15    15    18          18
x of milking cows         --       .74   .76   .78    .8    .8    .8    .8    .8
Milking cows              --      4    11    12        13    12    12    14          14
Milk production/cow    --  1800  2000  2200   2400  2400  2400  2400    2400
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Brown Swiss milk           0  7992 21280 27456  30336 28800 28800 34560   34560
B.Ankole cows               60    48    27    23         --
2 of milking cows         .6    .6    .6    .6
Milk'ng cows              36    28    16    14
Milk production/cow   24U   240   240   240
Ankole milk             8640  6912  3888  3312
Total milk                  8640 14904 25168 30768  30336 28800 28800 34560   34560
3.           Meat Production.  The meat production in kg. is the following.



- 117 -
Years
1     2      3      4      5      6     7      8   9-20
Ankole                     3600  4800   1800   900   6900 
Brown Swiss                ---            150  1100   1900  2250  2400  2400   2400
3600  4800   1950  2000   8800  2250  2400  2400   2400
4.          Purchase of brown Swiss on credit.
Years
1        2         3      4        5
Number of animals             6         8        2       1        1
Unit cost FRW            49800    49800    49800  49800   49800
298800   398400    99600  49800   49800
It has been agreed with the borrower that each pasture beneficiary
would slaughter at least two Ankole female for each pure breed brown swiss
Introduced in Gishwati.  The average price of an Ankole female is 252 of the
price of a pure breed cow or about FRW 12450.  By selling two ankole for each
pure breed cattle the pasture beneficiaries are able to finunce about 50% of the
purchase price of a pure breed cow thus leaving him with a balance of 50%. It
has been estimated that this credit could be reimbursed in 2 yearP.
Years
1           2           3         4        5          6
Amount borrowed           149400      199200      49800    12430    12450          -
Debt Service              74700      174300      124500    37350       5602       1867
Principal interest       22410        4108.;      22410      7470    24900      12450
T'otal                   97110       215385      146910    44820    30502       14317
5.          Arikole Cattle.
After pasture establishment it has been estimated that 60 UBT or
15000 kg of cattle could be introduced on the pasture.  The average weight of an
ankole cattle in its traditional environment is about 250 kg. The pasture
bereficiaries can therefore introduce about 60 ankole females at an average unit
price of FRW 12450 or a total amount of FRW 747000. The ankole cattle will
subsequently be slaughtered as the pure breed cattle is progressively
introduced.
6.        Pasture upkeep.
Past experience has demonstrated that pastures require substantial
maintenar,ce during the two years following their establishment.  This
maintenance is 66.6 man days per hectare per year at a manday cost of FRW 100.0
thus resulting in a total yearly cost of FRW 200,000 per year for a 30 ha
pasture. Since the pasture cannot generate sufficient revenues in year 1 to



- l1s -
cover pasture maintenance it is paid by the project and stbsequently recovered
through the cost recovery mechanism. This cost is however born by the pasture
beneficiairies from year 2 onwards. Pasture maintenance has been estimated at
the following levels for year 3 to 20:
Years
3-8        9-20
Mandays/ha/year                          20           10
Manday cost FRW                       100         100
Cost per Ha FRW                      2000        1000
30 Ha.                                 30          30
Cost per pasture FRW                 60,000      30,000
7.          Salaries.
Each pasture employs 3 herders and one pasture manager. It has been
estimated that one A2 level veterinarian was necessary per group of 15 pastures.
The pasture beneficiaries have to support this cost starting in the fourth year
following pasture establishment. It is also necessary to employ two assistant
veterinarians per group of 5 pastures. This cost will be born 13y the project in
year 1 and by the pasture beneficiaries thereafter. The table below is a
summary of the resulting costs for each pasture.
Years
1        2            3           4-20
3 Herders FRW           162000       162000       162000       162000
Pasture Manager FRW    150000        150000       150000       150000
Veterinarian FRW                ----               -----        16360
Assistant Vet. FRW        -----       39600        39600        39600
FRW                312000       351600       351600       368160
8.       Veterinary products.
It was assumed that the expense for ieterinary products would amount to
FRW 2003 per pure breed animal 2 years old and older. This amount is detailed
below.
FRW
Meteorization (bloat) twice a year         1000
Antibiotics (Mastitis) once per year        500
Vermifuge twice a year                      280
Vaccine Charbon once a year                  15
Brucelloeis  once a life time                50
Foot and mouth disease                      100
Artificial insemination                      55
2000



- 119 -
9.       Mineral salt
It was estimated that ad..' animals 2 years old and over would consume
20 kg. of mineral salt per year at a cost of FRW 32.5/kg.
10.      Rental fee.
There is a five year grace period to allow pastures to constitute their
berds, before the cost recovery mechanism is in effect. The cost recovery
mechanism is composed of three elements as follows:
i. all investment costs related to pasture establishment until the end
of 1986
ii. all investment costs related to pasture establishment from January
1, 1987 to December 30, 1989 (until the federation of livestock
owners is created).
iii. the yearly cperating cost of the federation starting on January 1,
1990.
The mission's calculations indicate that FRW 767.0 million have been invested in
pasture establishment up to the end of 1986. Poor management of the component
during phase 1 resulted in higher costs than anticipated representing a
substantial financial burden on the pastures. As a result of this full cost
recovery on current IBRD lending terms (interest rate 7.92%; repayment period of
20 years including 5 years grace) would jeopardize the financial viability of
the pastures. For this reason FRW 381.0 million (50% of the total investment
cost) is being considered as a government subsidy. The balance of FRW 386.0
millioz. has been considered a long term debt bearing a 7.92% interest rate, a
repayment period of 20 years including a 5 years grace period. This represents
a recovery of FRW 396,000 for a 30 ha pasture per year (item i). It is
estimated that a further FRW 120.0 million will be spent to complete the
pastures by 1989 (item ii)which will be subject to the terms of the cost
recovery mechanism described above, thus resulting in a recovery of FRW 125,000
per year for a 30 ha pasture. The yearly operating cost of the federation is
estimated to be about FRW 6.0 million per year starting in 1990. This cost
divided by the 3340 ha of pasture in operation would result in a fee of FRW 1800
per hectare per year or FRW 54000 per 30 hectare per year (item iii). Adding
these three figures results in a total amount of FRW 575,000 per year for a 30
hectare pasture starting in year 6.
11.      Communal Cattle Tax
The communes collect a RWF250 tax on all adult animals. This tax
results in the following amounts per year:
1     2      3     4      5     6      7     8  9-20
Adult heads    60    54    41    39    16    15    15    18    18
Tax FRW        250   250   250   250   '50   250   250   250   250
FRW          15000 13500 10250  9750  4000  3750  3750  4500  4500



- 120 -
RWANDA
APPRAISAL OF THE FORESTRY II PROJECT
FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS
CENTRE D'APPUI TECHNIQUE (CAT)
1.       Milk Sales
Yearly milk production multiplied by FRW45 per liter
(constant until end 1989, increased yearly for inflation
thereafter.)
2.       Meat Sales
Number of animals sold multipliec by respective weights
niultiplied by FRW55 per kilo (constant price until end 1989,
followed by 3% yearly increase for inflation from 1990-1992).
3.       Salaries
Actual 1986 level multiplied by 3% a year over the projected
period. Salaries are not adjusted for inflation in Rwanda;
are only increased by 3% every year.
4.       Transport
Actual 1986 figure multiplied by 10% in 1987 and 1988 and by
7% over the remaining projected period (this includes an
adjustment for inflation of 3% in 1987, 6% in 1988, 5% in
1989, 3% from 1990-1992).
5.       Tools
Same as above.
6.       Veterinary Products
Average number of pure breed heads (2 years ani older)
multiplied by FRW 2000 per head in 1986 multiplied yearly by
the inflation factor over the projected period.
7.       Cattle Feed
Milking cows
85   86  87  88   89   90   91   92
100  55  66  161  154  162  140  112
Number of milking cows multiplied by 2 kg for 100 days (milk
producing period) multiplied by FRW 30 per kilo infl2ted for



- 121 -
8.       Depreciation
1985   1986   1987   1988    1989    1990   1991   1992
Gross F. Assets   89330  89330  89330  89330   89330   89330  89330  89330
Livestock 1         8540   8540  14550  14550   14550   14540  14540  14540
Interest CAP        3791   7882  12297  17062   22204   22204  22204  22204
Gross F. Assets  101661 105752 116167 120932  126074  126074 ±26074 126074
Average depreciation of 1.4% per year was only calculated on
the amount of FRW 126074.
9.       Interest and amortization:
a)   Given the fact that the CAT is only starting to build its
herd in 1987, it has not been possible to consider its
establishment cost as a long term debt to the Government.  It
has been assumed that out of the FRW 97.7 million spent to
establish the CAT, FRW 50.0 million were Government equity
contributions. The balance (FRW 47.7 million) was considered
as a long-term deJt to the Government, bearing a 7.922
interest rate, a 5 year grace period and a 20 year repayment
period. The unpaid interest during the grace period was
added to the principal and to gross fixed assets.
b)   Cattle purchase
Amount 6 m FRW
Interest 12%
Repayment 2 years interest and principal paid immediately.
10.      Inventories
Tools 3 months supply
Vet products 3 months supply
Cattle feed 1 month supply
11.      accounts Receivable
Milk sales 1 month
12.      Accounts Payable.
Tools 1 month
Vet products cash payment
Cattle feed cash payment
Office Supplies cash payment
13.      Cash
2 months of operating costs
1/Puchase of 100 breeding heifers in early 1987.



RWANDA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT (ACTUAL 1985, PROJECTED 1988-1992)
CAT (Centre d'Appui Technique)
FRW 000
1985      1988      1987     1988       1989      1990      1991      1992
FISCAL YEAR ENDS DEC 31
Milk Production L/year       86138.0   70560.0   83000.0  214000.0  233000.0  278000.0  288000.0  214000.0
OPERATING REVENUES
__________________
Milk Sales                      2912.0   3105.0   3736.0   9631.0  10485.0  12886.0  12794.0  10623.0
Meat Sales                       815.0    478.0   2158.0    935.0   1435.0    2699.0   2M31.0   2528.0
Total Revenue*                3627.0    3583.0    5891.0   10566.0   11920.0   16584.0   16526.6  13061.0
OPERATING COSTS
_______________
Salaries                        2801.6   3a6s .     3120.0    3210.0    3318.6   3416.0   3610.0   3020.0
Transport                         46.6      40.0      44.0      48.0      52.0       56.0      69.0     63.9
Toola                            217.0     100.0    110.0    121.0    125.0    138.0         148.0     158.0
Veterinary Products              400.6     386.0     170.0    474.0    510.0       492.0    516.6    616.0
Cattle Fee                       8m0 0     330.0    408.0    1064.0    1691.6   1123.0    1167.0    1192.0
Office Supplies                   38.6      40.0      44.0      48.0      52.0      65.0      59.0      63.0
Maintenanc-                       39.e      60.6      66.0      73.0      78.0      84.0      89.6      95.e                                   r-
Total Operating Cost*         3934.0    3981.1   3962.6    5028.0    5218.0   5367.0    5638.9   5707.0
Income Before D-preciation      -467.5    -397.0   1929.6   6537.0   6702.0   10227.0    9987.0    7344.6
Lese Depreciation             1706.0   1790.0   1790.0   1796.6   1790.0   1796.0   1796.0   1790.0
Income Before Interest         -2197.0   -2187.0     139.5    8747.0   4912.0    8437.0    8197.0    5554.0
Less Interest                                      366.0    546.6       90.0   5179.8    4809.8   4439.8
Operating Subsidy               1496.9    343.0
Net Income (Loss)               -792.9   -1844.6   -221.6    32067.     4822.0    3267.2    3387.2    1114.2
OPERATING RATIO X                  162       161        97        64        59   ,   46         47        S7



RWANOA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECk
SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS (ACTUAL 1986 PROJECTED 1986-1992)
CAT (Centre d'Appui Technique)
FRW 000
1985       1986        1987        1988        1989        1990         1991        1992
FISCAL YEAR ENDS DEC 31
SOURCES OF FUND,,"
__________________
Not Operating Income                         -702.0    -1844.6        139.6      3747.0      4912.9      B437.0      8197.0      6S64.6
Add: Depreciation                            1790.6      1790.0      1790.0      1790.0      17906.      1796.0      1790.0      179060
Total Internal Sources                     1688.0       -64.0      1929.0     5637.0       6702.0     10227.0      9987.0      7344.6
Borrowing                                       6.6 O.o             6o0.6          06.         06.          6.0         o.0         0.0
TOTAL SOURCES                                1688.0       -54.6      7929.6      6637.0      6702.0    10227.0       9987.0      7344.0
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
_______________
Capital Investment                                                   666. 0
Increase (Decresse) in Working Capital       1088.6       -54.6        69.0      1997.0      6112.0       376.6       606.6    -1767.4
DEBT SERVICE
Interost Medium Term Debt                       6.6         6.0       360.0       640.0        90.0         6.6         e.0         o.e
Interest Long Term Debt                         6.6         0.6         o.o         6.o         6.6      5179.8      4809.8      4439.8
Amortization Medium Ter= Debt                   6.0         6.0      1500.0    a366.6        1600.0         6.6         0.0         6.6
Amortization Long Term Debt                     0.6         6.0 6.6                 o.6         9.0      4471.6      4671.6,    4671.6
_    ---    -----       ----- -- _-- ----_-     -------     -------     _-------      ._-
Total Debt Service                              e.o         6.6      1860.6      3540.e      1690.0      9861.4      9481.4      9111.4
TOTAL APPLICATION OF FUNDS                   1668 .       -54.1      7929.6      6637.6      6702.6    16227.6       9987.6      7344.6



RWANDA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
BALANCE SHEET (ACTUAL 1986 PROJECTED 1966-1992)
CAT (C-ntre d'Appui Technique)
FRW OM
1985        1986        1987        1988        1989         1990        1991        1992
FISCAL YEAR ENDS DEC 31
ASSETS
Cross Fixed Assets            191861. 6   106762.66   116167.06   129932.96   126074.09   126674.96   126074.00   126874.00
Accumulated Depreciation        1796.96      3586.6      63706.6     7186.6      8950.66    16746.66    1253ff.6    1432.066
Net Fixed Assets             99871.06   102172.06   110797.06   113772.60   117124.00   116334.00   113544.00   111764.00
CURENRT ASSETS
Cash                             670.60      680.00       697.90     2946.06     7611.60     7221.60      75f'.20     677h.69
Inventories                      262.66       148.96      194.00      a6.66       383.09       447.600     69.66       578.90
Accounts Receivable              231.6f       216.96      221.01f    759.01       847.66       939.06      994.86      961.66
Total Curront Assets          116.O6    1042.6        1112.66     3119.66     8221.06    8598.60       9106.26     7338.80
TOTAL ASSETS                106976:86   103214.68   111969.66   116882.66   125345.06   123932.00   122649.26   119692.8
LIABILITIES
Equity                         6 e.eo    6ee.66    lew.6            60 .66    6666.6e   600.0    6 5966.96 566.o
Retained Earnings               -702.6    -2546.00    -2767.66        440.00     5282.60     3519.20    11966.40    13029.06
Long Term Debt                 61661.06    66572.6      06167.00    64932.9    8e6402.66    06736.80   56659.20    511S7."6
Medium Torm Debt                            -160.16    1566."6
CURRENT LIABILITIES
___________________
Accounts Payable                  17.66         8.00        9.00       10.00       16.06        11.00       12.00       13.66
Current Maturities                              15wo        3600        1560      4871.6      4671.6       4671.8      4671.6
Total Current Liabilities          17        1566         "m9         I151      4681.6      4682.6       4683.6      4684.6
TOTAL LIABILITIES              196976      193214       111909      116882    125345.6    123932.6    122649.2    119692.8
Debt Equity Ratio                 51:49    65:45         66:45       66:44       54:46       60:50        47:53       44:65



- 125 -
RWANDA
APPRAISAL OF THE FORESTRY II PROJECT
FINANCIAL ASSUMPTION
DAIRY FACILITY
I. INCOME STATEMENT
1. Milk Production
1986    1987      1988      1989      1990      1991     1992
TOTAL    842878 1248000  1974000  2374000  3091000  3450000  3393000
L/Day        2309    3419      5408      6504      8468      9452     9295
2.  Sale of Milk (whole)
1986    1987      1988      1989      1990     1991      1992
L          110000  120000   130000   135000   140000   145000   150000
Price          60       60       60        60        62        64        66
6600    7200      7800      8100      8680      9280     9900
3.  Sale of Sour Milk
1986    1987      1988      1989      1990     1991      1992
L         359628  734500  1406000  1768000  2446000  2778000  2703000
Price          60       60       60        60        62        64       66
FRW00O      21577   44070    84360   106080   151652   177792   178398
4. Sale of Butter
1986    1987      1988      1989      1990     1991      1992
KG           7600    8000      9000    10000    11000    11000    11000
Price/kg      760      760      760       760       783      806       830
FPW 000      5776    6080      6840      7600      8613     8866      9130
1 kg butter = 21.25 liters of milk



- 126 -
5. Sale of Yogourts
986    1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
Price          35       35        35        35        36        37        38
Pots        90000  100000   120000   140000   160000   180000   180001
FRW          3150    3500       4200      4900      5760      6660      6840
It takes 1 liter of milk to meke 8 yogourts.
6. Sale of Cheese
1986    1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
Kg          20000   21000    23000  - 24000    250000    27000    29000
Price         450      450       450       450       463       477       492
9000    9450    10350    10800    11575    12879    14268
1 kg of cheese - 10 liters of milk
7. Pu-rchase of Raw Milk
1986    1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
L          842878 1247000  1974000  2373000  3090000  3450000  3400000
Price          41       41        41        41        42        43        45
FRW 000    34557   51127    80934   972933   129780   1483S5   153000
8. Salaries
1986 figures inflated every year by 3%.
9.  Transport
L                  1247000  1974000  2373000  3090000  3450000  3400000
Cost 1/               3.1      3.28      3.45      3.55      3.66      3.77
Total FRW 000        3860      647       8186      10969    12627    12818
10. Enerpy
The cost of energy is 2 FRW per liter.
1987     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
L                  1247000 .1974000  2373000  3090000  3450000  3400000
Cost                 2         2.12      2.23      2.29      2.36      2.43
Total FRW 000        2494      4185      5292      7076      8142      8262
1/  Milk collecting costs 1 FRW per liter and deliveries to Kigali FRW 2.1
per liter.



- 127 -
11. Supplies
1986     1987    1988       1989      1990    1991         1992
Yogourts       90,000 100,0000 120,000  140,000  160,000  180,000  180,000
Capsules
FRW        1.17    1.20      1.27      1.34      1.38      1.42      1.46
Pots         4.47    4.60      4.88      5.12      5.28      5.44      5.60
5.64    5.80      6.15      6.46      6.66      6.86      7.06
Cost FRWOOO  507       580       738      904      1065      1235      1271
Milk bags   1752    2088        3801     4744      6529      7613      7687
Butter         15       18        20        23       26        27        28
Cheese         37       25        28        29       31        35        38
Total
FRW 000    2311    2711       4587      5700      7651      8910      9024
12. Depreciation
Item                             % rate
vehicules                         30
Equipment                         15
Buildings                          2
Water system                       5
New packaging machine             10
Results in an average depreciation of 7.5% of gross fixed assets.
II. Sources and Uses of Funds
1.   Debt service
It was assumed that all investments made under the first credit (1039-
RW) would be a debt to the Government with an interest rate of 7.92% a
grace period of 5 years, a repayment period of 20 years, and interest
added to principal and gross fixed assets. It was assumed that investments
included in the upcoming IDA credit would be transferred to the dairy as
Government equity contributions.
III. Balance Sheet
1. Inventories
4 months supplies + chemicals and office supplies.
2. Accounts Receivable
1 month of sales.
3. Accounts Payable
1 month purchase of milk, energy, chemicals and supplies.



RWANDA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT (ACTUAL 84-85 PROJECTED 1986-1992)
DAIRY FACILITY
FRW We8
1984        1985        1986        1987        1988        1989        1990        1991        1992
FISCAL YEAR ENDS DECEMBER 31
Liters per day                               456.9     1,048.0    2,309.9      3,419.0     6,4e8.0    6,5s4.9    8,468.0       9,462.9     9,296.0
OPERATING REVENUES
_______________ --
Sale of Milk                                2990.00     265e.00     6698.98     7209.09     7899.98     81f.98     8680.00     92890.0     9998.60
Sales of Sour Milk                          3000.00     5501.00    21577.00    44a79.eo    843.00 .   10989.0   161652.98   177792.09   178398.69
Sale of Bu,ttr                               173.98     6759.98     5776.oe     6980.98     6846.98     7698.00    8613.00      8866.98     9139.98
Sale of Yogourts                               0.98     2139.90     3115.60     3S00.00     4298.98     4998.90     57e0.98    6so".69      6840.00
Sale of Cheesee 9.c                                     6990.00     9980.00    9460.00    10350.00    l989o8.9    11575.98    12879.9    14268.09
_  - --     -----    -------- _-    - - _-_----- _-- -- - --  ------     - - - _-- -- - --  _- ------    - - _-- --  _---  - -- -- ---
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES                    6173.00    22781.00    46103.00    79300.69   113659.00   137489.00   186286.98   215477.98   218636.98
OPERATING COSTS
_______________
Purchase of Milk                            4643.00    16319.00    34567.00    51127.90   89934.09    97293.98   129789.09   1483509.9    16399.009
Salaries                                    1669.98     1869.00     4790.09     4398.00    4429.9       4662.98     4698.90    4839.09      4986.00
Transport                                   1837.00     2073.98     3087.00     38e0.98     6474.09     81C6.98    19969.98    12627.90    12818.00  oo
Energy                                       975.00     2300.00     1428.00     2598.98     4185.69     5292.00    7976.09      8142.98     8262.98
Chemicals                                    298.99       89.98      422.00      539.ee      629.00      730.90      8s9.90      98.98      1200.0098
Supplios                                     69.00      1466.00     2311.00     2711.S9     4587.98     5700.00 8   7061.6      8919.69     9924.98
Toots                                        573.98      s5.oa       6a.9o        76.9        890.00      90.00      198.9       119.98      120.00
Office Supplies & Miscellaneous             440.00      1340.09      6S0.00      6oo.98      65s.oo     7W9.98       759.90      869.69      860.00
Maintenance                                  314.69      360.98      409.9W      45w.98      seo.oo      55e.oo 669          00.98  69."     790.09
-- ---    --------    -----  -       -_ ----_--   _--------    --------    _------    --------    --------
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                      19719.98    26347.98    47436.98    68148.00   102459.00   123103.90   162474.00   185408.09   199969.96
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION                -6646.00    -366e.98    -1332.00      4152.90    11091.69    14377.09    23896.90    30869.98    27SO7.00
Less Depreciation                         4929.e9     6039.00      7190.98     9970.00    16309.00    13380.00    13659.98    13659.98    13759.98
INCOME GicFORE INTEREST                  -1466.98    -9696.98    -8522.09    -5818.00       791.69      997.60    10256.00    16419.90    13817.69
Less Interest                                D.oo        o.eo        e.eo         e.oo        9.09     8368.03     7770.32     7172.60     6574.89
Covernment Subsidy                         6177.98      5933.98     2011.00
NET INCOME (LOSS)                         -4289.98    -3683.98    -6511.00    -5818.00       791.00    -7371.93     2485.68     9246.40     7242.11
OPERATING RATIO %                           392.00      142.98       118.00      198.98       99.00       99.00       94.00       92.00       94.00



RWANDA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS (ACTUAL 84-86, PROJECTED 1986-1992)
DAIRY FACILITY
FRW OM
1984       1985        1986        1987        1988        1989        1990        1991        1992
_--         ---        ----        ---         ----        - _-_--_    --_--       ----        ---
YEAR ENDJM   DECEMF¶R 31
SOURCES OF FINDS
________________
Intornal Soure.u
Net Opersting Income                     -4289.65    -3663.65   -6511.65    -6818.65       791.11      991.51    15266.01   18419.o6    13817.65
Add: Deprociation                         4920.65     6535.65     7195.65     9970.56    15365.65    13385.60    13660.00    13855.65    13765.65
Total Internal Sources                      631.00    2387.65       679.6      4152.05   11091.65   1J77.00    23806.00    35569.65    27667.05
Govornment Contribution                       e.5o        G.5o        5.65    28765.00     45W5.65    21265.65       G.oo        e.oe        e.55
Borrowing                                 67385.65     7445.65    358o.65         D."         e.w         e.oo        5.55        S.oo        S.eo
_- - -- -   - - - -     - - - -    - - - --       ---  --------     _-  - _-- _-_-- - _---- - _-- _-_-- _---_ -------  ------
Total Sources                            67991.00    9807.50      4239.00    32852.06    15391.00   35577.00    23808.00    30069.50    27567.00
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expenditures                      67380.0      7445.05     3560.00    28700.00    4000.00    21200.00    4500.00      5500.00      1206.e0
Increase (decrease) in Working Capital      611.00     2367.00      679.00    4152.00    11091.00   -1537.93    3988.78       9849.50    12245.21
DEBT SERVICE
Interest                                      0.55        0.00        0.06        0.00        0.50    8368.03     7770.32     7172.60    6574.89
Amortization                                 050.         0.00         .   0       .00  0.oe  o.       7646.90    7546.90    7546.90      7546.90
_   ---     ----  ----- _-  ------    --  -----_    --  --_-----     _ -   - ---_----   - --_-----  -  _-- -- -
TOTAL                                         *.e         5.65        S.65        S.65        5.65    16914.93    16317.22    14719.66    14121.79
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FtNS                67991.05     9807.       4239.65    32852.65    16691.65    36677.65    238W6.0e    35659.65    27667.65



RWANDA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
BALANCE SHEET (ACTUAL 1984-1985. PROJECTED 1986-1992)
DAIRY FACILITY
FRW o0o
1984       1985        1988        1987       1988        1989        1990        1991       1992
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31
ASSETS
Gross fik.d *%sots                        72716.60   88503.90   97198.04   133596.12  1459w3.92  167163.92  171603.92  177103.92  178303.92
Less Accumulated Depreciation              4920.00   10950.00   18140.00   28118.00   38410.00   517909.0    65340800   78990.06   92740.00
got Faxed Assets                          87796.60   76653.90   79068.04   108486.12  107493.92   115313.92  106203.92   98113.92    86se3.92
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash                                       452.00    1839.00    1942.00    5246.00   13479.06    7702.10    10838.88   16982.38    31161.69
Inventories                                239.30      962.00    1094.00    1434.00    3479.00    7430.00    7500.06    8006.00    8006.00
Accounts Rec-ivabl-                         431.06    1898.00    3841.06      586s.06     9462.06    11450.00   16832.00   19238.00   203e4.06
Total Current Assets                       1122.00    4699.00    6877.06   12529.00   26420.06    26592.10   34370.88   46220.38   69465.59
TOTAL ASSETS                             68918.0    802s2.90   85935.04   118016.12   133913.92  141896.02  140534.80   144334.30  145029.51
LIABILITIES
___________
Equity                                       0.00        0.00        e.eo   28700.06    32700.00    53900.06    53900.50   53906.00   539000 6        °
Retained Ec ni;gs                         -4289.00   -7962.00  -14463.00   -20291..o   -19490.0   -26961.00   -24316.32  -1S128.92   -7886.81
-- --     -- --   -   -- -       -- ---      --- -       -----  ---     - .-_---_-_-  - --__-- --
Total Equity                              -42q9.00   -7952.00  -14463.00      8419.06    13210.00    27539.W0   2Vi24.68   38771-08   46013.19
Long Term Debt                            72716.60   86s64.90   97198.04  104896.12   10565i.e2    98110.12   90563.22   83016.32    75469.42
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                            491.06    1700.00     3206.00    476S.00      7560.20 9200.00   1300.0    1600.06    16006.06
Current Maturities                           6.06        6.oe        0.0         0e00     7546.90    7646.90    7646.90    7546.9s       7546.90
_ ----     ------      ------      ------     _------      -----      ------      -----      _-----
Total Current Liabilities                   491.00    1700.00    3206.00    4700.00    16846.90   16746.90   26046.90   22546.96    23u46.90
TOTAL LIABILITIES                         68918.50    80262.90   85935.04   118015.12  133191.92  141896.02   140634.86  144334.36   146029.51
Debt/Equity Ratio                                                             93:7       89:11       78:22       75:25       68:32       62:38



- 131 -
RWANDA
APPRAISAL OF THE FORESTRY II PROJECT
FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS
ZONE D'EMBOUCHE
I INCOME STATEMENT
1. Quantity of Liveweight Meat Purchased in Tons
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
Brown Swiss Phase I          20        16        37        75        91       103       121
Crosses Phase I              20        62        38        53        68        83       100
Ankole Phase I              260       165       168       157       276       422       ---
CAT                         ---        39        17        26        49        47       42
Total Tons                  300       282       260       311       484       655      263
2.   Meat Prices
The current buying price for live cattle is 55 FRw/kg -- the equivalent selling
price of meat is FRw 67/kg -- these prices were inflated as follows during the
projected period:
1987     1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
3%        6%       5%        3%        3%        3%
Thus resulting in the following figures per kg:
Buying Price               57         60       63        65       67        69
Selling Price              69         73       77        79       81        84
The corresponding number of heads is as follows:
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
1100      700       650       600       800      1200       300
3. Meat Sales.
It has been assumed that while staying at the zone d'embouche the herd
would gain 05% in weight.
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990      1991    1992
Weight                 300       282      260       311       484      6550    463
5%                      15        14        13       16        24        33    23
TOTAL                  315       296      273       327       508       688    486



- 132 -
Selling
price/kg               67        69        73        77        79        81    84
Sales                21105    20424    19929    25179    40132    55728    40824
4.   Milk Sales
It is considered t'hat each head will produce an average 0.37 of milk per day of
stay on the zone d'embouche for a milking period of 100 days.
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
Heads                        700       700      650       600       800      1200       926
Factor                     0.17      0.17      0.17      0.17      0.17      0.17       0.17
Days                         100       100       100       100       100      100       100
Liters                    11900    11900    11050    10200    13600    20400    15700
Milk Price                    45        45        45        45        46        48       49
Milk Sales FRW 000           535       535       497       459       625      979       769
5. Cost of Sales
Weight purchased multiplied by price per kg:
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
Weight purchased             300      282       260       311       484       655       463
Buying price                 55        57        60        63        65        67        69
Cost of sales FRW 000   16500    16074    15600    19593    3'.460    43885    31947
6. Salaries
Salaries are based on current estimates for 1986 increased thereafter by about
3%.
7. Veterinary Products
Based on an amount of 300 FRW at end of 1986 per head inflated (3% in 1987, 6% i
1988, 5% in 1989 and 3% in 1990-1993.
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
Heads                      1100       700       650       600       B00      1200       926
Amount                       273      309       327       344       354       365       376
FRW 000                     300       216       212       206       283       438       348
8. Office Supplies
1986 figures inflated every year by the same percentages as in 7.
9. Tocls
1986 figures inflated every year by 'he same percentages as in 7.



- 133 -
10. Transport
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
KM 000                       40        35        35        41        55        75        55
Cost KM                      50        51        54        57        59        61       63
FRW 000                    200.)     1785      1890      2337      3245      45:5     3465
11. Depreciation
Vehicules                   30%
Slaughter Hoase             10Z
Pastures                     1%
II. Source and Application of Funds
1. Debt Service
Given the tight financiel situation of the zone d'embouche, it was assumed that
10.0 million was a government equity contribution in 1985. The remaining
investments (FRW 11.05 million) have been considered as a long term debt (inter
rate 7.92% grace period 5 years, repayment period 20 years) for which interest
capitalized during the grace period and added added to the principal and to gro
fixed assets.
III. Balance Sheet
1. Inventories
Tools 6 months of needs
Office supplies 6 months of needs
Cattle 50 heads
2. Accounts Receivable
1 month of sales minimum.
3. Accounts Payable
1 month of supplies tools and transport.



RWANDA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT (ACTUAL 86, PROJECTED 1966-1992)
ZONE D'EMBOUCHE
FRW oeo
1995        1986        1987        1988       1989        1990         1991        1992
---        ---  ---                ----  ----  ---  --      - ----             -   _-- -
FISCAL YEAR ENDS 12/31
Tons of Meat                                  155.6       300.6       282.0       260.0       311.0       484.0       655.6       483.0
OPERATING REVENUES
__________________
Meat Sales                                  10441.0     21106.0     20424.0     19929.0    26179.0      40132.0    56728.0      40624.s
Milk Sales                                    756.0       636.0       635.0       497.6       469.0       826.0       979.0       789.6
--- ---   - - - -     - - ---  ------- --  --------- --  --------- --   - ------ -- -- --- _ - ---- -
TOTAL REVENUES                              11191.0     21646.6    20969.0      20426.6     26538.0     40767.0    58707.0    41593.0
OPERATING EXPENSES
Cost of Sales                                9526.0     16600.0     156160.     14366.0     17165.6     27588.6     37996.6     27796.6
Salaries                                      723.0      2125.0      2218.6      2315.6      2414.6      2517.0      2622.6      2731.6
Veterinary Products                           183.0       300.0       216.6       212.0       206.6       283.0       438.0       34e.6
Office Supplies                                51.9       56.6         58.6        61.6        64.0        66.6        68.0        76.6            4
Tools                                          63.0       133.0       137.0       145.0       152.0       157.0       162.0       167.6             1
Transport                                     948.0      200e.6      1786.0      1890.6      2337.6      3246.0      4575.6      a406.0
----     - --  ---    -------- --    - ---- ------    - -- -- ----- -- _-- -- - --  _- -- -- ---  - -- -- -
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                       10486.0    21114.6    19924.0       18923.0    22278.0      33858.6     46866.0    34581.6
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION                    706.0       628.0      1035.6      1563.6      3396.6      6901.0     18682.0      7032.0
Loss Doprecint-on                            307.0       861.0       931.0       931.6       931.0       931.6       931.0       931.6
INCOUE BEFORE INTEREST                        399.0      -325.6       164.0       572.0      2429.6      6970.0      9921.0      6161.0
Loes Interest                                  0.0         0.0         6.6         6.6         6.6      1161.5      1678.6       99m.b
Operating Subsidy
NET INCOME (LOSS)                             399.0      -325.6       104.0       672.6      2429.0      4868.5      8842.5    6516.6
OPER,TINC RATIO £                              96.0       161.6        99.6        97.2        90.6        86.3        82.5        85.3



RWANDA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS (ACTUAL 85, PROJECTED 1988-1992)
ZONE D'EMBOUCHE
FRW OM6
1985        1988         1987         1988         1989         1990         1991         1992
YEAR ENDING DECIEMBER 31
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Source.
Net Operating Inco_                               399        -326          104          672         2429         6970         9921         6181
Add: Dopreciation                                307          851          931          931          931          931          931          931
Intornal Sources                                   706         626         1035         1603         33680        6981        108S2         7632
Government Equity Contribution                   16000            e        low8
Borrowing                                        18852            0           O
Total Sources                                  20758          626         2036         1603         3360         6901        10862         7032
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Capital Expendituros                             20862            8        16ow                      3888                                   35s8
Increase (decreas-) in Working Capital             7086         26         1035         1503          aco         4892         8726         1489
DEBT SERVICE
Interest                                             *            0            0           0            a        1161.5      1678.5        996.6
Amor  zatlon                                         t                         8           8             a      1047.6       1047.6       1647.6
TOTAL                                                O            9            a           O            0         2209         2126         2043
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUtS                      207S6          626         2035        1O3          8368         6981        10862         7632



RWANDA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
BALANCE SHEET (ACTUAL 1986, PROJECTED 1986-1992)
ZONE D EMBOUCHE
FRW 660
1985        1986        1987        1988        1919        1986        1991        1992
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31
ASSETS
Cross tfxed assets                          16148.0     21707.0     23834.6     24634.0     28713.0     28713.0    28713.0      32213.6
Accumulated Depreciation                      337.0      115dJ.      2389.6      3020.0      3951.0      4882.0      6813.0      6744.0
Net Fixed Asrets                            15841.0     20549.0    21645.0    21614.0       24762.0     23831.0     22936.0     26469.0
Work in Progress                               4700           0           0           a           0           0           0           6
TOTAL FIXED ASSErS                         90641.0      20649.6     21546.0     21614.0     24762.0     23831.0     22900.0    26469.0
CURRENT ASS:T:
__________.___
Cash                                          136.6       386.6       513.6       087.6      2776.0      S277.0%     7926.6     10692.0
Inventori-*                                   294.6      1194.0      1560.0      2730.0      2636.9      3666.6      56O6.6      6666.6
Accounts Receivablo                           436.0      1176.6      1730.0      1836.6      206e.0       666.6      8060.6.6    666.6
------      ------      _------     ------      ------      ------     _------_------
Total Curront Assets                          794.6      2749.0      3743.0      5167.0      6776.0     11277.6     20920.0     22692.6
TOTAL ASSETS                                21336.0    23298.0      26288.6     26781.0     31637.0     35168.0     43820.6    4861.6
LIABILITIES
___________
Retained Earnings                             399.6        74.0       178.6       766.6      3179.3      7987.6     16830.6     21931.5
Government Equity                           16666.6    16666.6   le66.0    16666.6   le6 .3    16666.#    1o666.6    lo66.6
Long Term Debt                              16648.0    11707.6    13634.6    14634.0        14"6.5      13613.6     12670.6    11623.6
CURRENT. LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable                               88.0      1517.0      1476.0      1397.0      2642.0      24ee.6      3372.0      3659.3
Curr-nt Maturities                              *.6         0.6         0.6         3.6      1047.6      1647.5      1047.6      1647.6
Total Current Liabilities                      88.6      1517.0      1476.0      1397.0      9392.6      36s7.5      4419.6      4666.5
TOTAL LIABILITIES                           21335.6    23298.0    26288.0    26761.0    31637.0    35168.6    43826.0    48666.6
Debt equity ratio                          61:49       64:46        67:43       57:43        S2:48       43:57       32:68       26:74



- 137 -
RWANDA
APPRAISAL OP THE FORESTRY II PROJECT
FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS
VETERINARY PHARMACY
I    INCOME STA4TEMENT
1.   Sales
1986     1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
Adult Heads                1500      1600      2000      2100      2200      2200      2400
Cost/Head                  2000      2060      2183      2293      2361      2432     2505
RWF 000               3000     3296      4366      4815      5194      5350      6012
2.   Cost of Sales
The veterinary pharmacy uses a 25% margin. Therefore cost of sales =
sales/1.25.
3.   Salaries
Inflated by 3% every year.
4.   Office Furniture
1986 figure inflated thereafter by 3% in 1987, 6% in 198e, 5% in 1989,
3% in 1990-1992.
5.   Transport
This was done by the dairy in 84/85. In 1986 1 trip to Kigali (320
km.) in subsequent years 2 trips per year to Kigali (640 Km) per year.
Inflated every year for inflation (32 in 1987, 6% in 1988, 5% IN 1989,
32 IN 1990-1992).
6.   Maintenance
1.5% of building value per year inflated 'or inflation every year (3%
in 1987, 6% IN 1988, 5% IN 1989, 3% IN 1990-1992).
7,   Depreciation
Depreciated at 2% per year thus assuming a 50 year life for the
Building.



- 138 -
I.   Source and uses of funds
1.   Debt service
Given the tight financial situation of the veterinary pharmacy, it was
not possible to consider all the investments necessary for its
creation as a debt to the government. For this reason it was assumed
that FRW 2.77 million was a government equity contribution. However,
the remaining investment cost (FRW 3.0 million) was considered as a
long term cebt bearing a 7.92% interest rate, a grace period of 5
years and a repayment period of 20 years. Unpaid interest during the
grace period was added to the principal and to gross fixed assets.
III Balance Sheet
1.   Inventories
3 months of stock of veterinary products and 3 months of office
furniture.
2.   Accounts Receivable
1 month of sales
3.   Accounts payable
3 weeks of purchases



RWANDA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
INCOME STATEMENT (ACTUAL 84-86 PROJECTED 1988-1952)
VETERINARY PHARMACY
FRW 666
1984       1985        1988       1987        1988        1989       1998        1991        1992
HEADS OF CATTLE  1/                         660.0      1666.6     166.6       1606.0      20eo.6     2100.6      2200.0     2200.6      2400.0
AVERAGE VETERINARY EXPENSE FRW O66            2.0         2.0        2.0         2.1         2.1        2.3         2.3         2.4        2.s
OPERATING REVENUES
__________________
Sales                                      1300.0      2066.9     3660.0      3296.6      4366.6     4816.0      6194.6     6366.3      6612.6
Zone d'Emboucho                                se6       183         300         216        263         189         264        394         162
Tota l                                   1466.6      2183.0     3300.6      3512.9      4569.0    5664.6       6448.0     6744.0      6114.0
OPERATING COSTS
_______________
Cost of Solon                              1126.6      1746.0     2640.6      2809.0      3056.6     4063.0      4358.6     4696.6      4891.6   q
Sa!ary                                      346.0       366.3      386.6       391.0      463.6       41.60       428.0      440.6       454.0
Office Furniture                             46.6       55.6        70.6        72.6       76.0        so.6        62.6       86.0       86.6
Transport                                       -          -         9.0        18.6        19.6       2e.6        26.0       21.0        21.6
Maintenanco                                  55.6       70.e        906.        93.6       98.e       103.0       106.6      11.9       11350
Tot l Operating Cost                     1659.6      2231.0     3189.0      3363.6      4251.0     4621.0      4994.6     6261.0      6567.0
Income Before Doprecintion                 -1606.      -40.0       111.6       129.0      318.6       363.0       464.0      493.6       647.0
Loos Depreciation                          126.6       126.0      126.6       120.0       126.6      120.6       12060       120.0      120.0
Incoom before Intere-t                     -260.6     -168.6        -9.6         9.0      198.6       263.0       334.0      373.6       427.0
Less: Interest                               o.e        9.9         0.0         o.o        9.0       324.6       301.4      278.2       266.0
Operating subsidy                           706.0      248.0         6.6         o.6
Net Income (loss)                           426.0        89.9       -9.6         9.0       198.9      -61.5        32.6       94.8       172.0
OPERATING RATIO X                           120.0      167.0       100.0       100.0       96.6        95.O        94.6       93.6        93.6
1/ 2 years old and older



RWANDA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
SOURCES AND APWLICATIONS OF FUNDS (PROJECTED 1986-1992)
VETERINARY PHARkACY
FRW * 8
1984       1966        1988        1987        1988       1989        1986        1991        1992
____        ----       ----        ----        ---         ---        ----        ---- _______
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER Si
SOURCES OF FUNDS
_______________
Interna l Sores.
Net Operating Income                          42          8S          -9           9         196        263        3J4          378         427
Add: Depreciation                             129        120         120         120         129        129         129         129         129
Total Internal Sources                         648        2           111         129         818        86          46o         498         547
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Increase (decreae.) in Working Capital         649        2eo         111         129        318      -284.2      -140.1       -77.9        49.7
OMT SERVICE
Interest                                        -     -           -                 -          -        24.5       061.4       273.2         25S    0
Amortizatin                                      -          -           -           -          -       292 .7      292 .7      292.7       292.7
------  ---- -  ------                - ----                  -----
TOTAL                                           9           *           *                      a       617.2       594.1       579.9       547.7
TOTAL- APP-- UCATIONS--F FUNDS                                                    ------
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUDS                     549        299         1l1         129         S13        363         454         498         647



RWANDA
SECOND FORESTRY PROJECT
BALANCE SHEET (ACTUAL 1984-1985 PROJECTED 1986-1992)
VETERINARY PHARMACY
FRW 600
1984        1986        1986        1987        1988        1989         1996        1991        1992
YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31
ASSETS
Gross fixed assets                            6067.6      6263.8      8640.3      6838.0      7161.1      7161.1       7161.1      7161.1      7161.1
Accumulated Deprecistion                       129.0       246.0       36e.0       480.e       699.6       720.0        840.0       9o.60      1666.6
__----      _-----      ------      ------      ------_----- -_-----                  _- - -
Net Fix-d Assett                             6587.6       6023.6      6186.3      6368.9      6661.1      6441.5.      6321.1      6201.1      6081.1
TOTAL .IXED ASSETS=NET FIXED ASSETS           5087.6      6023.6      6186.3      6358.9      6561.1      6441.1       6321.1      6201.1      6981.1
CURRENT ASSETS
______________
Cash                                            e.o          o.6       101.0        6o.9       9s.e        183.8        263.7       205.8       325.1
Invontories                                    766.6       606.6 e     69.. 6o6.9             11so.e        8e.6.       699.6      6am.6        s6e.6
Account. Receivable                             O.O       3a6.6        318.6       366.e      3ae.e        396.0        3ee.0       30o.0       30e.6
_-----      - - -- ---  ----_---  - -- _ _-_-_--_--_-- - --  _- _-----   -----   - - -_-- - --    __- -----
Total Current Assets                          706.6        966.9      1017.6      1160.9      1496.6      1283.8       1163.7      1106.8      1125.1    ±
TOTAL ASSETS                                 86593.6      6929.6      7197.3      7518.9      e699.1      7724.9       7484.8      7306.9      7206.2
LIABILITIES
___________
Equity                                       2776.0       2770.6      2770.0      2770.9      2770.6      2770.9      2776.0       2776.6      2776.0
Retained Earnings                             429.0        seo.6       491.0       seo.9       696.9       638.5       609.1        763.9       936.9
Total                                        8196.6       3270.0      3261.0      3276.6      3488.0      3496.5      3439.1       3533.9      3765.9
LONG TERM DEBT                               3237.8       3493.6      3770.3      4068.9      4e96.4      3806.7       3513.6      3226.3      2927.6
CURRENT LIABILITIES
___________________
Accounts Payablo                              166.0        166.6       166.6       186.0       200.6       220.0        240.0       266.6       280.0
Current Maturities                                -            -           -           -       292.7       292.7       292.7        292.7       292.7
_- --  -    -- - -      - - -        - --  ------  --_----  -_-         -_-      -- --   - -_-- - --  _-_----
Total Curront Liabilities                     166.6        166.0       168.6       186.9       492.7       612.7        532.7      562.7        572.7
TOTAL LIABILITIES                            6593.6       6929.6      7197.3      7618.9      8069.1      7724.9       7484.8      7306.9      7296.2
Debt Equity Ratio                          6e:56        51:49       63:47       55:45       54:46       53:47        62:48       40:560      47:53



APPR~AISAL OF THE SECON4) FORESTRI PHOJJEICT
PROJECTED COVERNMENW CAS,1, FLOW
(RWF MILLION)
1VA7    1986    1969    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1q496    1997    1996    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2006    2006
A   INEtWiS
I   IDA CraJt
Nut-.                ~~0  29-57    4-06       0        0       0
Hu .0.9           ~6.69  156652   57-92   33.67   41.56   38.76
z                 ~~~~~5.6.5   42-76    16.7  22.61   32.46   23.66
Q;.h.wt; F..et,',            0   23-97   46,93      43   39.33    7.66
Gish.st. past.,am         87.2      69   54.66   34.65        0       0
W.gls Sutare             25.36   22.62   11.68   12.03   12.42      6.3
;;v                          0   34.66   25.39   33.47   27.78  72276
Rmas.cI  Trials            0    5.04    3.62    2.36    3.64    2.62
S.b total                   124.12  384.14  221-18  181.81  151.19  101.86         0       0       0       0        0       0       0        P       0       0        0       0       0        0
2.  Coat Rt.co.ry
Cis.sati Naot.ow.                         2.26   26.92   31.25   46 19   58635   56 36   58.35   56 36   58 35   56 36   58 36   56 35   68-35   So 35   56 35   58 36   56 35   10.06
Dairy CAT Zo.n.              0       0   16.53   27.97   2-8.9   25.82   24.75   23.67    22.6  21.62   20.45   19.38    10.3   17.23   16 16   15.06   14.01    5.72             0        0
embouche Vet. Pha,-acy
K.ael. Mutas                                              16.96   99.36  126.74   76.99   94.66   79.38  102.37   61.84   81.48   69.36  115.07   69.36   68 06    39    063           63
11.28    11.6   11.92   12.32   12.64   15.04   13. 44   26-96   27.76   26 54   29.48
1a-,.sts Vfoa.t,                                  1.66    S 79    4-31            46.33   95 36  103.19    34.6   40.75    30.6  311.25  416 a3  406 57    86 4   36.91   39 23  244-75
seedlings                    0    0.57    0.79    0 69    1 31    1 56    1.67    1.71    1.76    1.63    1.86    1.93          2    2.05    2.12    2.16    2.24    2 31    2.36    2.45
Sub total                        0    0.57   19.56   57.44   84.22  177 32  21351  207.06  272.72  275.55  29. 45  194 17  203 25  490.69  621.17          667  276.03  215.04  236.61  352.13
TOTAL DELAM                     124.12  384.71  240.76  239.25  241.41  279 16  213.51  207.05  272.72  275.55  229.45  194.17  203.25  490.89  621.17         567  276 03  216 04  236.61  362.13
B.  OJrrFLW
Wu-we.                    5.69  223.67   56.64   39.41   60 82   66 37
IJF                       5 66   24.23   30.65   28 66   35.67   40.62 
Ciaghwati Forestry       71.6.4   68.21   68 21   49.61   48.05   23.24
Cish.sti Past.,.        122.52   90-01   77.99    50.4        0       0-
Kig .ti 8.1.r.            41.4   40.13   25.63   28 46   26.66    17.9                                                                                                                                   41s
ZW                ~~~~21.3   69.34   45.95    61.8  47-74    54.3
Ra-rch Trial.             0      7.2    5.48     3.4      5.2     3.6
1taitra                      0   35.95    5.04       0        0       0 
Sub total              1/    266.4  548.76  316.97  26973  224.58  196.03         0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0       0       0        0
2. Recur-.nt Cost
Nyunywo                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~8 94    9-68    8.97    5.79    5.96    6.12    6.33    6.49  6.7  6.9    7.11    7.31    7.52    7.76
DCF                                                      0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.6    8.73    8.83  9  9.2    9.31  9.6    9.8    10.2    10.3    10.6    11.4    11.6    11.9
Ciahwat,, Phase 1                                                          5.79    6.92      6.1    6 33    6.61    6.69    3.66    3.76    3.67    3.99    4.11    4.23    4.36    4.49
Ciatm.ti, 0 Ph.. 2                                                        18.06   18.48   23.67   21-72   22-14   19.07   15.15   15.56   12.71    13 1   13.49   13.86   14 27   14.74
Kiai o.ta,.                                                             2436   24 94   14.26   14-79   15.21   15.63   16.15   16.57   17.09   17.62   18.14   16.6    19.23    19.6
3546   23-94   24.53    WV 6    26.13   26.66S  42.27   26."1   29.52   46.1    31.33   32.23   33.19   34.19
-eaach Trials                                                             1.3    1.34    1~38    1.42    146        1.5    1.56     1.6    1.66      1.7    1.75      1.6    1.66    1.91
ft,tars
--     - -      - -     - -      - -    - -       - -    - -      - -     - -      - -    - -      -  -    - -      - -    -  -      - -    - -       - -    - -
Sub total                        0       0       0        0       0       0  102.53   93.03   67.74   97.72   86.61   66.17   94.71   60.37   61.74   99.72   86.73   89.52   92-02   94.79
3. Debt See-ico
Corn;tw..t/*0,i co fea   6.09    7.03   71.69    8.04    6.46    9.02    0.75    8.75    8.75    8.75    8.-72    8.62    8-53    8.45    S.36    8 26    6.17    6.07    7.9            7.9
Principal                   0        0       0       0        0       0       o       0        0       0    6.65    11-7    11.7    11.7    11.7   2117    11 7    11.7    11.7          1.
--     - -      - -     - -      - -    - -       - -    - -      - -    -  -      - -    - -      - -     - -      - -    -  -      - -    - -       - -    - -
Sub total                    6.09    7.03    7.59    8 04    6 46    9.02    6.75    6.75    a i5    6.75   14.57   20.32   20.23   20-16   20.06   19.96   19.87   19.77   19 69    19.6
TflTAL 3JrFLOS                  274.49  566.79  323.56  267.77  233.02  204.06  111.26  101.76   96.49  106.47  101 18  106.49  114-94  100.52   101.6  119.68   106- 6  109, 29  111.71  114-39
MET CAPI. AJM                  -150.37 -172 06   -82.6  -26.62    6.39   75.13  102-23  106.27  176.23  169.06  126.27   86 68   8.31  390.37  519.37  447.32  171 43  106 75   125.1  237.74
I/  Include. *apandit-..e of FRV 143.9 aiflop ehich aer  not included in the project cost thbia  in 1987 and *hich .;II b. fmna..ced by 0o...n. onep .tfnds.



- 143 -                           Annex 8
FORESTRY COMPONENTS
Cost recovery will come mainly from the sale of wood, although a
small proportion is also expected to come from the sale of seedlings. As
regards the wood, it is proposed that the annual yield from each plantation
should be4sold standing (stumpage) to the highest bidder, rather than at
some fixed statutory stumpage rate which would be the same for all
plantations irrespective of their accessibility, and which would also tend
to lag behind the development of the free-market price. Only if the sale
of the standing wood does not attract sufficient bids, e.g. if
entrepreneurs generally do not have the means of doing the logging, should
the Forestry Department consider doing this operation itself, and then sell
the wood on roadside in the plantations.
Most seedlings in Rwanda are produced by the joint efforts of the
umuganda and the Forestry Department, and a reasonable quantity per family
per year is then freely put at the disposal of tne umuganda members in
return for their labor and for the taxes which they pay. Some, however,
are sold to non-umuganda members or to umuganda members who need more than
their quota. It is naturally difficult to foresee what proportion of total
seedling production will be sold, but it has here been estimated at 20%.
I. FROM SALE OF WOOD
A. KIGALI-BUTARE FUELWOOD AND POLE PLANTATIONS
The productive area of these Eucalyptus plantations is estimated
at 5,215 ha. It is envisaged that the first fellings will be carried out
in 1991, when the oldest plantations are ten years old. The volume yield
is expected to increase from some 13,600 m3 in 1991 to an average of about
45,000 m3 p.a. in year 2006, and beyond. Altogether some 788,344 m3 would
be produced between 1991 and 2006.
The plantations would produce fuelwood and poles. Most of the
fuelwood would be converted to charcoal, which would be sold in the towns
of Kigali and Butare. Most of the poles would be used for the construction
of traditional housing; but scaffolding, fence posts and even some
telephone poles from the occasional good sites, are other potential
markets.
Although the free-market stumpage price for fuelwood, in Rwanda as
elsewhere, is generally zero in the most remote supply areas, it has
reached a level of about RF 1,000/m3 near Kigali, while it is about RF
500/m3 about 50 km from Kigali. Here it has been assumed that the average
today is RF 750/m<. It has further been assumed that 10% of the wood will
be sold as poles at RF 4,000/m3, giving a weighted average of RF 1,075/m3.



- 144 -                             Annex 8
The resulting expected revenues from the Kigali-Butare plantations
are set out in the table at the end of this section.
B. NYUNGWE BUFFER PLANTATION
The 900 ha of the Nyungwe buffer strip plantation, along the
southeastern boundary of the Nyungwe natural forest, would be made up of
pine, cypress, acacia, and indigenous species. Among the latter would be
Polyscias fulva ("Umwungo"), a fast-growing pioneer species with excellent
form and for which there is a good market at the match factory in Butare.
T'he main products, however, would be poles and sawtimber.
It is expected that production would start with 2,250 m3 p.a. from
1997 to 2002, increase to 4,500 m3 p.a. from 2003 to 2007, and eventually
to 58,500 m3 p.a. from year 2028 to 2031. The stumpage price of poles in
the Nyungwe region is expected to be RF 3570 per m3, while that of sawlogs
and matchwood is conservatively estimated at RF 2,532 per m3. For total
expected benefits, see table at end of section.
C. GISHWATI
Phase I Plantations
The volume yields (set out in the economic analysis table) are
expected to start in 1990 with 288 m3 of poles with a standing value of RF
4000/nm3. The first sawlog production, 7800 mn3 valued at RF 2978/m3, is
expected in 1994. Due to increasing supply of pine sawtimber, its price is
expected to decrease by 2% p.a. from RF3500/m3 in 1986 to RF2860 in 1996,
and then level off at that price. These are financial prices, in 1986
terms. The resulting revenues are set out in the table at the end of this
section, while the corresponding volume yields are set out in the economic
analysis tables.
Phase II Plantations
The expected volume productions are set out in the economic
analysis table, the expected prices are set out in the previous paragraph,
and the corresponding revenues are set out in the table at the end of this
note.
Buffer Plantation
The main role of the proposed 200-ha buffer plantation would be to
protect the natural forest reserve, and it is not proposed to do any short-
rotation felling in it. The first fellings may take place at 30 years,
i.e. after the period whith which we are here concerned.
II. FROM SALE OF SEEDLINGS
A. KIUGALI-BUTARE



- 145 -                             Annex 8
As set out in the working paper on the Kigali-Butare nursery
program, the proposed seedling production from the Sector nurseries would
increase from 420,000 in the first year of the project, to 2.1 million in
the fifth and following years. Most of these seedlings will be distributed
to the umuganda members in return for their labor, but it is expected that
about 20% will be sold. The cost recovery from these sales would rise from
RF 0.2 million in year 1 to RF 1 million in year 5 - see table at end of
this section.
B. GISHWATI: THREE PROJECT COMMUNES OUTSIDE THE FOREST
The existing 24 nurseries would continue to be supported. They
produce 720,000 seedling per year. As in the case of the Kigali-Butare
nurseries, most of the seedlings are produced maiily by the umuganda for
the umuganda, and only aboui 202 are expected to be sold. The cost
recovery is expected to be RF 0.3 mill. p.a.. See working paper for
details.



R"AIf1)A ~~ORFrSP,:
EX[pfC7Br 5EVE4.LS MOM4 FOREBS-  Cr4 'OTS
2186     MhI..ir4.
19B7     1966      ,2B'      299      1991     i992      i 993     1994     .995      1 996    19,97    1915      1999     2000      2001     2002      2003     2004      2005      2006
* 8.. o'                                                          147       '43      %3 2      S. S     653       629      9463      36 a     495       52 9     66 3      36 6     476       443       Ss6      32.5
fty-v..  P                                                                                                 0~~~~~~~n   n  ao  8         0C    a60      156       1.56      is. 6    1s. 6
C   P.2&,t.t.o,~~~~~~~~~~~~. ~1 2                      3 3                        325       55?     23 5        31I      3 1              1290C   153 3    126 4         2 6     14 9
P~~~.  11 *'~~~~~~~55i~~~~'~~~                   1 2      a 1                          9 L      45 3     19 6      22 6     Isa       55-7     87 ?    102 5      4569       2.6     20 2    122 2
SHEL 1NM
~~~~ ~~~~~~~ ~~~0?2                     0 4       0 6      04 a        0       20       10        I0       1 0         a0     2    0             2         I 0      1.0      I10       1 0       1.0       1 0
C ~~~.*t.  Co.~~~~~..         C~ 3      0~ ?      0 3      0 3       0 3      0 3       0 1       C 3      0 3      0 3       0 3       0 3      0 3       0 3      0 3       0 3      0.3       0.3       0.3
OT0AL                                    0 5      0 7       2 1     20 3      76 9     94 5      so66    132 4    123 0      96 3      736       7'6    2449    316 1    277 0    112 9         so07      92 7    17I16
1..*~ct.. A. yed..11*'OSaJl a. take. cit seeey                    .5 a..f.,    t~l  Oy
3'
OD



* - 147 -                                 Annex 9
RWANDA                                    Page 1
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Economic Analysis of the Kigali/Butare Fuelwood Plantations
1.       The analysis of this component has been divided into three parts:
(a) a 'base case' analysis which looks at the incremental costs
and benefits implied by the proposed investment, the key assumptions of
which are as follows4 (i) the project's wood is essentially intended to
meet the fuel needs of urban dwellers, which needs are at present largely
met by charcoal burning; (ii) a 'with' project situation which includes an
administrative support structure that has been scaled down from that which
prevailed under the first phase (see Working Paper         ; (iii) a 'without"
project situation that involves a more rapid phasing out of the GBK
administrative unit than proposed under the 'with' project situation and
only 'minimal' maintenance (comprising the upkeep of track and firebreaks
and essential investments in extraction roads/paths); and (iv) a 'without'
project situation in which yields from the 'newer' (1984-86) plantations
are substantially more adversely affected by the lack of maintenance than
the older plantations, with an average yield reduction of 751 for all
plantations;
(b) a straightforward 'cost-benefit' analysis of the project's
costs and benefits which ignores what would happen in the absence of the
project;
(c) a similar 'cost-benefit' analysis for the 'without' project
situation in which the key assumption is that no costs are incurred other
than those essential to wood extraction 'i.e., extraction path
construction/maintenance).
Prolect Benefits
2.       The price of wood has been based on the assumed response of urban
dwellers to a situation in which charcoal was no longer available. Various
alternatives have been reviewed, ranging from possible usage of briquets,
of gas, of ele;tricity and of kerosene.  Following the findings of the
Bank's (ESMAP) Report on 'Improved Charcoal Cookstove Strategy' (dated June
1986), the burning of briquets has been taken as the 'base case'
alternative to charcoal. Assuming urban dwellers would continue to use, at
least in the short run, their charcoal stoves, the economic price of
fuelwood in terms of its briquet alternative is estimated at FRW 1835 per
m3 solid (See Table 1).
3.       The eatimated economic price of fuelwood needs to be seen against
the present 'official' price of plantation wc,d of FRW 800 per m3 solid and
a market price of charcoal which converts into a wood price of
approximately FRW 300 per m3 solid. The former price is essentially
academic as nobody buys wood at that price; the latter reflects the fact
that fuelwood is at present almost a 'free' commodity, as wood for charcoal
making purposes is largely collected free from the savannah regicns.
4.       The mission reviewed the possibility of using the replacement cost
of wood provided by 'private' farmers in the rural areas, which is largely



- 148 -                                Annex 9
by way of agroforestry rather than by way of private woodlots/plantations.
This approach to the economic valuation of fuelwood was rejected on the
grounds that wood from this source could not reasonably be expected to
provide sufficiently and reliably for the needs of urban dwellers. Yet
another alternative, of pricing fuelwood according to the replacement cost
of wood from state plantations, was also rejected on the grounds that such
an analysis would be self-serving since the GBK Phase I plantations provide
the only effective data base on which to estimate such replacement cost.
(On this basis, wood would be priced at least at FRW 2,700 per m3 solid).
5.       For completeness, the economic price of fuelwood based on the next
most plausible alternative for charcoal after briquets; i.e. kerosene is
also calculated. The estimated price here is FRW 1280 per i3.
Results of the analysis
Table 8 provides details of the economic analysis nd results
(assuming a wood price based on the briquet equivalent value). These
latter may be briefly summarized as follows:
(a) 'Base Case' incremental analysis:
ERR - 40.3% (estimated over a 25 year period)
NPV (at 10%)  -  FRW 307.5 m
Sensitivities:
Incremental Benefits                up 10%       42.9%
down 10%       37.5%
down 25%       32.9%
Incremental direct costs          up 20%         34.7%
down 10%       40.4%
Switching Values:  (% change required to produce an ERR   10%)
Incremental Benefits   -  76.2%
Incremental Costs       +   3202
(b) 'Cost-Benefit' analysis 'with' project
ERR - 36.3% (estimated over a 25-year period)
(c) 'Cost-Benefit' analysis 'without' proiect
ERR - 28.8%
6.       Assuming a wood price based on the kerosene equivalent value
results in an ERR of 302 for the 'base case' analysis and in equivalently
inferior results in the cost/benefit analyses.



-149 -                          _Annex 9
Page 3
Economic Analysis of Industrial Wood Plantations
7.       Two separate investments have been analyzed although the
assumptions with regard to each one are essentially the same. These
investments are (i) the maintenance of the Gishwati Phase I plantations;
and (ii) the establishment of 2,000 ha of new plantations at Gishwati. The
principal objective of tEase components is 'protection' of the natural
forest. The benefits of protection are essentially unquantifiable,
especially so in the case of Rwanda where data pertaining to the adverse
impact of natural forest destruction on watershed management and soil
erosion and the resultant adverse (economic) consequences is largely
lacking. The economic analysis includes only those benefits and costs
which are quantifiable.
8.       The economic analysis of tbe new plantations is based on a
straightforward cost/benefit approach, and with the maintenance of the
Phase I Gishwati Plantation, an 'incremental' analysis has been made.
Prolect Benefits
9.       The price of wood has been taken at its present market value but
adjusted to reflect a likely decrease in the real price over the period to
the end of this century. This contrasts with the more normal assumption
made in forestry project analysis of real price increases for sawnwood over
the project period. However, although reliable data on the supply and
demand situation is unavailable, in the case of Rwanda, existing projects
are likely to push the country into an excess supply over demand situation
within the next few years. In these circumstances, and in the absence of
realistic export markets for Rwandese industrial sawnwood, the economic
analysis, in addition to applying the standard conversion factor (0.85) to
the present market price, has assumed a 2% real price decrease per year
over the ten-year period 1988-1997. After that, present Government efforts
to expand demand, coupled with a slowdown in the present rate of supply
expansion, can perhaps be assumed to cause prices to stabilize. Under
these assumptions, the price of sawnwood is expected to decrease from its
present (economic) price of FRW 2978/M3 standing, (see Table 2) to FRW
2433/m3 standing by 1997.  The price of poles, at FRW 3400/m3, has been
taken at its present market value but adjusted by the standard conversion
factor.
10.      The economic price of sawnwood as estimated is somewhat higher
than the stumpage fee that would be required to cover the cost of
replacement (assuming a 10% discount rate) which is estimated at FRW 1758
(see Table 2). Set against these values, and indeed against the actual
market price itself, the present 'official' price of FRW 5700 per m3 could
be substantially reduced. (Of course the market situation varles between
species, but at present there exists little data with which to effectively
distinguish particular prices appropriate to different species).
Results of the Analysis



- 150 -                               Annex 9
Page 4
11.      Table 9 and 10, provide details of the economic analysis and
results for the maintenance of Phase I Gishwati plantations and for the
establishment of 2,000 ha new plantation in Gishwat±. The results may be
briefly summarized as follows:
(a) Gishwati Old Plantation Maintenance:
ERR = 29.3% (estimated over a 30 year period)
NPV - (at 10%) - + FRW 110m
Sensitivities:                                  ERR
Incremental Benefits up 10%                     30.5%
down 25%                    25.7%
Incremental Direct Cost up 25%                  26.9%
down 10%                30.4%
Switching Value  (2 chan[e required to set the ERR - 10%)
Incremental Benefits                            -86%
Incremental Costs                               +629%
(b) Gishwati New Plantation
ERR = 15.8% (estimated over a 34 year period)
NPV (at 10%) = + FRW 123m
Sensitivities:                                  ERR
Benefits up 10%                                 16.7%
down 252                                 13.1I
Direct Costs up 20%                             14.3%
down 10Z                            16.6%
Sviitching Value    (2 change required to set ERR - to 10%)
Benefits                                        -48%
Total Costs                                     +95%
Economic Analysis of Gishwati Pastures
12.      The analysis of the Gishwati pasture component has been divided
into two parts, (a) an analysis of the proposed maintenance of the pastures
established in Phase I and (b) an analysis of the proposal to invest in
2000 ha of additional pastures under Phase II.
13.      A.  Phase I pasture mai-itenance.  In addition to a straightforward
'cost/benefit' analysis of this compontent, an 'incremental' analysis



1 -                              A__nnex 9
Page 5
comparing a 'without' project scenario as against the assumed 'with'
project case has been made. Although the 'without' scenario is naturally
more difficult to predict than the 'with' project case and therefore the
incremental analysis is here taken as the 'base-case'. The following key
assumptions have been made: (i) all Phase I milk is sold processed and
therefore, (ii) investments to bring the dairy up to a capacity of 10,000
litres per day have been included, as have the costs of necessary periodic
replacements over the 30 year period of ana'lysis; (iii) in addition the
direct post project direct costs of maintaining and operating the pastures,
the cost of operating a 'Federation of Pasture Owners' to manage the scheme
has been included for the post project period; and (iv) phase I period
investment costs are counted as sunk and therefore as irrelevant costs.
14.      'Without' the project substantial overstocking of the pastures has
been assumed for the earlier years, leading to pasture degradation and an
eventual 'steady state' milk production equal to about 50% of the estimated
'with' project production. Another key assumption is that without the
project the proposed investme-- to bring the dairy up to a capacity of 4000
litres per day would be made but not the subsequent investment to reach
10,000 litres per day. Therefore, any milk produced in excess of 4,000
litres per day is assumed to be sold at a discount to the estimated
economic price of processed milk.
15.      The price of milk has been based on the import parity pr'ce of
powdered milk. Project milk can be assumed to substitute for present
actual powdered milk imports, at present the only realistic alternative to
Rwandese, domestically produced milk. The import parity price is based on
quotes obtained from the New Zealand Dairy Board and is estimated at FRW 24
per litre for processed milk and FRW 18.8 per litre for unprocessed milk.
(See Table 4).
16.      The New Zealand quotes have been compared to EEC quoted prices and
found to be equivalent.
17.      The price of meat has been taken at its theoretical export parity
price of FRW 93.2/kg. The present market price of meat is set by
Government at (on average) FRW 57/kg (liveweight) and reflects a number of
depressing factors including the effect brought about by illegal imports
from Uganda during the time of its recent troubles. Data on the supply and
demand situation for meat products in Rwanda is very weak but it appears
that the impact of the project is more likely to push meat into becoming an
export commodity than the 'without project' situation causing it to become
an import commodity.
18.      The export party price is assumed to be equivalent to the price
quoted in a proposed contract for the supply of meat to Congo and to
Djibouti by Rwanda. The economic price is established at FRW 93.2/kg as
follows:
Contract price          - US$1.98/kg (carcasses)
= US$0.99/kg (live weight)
at FRW 99 = US$1 Contract Price = FRW 98/kg (liveweight)



- 152 -                             Annex 9
Page 6
+ Transport Gishwatiz  Kigali 1   FRW 4.77/kg
Economic Price a FRW 93.2
19.      Table 15, provide fully details of the economic analysis and
results. However, these latter may be briefly summarized as follows:
(a) 'Base Case' (incremental) analysis of Phase I maintenance
investments:
Base Case ERR: 45.32 (estimated over a 30 year period)
NPV (at 102): FRW 156.2m
Sensitivities:                                        ERR
Benefits up 102                                      59.32
down 102                                      33.02
All costs                 up 102                      34.02
down 102                      60.92
Switchiny Values at 10%       (Z change required to set ERR - 102)
Projects Benefits                                     -332
All Costs                                             +50%
(b) 'Cost Benefit' analysis of Phase I maintenance investments:
EER: 12.48Z
NPV (at 102 FRW 15.6m)
20.      (B) Phase II Pasture Establishment.  The analysis here has been
divided into four parts. Common to each, however, is the assumption that
the Phase I model of pasture development would apply.
21.      (a)  The 'base case' analysis of the proposed investment in a
second phases of pasture development includes the following key assumption;
(i) Phase I and Phase II pastures effectively constitute a single scheme
and therefore the produce of Phase I is included in the benefit streams of
Phase II and, therefore, (ii) the operating costs (of pastures, CAT, Zone
d'Embouche and dairy) associated with producing Phase I benefits are
included in the cost streams of Phase II, (iii) all Phase II investment
costs are included in the analysis, as are the investment period costs
proposed for maintaining Phase I, however, (iv) investment costs already
incurred in establishing Phase I pasture are counted as sunk and therefore
irrelevant costs.
1/8 ton vehicle carrying on average 4.5 tonnes meat 150 km each way of which
only 502 of outward journey assumed exclusive to meat carriage. Economic
cost per km estimated at FRW 95.4.



- 153 -                           Annex 9
-                     ~~~~~~Page 7
(b) As a variant to (c) ebove, an 'incremental' analysis has been
conducted in which the incremental project scenario assumed with regard to
the analysis of the Phase I maintenance component has been included in the
analysis.
(c) Another analysis was undertaken to evaluate the second phase
as a purely marginal investment, in which the key assumptions made were:
(i) that the only relevant costs are those associated with the produce of
Phase II and that therefore, (ii) the cost of bringing the dairy up to a
capacity of 10,000 litres/day is excluded on the grounds that it is
effectively an additional Phase I investment cost, but (iii) the cost of
bringing the dairy from a capacity of 10,000 litres to 18,000 litres/day is
included; (iv) Phase I pasture produce is not included in the Phase II
benefit streams and neither are the associated operating costs; and (v) the
CAT and Zone d'Embouche would continue to operate fully to service Phase I
pastures regardless of whether or not a Phase II goes ahead and therefore
their operating costs are counted as irrelevant to Phase II.
(d) As an alternate to (c) above, the assumption was made that
only Phase I milk would be sold in processed form (i.e. an investment to
bring the dairy up to a capacity of 10,000 litres a day would be made but
not one bringing it to 18,000 litres/day.
Results of the Analysis
22.      These may be briefly sunmmarized as follows:
(a)  'Base Case' analysis:  (Phase I and Phase II)
Base Case ERR: 10.5%
NPV (at 10%) FRW 21.9m
Sensitivities:
Benefits up 10%                                 13.8%
down 10%                                  7.2%
All Costs up 102                                 7.4%
down 10%                                14,2%
Switching values at 10% (% changed required to set to ERR = 10%)
Benefits           -1.46%
Costs              +1.48%
(b)  'Incremental Analysis (Phase I and Phase II)
ERR: 14.9%
(c)  'Marginal Analysis 'A' (Phase II only with all milk sold
processed)
ERR: 5.6%



- 154 -                               Annex 9
Page 8
(d) 'Marginal' Analysis 'B' (Phase II only with all milk sold
unprocessed)
ERR: 8.8%
23.      Analy>  s (c) and (d) demonstrate Phase II to be an unattractive
investment in itself but when taken together with Phase I (Analysis (a) and
(b)) marginal viability is indicated. This suggests that economies of
scale apply with additional pasture establishment leading to improved rates
of return.
24.      With regard to the 'base case' analysis, the sensitivity analysis
indicates the ERR to be substantially sensitive to a change in benefits and
especially so to changes in benefits from milk production. The ERR is
equally sensitive to cost change and more so to operating costs (post
project) than to investment cost changes. Analysis (c) and (d) also
demonstrate that the project would be better off selling unprocessed rather
than processed milk.
Extension Activities in 3 Communes Outside Gishwati
25.      The analysis of this component estimates the number of
beneficiaries (farms) that would have to participate in the project in
order to yield a 15% (economic) rate of return to the proposed investments.
26.      Three farm models have been constructed each with the following
key characteristics:
(i)   Model 1, or 0.6 ha farm on which, in addition to improved
farming methods and a reorganization of land use, 100 new
trees would be planted under the project;
(ii) Model 2, a 0.8 ha farm engaged in similar activities to
Model 1 but on which, in addition to new trees planted, 3
she-goats are reared;
(iii) Model 3, a 1.3 ha farm on which an additional 150 trees are
planted and the farmer keeps one cow.
27.      Table 6 provides details of the project's overall impact on the
three model farms.
28.      Market prices have been applied for all benefits except milk.
Prices of agricultural produce are included in Table 6 (which also details
the yield assumption employed per crop). Milk has been valued at FRW 18.8
per litre reflecting the estimated economic value of unprocessed milk.
Meat, for the purposes of this analysis, is conservatively estimated at the
present average market price, i.e. FRW 55/kg and wood has been valued at
its estimated replacement cost of FRW 225 per m3.
29.      The results of the analysis indicates that approximately 5,600
farms would have to participate in and enjoy the assumed benefits from the
project in order for the proposed investments to yield a 15% rate of



Annex 9
Page 9
return. This amount represents 17% of all families in the three communes
in question and appears a conservative and achievable target for the
project. (The analysis assumes that the number of beneficiaries would
reach the target amount by the end of the 7th year from the beginning of
the project). Of the 5,600 beneficiaries, 22% are assumed to be of Model 1
type, 68% of Model 2 and 10% of Model 3 type.
Seedling Production Program
30.      The analysis of the proposed investments in this program (totaling
$0.274 m; see Working Paper No.        for details) estimates the survival
rate of seedlings produced under the program (approximately 7.8 million)
required to yield a 15% (economic) rate of return to the proposed
investment.
31.      For the price of wood the present average market price (in the
rural areas for fuelwood) of FRW 500 per m3 was used. A further analysis
was made employing the estimated replacement cost of wood, FRW 225 per m3.
Other alternative methods of valuing rural fuelwood were also considered
e.g. (i) valuing fuelwood according to the yield improvement benefits
obtained from fuelwood production enabling farmers to use agricultural crop
residues for mulching purposes rather than burning them for fuel needs;
(ii) evaluating the impact of erosion prevention on crop yields consequent
on the practice of farm torestry. However, each of these other alternative
methods of estimating the 'true' economic value of wood, (which would
almost certainly result in substantially high wood valuations), in the
absence of reliable data would require undue arbitrary assumptions.
32.      Details and results of the analysis are shown in Table 12.
Notwithstanding the conservative price assum tion used, the enalysis shows
the required survival rate to be a mere 24%
2/When vaJued according to the replacement value the required rate is 502;
still a rate well within technically feasible bounds.



- 156 -
Table 1   Calculation of Economic Value of Fuelwood
based on the Alternative of UsinR Briquets
Economic cost of Briquets - FR15/kg
Calorific Value of Briquets (ml/kg) - 18
Thermal efficiency of Briquets  - 18%
Calorific value of charcoal (mj/kg) - 29
Thermal efficiency of charcoal - 20%
Conversion (kg charcoal per kg. Briquets) - 1.79
40 kg charcoal - 71.6 kg Briquets c FRW 15/kg = FRW 1074
Transport2 - FRW 99/bag
Carbonization - FRW 80/bag3 Woodcutting = FRW 64/bag
Other cost = FRW 97/bag
Economic value of 1 bag charcoal - FRW 734
Economic value of 1 m3 4 solid - FRW 1835
l/Efficiency in a charcoal stove.
2/Transport consists of using a 3 ton vehicle, the economic cost of
operating of which is estimated at FRW 53/km. The average distance
travelled is assumed at 75 km each way. Most charcoal merchants appear to
carry some goods for sale on the outward journey to collect charcoal,
therefore only 75% of cost of the outward journey is assumed attributable
to charcoal (i.e. a total of 130 km) each 3 ton vehicle carries on average
70 bags.
3/Traditional charcoaling method.
4/One bag = approximatelv 200 kg wood; 1 m3 - 500 kg (for eucalyptus)



Annex 9
- 157 -
Table 2. Market Price of Sawlogs (pine) per m3 standin&
FRW/m3
Market price 1                                 15,500
Dealer's mark up 2                              3,875
Transport 3                                     2,100
Price at site                                   9,525
Sawing costs 4                                  2,072
Logging costs 5                                   444
Price of sawnwood (standing)                    7,009
Price of roundwood (standing) 6                 3,504
1/Price at Kigali. Market prices collected by Mission's forestry consultant
varied enormously both between market centers and between species.
2/Assumed at 25Z of retail price.
3/5 ton vehicle carrying approximately 8 m3 at economic cost of FRW 74.8 (km
avg distance travelled assumed at 225 km).
4/28 planks (of an estimated 0.035 m3 volume at FRW 74 per plank.
5/6 trees at FRW 74 per tree logged. Of a tree, 80% is assumed useable and
of this 50 percent will be lost in converting to sawnwood. Assuming
I tree a 0.4 m3 volume, 6 trees would be required to produce 1 m3
sawnwood.
6/Assuming that 2 m3 of roundwood are required to produce 1 m3 of sawnwood.



- 158 -                            Annex 9
Table 3. Stumpak.. Fee Calculation for Gishwati (New Plantations) 1
Years                Cost (FRtI 000) 2                   Benefits (000 m3) 3
1                        22,655                                 0
2                        22,158                                 0
3                        21,349                                 0
4                        21,922                                 0.5
5                        21,466                                 0.5
6-9                      L1,320                                 0
10                       11,320                                 2.4
11                       12,805                                12.5
12-14                    12,805                                 6.5
15                        9,855                                16.4
16                        9,855                                26.5
17                        8,825                                26.5
18                        8,825                                11.4
19                        8,825                                 0.6
20                        8,825                                10
21                        7,070                                38
22-23                     7,070                                47
24                        7,070                                23
25-26                     7,070                                 0
27                        7,070                                 2.3
28-30                     7,070                                25.4
31                        7,070                               139.2
32-33                     7,070                               183.3
34                        7,070                               122.2
NPV of Costs (at 10%)   144,129        NPV of Benefits (at 10%) - 82
Stumpage Fee to Cover Replacement Cost - 144,129 - 1,758
82
1/Phase II as opposed to Phase I plantation costs have been taken to
estimate the stumpage fee because they exclude many of the heavy
infrastructural costs incurred in opening up Gishwati for plantations and
which costs would, for the most part, presumably not be incurred under any
replacement project.
2/Based on 1986 prices, adjusted to reflect economic values; includes
physical contingencies.
3/See Working Paper No.



- 159 -                        Annex 9
Tab.            ,e 'n of Economic Price of Milk
IJUSS/T                USS/T
Skimmed Milk Powder (SMP) 1/               750
Butter Oil (BO) FOB                                          1,200
Transport NZ to Mombassa - SMP             163
- BO                               160
Transport Mombassa to Kigali - SMP         281
- 80                          296
CIF Price Kigali 2/ - SMP                1,194
BO                                  1,656
FRW/T
CIF per litre milk 3/                       15.6
Transport Kigali - Gishwati 4/               0.5
Reconstitution cost per litre                1.0
Premium for fresh milk 5/                    5.1
Economic cost milk/litre               FRW 22.2
Cost of Packaging/litre                      2.0
Economic cost of Gishwati milk
ex factory 6/                          FRW 24.2
Notes:
1/ FOB New Zealand - Source: New Zealand Dairy Board
2/ Shadow exchange rate - FRW 99: US$ 1
3/ 1,000 litres - 90 kg SMP + 30 kg BO
4/ 5 ton 'vehicle carrying approximately 4.5 tons of milk traveling 300 km at
economic cost of FRW 74.8 km. 1 ton - approximately 1000 litre.
5/Assumed at 30% of recons;ituted.
6/ Processed milk. Unprocessed milk is assumed to sell for a premium ot 10% a)
reconstituted milk and would be sold unpackaged. Therefore economic cost of
unprocessed milk would be FRW 18.7/litre.



Annex 9
- 160 
Toble 5(a)  mod.l 1i  0.  HA Fare (Agricultural Produce and Agroforestry)
YEAR                                    1           2             8            4            5         6-20
INFLOWS WITH PROJECT                                  F
Valuo of Bean Prod           I        5,960         6,851       6,760        7,224        8,668       9,240
Value of Pea Prod             I       1,280        1,08W        1,J70        1,600        1,776       1,920
Valu- of Sorgho Prod         I        1,925        1,976        2,060        2,200        2,346       2,460
Value of Maize Prod          I        1,480        1,620        1,620        1,66"       2,080        2,240
Value of Potato Prod         I       12,001       18,280       14,411       16,600      20,740       23,040
Value of Sweet Potato Prod  I         6,000        5,600        4,800        4,800       4,800        4,800
Value of Banana Prod                 11,000       11,011       11,000        6,6ff       10,000      lo,66"
Value of Other Prod                   4 08 0         76         8 5oo         800        3.060        a 00
1      1I&[g        44,690        t  N        47,584      58,849       56,756
Value of Wood Prod                      S 100        8OO          t0o          976        1,426       2,660
TOTAL INFLOWS WITH PROJECT             4 48.9685    44U99        4S,790       48,669      64.794       69,300
OUTFLOWS WITH PROJECT
ACGRICULTURAL PRODUCE                                                                       5
Se.do                                 5,8a         6,460        5,7eo        6,879        6,879       6,879
Fertilizer                    I                       86t         720        1,066        1,440       1,440
Other Inputs                            2e8           526         790        1,O65        1,320       1,320
Labor                                1 12,250     12,560       12,546       12,648       12,646      12,646
0OO0 PRODUCE                    |
Soed                         I          266          265            -            -            -           -
Labor                         I         212          262          100          186          150         376
TOTAL OUTFLOW WITH PROJECT             186.27       19,212       19,568       20.666       21,336      21,560
INFLOWS WITHOUT PROJECT        I
Value of Soon Prod           J        5,880        6,880        6,860        6,880        6,880       6,880
Value of Pea Prod            1        1,200        1,200        1,200        1,200        1,200       1,200
Value of Sorgho Prod          I       1,925        1,925        1,925        1,926        1,926       1,926
Value of Maize Prod          |        1,440        1,440        1,440        1,440        1,440       1,440
Value of Potato Prod          I      11,520       11,620       11,620       11,620       11,620      11,620
Value of Sweet Potato Prod            6,000        6,000        6,000        8,000        6,000       6,000
VOluO of Boanan Prod          I      11,000       11,000       11,011       11,000       17,000      11,000
Value of Other Prod                   4 080        4 080        4 'S0O       4 080        4 080       4.080
2  -tpOS       -lpX6 ,I                 -lt48,04504               43,046
Value of Wood Prod                      S 800         80o         IOC          300          800         300
TOTAL INFLOWS WITHOU T PROJECT j       4J.J45       48.J45       4J.J45       4J.846      43,346       43.346
OUTFLO"W  WITHOUT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL PROOUCE
Seeds                                 5,058        5,058        6,051        5,058       5,058        6,063
Fortilizor                                -             -           -            -            -
Other Inputs                 I          259          259          259          269          259         269
Labor                         I      12,121       12,121       12,121       12,121       12,121      12,121
W000 PRODUCE                    I
Seed                                      -             -           -            -            -           _
Labor                         I          75            76          76           76           75          76
TOTAL OUTFLOWS WITHOUT PROJECTI        17.606       17,W06       17.600       17,60S      170  06      17.608
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS       I        (109)          (51)          97        2,6 U        7,122      11,903
Constant 1986
1/ In financial term$.



Annex 9
- 161 -
Table 5(b). Mod l 2   0.1 MA Fare (Form with S She-Gosts)
YEAR                                    1           2             J            4            6         6-20
IN W  wT  PFRW        FRW           FRW          FRW         FRW         FRW
INFLOWS WITH PROJECT           I
Value of sOon PrO3            I       8,500        9,070        9,640        9,160       9,95U       10,120
Value of Pea Prod             I       1,436        1,617        1,699        1,80        2,072        2,240
Value of Sorgho Prod         I        2,475        2,545        2,C9         2,860       2,90         3,160
Value of Maize Prod           I       1,86U        1,900        2,02C        2,aoo       2,600        2,800
Value of Potato Prod         1       15,9W        16,560       18,I,       19,0eO      22,0W        24,960
Value of Swoot Potato Prod  1         7,200        6,720        4,600        4,800       4,600        4,800
Value of Banana Prod                 15,000      1,000        15,W0        16,00       16,000       15,000
Value of Other Prod           I       7 140        6 582        6 3069       6.36        6.120        6.120
flE           H11 W.1                  61,6 459    65,442       69,190
Value of Wood Prod                      600           00          600        1,060       1,360        2,100
Value of Meat Prod                    6 5,230      5,ua         6,544        5,766       6,040        8,400
TCTAL INFLOWS WITH PROJECT    1        64.430       as.775      686098        68.400      72.832       77.696
OUTFLOWS WITH PROJECT           I
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCEI
Seeds                         I       6,8"         6.M          7,116        7,116       7,116        7,116
Fertilizer                    I           O          40           770        1,139        1,490       1,490
Other Inputs                  I         819           575         840        1,106        1,370       1,370
Labor                         i                   Is.166                    16.9W oo.069
WOOD PRODUCE
Seed                          I         285          266 
Labor                        I          287          367          2E0          256          ao          525
LIVESTOCK PRODUCE               I
Animal Health                           So0          500          600    6      00          500         500
Feed                         I        1,360        1,850        1,850        1,360        1,360       1,350
Labor                                   670          670          070          670          670         670
TOTAL OUTFLOW WITH PROJECT             26.182       27.189       27.496       28.127      28,790       29.021
INFLOWS WITHOUT PROJECT        I
Value of Been Prod                    8,400        8,400        8,400        8,400       8,400        8,400
Value of Pea Prod            I        1,400        1,400        1,400        1,400        1,400       1,400
Value of Sorgho Prod         I        2,476        2,475        2,476        2,475       2,476        2,475
Valve of Maize Prod           I       1,800        1,800        1,600        1,800        1,600       1,800
Valuo of Potato Prod          I      14,400       14,400       14,400       14,400      14,400       14,400
Value of Sweet Potato Prod  I         7,200        7,200        7,200        7,2N         7,200       7,200
Value of Banana Prod                 15,000      1,000        i6,000       1C,OOC       15,000      16,000
Value of Other Prod           I       7 140        7 140        7 140        7 140       7 140        7.140
Value of Wood Prod                      ' 600        600          600          600          60 -000
VA!ue of Meot Prod                    8,718        5,762        8,626        8,910       4,026        4,126
TOTAL INFLOW  WITHOUT PROJECT          6 82.126     82.177       62,24J       82.J26      62.441       62.640
OUTFLOWS WITHOUT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE           I
Soeds                                 6,612        6,612        6,612        6,612       6,612        6,612
Fertillizr                                ------
Other Inputs                 I           44          344          $44          344          344         344
Labor                        I       16 061       16 061       16 061       16 061      16 061      1i.061
I                                                                      23,07 
WOOD PRODUCE                    |
Seed
Labor                         i         160           150         150          150          150         160
LIVESTOCK PRODUCE               I
Animal Hoelth                 I           -             -           -            -            -            -
Foed                          j       1,01J        1,013        1,013        1,013        1,013       1,013
Labor                                   670          670          670          670          670         670
TOTAL OUTFLOWS WITHOUT PROJECTI        24,860       ?4.860       24.860       24,850      24,860       ?4.860
INCREWENTAL NET BENEFITS       I          970        1,89         1,299        2,868        6,446      10,979



Annex 9
- 162 -
Table 5(c). Modsl 3   1.3 HA Far,,, iith 1 Cow)
YEAR                                    1           2             3            4            6         6-20
FRW         FRW           FRW          FRW        F'R          FRW
INFLOWS WITH PROJECT           I
Value of Poe Prod                     8,6500       9,600        9,200        9,400        9,600       9,600
Value of Maize Prod                   9,100        9,400        9,8s        10,500       11,8.0      12,600
Voluo of Wheat Prod           I           -          263          625        1,060        2,100       2,626
Valuo of Fotato Prod          I      62,876       67?,0e       71,9eo       84,2w       108,920     118,800
Voluo of Sweet Potato Prod  I        11,260       11,260       11,250       11,250       11,260      11,260
Valuo of Other Prod           |       0,160        8,160        8,100        8,160       _,16O       8,10
Valuo of Wood Prod            I         6oo          60o          80o        1,276        1,72;       2,860
Value of Milk Prod            I      17,600       18,200       18,900       18,900       19,800      38,860
Value of Meat Prod            I       4,400        6,600        8,060        6,600        9,360       7,426
TOTAL INFLOWS WITH PROJECT    j       122,386      129,110      136,780      160,286      178,386     209,536
OUTFLOWS WITH PROJECT           |
AGRICULTURAL PR6DUCr
Soods                                18,0W0       19,000       20,00M       21,06W       22,700      22,700
Fortilizer                    I0                    1,650       3,297        4,946        8,696       6,569
Othor Inputs                  I       1,029        2,e79        3,128        4,178        6,227       6,227
Labor                         1      28,oe        29,600       31,0e0       32,280       32,280      32,280
WOOD PRODUCE                    l
Seed                          I         399           399            -           -            -            -
Labor                         l         a93           643         300          309          376          713
LIVESTOCK PRODUCE               I
Animal Health                 I       1,220         1,380       1,640        1,700        1,920       2,040
Feod                          1       3,340         3,340       3,340        3,340        3,340       3,340
Labor                         I       2,010        2,010        2,010        2.010        2,010       2,010
TOTAL OUTFLOW WITH PROJECT             64.391       69.901       64,815      69.7e 3       74.447      74W906
INFLOWS WITHOUT PROJECT         I
Valuo of Pea Prod                     8,400        6,400        8,400        8,400        8,400       8,400
Value of Maizo Prod           l       9,000        9,00C        9,000        9,000        9,000       9,000
Value of Wheat Prod           I-                        -           -            -            -           -
Value of Potato Prod                 6 59,400     69,400       69,400       69,400      69,400       69,400
Value of Sweot Potato Prod  l        11,260        11,260      11,260       11,260       11,260      11,260
Value of Other Prod                   S 160          0          8 160 88ISO               6 160       8 160
I                   98 §,210                  967f-9,210               98if-9,210
Value of Wood Prod                      600          600          600          600          600         600
Value of Milk Prod            I      17,600       17,600       17,600       17,600       17,600      17,600
Valuo of Meat Prod            I       4,400        4,400        4,400        4,400       4,400        4,400
TOTAL INFLOWS WITHOUT PROJECT j       118.710      116,710      118,710      118,710     118,710      118.710
OUTFLOWS WITHOIJT PROJECT       I
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCE            I
Soeds                         1      16,232       16,232       16,232       16,232       16,232      16,282
Fertilizer                    i-                        -           -            -            - 
Othor Inputs                            641          641          641          641          641         641
Labor                                26 921       26 921       26 921       26 921       26 921      26 921
I      -1s4         42>                                     TW§ a64   rE4 4,9
WOOD PRODUCE                    I
Labor                         l         150           160         150          150          160         160
LIVESTOCK PRODUCE               I
Feed                                  3 8,340      3,340        8,340        3,340        3,340       3,340
Labor                         1       2,010        2,0J10       2,010        2,010        2,010       2,010
TOTAL OUTFLOWS WITHOUT PROJECTI        49,194       49,194       49.194       49,194      49,194       49,194
INCREMENTAL NET BENEFITS        |     (1,622)         (307)       1,629       11,0e6      34,422       C6,114



- 163 -                              Annex 9
Table 6.   Agricultural Produce Prices and Yields
Price          Yield with Pronect       Yield without Prolect 1/
(FRW/KG)             (KG/HA)                    (KG/HA)
Beans                    40                  1,100                          700
Peas                     40                    800                          500
Sorgho                   25                  1,400                        1,l00
Maize                    20                   1,400                         900
Wheat                    35                   1,500                           -
Sweet Potatoes           15                  8,000                        8,000
Potatoes                 12                 16,200 2/                     8,000
Bananas                  10                  5,000                        5,000
I/ By year 5.
2/ With fertilizer applied.



Annex 9
- 164 -
Table 7.   Economic Analysis of Extension Component
(FRW '000)
Incremental Costs      Present Value       Incremental       Present Value
Year    invest & recurrent    of Cost at 152          Benefits      of Benefits at 15%
1             35,354               30,743                270                235
2             33,233               25,129                378                 286
3             46,595               30,637                868                 571
4             46,247               26,442              2,265               1,295
5             52,738               26,220              8,350              4,151
6             38,901                16,818            21,030              9,092
7             41,465               15,588             40,465             15,212
8             29,434                9,622             62,782             20,523
9             37,775                10,738            84,300             23,963
10             38,104                9,419            100,403             24,897
11            38,729                 8,325            110,403             23,730
12             30,434                5,688            113,571             21,227
13                                   4,946                                18,458
14                                   4,301                                16,051
15                                   3,740               I                13,957
16                                   3,252                                12,137
17                                   2,828                                10,533
18                                   2,459                                 9,177
19                                   2,138                                 7,980
20                                    1.859                                 6,939
240,892                               240,414



KCO   311199*113 F.41161 AICIL?IS( 44 UWASIO() PICOACI
[CINC Un1Sis or 6Ilk! 36199 plava1*139 m'INIECm(
61   9W EII   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   -    - -  --a- -  -- --- --- --- ----4-499---- -7--9-- -6- -9- -  -   --     --9 ----- --- --- --- ----79---- --- ---9---0-- --- ---- --  9--- --- -- 0- - 3- - 0- --- ------- --- ---
CIWII. ~~S       171,1343   7366671   413169   l~~47?23  ('79412            -        - -  ---------    - --------------   ----------   --   -------           -    -    ------
-   DES                            499*09~~~~~~~~-   - --   ----- 4 ------0    ---9--9   --40   --20  -6 0   - --- -- -  - ---   -----   -----   --------          ---------  -       --- -----    -   ----
ESOLWd PM W 11 K009                                      389       )9I0     384      232393  "M?0  1          -14"    -ff,     IN -5w   k;W  -001i 4"?t                 611111 -1                 -2 217   I.M    .7
cuaw  NM       U                           11)41941 NU 139 4*  ],-'U9I44        791 46 103546.1 346           -        -         -                                                                          
3291    3217'933 tM 3951 431153   393114    MON3            -        -         --                          -                                
991     5ETB  CUll                                           -66  -06       -a   Un                    3070 37M             749    .v.2 6009P740    740060*0 3009680037                                        740
la ~mi  m    P3.511                        I2379   33941   397390  134313  2120ma            *I?,9 Ao63070                  7404P000 140P0i40P40    '40                             1409P009999                74.
WWInsCt   1          P66.511               3933099    431209   43261         320    110        120    3290r070              '1004,0            1~9  306 mu"   MM4A                9 4'.24   4320   t3mC   4L'
Fiiu          UE  CtM34679    1290419   324330    417212311 35729313  97659                                   -        -40          1S0        120    r7043094'o9 4300tv o4300uso
Mun     ml £L*I30                            2-in"C 7739    25.100  -A190    17300    13600    M3309          -        -                  ---                                  -----
NIinaua        3S   CTS                      24609    34609    103309    71 7132009   213690                  -        -                  --                          -        --.-
IinU UU A E1 W     CUS3339323*1   336130321335333919                                                             -W   4704000  435290    17300000 0?  430709  4732000   8745209  O43500  47700*0  '13300
a   aa...aaea    a.ina    ...a.-.s--a-   -.          -.aau   - --- -    --- -  ---    --------  -------   -------  ----- -    -----    -------    --------    -------    --------
MOCa USn W    MwT                         -1433339  -946719 -313969  -309321  -1061   74995204 1133667M  1146179*   1371995  4D'm00   41199639  M':ION  4=11631  S9363 -343   4132   6InTAO3  49416)0 
-      - -   - - -- -   - - -- -  -- -- --  -a -  ----   -------a    -- ea   a . -a ---   - -- -O--- -- --   --- --- - --- --   ------- - - - ---  -  ----- . --- a-a-----t -- -- -   -------   -----    -



ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
. -.   i   .   .,     -,                 .    .    .       .              .  .  . .     .
I . <  s § .       2 | iX   i                               s . . ., . .*._. .i. .;  V
;~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .r . . . . .g . .........s  t "r .x 
I~~~~~~ -                                              wa 
8 awq                                        991U-
6 xguuV



rrOkO9lC ai&HALS:S rf G!:4JM1 I .QaC  I II'RA .'~ I!            "       ..r
-        --t- -           -- -    --     -- --  -  -  -0  -- -- -- ---     --  --3 'i h-                 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --  - - - -- -- -- ---  --   -- - - -   - - - - - - -   - - - - - -  ---  -  -----  -----    ---- ---    --- - - -
attN  P1(1  P1   PI.33(a 193.                                          -          -       .36~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l"  I34  -"  V"   I          £A )'4         -       '4        -tq           -        :t.          4
-1~ 1 P S t   -~   --- i -----------------------                                                                                                                                          39  ----------3----
EUflPIN 111I1  tUiCI6    n                i                                                                    -          -49003P 0           -                  3103r   '4' m1  ,1%4100  'n -,h   fl911-50l~9~                              -.21030   .*"21c0   C3a
1vE MYU   #001(1M    KoF11                                                                                             1  - 4    400 l37,                        141PJ    0'91M  I01'0    I           4 3"3O                                AI 300   11#Io             7i00
own ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t, urn P501(1 'inn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   IIl'n:1
PIUVVMIF   M G             6913                                                     1945      4194019       940    0740 4066                              -        -1            -          -          -                                 -1
WN3~~~~~~~~~LS                                        3390475            -                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00  "  '4              :-II -         -       -                       -.                                              --
PuiOA   MIIPlus       g                                                           5400    1913o    '93300'4"                               VC 911(1 39330 39300                         ]IM         -0    'A-              -n        !f.          14-          -4    -4
Pill                                                          ,'r~~~~~~~~~~~~-- -   -------   -------  ------   ------   ------  -- - - -    -- - - -    -- - - -    -- - - -    - - -- - ---   -- --  -    -- - -  -   -   - -  --   - -  ---    --  -  -
KsaITS m      TNIs                                                                  796       *410       4790   J1~,O  273540   715000                    -          -c          -          -,'   .% 1, '     l-- -  7I'qO I:-t t-O 163-A   -76
Clvii.  ~~~~~~~~S   *IW TCJW (1                               ,7~~~~~~- --- -- ---    --  -------- -------   -~     ---75   ------   - - - - - - - --   - - - - - - - --   -   - --   -  - --    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ---  -  -       -   -  - -
h,.k  1    f 11111            WVPU  P N                                        4541740   7700060   91717600  3166010  3054140  04560                   -           --                               --                                             --
1101. INEWU(               CT                                                     I  Q0       .770         U0       1'27o    9100 4145    3hi             --..                                        --                                               
:w     v .    ut.   usa                                                                ,'s 3136          103     -i,wo    933 DM.'  c                         t;'          A":         *'MA43GI,.o .Ivo                          "isc           oo          :So    :so
SXNKS                                                         '~~~~~~~1111140R.Sa  **il  4505  55*0*    *3'/**W   ? S            tS*rtW                -                                              .
CI1VI3   UTS  PUTINTIK                                                             9711 013                                                                                                                                                                                            a- 9120    76`0    ,pr
IMa?~~~ 0361(7  KiPITS  ~         ~        ~        ~        77I9375-  -------- ----0160  ------- ------- ------- -------- -------- -------- -------  ------- ------- -------- --------  --------- ------300 -------
DIKCT CRIS oi"  MACY                                       06015.   * *11          !e.5A6               1100~W ,    5 5 . 5 .                      10-.?71f. 1*..E.O -ttW    41  -1 .--I,O r. r1611(                                   -'140 1



((otft Mt5 rS er GISltIUMl heSi I fIIttSStTt             l * IW ftt
:eTIWI pog.gr0I: -  tl  M       :o '13    'o:J       v:"        :0
DJUtT 12115 VEIN MOlt? Cr191 ~ ~      ~       ~       ~      21N-2il                                                      Ol
KCtt    110t1111110      rSMittt A0It1Ut11U  NO LknSTD  teAry
FMCT Kmtrrmy grami
I.    _   _      _. 
VITMIIPIO¶    C     -116K          oil-,A9A                                                               0'W         jO         K         
WNIIII  Ma'PEM N                                                                                  Is        i                      t
CIVILIi9                                               t-l                                   ---------                    -            -----0
PnnuT paegr t COSTS      _aoo -~                                                      o -~ w             romeo    3:ooo - .            3:&c
mRriy  tg SEs  tUItt3) l                                                   43 1   3:480      i'a4       rtgw           :Ill  r 113         n 'i
Pal 1m     .  1PU    CS                                                    a100      1400o    :400          3400      IAIV   3-;         !:;
WR51W  13601   IKIIEW  MIT. PUEC                                              - - --  --------- --------- --------- --------  -------
UI(FITS corst  ri rih s    *ar-                                                          -                     -16 A   ItMOlC-O ' cWl-O
........ ......... ......... ........ ......... .................
E- -     - --  -----  ----  - -  - -- 
tlE3V  UT WITSS           I8
tElit't WK-
t6 .  4.  .F :53
fmisgu
CIVIL OWS  tFlIN1EWCt-                                                                   -          -          -          -         -         -
eltttrT COSrTS NITN  MACYt                                              r"ee0        3:tFte    L10          rthew    KIMo        rk;oo§  )Woe
SlttECtl cOSt6s UttHl  tJACY                 eeM                                     o         mom      310          vW~       114%"    7%5,.t4
lt"lftUtb  tntCt Cto                                                    :6"Of    :6t4HI         tt0       .'t       'VA           ";OO     : C'-n
ONAt4Cost csnAII tttWcBllb til ETl
1111CIEW1114. $aKIM#  cam
.    ......    .                   . .....  .....  ..
.*wt* ._e .w ...... .. ......... ..........  *.Ze wr................. z.. a........ :. tC  X
_      _     _     _    ___________- - - --- -- - -_ --------------------------------------- ---------------------- --- - ---- -i ---------
NC a" 4. Iftt IJ:1I
1_1e"    NottztTtt" ofa  trT of ft  Stre ss
will               *s         -6



.SSUIuIl&   I! 2 . 33 MRl CE11 F1.L.. "IEC[ WCXAME l M IS           vita's2C1  F, 
290        290       :909       2190       jPIl       I",        1993       1994     M99        "K       3997      IT9       ITTV    :-oo      :.         :;;:      :W        :004 
"gir KWITS IF1w3
NUI  Ul           131-                                               -          -)     1,1         014          -                  430    lEO.'    4nr.G       5:3i      3~.Y.    lP1C        100,ito  'I.70    lIFt%.,    4,4c 
SNm     ni sw l  113                                      --                                               -              -                         -             -      2.000     MN0      100       2-005--                       4
n1m           (III -(-s-                                                          -                                                1       400  10      10 W      4(4.     0031    3000  ~Sv5              -         -     400
iu*rE w MCIgm43  MI                                                                     .11        014                            2400    12i1       "CI0    -168        640      2640.    7'IG      :760    II.;G         447    1G50G
Pel2t U  ISS (13w/Il                        3400       3400       ls  3400  310        3400       iR.        3440       3400      3400     34.4      300       31~   V0  3404 340  4"f.               3400      31(.G     3400      34W
riic  U  sma         ~9u~3i                 2915       -li        :040      :V~l       27-7       2692       2430       235      2:3      :. w       :',1      :t"       24        : 13     :-!I      :411        II1      2'33     2413
pugrKl        IT mw rs  Fll-                              -                          ,979oo    7MI00o           -             gloom0  fowl imcO  I 311"v.   "A VO0  l76rF'.o 1;':9400 717)4'00  3 -?*O0 Y0*7000   1'AC?0  -1130(0
PISIci CUT% (Mt3 
a,
Clvii. Om                                      -    1610    71471)5  79143    7.4r30    1j.                     -          -         -                                                -         -0                             
Ellt~m1                                            11120167   1092290   z30091.   833300    0217310                        -         -        -         --                            --                 ---
%M1OIS                                         -   407930           -          -          - ~799'.o                        --                           -         -         -        ---.-                                             -
LlaKa                                            -   9100   -kI1000   :r7OoP,'  94000    194000                                                                                                                        
re  NM4                                             21:M0       32000    'I'M0       232000    n.60                                                                                            ---                                
1(0101 inu 19oAc                               - 044600   100600   1044445   10I414"    1014.*0                            ---                                              -         -        ----
FM                                     16~~~  013373    "$ '49073    490 13  10'S  l037]75                                         --                           -         -                        
msFUIN   am iWa                                -      732       nl3v       731.0      731.'0     73320 V                                                                                                                       
CbS. mm   sauul                                -    25400      491000    ?1000       73000      1300            -                                       -         -         --                                       
nuT PFUET COS                                             -                    -          -              23200   tl'20000 23370000 321000004 I210OWY    I 110500  COMM00   Wo1s4oo  '1osWOo  WussVOG  W.-Ano   Mr.50   u.so
sumE  FUSE?f lTS                               -  1753:094   13543414  06400"2   2S092    A97975  1,32.00  s0000 V           23!'W10000 3.1pl060     , se.o4 t905Wfi IPO10   9rSw,O  ""Wo   Wo'too  157A000  V45'006  P-1Mso
*     3 INMISh CO        #KATI81               -    L'-006     29l000    713100   "13100     21300                                                                -         -         -                     
IE,Wlt -uu            CUTS AeJvD1IM            -   'A1000   3e'tooG   ?679000   14400    '797000                                                                                                            
si~~~~  UEMS   aLKAlIS          ----     ----- -00 -000 ------- 40 --00   --------     --------     - ----   - ----   -----     -----   - - --- ----       ---- ----  -      ---  - --   -- ---   ----       - ---   -     ---
. ......              ......         .  . .  . . . .                                                       .m a --n. ..   . .  .                                                                            lb ...  --.  5S-   . . rc
fo x
FUSE N?K IWITS (S
..... in*C    **.eS  .Se.S..  ..  S.....- -   -  W  St *t~S*P    -...-.                            ......-** ~ 



S(tCOO IIIICGM?C? fOOC STir fTAILvi4 #S LIKSUOCI FlOt?
CECb'IC LDSA&IS OF r.]9W1I NEW ILMANIAS0
i.So  IS a*u 16 Ott EOUT ICAL " flCrItITU  U ?iS J$ SUS ,*-aS ip-SIit,
: 't %7         4        "~(4 200            01         014     lots      2SI4        _17    i;2c: 
#UACI IOFITS FOtri
NU   NEWIIN (11j)                 2300       345'4       3410      JN                   :230"    2'sU      -,Wo      7i::O                     -
1`11I11 FUUETIS  (Ali                          afn        &0'         43.0         -          -                            .                                         : 
'UAC1 UUSEUNIR (m                             31000      495.30     4450A    :j-o             -                       -.W'O  s  7&1'~z:    Ig',:'o    qp3w)      '::oGl
POIU  v  PU1S EU(U3t                                        c 3406 34CC  34W             3406 3'        1466 344       34(0§     34:0       344        I'm         1.c.o
role[ v  %#AUS  nIiv'H                         2433       1*31       2433      :433       2q33    2433       2J!I3     .~1'3      ''3       :131       :,I;        24'
CIVIL  ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     -   -- - - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - - -   -    - - --   -- - -. - - -  -    -- - --    -- - --    - - - -- - - ---  - -- - -
EWCIKO        IT    F&US11M                         15: .v  -ile             -w               -        -400PA1   k.7"          o- !c   r-   .W  -l#
I66AIMS  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~            ~...........  ...  ....... ..  ....  .....  ......
POCIVI     TS  mIOinIG                                                                                                        
----------------0003                                                 r3      700        7 0067200    CWA              8S.o3700             0700      .O00 7000
*,Evk  MRSC?css72,0                                    700                   00G        o007,007'f4 77007'00                             700          'o       :'
IS    U(      OTsMKiI                             .          -          -                             --                            -            
stouia    r i    aisu.Kl66                        -          .          -         -          -                                                               
1315.sE(SMlai                                                -          -                             -         -                   -.-
Mt PUICI  MOT$                              7076006    7417WA      100    7070000   70000   79?7000       Y 7010064  (22.00  7370000    707w"    ~0.    7020~0"
$MC roosri    cuts                          70o.oo     7.313'so   ir,oa.o   16''OG   -4,r'06 78r.079       ?Cl3eo"w  0 70     70o ro,WA   W~5OO&N T1.,6 c       4c  I)
- -     -.--      - - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  -     -  - - - - - --     - - - - - - - -     - - - - - - - - - - -  - -    .    ......m
61SIS                     t5S.75 ALKAIO



SEu    IIITHSATfFO REST3tY urnIO  TM  AM  t xwrSTw    PzRiJ
[CctC Nw.rS:S ff siSWmT nexK I neTimS MIDU
1937      191       l197       1990       1991       192       1995       394        l99,      1994       199        1993      it"9       200  -001 -3         700        ,0I,
P91LE'T EEOMrC(Fm1
fNIh  PItT183 MXIII PWI.RCT  hJMS)             I24600    197400    237400    3093000   345020    339100    3972000   355X30.   394000   4794020I  472400    424000   A224000   4224000   4224000   422q0    422400
IFAT P1831T71W  VIII 930.ElT=SI                    297       274        321        509       690        277       362        291        317       335        330        33        330        330        130        n0        330
ILKJ  MM   9iSm    PwmEC  (1lTIES)            124300    1&4797    172309    2300910   1339965   1g33064    190090   I1830645   1935960   194109    39,4219    19,47395   394.295   342695   194A39    194219    142
AFA  I~    Nrflg3t 06Jtit- hTVs)                   i4         Iti       I3,0       I         :1i        0i         i.s4      mo         4s3        174       694        194        194       3194       194        194       194
ES1K1W  NM  43jE ItTWIIf  P30121-                              -          -
11$IIWJ.  6633   ffij~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IXTTIU-iI----------   --P-----     --I------ ----------------- ---
1136IT1  VITI P30.121                        5716200   73307600  010040  12-241000 1-779100  1079770 n         360   1050   2970                    380127801271012700:3960   3960   3960   3960
WITS  3111311 916.1114543646   5337301   3716006   6364651?  4940342  7731670   774753-904~743772056445    29056465   6296  564905    249605646
1~~UTu. P30.ErT 3(3(9175     17395600  19434¶WO  -0-85       -94U   73197"0  301 10300  5268335  3206306  3393792  5506745  70413745  7043745  704075703745                       70480745  7048045  704045
Blum1  Cam1  MI NI 99111  (Flu)
CMVI  tu                                     5606100   2196000- 
mm13  CUIPIIN                                 7313000  1732500AN                                                                    8079750    300 Iuro 2322OO0 11317250 I                                -          -         -
661013- 45L0E                                                                -                      457900           -                    -                         45/900    -                     457900- 47000
1TaUEAt ASSISTAICZ                           16862000  133700    16663000              
OMIUliSijT W flUtTnen,                       600430   16440    3064400              -         -          -          -         --                              -------
91im   WPiT 16  CCSTS                        66676000  4909600   420000    4:620   4062600   40660000  3993900   19249003900 3               3908300Cw  3943000  390800   3900300   39083000          aw830   390000   "96Cam
CAT 193413131g 0155                           337206    420700    4237000  425300    4144000   401000    401000    401000    401000    4010000   401000    40100    401000    4100   40300    401000    40100
M WA    ll   32315 O                          4230300 4300 4         533000M  542500    672200   596 54"M     549000    54900C    549000    5iSCOC   549600    Mg=00    5490000   :4900    54900   ~45490   549600
Pi~~~'r ~~~mTIw. ~~~~~TS ~505cC    30406                 30300      M0M"0     W0400      3060      50600      550600006000    50060    50600             10600     50600      50600      50600     50600      30640
am"3 We flU  COTS                            1'36800   1690100   152100   2403000  242900   2596800   30331300  27MM00   312350   130730   3103300   3133300   31333000  3133300  313330C    M18300   31L33
1E10118  WMIl   211813                        392200    2363000   110000       11030   3000000m      oom 300000 80000    8000000   300000    30000    6000300   600030    6000000 a          I0 64000 600000    A"000"
I*EUSTUfIli  M1Mt1wa                          19700 397             1970    19970    251300    251300    22513000   5100    213000   2313000   251300    2513000   .5900    2513060   251300    251300    25i300
31112  mTS VIII 191.12                      "0A146   45600  1I0319460  .40003   3913300   9126000   06000 7093CC  97914534  9V90M  3000730   09637250 I1325625   M417000  3944000   94o:9000  Ipaiooo
313(1  COST  311U10 93312                   :76637561033077   7749060  3918U6   533770   569027   5647420   5597095   6392998   39712   67531220   5446203   674790   5576120  3425020   5361270  U4.-M20
3MMOI?L 311ErT enST                          73310   4247463   2552256   2644133   3102636   33U730  3414430   31127050  33904360  39131130  13W2536   301930   3777056  33257730  303930   3Lw773c   M1930
ENM   cxT EAuoATZW  Mill P30ACT             24336    302606    291000    173006    213t600                                   -          ---                                         
WImM  CDSP  LIXATION VITIVA  P90L51         r27270    MUM0   203M06    10800                  -         -                                          ---                                          
1~~fmIa. 1.63(48 ~~~~~1I  246600    504300    673000    712630   2134600-    ----------- ----------- -------  ---
1(iSTo        U   L.ECT  COST                 2932   4297343   2639550  271336   3313630   3323373   RIA16400  31127050  3396400   W9131233 ~326     351930   30777050  3327730  5301910   33251721  331360
III 1INFVTN A. NxiDTs                       -11434300 -2354440   4459w   3144048   430431   -3125430  11512_95    934256   560:92  167330:3  3715344   3329045  36763695  122 301   30269    322201   3339094



a1                     -
twlta ^a<= v: ul:e~~~~- tz irws nocass e -~  1- sm, 
'NU) ;IJ1 LU WMI1
,,W.1-   owa         17    W    M   c. . t 0lf. MIt CMLCa   M11l&Ot                          L33rXU5  M1131U1
c                                                                                                ------   ---------   ---------   ---------   --- -- -  -  -  ---  ----- ---1----W-- -
-------- ----- --- --------- --------- ----                                                                                        -             ---  ---- -
:)W1tI  cCs"M   cso.an  Mtf9* c*SWII  Oz1.IO   * 161I OSCM:                                S       L131  s31     W1
ceuI3IlStgW,Z@   C1**O   WIltS  363'k                     601 e1 911                       A.u3  HUBoo SEW  13
eea~      Ql~       ors~oa           e016W    wgctr   uct    16scls             e        ezCISZ  e e MGM1    WXL_s_
cONsif  1660609  CACCOOS  wus    mUon   ernEst   WOWgf   male,                   _        wr Mu"  Q= IWJ
00"6   WMw i s OM ) U                me  IKN            muu                             13U    MM  It  =1 W
_~c emmu  ucsicumsm                       emu  msf _sh                                   uuw muim  ha
-C   603   N6.  seI  _001    CS   _65                                             e              UUW   AU 3
een-   Mssie        meg  Himm   awie   mess   SIO A                                      s16u3Am    U1   W
-  -     - oooentE  -I -    - 91  -NMTZ  -"wK  sumir-        -i                       WM       -     2 AS
t~~                                                                          ~         ~ ~ ~         ~ ~ ~ ~           ~ ~ -   -  -  -  -66  -  -                       a      8ISTWN3
-        -        omit:s   1 of      Glizo    Mgw    mso".  Samzrs                                  sa   am  oum
-                                                                  -        -        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                    ~ ~      ~~-  -  -  -  -  -                           O11A13
foomm  ooomw   oomm   oomm   onow  "SEW  slu               cu lxr  WIAVO  s; aDI
IUAJ 13X136 WIA 1WI 1M3U
1;Sti2= #@ SAe~~~~~~~~~~lso NS s ili@V1s umK ^ll IJ
Ws".3a1 ;Wouwx  11*96*19             vAasw911961  11096*1   Woo6*1  11696*1            SLIA UJ Mr113W'113101
IuWf    9611  OPS11aettu I@59611  UWI 05161  os*u,u                            JuJ lull u;o31
00051110- -        -        -        -         -        -         -              L- -   k.U1  N. :    IS
*61      *61      *61       1Sf      161       16     t*6 t   t*1                  ($31  l2~    IZI   UJ  vi
xs    I       CU Of SI                    OIr       CU       Oft             (Sr eP 2s      lull luI1   193
0M01    c00U     sOOg  Z00Z          0 1         5at  O09UI  0t6 *)            113111 123t HiU-m     11
S:^ "Waal OWLAM  ow E1N SG3aIS   I 210166  4661 0:11163                            3         ts 
_-- - - - - - -   - - - _  _  _  _  _  _
C.,WW.t_                              _IV _U. _ly .M _ _
0~~3WIt                                                                   j=   2um AW  Was W  "S a
-- ---   - - -- -   -- - -- _-- -_   _ --- - - - -
k4jI  tA   *6    _ 4         _     _     I      *1        0T                S4   3m         U      m    v
UKPT    W I"KPIL601"Kt              M&       uAlSKI                 S11,VrI_U MIM                 I



E,i4 SECO4tit FfOiSlTY MAUiS
ECONOMIIC A51YSJS O  IN(VRY INVSYP*dTS
19S7         1916 IV0                              1S91       ITT?        i93        IC54         1°C.        1956   1997- ;11
KiiIzrs                                   - -28090.00   1029600.00 2433600.00 m 7;cCt.' tCrA                       li¾5u   o cOO.OJ
RECUOt  COSTS        53G400.00  1195600C.0  19656D.t00  315a0.o.&    37583000.fO  17'1600.00 I18!7Al0.00 ::.'-G.of O               544_t. ;CG.0;( ,1000.O
INKSThNET COSTS   3562000.00  4019000.00    93000.Vi ji76000.C0   7668000.00                -           -          -            -           -
TOITA  CDSTS        4092400.00  5274600.00  71248oO6.    9293600.j)   I1'l.)0.00 171160A.&O IF17AG'h.J'f 2(1 iO. 0   c             31 C,ci.C.tO '7- I0 .DCC
ME" *WEllS         -4092400.00 -5274600.00 -7248600.50 -9013sOG-b0 -10421'00.0O  702000.00 2 942            73::;0. * S947'OO. 5O 1'0C6 -.CO
aZSZSZ88Ct tg8aszzZs   z         z::s: z::s:g:ss         :            -  -- - =..  - - =   -   -:    -
SEEKING FROCLAn
iCWEPEN1AL IEN(FItS
19;'        IV9          1999        IVo          1991       199         193        994         199f        1;F6  lV17-:4I
So1  MM  "                 52.00       1040.00     1560.00      2030.00     2600.00           -           -          -            -           -            -
PEOCEff^CE 33I11116          0.24         0.24        0.24         0.24         0.24       0.24        0.24       0..4 0.24                0.4.:
WTIU  US                124.EO       249.60      374.40       49. .20     624.00           -          -           -           -            -           -
W1 UUigTlU  S                    -           -            -      561.60     2059.20    4667.20    9M7.'0   1609.20    21153.60    52'72.00   N260.W
m    IErTS                      -            -            -   260C90.01  1029600.00 2433600.00 477U0.6.C0 019W0f.i   I Or5WOO. 00 1 236000.00 11040000.00
C05S3        0400.00 1125&00.0530400.00  11656.00  1965600.00 2G15800.00  3733000.00 1731600.00 [PI'40.0C. 20710.0.0  '.4442.00.00  3159000.00  V1000.00                 >
liaCKfETAL ICifITS  -53040 0 -113500.00 -19656,00.00 -.;53WA0."  -75400.00  700100.00 ?9;6200l... . 00    . 0.  "'1:600.0.0  5177NW.(... 1i'5W.0. ¶                     x
i23888535g  ggaggazvt   *CXU*SZZ   --C2Z:g2 s   ;agmr-- -- SS3?sr    -                      - r      - - -.                      r             - _
heghi4r S. 1936 10:27



- 174 -
Annex 9
Table 13
Estimation of Conversion Factors
Standard Conversion Factor  1/   - 0.85
Shadow exchange rate factor 1/   - 1.18
Shadow Wage Rate 2/   - FRW 74/day; wage conversion factor   0.69
Category                        %FE                    CF
Vehicles                          80                   1.11
Equipment                         75                  1.09
Dairy Equipment                   90                  1.15
Buildings                         40                  0.98
Civil Works 3/                    10                  0.74
Seeds                             50                  1.02
Furniture                         45                  1.00
Studies                           90                  1.15
Animals                           80                   1.11
Animal Health                     75                   1.10
Salaries                           0                  0.85
Fuel                              90                  1.15
Building Maintenance              45                  1.00
Equipment Maintenance             25                  0.94
Vehicles Maintenance              40                  0.98
Civil Works Maintenance           10                  0.74
Office Administration             50                  1.02
Note3:
1/  Source:  East  Ad So_thern Africa Country Program Division.
2/ In various locations the mission found off-farm labor being employed on
farms during harvest and planting time at FRW 85 per day. In both Gishwati and
the surrounding a-eas of Kigali and Butare the GBK project has had to pay a
premium over the minim-m wage rate (FR100/day) of 10%. Assuming (i) labor
employed by project to be employed 50% of the time during harvest/planting time
and 50% at off peak time; (ii) The shadow wage rate (SWR) at peak time to be
equal to going wage (FR 85/day) paid at that time and that at off peak to be
half the minimum wage (i.e., Fr 50/day) and (iii) that the 10% premium paid by
the project be applicable to the SWR. The overall SWR is
(85 x .5) + (50 x .5)1.1 - FRW 74.
31 80% of civil works are assumed to comprise labor paid at the financial rate
cf FR 110 per day. The remaining 20% is assumed to comprise equipment and
materials of which 502 is assumed to be foreign exchange.



AnrLex 10
- 175 -
RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTPY,
AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents Available in the Proiect File
A. Project related reports and studies:
1. FAO/CP Preparation Report Projet Agro-Sylvo Pastoral II,
December 20, 1985
2.   Report on Protection and Cunservation of Rwanda's forests.  Amy
Vedder, Preparation Mission, December 20, 1985.
3.   FAO/CP Identification Report
4.   Winterbottom Report on Rural Forestry. Projet Agro-Sylvo Pastoral
II. Pre-Preparation mission August 20, 1985.
5.   Foret de N"ungwe Etude de Factibilite Unite d'Aminagement sud
ouest. Projet Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique, July
1985.
6.   Republique Rwandaise Ministire de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage et
des Forets. Plan D'Action Pour La Conservation et L'Amenagement
des Forets Naturelles de la Crete Zaire-Nil, September 1984.
7.   Loi Forestiire (Draft)
8.   Ministire de l'Agriculture, de l'Elevage, et des Fornts.  Atelier
sur la reorientation des Projets, May 1986. Document du Travail.
B. Implementation:
Implementation Volume



Chart I
PROJET AGRO-SYLVO-PASTORAL I 
ORCANICRAWME DEBUT PROJET
r NINLS7RA                                                                             C
caEn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
AFFESTTIO                      VWFAJ
ftAL|                       ET SurvIE
Liniplan
Minag,i S.C.
D.C. For&i
D.C. Elevacw
D. Promotion Aricelo
D. ISAR
D. ISCE
Coordinateur ¢BK
Diroct.ur Nyungwe
* Contrat nvec o OCW pour I 'nslys. de* donni. colJ.ct& pour Ia'nalyse de;
donnhs collt6o et avoc le ¢IK pour lee *ssaiu for.-tiir*, agroforesteri.s
et aliewtation bita I.



Chart 2
Prp*wt A.,pI,-p&e-tWo'S I
01.4.-s I ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~IPMAl 
PI ,us,
II                                                    S. s
e  ~~~~~~~~~~-*. -                                            I. I _sis                             Pm tu                                        Is Stusi  -
g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f s.us.s                                                                       PI  ,,;..tX. m  E X-.   
sr_f  r_ _1y_ f *I;X*i_ - r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l et i _*@ leel*1s C_i.ta_El
_   r   f r_*;&ts  r@*_ll-  il   t§_X*i_-             $or_tit                  Xivi **                 i   DCF            ff                                  _ a5  mm  S.sl.g.q.s



- 178 -                                    Chart 3
PROJET AORO-SYLVO-PASTORAL It
ORGANIORAMME VOLET FORETS NATURELLES
MINAGRI
MINISTRE
Socr6tair 
G6n6ra I
Comlt.
Coction
_  S   _  A  ~DCE |
Evaluation
_tA Gotilon             || Centro do
D.G.F                               Zone NyungwF                      conservation
Reconnniooanco  |Plntations
'Inventalr                      tpono
Progrm St, vi
6cologiquo



- 179 -
Chart 4
Pr t . 
Organigremm  Voalet Ape-Fortto     r  et Afforeatation Rurale
MtinagriI
M oea r*
ICci trI
Socr  F*~~~~~oc
aEvluation
_'rection                             Direction: Scrtrietil
_FrSto et                            Prasnent de Pw da Foreati.r
| Srecu                          Produta Forest.'r                      [Ntionle
* An  t on~
F.ret,      $           Division                           Division
Foratur             Profremmotion et                       Q.atior
Aadnege.emt Faroot;o'                  Formatier
B ureu Invent i r, et                   B urnsu
fittotiolu        _  |                Rotoi 1bZ
l olt Sui,i Evolusto    |   |                  Otnl    onmdo0
FAVIforestation Rura7tl'*      [o1ttiao o*I*at;*r
Voalt Aepei DOF -
D.v.lo.op*ent P6pie;m.oo



Chart 5
PROJET AMO-SYLVO-PASTRAL II
ORANIGRAMLIE  C8K Coebtion Activ,t, Apro-Sylov-Pasteral Intogr6  (ActivitAa * *tro tranat6r4)
|i no ri
s.cr4a re
Q6"6 PI
t Vin;etr o
COK - Contr* CoordinationtISat;OD
Is c.rds.tie,  s pograti.  St  s ponllcetoa  o teteelosatlvlt4rogommti6on   I   r   rnFr   u   ursottoS
PI       t PaatCato i   oairo
c) Litei.,CAT  Ze. d.ub.cboI it.  ranf6Som PuN  o.p6rtiv    Seeiur   i   o i owsn6  diProjet.
I      b      J
dn pan   I DCt solon c d .  i       r.           I
|vrut prr uru  evonsevic  pf rvulgaristi
la  oodietie, a  roraimeioaetI*plolflcaio  d       CwEto  lo  actiit- Codinctl6en A                                                cot*Kr6snotesettsa
*m6cuters~~~~~K; wiors _oodro  dee tooetprce   cii6
6) Plntatons   trasf6rr IIW   aw  b"od'uncalwriPr Ess ic-; tCeoa)os  ardin-tocn 'ZAt
e)Doindoouooo   wtnmi   prird  qariie  n*  uprjt   i su Feriperviio  eriepfctrlvulgeri- ation.



Chart a
PROJET AQRO-SYLVO-PASTORAL II
Volot Recherche Appligu6
Minegri
Ministroe
Socr6toa tr
G6n6ral
Lc.stion 
1                -       *~~~~~~x6cution
*    CSRCK  * contractuollo
_                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~de I'ISAR
* 7Rchorche           a;gfreati&ro_ fEr  is
ForAt          t*t analyse do                 Evnio
Nnturollo        donn4.                        Alim ntation
__ _        _                    B*~~~~~~~8tcil
- En colleboratlon ovec UCZ3 & Nyungwo et nutres Institutions nationaloo et
intornationalo, do recherche*.
* Contrat do IIISAR avoc I' DOF pour ilanalymo doo donn u.
* Contrat do I'ISAR nvoc lo GBK pour loc ossani dane loo plantations do KigmlI-Butaro et Qishwati,
doo *anoai agro-forostarie dane lo comunos do Rwororo, Mutorn et Kanama *t dos
seasai  alimontation bWtail done lo CAT et loe pituragoos Ohwatl.



RWANDA
PROJET AGRO-SYLVO-PASTOL  II
ORGANIGRAMPE DU SERVICE FORESTIER NATIONAt
MINISTERE DE L'AGRIC., DE L'ELEVAGE ET DES FORETS
SECTARIAT GEN RALJ
D CTION GEN RALE:  C
SECRETARIAT
COE ILLER
LDIRECTION: FORETS ET PROCUITS i1Dciii(  SEtRETARIAT PER_-_|
t        ~~FOFESTIERS       |                                    N NT DU FONDS FORESTIER NATION
DIVISION: PROGRN " TION ET             DIVISION: GESTION                     DIVISION       ETS        DIVISION:  FIN0NES
AMENPGEPENT FORESTIER                              rSTIERE |ET COMPTABILITE
RMAUJ             9UMBUEU                         UEA            URJ
NIfTION GINVENTAIRE    Nq)IAGEMENT               RE6OISEPENT    EXPLOITATION LEGISLATION,
FORESTIE1 E       FORESTIER 9   FORESTIER                       FORESTIERE   POLICE
DOClMENTATI       STATISTIOFS                                   PROOUITS    FORESTIERE &
__   I   1                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~FORES71ERS-n
=r
ZONES FOREST. PREFECTORALES                                                                               r
ZOES FOREST. SOUS-RFECT.
ZONES FOREST. COIAULES
ZONES FOREST. DE SECTEIRS



-183 -. Chart 8
bbX~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo wv
L::~~~~~~~~~~~~~~#O 
_~~~~~iLM ,4v
., | § ~~r      ICU
_ b_ _ ~~-OW~
*~~~~~~~~~~~~D 0NlO to i                    WV_   -    i-t
< _                        .          2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~ewm
iW~~~~~~~~~CCO               wr If
S, ilt~~"vaw it *w
>04aia~~~~MN SSC ,N*



MAP SECTION



290
)
RWANDA
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY,
AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT                                                          )
ZAIRE               )
PRO!ECT PREEC'UjRE BOuJNDARIES
-    MAIN ROADS
R VERS                                                              /
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES
_ PRERCRE BOUN;DARiES                      \                         -  
- .N'ERNA71ONA  60JNDARIES                 C.oNmo 
o         C      G{HWA5TI
%I-V
Kibuye
:                          X                        /        oX~/ 
/~~~~~ -                                    ,,,E   
-                        n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J-11
8~~~~__   i~T  FOREST                                                                      (
1'
K.       ;,                     .                 V                                              I t
k .: ^ . a . ~~~~~~~~~-                              (           \         'I\,
L   Si     i4) >  w% %
<AVA                                                        -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
(   -~~~~~--''-~YU
L   ~ L ~ A~         ___________               _________________________FORE_



)                                                      _O~  ~i                             IBRO   20054
30'          f  DlUzi<lP'
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a '~~ ;t um bc 
T
PAR\,                                              o,
I. /   <   ,                       )     AKAGERA           .A
'<.. _ X  1  t   S  /<a            t        NATIONAL
I.- -                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PARK
-G   SHW AT  I
om~~~V  .t 'V-1                         (            a      ,
EA .            \\                           /  ,~V     
r3~~~~.
/                                 .' ,. /___              ,_________''_____r ___ i_
'~~-~  s  <r>--!' _;bt 4                                  c                          (          cC !---7- 
DECEMBER 1186



IBRD 20055
_  _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY  AGRICULTURE
AND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                      /
DEUXIEME PROJET AGPO-SYL VO-PASTORAL
GISHWATI SJB-PROJECT                                                                 U GAN DA
SOUS-PROJET DE GISHWA Ti'
: ct {,2t r rett iae er,eZ  A  I R Ei
I                       Fri~~~~~q~ser,- F)1651nere or A;*o                                                        '<tbr7,e;
Zone of Exters on ActivlitesI
|                      ~~~~~~~~Zone de Actlvies Vi,garisat,onjJ
t                       !  n*~~~~~~~~~~. &5.s .29'S  'e- 'e'.fSo  .& O £% " t>t7H  7~  -'t " a-r #- t~ -4'eFt 
M                  r ',, r
f                                                                                       /
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3
-, '              ' 1Z'  '' .'                                                 hen  Ie
Rweres   W t_
Krogo
ZARi RE
!~~ .n/                              t  '7"'         
,''.''.jj'r  CaJafr5it    
_ _ _~       ~~ ~ ~ Iuuf _ 
Z A   RE                              /        
: j R * D C                                                                                               1
,   .:S.::~I  .                                      I       
,        ,            ---   \                                                              
)                  2                                        A,
\ I -E,      !         '          .                   {J~~~~~~~~,
r    r  , 2   ' /         tSt            ,,~~~~~~~~~~~~DEEMER19



- I---1 | -                     --   - ' SOMAL IA
/ l   . s !tsaN[ !A,    K   A
k A/ A N  iL A
SECOND INTEGRATED FORESTRY,
AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
GISHWATI FOREST                                                       I  zANLANIA
i. A          ,-  COMOROS
M,i lFiARY ZONE                                                                                  |
>                    ,,           \\  ,- ~~~~~~~~~%__----                        /,m  
MUHE
''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                       B t~    ukrnanyono                   /
,ikore             4so                           K.okoro
<} - \   sJ   i  AAanon.ro)        Kigul.     X      umml,   )i) o
Gt~~~~~~~~~~oK u
*                                4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
AiTec A                                                       .       MS -/hnique\
,,    .  ,      .                                                   ~~~~~~~~~                ~~~~~~~~~~~~GATINDORI  z /
Ceomweru ~~~Zone d' E-bouche  
N?ango                                                  rub   \
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rmr



Cy-.1 i
K~~~~raqaroyo .~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
ZAl



IBRD 20057
LAKE
KMJ  6                                                       I  _ 
&                                                                   I K V'
-I ~ ~ ~ ~ l
llo-/zN
0A A    A                                     i-
SIECOND  INTEGRATED FORESTRY,
AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
()             Nyungwe Forest Reserve
g)    ojres^t lorie Managemrent Agencies\ 5 
/        F0r/ eI 
Natural R?eserve Un;t                 A
':
. 4  :                                                G O  .         ow,
.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EF~r ,                          S6t.



