CREDIT NUMBER 1811 RW
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Integrated Forestry Project)
between
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated    Aous      I    , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1811 RW
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     Au 3us+ I q          , 1987, between the
RWANDESE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "MINAGRI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
Livestock and Forest;
(b)  "DGF" means Direction G6nerale des Forets, the Forestry
Department withn MINAGRI;
(c)  "DCE" means Direction du Contr8le et de l'Evaluation,
the Department of Control and Evaluation within MINAGRI;
(d)  "PMC" means the Project Management Committee estab-
lished pursuant to Ministerial Decision No. 01/87 dated April 16,
1987;


﻿-2-
(e) "Pr6fecture" means an administrative subdivision of the
Borrower established pursuant to Decree - Law No. 10/75 dated
March 11, 1975;
(f) "Communes" means an administrative subdivision of the
Prffecture in the Borrower's territory organized under the
Borrower's Law of November 23, 1963 as modified up to this date;
(g)  "CAT" means Centre d'Appui Technique, the Borrower's
Technical Support Center of the GBK Project Unit (as defined
below);
(h) "ISAR" means Institut des Sciences Agronomigues du
Rwanda, the National Research Institute, operating under the
Borrower's Law No. 21/1982 of June 10, 1982;
(i)  "OVAPAM" means Office pour la Valorisation Pastorale
Agricole du Mutara, the Office for livestock and agricultural
promotion in the Mutara region;
(j)  "GBK Project Unit" means the project unit established
pursuant to Arret6 Minist6riel No. 1/05 dated January 9, 1981,
and responsible for the coordination of the activities to be
carried out under Parts A.7 (b) to A.10, C, D and E.2, E,3, E.5
and E.6 of the Project;
(k)  "Taungya" means the practice of growing crops between
trees in plantations;
(1)  "Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(m) "GBK's Beef Fattening Facility" means a revenue earning
entity organized under GBK's supervisory authority;
(n) "Gishwati's Dairy Operation" means a revenue earning
entity organized under GBK's supervisory authority;
(0)  "GBK's Veterinary Pharmacy" means a revenue earning
entity organized under GBK's supervisory authority;
(p) "Project   Preparation   Advance"  means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated January 21, 1987, and
May 13, 1987, between the Borrower and the Association;


﻿- 3 -
(q) "FR" means Francs Rwandais, the Borrower's currency;
(r)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year which
runs from January 1 to December 31; and
(s) "UGZ3" means the management unit of Zone 3 in the south
east part of the Nyungwe natural forest as defined in the Action
Plan for the conservation and establishment of natural forest in
the Zaire-Nile Crest.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eleven million Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 11,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the rea-
sonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars three special accounts in the name
of the Nyungwe Project Unit (Special Account A), DGF (Special
Account B), and the GBK Projeet Unit (Special Account C), in
its Banque Nationale du Rwanda on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of,
Special Accounts A, B and C shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to, the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MINAGRI with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, economic, financial and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For purposes of coordinating the execution of
Part A of the Project and without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) esta-
blish and maintain a Project Unit (the Nyungwe Project Unit)
headed by a qualified and experienced Project Unit Manager; and
(b) appoint and maintain a qualified and experienced ecologist
and forester.
Section 3.04. For purposes of financing the costs of goods
and services required to carry out the Project not financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the Borrower shall: (a) open and
thereafter maintain in FR an account (the counterpart funds
account) at Banque Nationale du Rwanda, with three sub-accounts
(the counterpart funds sub-accounts), in the name of the Nyungwe
Project unit, DGF and the GBK Project Unit, respectively; (b)
deposit into such counterpart funds account an    initial deposit
of FR38,000,000; (c) apportion such initial deposit among such
counterpart funds sub-accounts as follows: FR10,000,000 for the


﻿-6-
Nyungwe Project Unit counterpart funds sub-account; FR3,000,000
for the DGF counterpart funds sub-account, and FR25,000,000 for
the  GBK   Project  Unit   counterpart  funds   sub-account;  (d)
thereafter deposit quarterly in said counterpart funds account an
amount equal, unless the Association shall otherwise agree to the
initial deposit and apportion it among such counterpart funds
sub-accounts in amounts equal, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, to the aforementioned amounts; and (e) use such
funds to finance the local currerncy     cost of goods and works
necessary for the Project. Such counterpart funds account shall
be managed by the Chairman of PMC who shall apportion the
counterpart funds among the three counterpart funds sub-accounts.
Section 3.05. For purposes of establishing the legal
boundaries of the Nyungwe buffer plantations and the demarcation
of such boundaries under Part A.1, A.2 and A.8 of the Project,
the Borrower shall appoint an ad hoc commission.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
satisfactory to the Association to ensure that: (i) the number of
staff employed by the GBK Project Unit, GBK's Beef Fattening
Facility, Gishwati's Dairy Operation, GBK's Veterinary Pharmacy
and CAT for purposes of carrying out Parts C.3 to C.6 of the
Project is reduced to a level satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association; and (ii) that such level is maintained.
Section 3.07. For purposes of carrying out Part C.10 of the
Project, the Borrower shall: (i) not later than December 31,
1989, prepare in agreement with the Association a time table and
an action plan with the measures to be taken to strengthen its
institutional framework for agricultural extension at the level
of the Gisenyi Pr6fecture; and (ii) not later than January 1,
1990, ensure that the agricultural extension unit of GBK be
transferred out of the GBK Project Unit and become an autonomous
unit under the supervision of the Gisenyi agricultural exten-
sion unit and be granted responsibilities satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.08. For purposes of carrying out Parts A.3 and
C.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the GBK Project Unit
and the Nyungwe Project Unit to each enter into contracts satis-
factory to the Association with farmers participating in the
practice of Taungya in the Gishwati and Nyungwe plantations to
ensure the proper practice and supervision of Taungya.


﻿-7-
Section 3.09. For purposes of carrying out Parts C.3 and C.4
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the Gishwati management
of the GBK Project Unit to furnish assistance to the livestock
owners in the preparation of their applications for agricultural
credit from commercial banks.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 31, 1987, carry out a study
of the Borrower's livestock subsector and not later than Febru-
ary 29, 1988, carry out a land use study in the Gishwati forest,
in accordance with terms of reference agreed upon with the
Association;
(b) based on the recommendations of each such study,
furnish to the Association for review and comments: (i) a draft
action plan for the reorganization of the dairy products
processing, pricing and marketing in the Borrower's territory;
and (ii) a draft action plan for future land use and management
of the degraded portion of the Gishwati forest; and
(c) based on such review and in agreement with the
Association, finalize such action plans and promptly take all
necessary measures to carry out each such action plans.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall: (i) in accordance with
terms of reference agreed upon with the Association, carry out a
study on wood supply and demand, pricing and marketing; and (ii)
not later than February 1, 1988, based on the recommendations of
such study, furnish to the Association for review and comments a
draft action plan on wood pric:ing policy. The finalization of
such action plan in agreement with the Association shall allow
the establishment of a wocd and fuelwood pricing system satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 3.12. For purposes of carrying out Part B.4 (a) of-
the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) select candidates in accor-
dance with criteria agreed upon with the Association; and (b)
make all necessary arrangements to retain the services of such
candidates upon completion of their training.


﻿- 8 -
Section 3.13. For purposes of establishing accounting
systems within the Nyungwe Project Unit and DGF, the Borroer
shall:
(a) within the Nyungwe Project Unit: (i) appoint and there-
after maintain for a period of eighteen months an experienced and
qualified accounting and financial management expert with such
responsibilities as shall be satisfactory to the Association;
and (ii) not later than six months after the effectiveness of
this Agreement, appoint and thereafter maintain an experienced
and qualified chief accountant as counterpart to such accot.ating
and financial management expert; and
(b) within DGF: appoint and maintain a qualified and expe-
rienced chief accountant with such responsibilities as shall be
satisfactcry to the Association.
Section 3.14. For purposes of keeping and managing the
accounting system within the GBK Project Unit, the Borrower
shall assign a qualified and experienced accountant with such
responsibilities as shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
June 30, 1988, take all necessary measures for the creation of a
forest conservation center in the Nyungwe forest with respon-
sibilities agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association;
(b) not later than December 31, 1992, or such other later date as
the Association may agree, take all necessary measures to ensure
the transfer of the Nyungwe Project Unit with its management and
supervision responsibilities to the forest conservation center;
and (c) cause the forest conservation center to take over such
responsibilities.
Section 3.16. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to ensure that: (a) not later than December 31, 1992, the manage-
ment and supervision responsibilities of the GBK Project Unit for
the Gishwati plantations Lnder Part C.1 of the Project are trans-
ferred to DGF, and the management and supervision responsibili-
ties of the GBK Project Unit for the Kigali-Butare plantations
under Part D.1 of the Project and the staff necessary for the
maintenance of such plantations are transferred to DGF accord-
ing to a transfer schedule satisfactory to the Association;
(b) starting not later than December 31, 1988, DGF enters into
management contracts satisfactory to the Association for the
management of certain plantation blocks by the Communes in the


﻿- 9 -
territory of which such plantations blocks are located; and
(c) not later than December 31, 1992, the GBK Project Unit be
dissolved in accordance with an action plan satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.17. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
December 15, in each year, review with the Association the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the activities under the
Project; and (b) based on such review take all necessary actions
satisfactory to the Association to improve such performance.
Section 3.18. For purposes of managing the pastures under
Part C.3 of the Project, Gishwati's Dairy Operation, GBK's
Veterinary Pharmacy, GBK's Beef Fattening Facility and CAT,
the Borrower shall: (a) not later than June 30, 1989, furnish
to the Association for review and comments, draft by-laws for
the organization of a federation of livestock owners in Gishwati
and proposals for: (i) the participation of pasture owners in
the operating costs of the federation; and (ii) the structure
and management of GBK's Dairy Operation, GBK's Beef Fattening
Facility, GBK's Veterinary Pharmacy and CAT under such federation
of livestock owners; and (b) based on such review and comments
not later than December 31, 1989, take all necessary actions to
finalize such proposals.
Section 3.19. (a) In order to recover part of the investment
cost for the establishment of Gishwati's Dairy Operation, CAT,
GBK's Beef Fattening Facility and GBK's Veterinary Pharmacy, the
Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1989, enter into
Reimbursement Agreements with each such entity under terms and
conditions which shall include, inter alia, the principal terms
and conditions set forth in Part A of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section "investment cost"
means all direct investment cost related to the establishment of
Gishwati's Dairy Operation, CAT, GBK's Beef Fattening Facility
and GBK's Veterinary Pharmacy such as labor and labor equipment,
all infrastructure investment related to the establishment of
such entities, technical assistance cost, operating expenses and
for CAT the cost of purchasing of cattle. The terms of such
Reimbursement Agreements may be amended in agreement with the
Association.
Section 3.20. (a) In order to recover part of the investment
cost for the establishment of the pastures in the Gishwati area


﻿- 10 -
and those being maintained under Part C.3 of the Project, the
Borrower shall modify the lease agreements with the f  mers
utilizing such pastures to include, inter alia, the prir,' al
terms and conditions set forth in Part B of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement. The terms of such lease agreements may be further
amended in agreement with the Association.
(b) For the purposes of this Section "investment cost"
means all direct investment cost related to pasture establishment
such as labor and labor equipment, all infrastructure investment
related to pasture establishment, technical assistance cost
associated with pasture establishment, operating expenses of the
Kigali coordination office and Gishwati central office of the GBK
Project Unit associated with pasture establishment, office build-
ings and housing-related to the establishment of the pastures.
Sertion 3.21. For purposes of carrying out Parts A 1 and A 7
of the Project, the Borrower shall not later than February 1,
1988: (i) carry out a design study for the forestry and faunistic
inventory in UGZ3 which will also establish a solid basis for
complementary hydrological and soils analysis studies in the
natural forest, and establish a natural resources monitoring and
evaluation program; (ii) on the basis of such study, prepare a
natural resources monitoring and evaluation program for the
Nyingwe forest and a plan for the forestry and faunistic
inventory; and (iii) furnish these to the Association for its
approval.
Section 3.22. For purposes of carrying out Part B.3 of the
Project, the Borrower shall not later than February 29, 1988:
(i) furnish to the Association for review and comments the
proposed design of the DGF monitoring and evaluation program for
rural afforestation; and (ii) based on such review and in agree-
ment with the Association, finalize such program and take all
necessary measures for its prompt execution.
Section 3.23. The Borrower shall not later than February 1,
1988, furish to the Association a schedule identifying: (i) the
sector nurseries to be assisted under the seedling production
and distribution program under Part B.1 (a) of the Project; and
(ii) the first twenty groups of farmers selected for the esta-
blishment of collective private nurseries under Part B.1 (b) of
the Project.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.24. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures
to establish a milk price mechanism ensuring efficient milk pro-
duction and commercialization.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of each part of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including the
Special Accounts for each Fiscal Year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account or payments out of the Special Account
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower
shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;


﻿- 12 -
(ii) retain, unt.il at least one year after the com-
pletion of the audit for the fiscal year in which
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
payment out of the Special Account was made, all
records   (contracts,  orders,   invoices,  bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing such
expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) that the Nyungwe Project Unit referred to in Section
3.03 (a) of this Agreement has been established, the Project
manager referred to therein has been appointed, the ecologist and
the forester referred to in paragraph (b) of such Section have
been employed;
(b) that the counterpart funds account and the three
counterpart funds sub-accounts referred to in Section 3.04 of
this Agreement have been established and the initial deposit into
such counterpart funds account referred to therein has been made
and such deposit has been apportioned among such counterpart
funds sub-accounts in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
(c) of such Section;
(c) that the commission referred to in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement has been established and that the legal boundaries of
the Nyungwe buffer plantations have been established and such
boundaries have been demarcated;


﻿- 13 -
(d) that the number of staff employed by the GBK Project
Unit, GBK's Beef Fattening Facility, Gishwati's Dairy Operation,
GBK's Veterinary Pharmacy and CAT have been reduced to a level
satisfactory to the Association pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.06 (i) of this Agreement;
(e) that the accounting and financial management expert
referred to in Section 3.13 (a) (i) of this Agreement and the
Chief accountant referred to in sub-paragraph (b) of such Section
have been employed;
(f) that the lease agreements referred to in Section 3.20
of this Agreement have been modified and a number of farmers
utilizing such pastures satisfactory to the Association has
signed the amending agreements reflecting such modifications; and
(g) that the price mechanism referred to in Section 3.24
has been developed.
Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after
the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministry of Finance and Economy of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
B.P. 158
Kigali
Rwanda
Cable address:                      Telex:
MINIFINECO                         502 MINAFFET


﻿- 14 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                          Telex:
INDEVAS                              440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                      248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
By/       ~ $     0Iv# f        s o     .r
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By/S/ Sver) Sar6 sftromw
AcIIrL5 Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in    Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Nyungwe Project
Unit:
(a) Civil works                  995,000     70%
under Parts A.1,
A.2, A.4 and A.6
of the Project
(b) Vehicles and mate-           497,000     100% of foreign
rials under Parts                       expenditures
A.1, A.2, A.4 and                       and 90% of
A.6 of the Project                      local expen-
ditures
(c) Consultants'                 926,000     100%
services under
Parts A.1, A.2,
A.6 and A.7 of
the Project
(d) Training and                 186,000     100% of foreign
studies under                           expenditures
Part A.1 of                             and 90% of
the Project                             local expen-
ditures
(e) Operating costs              346,000     60%
under Parts A.1
to A.7 (a), E.5
and E.6 of the
Project


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in    Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(2) DGF:
(a) Civil works                   48,000     70%
under Part B.1
of the Project
(b) Vehicles and                 313,000     100% of foreign
materials under                         expenditures
Parts B.1 and                           and 90% of
E.4 of the                              local expen-
Project                                 ditures
(c) Consultants'                 144,000     100%
services under
Parts B.3 and
E.4 of the
Project
(d) Training and                 689,000     100% of foreign
studies under                           expenditures
Part B.4 of the                         and 90% of
Project                                 local expen-
ditures
(e) Operating costs               83,000     60%
under Parts B
and E.4 of the
Proj ect


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in    Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(3) GBK Project Unit:
(A) Civil works:                             70%
(i)   under Part            171,000
D.1 of the
Project
(ii) under Parts            481,000
A.8, A.9, C.1,
C.9 and E.5
of the Project
(iii) under Part            181,000
C.3 of the
Proj ect
(iv) under Part             590,000
C.8 (c) of
the Project
(v) under Part C.11        234,000
of the Project
(vi) under Parts            631,000
C.10 (a),
C.10 (c),
C.10 (d),
C.10 (g) and
E.3 of the
Project
(vii) under Part              39,000
F.1 of the
Project


﻿18 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in    Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(B) Vehicles and                             100% of foreign
materials:                              expenditures
and 90% of
local expen-
ditures
(i) under Part D            180,000
of the
Project
(ii) under Parts             238,000
A.8, A.9,
C.1 and C.9
of the
Project
(iii) under Part             205,000
C.5 of the
Project
(iv) under Parts             303,000
C.10 (a) to
C.10 (d) and
C.10 (g) of
the Project
(v) under Part F            204,000
of the Project
(C) Consultants'                 260,000     100%
services under
Parts C.4, C.7
and C.10 (a) of
the Project
(D) Training and                 117,000     100% of foreign
studies under                           expenditures
Part C.10 of                            and 90% of
Project                                 local expen-
ditures


﻿- 19 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in    Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent) to be Financed
(E) Operating costs:                         60%
(i)   under                 271,000
Part D of
the Project
(ii) under Parts            653,000
A.7 (b) to
A.10, C.1
to C.9, E.1,
E.2 and
E.5 of the
Project
(iii) under Part            207,000
C.10, and
E.3 of the
Project
(iv) under Part F            37,000
of the Project
(4) Refunding of                    1,166,000     Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                             suant to Sec-
tion Advance                                 tion 2.02 (c)
of this Agree-
ment
(5) Unallocated                       605,000
TOTAL                    11,000,000
2.   If the amount allocated to Category (4) above is in excess
of the amount due, the excess will be reallocated to Cate-
gory (5).
3.   For the purposes of this Schedule:


﻿- 20 -
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) paymen's made
for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) payments made for expenditures under Category (3)(B)(iii)
unless the Borrower has finalized an action plan for the dairy
products processing, pricing and marketing satisfactory to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.10 (c) of
this Agreement; and (c) payments made for expenditures under
Category (3)(A)(iv) unless the Borrower has fianlized an action
plan for future land use and management of the degraded portion
of the Gishwati forest satisfactory to the Association pursuant
to the provisions of Section 3.10 (c) of this Agreement.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower
in: (i) strengthening its policies for the protection, esta-
blishment and conservation of natural forests and the promotion
of agro-forestry to increase fuelwood and sawlog production;
(ii) strengthening the planning, monitoring and evaluation capa-
city of forestry activities at DGF; and (iii) increasing private
sector participation in integrated agriculture, forestry and
livestock activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Aasociation may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Protection and Conservation of the Nyungwe and
Gishwati natural forests.
1.   Carrying out of a forestry and faunistic inventory and
thereafter of complementary studies on hydrological and soils
analysis to complete the information base concerning the bio-
logical and ecological composition of the Afromontane forest in
Nyungwe (UGZ3).
2.   Establishment of about 900 ha of buffer plantations in the
Nyungwe forest.
3.   Establishment of a system to supervise the practice of
Taungya in the Nyungwe forest.
4.   Construction of about 65 km of access road to the Nyungwe
forest boundary.
5.   Strengthening the organization of a system of forest guards
and establishment of guard posts within the Nyungwe forest.
6.   Construction of offices and housing and provision of equip-
ment and of the services of a financial expert for the Nyungwe
Project Unit.


﻿- 22 -
7.   Establishment of a natural resource monitoring and evalua-
tion system:
(a) in the Nyungwe forest; and
(b) in the Gishwati forest.
8.   Establishment of about 200 ha of buffer plantations in the
Gishwati forest.
9.   Rehabilitation of about 10 km of trail in the Gishwati
forest along the northern border of the reserve.
10. Strengthening the system of forest guards in the Gishwati
forest.
Part B:   Agroforestry and rural afforestation.
1.   Strengthening  the  seedling   production  and  distribution
programs by:
(a) the rehabilitation of about 60 sector nurseries in
eight Communes located in the Pr6fectures of Kigali and Butare;
(b) the development of collective private nurseries managed
by farmer groups; and
(c) establishment at DGF of a forestry seed storage center
to facilitate seed distribution.
2.   Implementation of a system of direct cost recovery by DGF
for seedlings produced in the nurseries at village-level.
3.   Establishment  of  a  rural   afforestation  monitoring  and
evaluation program.
4.   Strengthening of the national competence (DGF) for forestry
planning management, monitoring and evaluation by:
(a) the training of higher level foresters; and
(b) the provision of trainer courses for local forestry
workers and professionals.


﻿- 23 -
Part C:   Integrated Forestry, Agriculture and Livestock
Development in Gishwati.
1.   Maintenance of about 2,100 ha of plantations and of about
50 km of plantation roads.
2.   Establishment of a supervision system for the practice of
Taungya.
3.   Maintenance of about 1,600 ha of pastures.
4.   Strengthening  the  livestock  monitoring  capacity  by  the
Gishwati zootechnical services and the administration of the
Gishwati livestock unit.
5.     Establishment of about 30 ha of quarantine zones, a
slaughter slab at the GBK's Beef Fattening Facility and provision
of dairy equipment to Gishwati's Dairy Operation.
6.   Strengthening the program for the use of artificial inmemi-
nation.
7.   Establishment  of   a  federation  of  livestock  owners  in
Gishwati.
8.   Carrying out of a land use study to: (a) determine current
land uses in the Gishwati area; (b) identify sites suitable for
forest protection, plantation development, livestock promotion
and other types of development; and (c) implementation of new
approaches to land development.
9.   Establishment of 2,000 ha of sawlog plantations to protect
denuded forest areas.
10. Strengthening of extension services in the Communes of
Rewerere, Kanama and Mutura and strengthening the coordination of
extension activities in the Gisenyi Pr4fecture by inter alia:
(a) strengthening successful extension themes on erosion
control through on-farm terracing, strengthening improved tech-
niques for potato growing including the use of fertilizer and
insecticides and strengthening rural afforestation;
(b) carrying out of a program of on-farm testing and
introduction of multi-purpose woody species for erosion control,
fodder production and fuelwood;


﻿- 24 -
(c) introducing optimum methods of integration of live-
stocks on small farms without sufficient space for fodder pro-
duction and limited fallow land;
(d) strengthening successful extension themes on the value
of the natural forest and improved animal nutrition and health
care;
(e) introducing a new system of agricultural input supply
and distribution through groups of farmers and merchants;
(f) provision of training to extension agents and subject
matter specialists; and
(g) strengthening the supervision, monitoring, evaluation
and coordination of extension activities at the Prefecture level.
11. Establishing about 150 ha of pastures in the degraded part
of the Gishwati forest.
Part D:   Maintenance of Kigali-Butare Fuelwood and Pole Short
Rotation Plantations.
1.   Maintenance of about 3,600 ha of the productive planta-
tions, about 700 km of firebreaks, about 600 km of access tracks
and construction of about 32 km of extraction tracks for harvest-
ing of the older plantations.
2.   Provision of small tools and a tractor trailer for extrac-
tion activities.
Part E:   Applied Research.
1.   Support to ISAR to carry out on-farm and on-plantation
trials directly related to project implementation problems.
2.   Carrying out of a program of on-site experiments, and com-
plementary feed trials on the Kikuyu grass pastures of Gishwati
including use of concentrate feeds and minerals.
3.   Carrying out in the Communes of Rwerere, Mutura and Kanama
of a program of on-farm selection of mullipurpose leguminous
trees contributing to soil fertility, and providing fodder; and
spacing trials of fast growing agroforestry species.


﻿- 25 -
4.   Carrying out of an analysis of existing data on sample
plots.
5.   Establishment of fertilizer trials and other trials in the
existing plantations of Kigali, Butare and Gishwati, and estab-
lishment of species tests for new plantation areas in Gishwati
and Nyungwe and testing methods for protection against rat damage
of cypressplantations.
6.   Carrying out of natural forest management research by the
Nyungwe Project Unit in UGZ3 with the assistance of ISAR.
Part F:   Mutara Pasture Rehabilitation.
1.   Rehabilitation of about 1,500 ha of pastures including
studies and consultations with ISAR.
2.   Provision of equipment, materials and tools.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1992.
Ir


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles and equip-
ment shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent o. $100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A 1 hereof, goods manufactured in the
Rwandese Republic may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than $100,000
per contract and civil works may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with the applicable procedures of the Borrower.
2.   Equipment and vehicles estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the equivalent of $600,000, and spare parts and fuel
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of compari-
son of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with the
procedures referred to in paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.   Equipment estimated to cost less than $1,000 per contract
may be procured through regular commercial and other channels, at


﻿- 27 -
a reasonable price, account being taken of relevant factors such
as time of delivery.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of any of the
Special Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of any of the Special Accounts in respect of
such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of any of the Special Accounts,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two con-
formed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
3.   The figure of 20% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ agricultural, forestry, socio-economic,
management   and  financing   consultants  whose   qualifications,


﻿- 28
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
In accordance with the principles set forth in such Guide-
lines and more specifically in paragraph 1.11 to 1.14, the
Borrower shall include in the shortlist to be prepared prior to
the award of each contract one or several local consultants firms
if such firms are qualified to execute the tasks which are pre-
scribed, either on their own or in association with foreign
firms.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.   Organization and Administration:
1.   The Borrower shall carry out the administrative coordina-
tion of the implementation of the Project through PMC. The
coordination and administration of the activities under the
Project shall be the responsibility of PMC. PMC shall be chaired
by the Secretary General with representation from all parties
involved in the execution of the Project and representation from
the Borrower's Ministries of Finance and of Planning. The manage-
ment and implementation of the different Parts of the Project
shall remain separated. Day to day implementation and administra-
tion of the activities under Parts A to F of the Project shall be
delegated to the GBK Project Unit, the Nyungwe Project Unit, DGF
and OVAPAM in the following manner:
(a) The Nyungwe Project Unit shall be responsible for
implementing the Nyungwe natural forest protection component
under Part A of the Project.
(b) DGF   shall   implement  the   agroforestry  and   rural
afforestation component under Part B of the Project and with the
assistance of ISAR, the analysis of the experimentation trials
under Part E.4 of the Project.
(c) The GBK Project Unit shall be responsible for: (i)
through its Gishwati sub-project unit office the implementation
of the forestry, livestock, and agricultural activities in
Gishwati under Part C of the Project and with the assistance of
ISAR the on-farm and plantation trials under Parts E.2, E.3 and
E.4 of the Project; (ii) through its Kigali-Butare plantation
unit the maintenance of plantations in Kigali-Butare under Part D
of the Project and with the assistance of ISAR the experimenta-
tion and trials in the plantations under Part E.4 of the Project;
and (iii) through its Kigali coordination unit headed by the
GBK Project coordinator, the planning and preparation of annual
work plans, supervision of work plan realization, assistance
with personnel matters for activities under GBK Project Unit's
jurisdiction.


﻿- 30 -
(d) ISAR under a contract will assist in the carrying out
of all applied research under Part E of the Project;
(e) OVAPAM is responsible for the implementation of Part F
of the Piroject with the assistance of ISAR.
2.   Upon the dissolution of the GBK Project Unit and the trans-
fer of the   responsibilities of the Nyungwe Project Unit to the
forest conservation center, all the activities previously managed
by the GBK Project Unit under the Project shall be integrated
into MINAGRI or transferred to the private sector of the Bor-
rower's economy and all those previously managed by the Nyungwe
Project Unit under the Project shall be transferred to the forest
conservation center.
B.   Work Plans and Budgets
Annual work programs and budgets shall be prepared for each
component of the Project and furnished to PMC for its review by
September 15 of each year.
Such work programs and budgets shall detail the objectives
and targets of the component for the year in question, the speci-
fic activities to be carried out and the required human and
financial resources. Annual work programs shall include the
following: (a) a brief evaluation of the previous year's per-
formance as compared to the objectives and a comparison of
results obtained; (b) detailed investment and operating budgets;
(c) staffing and training plans with a statement of specific
objectives; (d) a financing plan; and (e) a procurement plan.
After PMC's review, annual work programs shall be sent to the
Association for their approval not later than October 31 in each
year.
C.   Reporting
1.   The GBK Project Unit, the Nyungwe Project Unit, DGF and
OVAPAM shall each be responsible for the preparation of quarterly
progress reports on their respective components of the Project.
Such reports will cover in particular the status of preparation
of   the work programs and budgets mentioned in paragraph B of
this Schedule. Such progress reports shall be furnished to PMC
for its review and subsequently to the Association.


﻿- 31 -
2.   MINAGRI (DCE) shall be responsible for the preparation of
annual progress reports summarizing the progress achieved in the
execution of each component of the Project. Such progress reports
shall be furnished to the Association for its review not later
than October 31 in each year.
3.    Within six months of the Closing Date, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a Project Completion Report of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested.


﻿- 32 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Accounts A, B and C
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1
to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means (i) an amount
equivalent to $250,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in Special Account A and to be used exclusively for
eligible expenditures under Parts A.1 to A.7 (a) and E.6 of the
Project pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule; (ii) an amount equivalent to $90,000 to be withdrawn
from the Credit Account and deposited in Special Account B and to
be used exclusively for eligible expenditures under Parts B and
E.4 of the Project pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule; and (iii) an amount equivalent to $650,000 to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in Special
Account C and to be used exclusively for eligible expenditures
under Parts A.7 (b) to A.10, C, D, E.1, E.2, E.3, E.5 and F of
the Project pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of Special Account A, B and C shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that a Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
a Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the Authorized
Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,


﻿- 33 -
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in such Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of such Special Account at such intervals or in
such minimum amounts as the Association shall specify. On the
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into such Special Account such amounts
as shall be required to replenish such Special Account with
amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of such
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to
or with any request for replenishment or upon request of the
Association such documents and other evidence as the Association
shall reasonably request, showing that such payment was made for
eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into a Special Account shall be made
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories for the Project,
minus the amount of any outstanding special com-
mitment entered into by the Association pursuant
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with
respect of the Project, shall be equal to the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.


﻿- 34 -
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in a Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into
such Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
No further deposit by the Association into any of the Special
Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit
or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in any of the Special Accounts will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible expen-
ditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount
for crediting to the Credit Account.


﻿- 35 -
SCHEDULE 6
Cost Recovery
A.   Terms and Conditions of the Reimbursement Agreements
For the purpose of reimbursing the Borrower for part of the
investment cost for their establishment each of Gishwati's Dairy
Operation, CAT, GBK's Beef Fattening Facility and GBK's Vete-
rinary Pharmacy shall pay to the Borrower:
(i) the equivalent in FR of the balance between the total
investment cost for the establishment of each such
entity and the equity contribution made by the Borrower
to cover part of such investment cost;
(ii) the amounts described in paragraph (i) above shall be
reimbursed by GBK's Dairy Operation, CAT, GBK's Beef
Fattening Facility and GBK's Veterinary Pharmacy over a
period of twenty (20) years including a five (5) year
grace period; and
(iii) GBK's   Dairy  Operation, CAT,    GBK's  Beef  Fattening
Facility and GBK's Veterinary Pharmacy shall pay to the
Borrower interest at the rate of 7.92% per annum on the
amounts to be reimbursed and outstanding from time to
time.
B.   Terms and Conditions for the Lease Agreements
For the purpose of reimbursing the Borrower for part of the
investment cost for the establishment of the pastures in the
Gishwati area, the rent amount to be paid by the farmers to the
Borrower shall include:
(i) the equivalent in FR of the balance between the total
investment cost for the establishment of such pastures
and the equity contribution made by the Borrower to
cover part of such investment cost;
(ii) the equivalent in FR of the total amount invested to
complete the establishment of the pastures under   Part
F.1 of the Project;


﻿- 36 -
(iii) the amounts described in paragraph (i) above shall be
paid by the farmers over a period of twenty (20) years
including a five (5) year grace period; and
(iv) the farmers shall pay to the Borrower interest at the
rate of 7.92% per annum on the amounts to be paid and
outstanding from time to time.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Developmen 'Association.
FOR SECRETARY


