                                     Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                         Report No:ICR0000119




              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (UK-28929 WBTF-29817)




                                       ON A

                                      GRANT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.2 MILLION

                                        TO

                   KOSOVO, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA

                                      FOR A

                            SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT




                                   March 23, 2007




Human Development Sector Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
           ( Exchange Rate Effective 28/02/2007 )
                 Currency Unit = Euro
                    Euro 1.00 = US$ 1.32
                     US$ 1.00 = Euro 0,76


                         Fiscal Year
                       July 1 - June 30




        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CSW           Centers for Social Welfare
DFID          Department for International Development
DO            Development Objective
DSW           Department of Social Welfare
FM            Financial Management
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR           Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA           International Development Association
IP            Implementation Progress
ISR           Implementation Status Report
MLSW          Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare
MTR           Mid-Term Review
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
PAD           Project Appraisal Document
PCU           Project Coordination Unit
PDO           Project Development Objective
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
QAE           Quality at Entry
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
QSA           Quality of Supervision Assessment
TA            Technical Assistance
UNMIK         United Nations Interim Administration



              Vice President: Shigeo Katsu

            Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos

             Sector Manager: Hermann A. von Gersdorff

         Project Team Leader: Csaba Feher

                  ICR Writer: Lorena Kostallari

                                                        KOSOVO
                                 SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT



                                                         Contents


                                                                                                                               Page


DATA SHEET................................................................................................................................. i

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................................1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ...............................................................5
3. Assessment of Outcomes...........................................................................................................10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome..........................................................................13
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................................14
6. Lessons Learned.........................................................................................................................17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............................18

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing...........................................................................................23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................................24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..................................................................................28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes..............................29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................................31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................................32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR......................................33
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................................44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................................45

MAP: IBRD 35406

                                         DATA SHEET

A. Basic Information

Country:                    Kosovo               Project Name:          Social Protection Project
Project ID:                  P072405             L/C/TF Number(s):      UK-28929,WBTF-29817
ICR Date:                    03/23/2007          ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:         ERL                  Borrower:              UNMIK
Original Total Commitment: USD 4.2M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 4.2M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: UNMIK
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: UK DFID



B. Key Dates

      Process               Date               Process         Original Date       Revised / Actual
                                                                                        Date(s)
Concept Review:         03/14/2001       Effectiveness:          07/16/2001            07/16/2001
Appraisal:              05/08/2001       Restructuring(s):
Approval:               07/03/2001       Mid-term Review:        09/01/2002            01/22/2004
                                         Closing:                02/29/2004            08/31/2006



C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                          Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                       Moderate
Bank Performance:                                  Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings                    Borrower                  Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory    Government:              Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Unsatisfactory  Implementing
                                                   Agency/Agencies:         Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Unsatisfactory  Performance:             Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      Implementation
        Performance           Indicators      QAG Assessments (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project at No            Quality at Entry (QEA):          Moderately Satisfactory


                                                  i

any time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time                                                     Moderately
                               No             Quality of Supervision (QSA):
(Yes/No):                                                                       Unsatisfactory
DO rating before
                               Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                       Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                        23                   23
Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance                            2                     2
Other social services                                                   75                    75


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                               Secondary            Secondary
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction                  Secondary            Secondary
Social risk mitigation                                                  Primary             Primary
Social safety nets                                                      Primary             Primary



E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                               At Approval
Vice President:              Shigeo Katsu                           Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:            Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                 Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:              Hermann A. von Gersdorff               Michal J. Rutkowski
Project Team Leader:         Csaba Feher                            Hjalte S. A. Sederlof
ICR Team Leader:             Csaba Feher
ICR Primary Author:          Lorena Kostallari



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objectives of the project are to: (a) design a basic safety net for the immediate future; (b) design a
sustainable social welfare system for the medium term; and (c) develop administrative capacity for
delivery of pensions, and veterans' and invalidity benefits.




                                                     ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

    Indicator          Baseline Value            Values (from                           Achieved at
                                                    approval          Revised         Completion or
                                                  documents)       Target Values       Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Increase in quality and consistency of service provision through centers for social
                welfare (CWS) as observed through regular monitoring of service provision.
                                                                                   All social services
Value                                         Improved quality                     staff trained and
quantitative or Very poor service provision   and consistency of                   operating in much
Qualitative)    through CWSs                  service provision                    improved working
                                                                                   conditions.
Date achieved   06/29/2001                    02/29/2004                           08/31/2006
                This indicator can not be assessed as no systematic monitoring of services provision or
Comments        client satisfaction survey was carried out. However, through upgrading of CWS
(incl. %        infrastructure, the project ensured better working conditions for 560 out of 760 social
achievement)    workers, all CWS social workers were trained in modern case management and
                supervision, and 40 CWS social workers completed academic training.

Indicator 2 :   Blueprint in place for a comprehensive welfare system and focusing on priority areas
                (welfare, pensions, veteran benefits and war invalids support)
Value
quantitative or No system in place            Program designing                    Program designs in

Qualitative)                                  in place                             place

Date achieved   06/29/2001                    02/29/2004                           08/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Mechanisms in place for the delivery of pensions, and veterans' and invalidity benefits

Value                                         Operational old age

quantitative or Lack of effective             and disability                       Operational pension

Qualitative)    mechanisms                    pension system in                    system in place
                                              place
Date achieved   06/29/2001                    02/29/2004                           08/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

    Indicator          Baseline Value            Values (from                           Achieved at
                                                    approval       Revised Target     Completion or
                                                  documents)           Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of CWSs refurbished and equipped, mobile teams equipped.
Value                                         20 CWSs                              20 CWSs
(quantitative   No CWS rehabilitated          rehabilitated and 32                 rehabilitated/built (12
or Qualitative) or/and equipped               equipped                             CWS rehabilitated


                                                   iii

                                                                                    and 8 new centers
                                                                                    built). 34 CWSs and
                                                                                    all mobile teams
                                                                                    equipped.
Date achieved    06/29/2001                  02/29/2004                             08/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :    Number of staff trained in supervision and delivery; certificate program in place for
                 training of future staff
                                                                                    All CWSs staff were
                                             All CWSs staff                         trained on

Value                                        trained and a                          supervision and case

(quantitative    No staff trained            number of Ministry                     management. Also,

or Qualitative)                              and CWSs staff                         79 staff of CWSs,
                                             completed the                          Ministry and students
                                             certificate course.                    completed certificate
                                                                                    course.
Date achieved    06/29/2001                  02/29/2004                             08/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :    Number of Pension Fund staff trained in relevant administrative skills.
Value                                        Pension Fund staff                     Pension Fund staff
(quantitative    No staff trained                                                   trained, including 8
or Qualitative)                              trained                                medical doctors
Date achieved    06/29/2001                  02/29/2004                             08/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


 No.       Date ISR                                                                Actual Disbursements
           Archived                  DO                          IP                   (USD millions)
   1      10/24/2001             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        0.00
   2      12/17/2001             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        0.17
   3      06/20/2002             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        0.18
   4      09/25/2002             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        0.26
   5      03/31/2003             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        0.47
   6      12/17/2003             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        1.39
   7      06/23/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        2.31
   8      12/28/2004             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        2.97
   9      06/03/2005             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        3.43
  10      12/08/2005             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        3.98
  11      01/26/2006             Satisfactory                Satisfactory                        3.98



                                                   iv

H. Restructuring (if any)

Not Applicable


I. Disbursement Profile




                             v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)


1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)
At the inception of preparation for this project, Kosovo was characterized by very unusual
governance and institutional arrangements. Following the military conflict with Serbia
(during March ­ June 1999) and NATO involvement, the UN Security Council endorsed
Resolution 1244 which established Kosovo as a UN protectorate, administered by UNMIK.
Only in 2002 governance in Kosovo was gradually being handed over to local institutions,
including the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (established in March 2002). However,
the responsibilities between UNMIK and local institutions have, since than, remained
confused and ill-coordinated.

Country macroeconomic background: At the time of project preparation (FY01), the
macroeconomic situation in Kosovo was seriously affected by poor economic policies,
broken external trade and financial links, international sanctions, lack of investments and
ethnic conflict. The output, which was already reduced by 50 percent in the early 90s, fell
by another 20 percent due to the conflict with Serbia at the end of the decade. Half of the
population was unemployed and more than half was poor. Since 1999, there has been a
shift towards liberal market policies. The macroeconomic situation started to improve since
2000. GDP growth reached 21 percent in 2001 and has since averaged 4.3 percent.

The military conflict with Serbia inflicted considerable damage on Kosovo's economy and
its population. Nearly one million refugees were displaced during the war, with most of
them returning home by the fourth quarter of 1999. Kosovo faced a desperate shortage of
employment. The old route of emigration was closed. This resulted in a significant decline
of cash remittances sent back by family members abroad, leaving especially rural families
without an important source of household income.

Sector background: Before 1989, Kosovo had its own social protection scheme, under the
umbrella of Federal Yugoslav legislation. The scheme included contributory pensions and
unemployment benefits, means-tested child allowances for contributors with low wages
and very limited social assistance for households with no resources. The latter operated
through a number of local centers for social work that also provided social services to
vulnerable groups such as: children, the elderly and the disabled.

As a result of the military conflict with Serbia, the situation deteriorated considerably. The
social programs became extremely weak, while most services were dropped. Furthermore,
the population inherited high levels of physical and psychological damage; a considerable
number of households lost their breadwinner. Efforts were made by the United Nations
Interim Administration (UNMIK) to address the most urgent needs of the population,
through the establishment of a very basic social assistance program in 1999. This program
targeted the most vulnerable households by channeling modest cash benefits and providing
very limited welfare services. However, there were a number of challenges: (i) many social
centers were seriously damaged during the conflict with Serbia and lacked basic


                                              1

equipment; (ii) there was clear shortage of professional staff at both local and central
levels; and (iii) the system lacked an appropriate organizational framework, and there was
little cooperation among the relevant public institutions.

In this context, the Kosovo Social Protection project design focused on addressing the
following issues: (i) strengthening social welfare services for the immediate future and in
the medium term; (ii) putting in place basic administrative processes for pensions, veterans
and invalidity benefits; and (iii) building human resource capacities in the social welfare
system. This was consistent with the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo
(September 1999) in ensuring the efficiency of public sector spending and in building
effective, accountable and efficient public institutions. It also reflected the main directions
for social protection reform as outlined in the World Bank's Economic Report on Kosovo.
The report identified the need for building up an affordable social safety net that would
target the vulnerable population.

The support of the Bank was critical for two main reasons: (i) there was no other donor
offering considerable support in the sector, and (ii) the Bank could bring significant
experience in supporting the social sector from its work throughout the region. Moreover,
the Bank could also offer a quick response to the emergency situation in Kosovo.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The development objectives of the Social Protection project were to: (a) design a basic
safety net for the immediate future; (b) design a sustainable social welfare system for the
medium term; and (c) develop administrative capacity for delivery of pensions, and
veterans' and invalidity benefits.

The key outcome indicators were as follows:

     (i)    increase in quality and consistency of service provision through centers for
            social welfare (CWS) as reflected in regular monitoring of services provision by
            case workers (counseling, referral) and the appeals process;
     (ii)   blueprint (program designs) in place for a comprehensive welfare system, and
            focusing on priority areas (welfare, pensions, veterans benefits, war invalids
            support); and
     (iii)  simple administrative mechanisms in place for delivery of pensions, veteran's
            and invalidity benefits.

The above indicators were stated in the main text of the PAD. However, Annex 1 of the
PAD only included two indicators: (i) increase in quality and consistency of service
provision, and (ii) better organization of social welfare policy-making and service delivery.

Key output indicators as stated in Annex 1 of the PAD included: (i) number of CWSs
refurbished, equipped, and mobile teams equipped; (ii) number of staff trained in
supervision and delivery; certificate program in place for training of future staff; (iii)



                                              2

number of staff trained in relevant administrative skills; and (v) timeliness of submission of
monitoring reports; quality of monitoring and evaluation activities, quality of financial,
procurement management.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority),
and reasons/justification

The project development objectives and key indicators were not revised during the course
of project implementation.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised; briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

The main goal of the project was the enablement of the welfare system to adequately
address the needs of the poor and vulnerable groups of population. Main beneficiaries for
the welfare services would include: individuals and households at risk; children; elderly;
persons with disabilities; and single-heads of households. A better administration of the
social welfare system would improve system operation and skills in counseling and care,
while ensuring better quality of the delivered services. Furthermore, the separation of the
welfare service and of the benefit payment functions would improve targeting and
timeliness of benefit delivery.

In addition, pensioners, war veterans and invalids were to benefit from the appropriate
administrative schemes established under the project. Central and local institutions
involved in the welfare system were also to benefit from increased management capacity,
which would be developed through project support and participation in project activities.
Different actors of the welfare system were to benefit from introducing an appropriate
organizational structure and putting in place institutional arrangements.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Strengthening the Social Welfare System (estimated total cost US$1.02
million):

This component was to define an appropriate organizational structure and related
institutional arrangements for the social welfare system, anticipating a diminishing role of
UMNIK and international institutions. It would do so by providing technical assistance and
training for: (i) organizational and institutional development at the sectoral level, including
definition of objectives and responsibilities of entities in the social welfare; (ii)
strengthening policy analysis capacities and administrative skills of staff in the Department
of Social Welfare (DSW); (iii) introducing a strategic planning and policy development
function in the DSW; (iv) introducing administrative and IT ­ based methods to prevent
fraud and corruption in the welfare system; and (v) support for an information and
communication strategy for the sector aimed at promoting professional communication


                                               3

among welfare professionals and disseminating information about social services to the
general public.

Component 2: Upgrading of Social Welfare Infrastructure (estimated total cost
US$2.68 million):

This component was designed to support the refurbishment of 20 and equipping 32 social
welfare centers (CWSs). The component activities were to complement the work done by
several NGOs and bilateral donors on refurbishing and, in some cases, rebuilding CWSs,
including providing office equipment. Also, the component included the provision of some
vehicles and office equipment for mobile CWSs for Serb enclaves.

Component 3: Capacity Building for Centers for Social Work: (estimated total cost
US$1.95 million):

This component was to build-up to a minimum standard of care and care planning in the
CWS network. It would do so through: (i) providing training in modern case management
for CWSs staff, skill building and specialized training in social work and law, client-
centered needs analyses and networking and advocacy; (ii) developing a staff level
technical guidance and supervision function at the CWS level by providing selected senior-
level social workers in each center with accelerated training in case-supervision and
management; (iii) introducing a mechanism for outcome assessment at the level of ISP;
and (iv) developing a certificate program in social work, aiming at ensuring a future
generation of qualified social workers. In terms of the fomalized course work, the client
requested at the time of the Mid-Term Review (January 2003) that a Masters Programme
be added to the certificate programme. The reason for this request was two-fold: (a) to
ensure that the certificate course becomes eligible for TEMPUS support after the closing of
the project and (b) to provide academic training for high-level policymakers of MLSW.

Component 4: Support to Pension and Invalidity Fund (estimated total cost US$0.17
million):

This component was also planned as an institutional building component, the purpose of
which was to help strengthen essential services delivery in the Pension and Invalidity Fund,
through provision of technical assistance and training. It was to support the operation of the
Fund administration, under the circumstances of a new pension scheme, as well as war
veterans and invalidity benefit scheme. The rehabilitation of Fund administration facilities,
provision of some basic equipment and establishment of the database were supported by a
previous Bank project (Education and Health project). More specifically, the component
was to support: (i) re-introducing administrative procedures for record-keeping; (ii)
establishing a system of accurate calculations of benefits; (iii) establishing a system of
keeping track of people in payment status; and (iv) providing information to the general
public.




                                            4

Component 5: Project Management (estimated total cost US$0.80 million):

The Project implementation was designed to be managed directly by the Department of
Social Welfare (DSW), which would be responsible for all technical aspects of the project.
During the first two years of the project life, DSW was to receive support from two
international consultants, one expert on project management, and the other a procurement
expert.

1.6 Revised Components

Project components were not revised during implementation.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

No significant changes were made in project design and scope. The project has gone
through two amendments to extend its closing date. The first one extended the project
closure from February 28, 2004 to February 28, 2005. The main reason behind was the
slow start-up of project implementation, which resulted in delayed implementation of
almost all project activities. A second amendment was agreed upon during project Mid-
term Review (MTR), extending the closing date to August 31, 2006, to ensure the
completion of all activities related to the certificate program.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The objectives and the design of the Kosovo Social Protection project have to be assessed
in the context of (a) exceptional political, economic and institutional circumstances of the
country, as a result of the conflict with Serbia; and (b) the particular features of the social
policy reform and programs.

This was the first project supported by the Bank to address the social welfare sector of
Kosovo. The project's objectives were in line with key directions of the social protection
reform as recommended in the World Bank's Economic Report on Kosovo. The original
project components flow quite naturally from the development objectives, with strong
emphasis on both capacity building and infrastructural improvements. The project was
designed to support UNMIK efforts to develop a coherent social welfare system. In the
area of pensions and provision of benefits to war veterans and invalids, the design was
largely based on recommendations from analytical sector work, conducted jointly by the
Bank and the British Department for International Development (DFID). Although due to
in-country circumstances the project was hastily prepared, the project design successfully
identified critical issues that needed to be addressed. In retrospect, however, the design



                                               5

appears to have been rather ambitious for a three years project in a post-conflict
environment. Also, at the approval stage, the project demonstrated poor readiness for
implementation (which included lack of key staff and a core unit for project
implementation, lack of a monitoring system and plan for the baseline data). This led to a
slow start of the project implementation.

The project was reviewed by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) for the first time on
June 2002. The Quality at Entry (QAE) 5 assessment rated the quality at entry as
Moderately Satisfactory. This rating was based on the Moderately Satisfactory rating for
strategic relevance and approach, poverty and social aspects, and implementation
arrangements. Bank inputs and processes were also rated Moderately Satisfactory. The
project was considered a worthwhile effort, which should have benefited from more
preparation to ensure a faster take-off. Also, the panel suggested particular attention to the
need for a strong M&E system.

Lessons learned from other projects and the country status, which were reflected in the
project design, are as follows:

    · The specific country financial circumstances, which placed serious constraints on
        the design of the safety net and social protection program, were clearly taken into
        consideration during the project preparation. Efforts to support establishment of
        schemes not only affordable in the short run, but also sustainable over time under
        the conditions of restrained tax-based financing and donor resources, were taken
        into account while designing the project components.

    · In the situation where there are interim political arrangements in the country, there
        is a narrow window of opportunity for donors and international experts to have a
        significant impact on the formulation of policies and the design of systems, prior to
        these arrangements becoming resistant to change. This was considered while
        designing the technical assistance packages, to be implemented during the first
        phase of project implementation.

    · The importance of aid coordination was a crucial factor taken into consideration,
        especially in the conditions of limited implementation and policy development
        capacities. The project design ensured complementarity with DFID initiatives in the
        social welfare sector.

    · The ownership of the implementing agency is widely recognized to be a significant
        factor in successful project implementation. While specific functions of
        procurement and financial management were designed to be carried out by the
        Project Coordination Unit (PCU)/international experts, the Department of Social
        Welfare (DSW) was directly involved in project management throughout the
        project design and implementation. This had a positive effect on strengthening the
        institutional capacity of the Ministry.




                                              6

Risks and their mitigations identified during the project preparation phase were as
follows:

                       Risks                                       Mitigations

 The local population may not recognize           Extensive consultations were held with
 ownership of the proposed welfare system and of  local stakeholders and feedback was
 changes in current structure.                    received by UNMIK and NGOs. Also, all
                                                  terms of reference for the work were drawn
                                                  up in consultation with UNMIK and reflect
                                                  UNMIK and Kosovars views, expressed
                                                  during project preparation.
 Generating an ethnic-based two track service     Mobile outreach services were to be
 system.                                          developed to support ethnic groups.

 Lack of adequate implementation capacity in      UNMIK entities were to be appropriately
 UNMIK.                                           strengthened for project implementation.

 Kosovar CWSs community may lack trust on         Terms of reference required track record of
 contracted NGO who would provide capacity        successful collaboration with Kosovars in
 building for CWSs.                               social welfare training.




2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)

The project was not restructured and was never at risk. No major changes were made in the
project design. As noted earlier, the project was extended twice. The first extension (from
February 2004 to February 2005) was granted because of delayed implementation of
almost all project activities; while the second extension (until August 2006) was agreed
upon during project MTR, mainly to ensure the completion of the activities related to the
certificate course.

The key factors affecting project implementation included: (i) less than complete project
preparation, including the lack of monitoring and evaluation plan which resulted in the
absence of systematic monitoring and evaluation throughout project life; (ii) less than
satisfactory supervision which resulted in opportunities lost to restructure the project when
it may have been needed, especially at MTR; and (iii) the very unusual country
circumstances with both international and local governance arrangements working at the
same time with less than ideal coordination and with unusually low capacity among the
Kosovar staff.

    (i)     As noted earlier, the project was prepared within a short timeframe. As result, at
            approval stage, the project demonstrated poor readiness for implementation,
            including the lack of monitoring system and the plan for baseline data.


                                             7

    (ii)    The initial weaknesses were mostly offset in the early years of project
            implementation, with some exceptions (such as setting up an appropriate
            monitoring and evaluation system, and accrediting the certificate course for
            social workers). Agreement on accreditation of the certificate course was
            reached only at project MTR (2004), consequently the course was organized
            only during last two years of project implementation. Overall, the MTR, while
            placing greater emphasis on implementation of the remaining project activities,
            failed to re-examine some of the key issues. No action was taken on
            establishing an appropriate monitoring and evaluation system. Also, the MTR
            team lost the opportunity of a possible project restructuring, which would have
            addressed certain capacity building activities (such as: training of CWS staff in
            the case management techniques, while the role of social work services turned
            out to be smaller than envisaged at the project design stage). A second QAG
            review, for project supervision, was carried-out in October 2006 (following
            project closure). The QSA7 rated supervision as Moderately Unsatisfactory,
            mainly based on (i) lack of an appropriate monitoring and evaluation system
            and (ii) failure to re-examine certain key issues during project MTR.
    (iii)   Lack of proper coordination between different institutions and weak capacity of
            staff, especially at project start, considerably affected the implementation
            progress. The activities related to the certificate course, could only begin after
            the Mid-Term Review, when a Memorandum of Understanding was signed
            between the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology and the Ministry
            of Labour and Social Welfare. The certificate course could be successfully
            completed only after the project was granted a second extension. The Master's
            Programme failed to materialize, too, as the University of Prishtina ­despite
            written assurances to the contrary- was unable to provide the minimum
            conditions necessary for accreditation or the financial and human resources
            needed.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Although the results framework was put in place at the project design stage, the project
lacked a baseline data plan and needed a more comprehensive set of key performance
indicators. For example, the existing key performance indicators were not adequately
defined to measure the quality of services. It also appears that, during project
implementation, the client made little effort to set up monitoring system and to put in place
the mechanism for gathering information on a number of key indicators. This issue was
acknowledged during the project MTR, but no concrete steps were taken to address it.
Therefore, while extensive efforts of Bank teams on project implementation issues led to
successful completion of most project activities, relatively little attention was given to the
utilization of the PDOs and outcome indicators for assessing the achievement of project
objectives. In addition, there is little evidence on the use of indicators for identifying and
addressing issues coming up during project implementation.

While during project implementation there was no appropriate monitoring system in place,
the ICR has been able to collect information for assessing the achievement of project



                                              8

output indicators. The same is true for all outcome indicators, with the exception of the
first one: "increase in quality and consistency of service provision".

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Environmental Aspects: The project design identified only minor risks, related to civil
works in CWSs, which would require supervision by the Bank team. However, no
environmental assessment was performed at the outset of the reform to establish whether
the client's standards and procedures met Bank requirements. During implementation, the
Bank team relied on the documented environmental certification issued by local
authorities, proving that civil works under the project were considered environmentally
safe according to local regulations.

Procurement: The procurement responsibilities at project implementation start were led by
an international procurement advisor, hired to support the Ministry of Labor and Social
Welfare. This responsibility was gradually transferred to a local procurement specialist,
who was adequately qualified and experienced. Following the transfer, all procurement
actions were handled by this specialist, in close coordination with DSW staff. Regular
procurement supervisions were provided by the Bank team, identifying no major issues
during project implementation. In addition, all activities were carried out in line with the
frequently updated procurement plans. The project was subject to an independent
procurement review in FY06 which considered the project as the best under review

Financial Management: In general, project financial management was handled
satisfactorily. The financial monitoring reports were prepared and submitted on time.
Project financial transactions were audited on an annual basis by independent auditors and
all audit reports had unqualified opinions. The Bank financial management analyst carried-
out frequent supervisions, including review of audit reports. However, note should be taken
of a gap of at least 25 months in Bank FM supervisions, which could be justified by the
fact that project FM risk was rated as "low".

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and
institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Although no follow-up operation is planned in the social welfare area and policy dialogue
is limited to containing fiscally disruptive changes, the reforms and institutional capacity
introduced with project support are likely to be sustained. The institutions of social welfare
system and a functioning pension scheme are in place and operational. The legal
framework for social and family services as well as cash benefits is completed with
government efforts and is functional. The required operational budget for the rehabilitated /
built CWSs under the project is entirely financed by the government and the municipalities.




                                             9

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The overall project concept, as well as project components matched the country needs at the
project preparation stage and also have remained relevant to the present. The project followed
on well from the Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo (September 1999) and was largely
consistent with the recommendations for social protection reform spelled out in the World
Bank's Economic Report on Kosovo. Moreover, there were links in terms of objectives and
activities of this project with major related projects financed by the Bank and other
development agencies, such as: Community Development Fund (Bank financed), UNMIK
Social Welfare Department initiatives, and other providers of social services and capacity
building activities supported by multilateral agencies and donors.

The project design tried to consider constraints related to the post-conflict status of the
country, such as: very limited resources for investment and related operations as well as quite
modest capacity in UNMIK and Kosovar community. Therefore, the original project
components placed emphasis on developing essential services, which meet the minimum
requirements of a safety net and capacity building for providing better access to/and quality
services over the medium term.

Overall, the project development objectives were appropriate and relevant, but rather
ambitious for a three-year project in post-conflict settings.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)
Achievement of project development objectives is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The
assessment of the PDOs and performance indicators is discussed in more details below.

1) Design a basic safety net for the immediate future of the country (Moderately Satisfactory)

At the beginning of the project no social safety net was in place in Kosovo. The project has
been successful in developing a basic safety net through: (i) establishing an appropriate
infrastructure by rehabilitating, equipping, refurbishing of centers for social works as well as
equipping mobile teams; and (ii) building up capacity at the centers for social works (CSWs),
aiming at improving standards of counseling, care and care planning at the CWS network.
This is related with the first project outcome indicator and the output indicators 1 and 2. The
project contributed to upgrade CWSs infrastructure by rehabilitating 12 centers for social
welfare and building 8 new centers throughout the country. Also, these CWSs were provided
with the required furniture and equipment. In addition, 14 more CWSs received furniture and
equipment. In order to provide outreach services to Serb enclaves, a number of mobile teams
were also provided with basic equipment and vehicles. Upgraded infrastructure ensured better
working conditions for 560 social workers in CWSs, out of a total number of 760 social
workers all over the country. Furthermore, all CWSs social workers were trained on modern



                                            10

case management and supervision. After severe delays in establishing the certificate course on
social work, academic training of 40 CWSs social workers was finally accomplished at the
end of project. However, it is worth pointing out that had it not been for these delays, the
number of the trained staff would have been larger (considering an average of 20 CWSs social
workers benefiting from the academic training, per year).

Despite the achievements made, as outlined above, it must be noted that the functioning of
social services offered by the CWS network did not occur as initially planned. Although at
project design stage it was thought that social workers were going to play a crucial role in
providing social services to the vulnerable groups, their actual role proved to be less
significant. The main reason behind this seems to be the strong tradition in the country with
respect to the provision of social services. It is uncommon for most people in need to publicly
declare their situation and ask for support by the respective public institutions. Better results
were achieved through visits of the social workers outside CWSs (in people's own location)
vis-à-vis the services offered inside the centers. This is one of the issues which could have
been analyzed during the project MTR, and a strategy could have been developed to improve
the situation.

It should also be noted that the related outcome indicator, established at appraisal (increase in
quality and consistency of service provision), was not systematically monitored, which
hampered efforts to judge project achievements vis-a-vis this indicator. However, assessments
and observations during visits to a number of CWSs demonstrated the enthusiasm and
appreciation of the CWSs staff and community representatives for the upgrading of social
welfare infrastructure and increased capacity of social workers. In addition, anecdotal
information collected during the ICR mission, showed that there was a slight increase in the
number of clients served in CWSs.

2) Design sustainable social welfare system for the medium term (Moderately Satisfactory)

The project successfully put in place a blueprint for a comprehensive welfare system. This is
related with the second project outcome indicator. With project support, a thorough legislative
review of the existing system was carried out, followed by preparation and approval of two
main Laws: the Law on Family and Social Services and Law on Cash Benefits. Several
manuals and protocols were produced and approved, setting up the basis for family care
policies and procedures. Public agencies responsible for social assistance and public insurance
were set up under the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare. In the area of pensions, veterans
and invalids' benefits, procedures for verification of the eligibility and methodology for the
eligibility criteria were developed. In addition, some progress was achieved towards
establishing an appropriate organizational structure and institutional arrangements for the
social welfare system. However, due to delays which occurred during implementation of the
respective TA contract, certain recommendations were still under review by the DSW staff at
the end of the project. Selected staff from the Ministry benefited from training and formal
education. Despite that, the project's impact on capacity building was more modest than
initially anticipated, due to staff changes in the social welfare administration. This can be
explained by political and administrative factors influencing the system, in an environment of
a continuous diminishing role of UNMIK and stronger role of the Kosovar government.



                                             11

3) Develop administrative capacity for delivery of pensions, and war veterans and invalidity
benefits: (Satisfactory)

The project successfully supported the introduction of administrative procedures for record-
keeping and determination of benefits for pensioners, veterans, and invalids. This is related
with the third outcome indicator and output indicator 3. Specific administrative regulations
were put in place in 2004 for the selection of beneficiaries. Old age and disability pension
systems were established and benefits were regularly paid at their legally set values. Improved
monitoring mechanisms for distribution of benefits were supported by the project. Eight
medical staff were trained and attached to the commissions responsible for the selection of
invalidity beneficiaries. As a result, the selection process improved considerably. While in
2004, around 68 percent of all applicants were elected to benefit from the invalidity fund, in
2005, this figure was reduced to 40 percent, and in 2006, was further reduced to 25 percent.

In addition, staff of the Pension and Disability Fund benefited from limited trainings on social
administration, until end of 2004 (when the Fund was still operating under the Department of
Social Welfare).

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least
cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

N/A

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The outcome of the project is rated Moderately Satisfactory as the project addressed key
issues of the social welfare system for the immediate future and medium-term, including
building capacity in related public institutions. As explained above, two of the three project
development outcome indicators and all intermediate outcome indicators were met. It is hard
to evaluate the achievement of one of the outcome indicators, as no systematic monitoring of
services provision or client satisfaction survey was carried out. However, through upgrading
of CWS infrastructure, the project ensured better working conditions for 560 out of 760 social
workers, all CWS social workers were trained in modern case management and supervision,
and 40 CWS social workers completed academic training. Overall, given the hasty
preparation, the project was able to attain credible results.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The project undoubtedly had a positive impact on the availability of important welfare


                                             12

services to the population ­ including the poor ­ of Kosovo. Also, it can be argued that it had
a positive impact on specific vulnerable groups, such as: at-risk individuals and households,
children, elderly, veterans, persons with disabilities, and single-heads of households through
the establishment of a functioning social welfare system. As noted earlier, a better
administration of the social welfare system improved system operation and skills in
counseling and care. In addition, the separation of the welfare services and of the social
benefit payment functions influenced positively in improving targeting and timeliness of
benefit delivery.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional
development)


The project successfully supported the establishment of an adequate institutional framework
and organizational structure for the social welfare system, including the set-up of the
administration for social assistance and public pensions. The capacities of staff in the Ministry
of Labor and Social Welfare to work with and evaluate different policies in the social welfare
system and to encourage the reform in the sector have been considerably improved. Direct
involvement of the Ministry staff (especially the Department of Social Welfare) in the
implementation of project activities, served to strengthen their capacity through both on-the-
job and formal training, as well as properly targeted technical assistance. However, the
institutional development impact of the project would have been stronger, if changes of senior
staff at the central social welfare administration were not as frequent.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

N/A

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)


N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The project is likely to have a long-term impact on a number of key areas of the social welfare
system in Kosovo. While no social protection system existed at project design stage, the
required institutions were established by project closure and a functioning pension system is
in place. Following the legislative review carried-out with project support, the Law on Basic
Cash Transfer, Law on Social and Family Services and the respective by-laws were
developed, approved and are currently effective.




                                             13

The considerable attention provided by the project in terms of capacity building, especially at
the central level, has resulted in a number of well prepared and capable senior staff at the
ministry and main institutions, on social welfare analyses and evaluation. Despite changes of
main staff during the life of the project, the impact on capacity building was strong. This is
evidenced by the commitment of the Ministry and Department of Social Welfare (DSW) staff
to complete and implement the recommendations provided under the project regarding
institutional development and organizational arrangements. The successful completion of the
certificate program is also expected to have a positive impact on the sustainability of the new
social protection institutions.

However, some recent policy initiatives (such as: war martyr law, draft pension law, draft
employment law) may put in risk one of the main project's outcome - designing of a
sustainable social welfare system for the medium term; if not closely coordinated with the
work done so far under project support. The project had a strong impact on capacity building
for the DSW and some other Ministry staff, but did not cover all the other Directorates under
the Ministry (since they were not targeted).

Also, the project impact on capacity building would have been stronger had the master degree
program been established earlier. As a result of lack of coordination as well as university
commitment, the program started to be implemented only during the last year of project
implementation. In addition, the program could not be officially recognized as part of the
academic program of the university.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

As mentioned earlier, the project preparation was rated Moderately Satisfactory by QAE5.
This was an overall assessment of strategic approach and relevance, poverty aspects,
implementation arrangements, and Bank inputs and processes. The panel evaluated that
project preparation was carried-out by experienced Bank staff (unfortunately with insufficient
time). Since the Trust Fund grant that provided all project financing faced a deadline, and few
staff was assigned to the project, various design and implementation issues could not get the
necessary attention.

The ICR agrees with the panel's assessment and rates the project preparation Moderately
Satisfactory. On the positive side, available documentation suggests that a considerable
amount of work was completed by the Bank team prior to Board approval. The project design
was consistent with the Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo and directly supported
building effective and accountable public institutions, which was one of the main objectives of
this Strategy. In addition, the project was in line with the World Bank's Economic Report on


                                             14

Kosovo, supporting the establishment of a sustainable social safety net. The objectives and
design of the project clearly addressed and complemented the social assistance program
launched by UNMIK and endorsed by the Kosovar community. Finally, the project
preparation was closely linked to the overall support offered in the social sectors, by the Bank
as well as other donors. On the negative side, the project design appears to have been rather
optimistic. Taking into account the capacities of the Kosovar counterparts at project design
stage, weak coordination between different institutions as well as the post-conflict
environment in the country, the preparation team had too high expectations in terms of
successful completion of a number of project activities, within a three-year timeframe. Also,
detailed implementation arrangements were not clearly defined prior to project approval. It
has to be noted that the project should have benefited from more preparation to ensure a faster
start-up.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Bank's supervision performance, viewed over the entire life of the project, is rated
Moderately Unsatisfactory. Despite the relatively weak readiness for implementation at
approval stage, the task teams could have successfully offset most of the initial weaknesses in
the early years of project implementation. However, some key issues did not get the required
attention, such as: (i) the need for a strong monitoring and evaluation system, and (ii) reaching
agreement on the certificate course for the social workers. During project MTR, strong
emphasis was placed by the supervision team on implementation progress. The Bank team
reached agreement on certain steps towards ensuring the timely completion of the remaining
activities (including agreement on a second project extension, to enable the completion of
activities related to certificate course). On the other hand, the supervision team did not pay
enough attention to some key issues, already identified. As noted earlier, it might be argued
that the MTR team lost the opportunity of a possible project restructuring, which would have
addressed certain capacity building activities. Since the MTR provided the main directions for
subsequent supervision, its weaknesses affected the Bank supervision until project closure. In
addition, the quality of ISRs is generally weak, in particular with respect to monitoring and
performance indicators. The supervision documents frequently lacked a clear action plan for
follow-up on project activities, especially on capacity building issues. Finally, the team did
not pay enough attention to monitoring environmental safeguards.

A QSA7 review for project supervision was carried out in October 2006 (for FY05-06). The
panel rated project supervision as Moderately Unsatisfactory. The main reasons of this
assessment were: (i) lack of an appropriate monitoring and evaluation system (throughout
project life), and (ii) failure of the team to re-examine some key issues during the project
MTR.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Overall, the Bank performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.


                                              15

The Bank team at project preparation carried-out a considerable amount of work, which
resulted in the completion of an appropriate and relevant project design. As discussed earlier,
the project should have benefited from more preparation, to ensure a faster implementation
start. Meanwhile, the Bank supervision teams paid close attention to the project
implementation progress. However, no proper attention was paid to some key issues, such as:
(i) weak monitoring and evaluation system, (ii) possibility of project restructuring to address
existing weaknesses in capacity building activities, (iii) monitoring of environmental
safeguards and, (iv) lack of clear action plans in most of supervision documents. Most
importantly, Bank supervision did not properly focus on project measurable outcomes.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall Government Performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The early days of
project implementation were marked by limited ownership of the project by UNMIK/Kosovar
government. The establishment of the new Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (MLSW) in
2002 coincided with the implementation start-up of the project. The capacity of the Ministry
and related institutions and the coordination between them was relatively weak. This was also
reflected in the delays of some project activities. For example, the certificate course for social
workers could start implementation only after project MTR. As already mentioned earlier, the
required agreement between the MLSW and the Economic Faculty for the certificate program
could be finalized only after considerable delays.


With project support, good efforts were made on capacity improvements in the MLSW as well
as its related institutions. Also, the government ownership of the project was strengthened
considerably. These yielded positive results in most of the project activities and, in a few
instances, in compensating the work started by technical assistance ­ such as the finalization
of the organizational structure and institutional arrangements for the social welfare.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Implementing Agency performance is overall rated Moderately Satisfactory. At the
project start­up, the responsibility for project implementation laid with the DSW staff,
supported by two international consultants (covering management and procurement aspects).
The project management by the DSW staff was considered weak, in particular since the staff
capacity was limited. Also, the international consultant hired for managing the overall project
activities, could not ensure the required close coordination with DSW and other institutions
involved in the project.

Towards midpoint of project implementation period, the international experts were replaced
with local staff, hired for the Project Coordination Unit (PCU). While the responsibility for
overall project coordination remained with the DSW, daily technical implementation issues


                                             16

became the direct responsibility of the PCU. Transition of responsibilities to local counterparts
brought positive results, which led to improved coordination and closer follow up of project
implementation. The capacity of the DSW staff considerably improved as a result of formal
and on-the-job training, as well as well-targeted technical assistance, offered with project
support. This had a positive impact on strengthening their ownership of the project. The
performance of the PCU staff was constantly evaluated as satisfactory. Despite the variety of
tasks that it was asked to perform, the PCU performance was considered at good standards,
until project closure.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Borrower performance is rated, on balance, Moderately Satisfactory.
The capacity of the MLSW and its related institutions was considerably improved with project
support. This had positive impact on strengthening government ownership of the project. In
addition, although project management was weak at project start-up, it improved considerably
during the course of implementation. The performance of the PCU staff was constantly
assessed as satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

There are three main lessons learned from this project:

    (i)     The project design teams have to carefully assess the specific country situation,
            actual capacity at central as well as local government institutions, and have
            realistic expectations. This is especially important where the policy formulation
            and sectoral governance are weak. It is quite a challenge to prioritize the needs of a
            post conflict country, with completely devastated and abandoned social programs.
            However, defining clear priorities and, if needed, working out possible
            alternatives, is crucial for achieving the project expected outcomes.

    (ii)    The project teams need to be flexible and consider developing possible alternative
            strategies in the course of project implementation, in order to ensure achieving all
            project objectives.

    (iii)   Continuous government ownership and capacity building is fundamental for a
            successful project implementation and the sustainability of reform activities
            beyond project life. Although the daily management work for SP project was
            carried out by the PCU members, the main responsibility for the implementation of
            each project component laid with the Department of Social Welfare, under the
            Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare. This Department, in close collaboration
            with all related institutions, is making laudable efforts to carry on the reform
            activities supported under the project.




                                              17

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


  
                    INSTITUCIONET E PËRKOHSHME TË VETËQEVERISJES 
                    PROVISIONAL INSTITUTIONS OF SELF GOVERNMENT 
                         PRIVREMENE INSTITUCIJE SAMOUPRAVLANJA 
                                                       
       QEVERIA E KOSOVËS ­ GOVERNMENT OF KOSOVO ­ VLADA KOSOVA 
 
                        MINISTRIA E PUNËS DHE MIRËQENIES SOCIALE 
                         MINISTRY OF LABOUR AND SOCIAL WELFARE 
                          MINISTARSTVO RADA I SOCIJALNE ZASTITE 
                                                       

Date:            9 March, 2007

To:              Ms. Lorena Kostallari

From:            Muhamet Gjocaj, Director of DSW/MLSW

Subject:         Implementation Completion and Results Report (UK 28929 WBTF 29817) for
                 Kosovo Social Protection Project

Dear Ms. Kostallari,

I would like to congratulate you for the report done precisely. I read the report with special care, and
the presentation of the report was done in a balanced manner. In fact Department of Social Welfare
(DSW) and I, as an implementation manager of the project from 1 April 2003 tried to make sure that all
work on this project was done well also, as we agreed in the beginning of the project that we did not
have sufficient experience in Project Management.

The report in a loyal way reflected on all components: goals and objectives that DSW tried to achieve
from this project. The project did not encounter major changes, as from the beginning of the project
and it can be said that the project reached its foreseen objectives:

    1. Design of basic safety net for the immediate future of the country
    2. Design sustainable social welfare system for the medium term
    3. Develop administrative capacity for the delivery of pensions and war veterans and invalidity
        benefits

We have verified that the main responsibility for implementation of each component of the project has
been lead from DSW inside Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare (MLSW). It wasn't an easy job to
do whilst considering capacity in that time but, I am glad that we are being positively evaluated.

* Project components:

    1. Strengthening the Social Welfare System



                                                  18

    2. Upgrading the Social Welfare Infrastructure
    3. Capacity Building for Centers for Social Work
    4. Support to Pension and Invalidity Fund
    5. Project Management

The Ministry was pleased with the work of the PMU consultants, both international and local in
managing day to day activities of the project. The Social Protection Project in Kosovo funded by the
World Bank-DFID was of great importance and support to us in setting up a new system. The project
has been very beneficial to Kosovo in terms of restructuring the Social Welfare System in Kosovo,
including Social Welfare Infrastructure.

Lessons learned to be considered in future projects:

The trainings in different areas that were financed by this project, were very useful to local staff which
is not the case with the staff joint the DSW and MLSW later (during 2005-2006). Therefore there is a
great need for further support from the World Bank to continue with the capacity building in order to
keep sustainability of Social Protection. Unfortunately, Kosovo Budget can not meet these
requirements and further support from World Bank would benefit a lot to local staff, especially at this
time when there is capacity within the Ministry, to manage projects such as this one.

Many regards,

Muhamet Gjocaj
Department of Social Welfare
Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare
 




                                                19

20

(b) Cofinanciers


 "Valbona Bogujevci" <v-
 bogujevci@dfid.gov.uk>                         To <cfeher@worldbank.org>

 03/21/2007 11:42 AM                             cc <mgorcaj@worldbank.org>,
                                                    <lemini@worldbank.org>
                                             Subjec RE: Kosovo Social Protection
                                                  t Project - Implementation
                                                    Completion Report




 Csaba,

 Thank you sending the completion report. I am content with it and have no
 other comments.

 It was great working with you. Any WB future plans to work in the sector
 would add great value to our joint effort so far - perhaps another joint
 project.

 Many thanks for everything, and hoping to see you soon.

 Best,
 Valbona

 -----Original Message-----
 From: cfeher@worldbank.org [mailto:cfeher@worldbank.org]
 Sent: 15 March 2007 23:39
 To: Valbona Bogujevci
 Subject: Kosovo Social Protection Project - Implementation Completion
 Report

 Dear Ms. Bogujevci,

    The World Bank places great emphasis on evaluating the effectiveness
 of its operations and learn from clients how our future cooperation can
 become even more successful. In order to provide the management of the
 Bank, cofinanciers and the implementing agencies with an independent
 evaluation, an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is prepared as the
 last phase of a project's lifecycle.

    Once an ICR is completed, it is forwarded to the client and the
 cofinancier for comments which then become an integral part of the
 document. Attached to this letter, please find a copy of the
 Implementation Completion Report of the Kosovo Social Protection Project
 for your kind review and comments.

    We would like to kindly request that DFID furnish us with written
 comments no later than Thursday, March 22, so that our internal deadlines
 may be observed.

    Sincerely,

 (Embedded image moved to file: pic08486.jpg)


 Csaba Fehér
  (See attached file: P072405_ICR_Main_Document.fcs.doc)

 



                                  21

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society) 




                                          22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

             Components              Appraisal Estimate Actual/Latest Estimate Percentage of
                                       (USD millions)      (USD millions)       Appraisal
STRENGTHENING THE SOCIAL
WELFARE SYSTEM                                     0.98                   0.94            96

UPGRADING OF SOCIAL
WELFARE INFRASTRUCTURE                             2.53                   2.59          102

CAPACITY BUILDING FOR CSWS                         1.89                   2.29           121
SUPPORT TO PENSION AND
INVALIDITY FUND                                    0.16                   0.12            75

PROJECT MANAGEMENT                                 0.78                    0.83          104
                 Total Baseline Cost               6.34                   6.77
Physical Contingencies                             0.09
Price Contingencies                                0.19
                 Total Project Costs               6.62                   6.77           101
Front-end fee PPF                                  0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                 0.00                   0.00
          Total Financing Required                 6.62                   6.77



(b) Financing


                                            Appraisal         Actual/Latest
      Source of Funds           Type of                                        Percentage of
                               Financing  Estimate (USD      Estimate (USD
                                             millions)          millions)       Appraisal

 Borrower                                             0.00                 0.00
 UK: British Department for
International Development                             2.42                 2.57
(DFID)
 Special Financing                                    4.20                 4.20




                                          23

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Strengthening the Social welfare system is rated Moderately Satisfactory.
(actual total cost US$ 0.94 million):

Original objective of this component was to: define an appropriate organizational structure
and related institutional arrangements for the social welfare system, anticipating a
diminishing role of UMNIK and international institutions. It would do so through providing
technical assistance and training for: (i) organizational and institutional development at the
sectoral level, including definition of objectives and responsibilities of entities in the social
welfare; (ii) strengthening policy analysis capacities and administrative skills of staff in the
Department of Social Welfare (DSW); (iii) introducing a strategic planning and policy
development function in the DSW; (iv) introducing administrative and IT ­ based methods
to prevent fraud and corruption in the welfare system; and (v) support for an information and
communication strategy for the sector aimed at promoting professional communication
among welfare professionals and disseminating information about social services to general
public.

Achievements under this component: The project successfully supported strengthening policy
analysis capacity and administrative skills of staff at the central level ­ specifically the
Department of Social Welfare (DSW). It helped establishing the family care policies and
related procedures. Basic knowledge of the social welfare system and options for its
sustainable future were provided. Comprehensive analyses of the roles and functions of
centers of social welfare (CWSs) were carried out, aiming at positively affecting the
standards of services offered. Policy development and strategic planning function was
introduced in the Department of Social Welfare. While at the end this activity achieved good
results, it was marred at the beginning by serious delays which occurred as result of problems
with contracted international consultancy engaged in the organization and institutional
development.

A functioning pension system was established, which is a significant accomplishment, given
that no system was in place at the time of project design. Concerning the legal framework, a
legislative review has been completed, followed by the preparation of the Law on Social and
Family Services. The Law was produced in close collaboration with the DSW staff and the
Ministry of Labor, and is considered to be in line with the European standards and
international conventions. Also, the Law for basic cash transfers was developed and
approved.

In addition, the project helped to establish the social assistance database. Under parallel
financing, DFID has provided support to the ministry to strengthen administrative procedures
for the social assistance scheme. However, this activity failed to achieve the expected result.
While only the draft IT Master Plan could be developed with project support, the work was
taken over by the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare to complete the Plan and also
produce the respective strategy. At the end of project, only a draft strategy was prepared.




                                            24

Component 2: Upgrading of Social Welfare Infrastructure is rated Satisfactory.
(actual total cost: US$ 2.59 million)

Original objective of this component was: to support the refurbishment of 20 and equipping
of 32 social welfare centers (CWSs). The component activities were to compliment the work
done by several NGOs and bilateral donors on refurbishing and, in some cases, rebuilding
CWSs, including providing office equipment. Also, the component included the provision of
some vehicles and office equipment for mobile CWSs for Serb enclaves.

Achievements under this component: Overall, the expected outputs of this component were
accomplished. There are 20 centers for social services which have been rehabilitated / built
(12 rehabilitated and 8 new centers built). The project has put in place a functional
infrastructure for social welfare services, supporting the establishment of a basic safety net
and a sustainable welfare system. The parameters followed for the rehabilitation/new
construction of these centers are generally in line with the international standards used for
these services. The centers received full furniture and office equipment, offering an
appropriate working environment to the social workers, as well as clients. In addition, 14
more centers for social welfare received only furniture and office equipment. There are
roughly 560 social workers in CWSs (from a total number of 740 social workers in the whole
country) who have benefited from the training on supervision and social work.

This component has also supported providing outreach services to the Serb enclaves, through
equipping several mobile CWSs with the basic equipment and vehicles.

Component 3: Capacity Building for Centers for Social Work is rated Moderately
Satisfactory (actual total cost US$ 2.29 million):

Original objective of this component was to: build-up a certain standard of care and care
planning in the CWS network. It would do so through: (i) providing training in modern case
management for CWSs staff, skill building and specialized training in social work and law,
client-centered needs analyses and networking and advocacy; (ii) developing a staff level
technical guidance and supervision function at the CWS level by providing selected senior-
level social workers in each center with accelerated training in case-supervision and
management; (iii) introducing a mechanism for outcome assessment at the level of ISP and
(iv) developing a certificate program in social work, aiming at ensuring a future generation of
social workers.

Achievements under this component: Overall, the implementation under this component was
delayed, mainly due to: (i) delayed contracting of related TA; and (ii) lack of agreement on
institutional arrangements, required to start the certificate program in social work. However,
despite the very slow progress at the start of the project, training of the CWSs staff on
modern case management and supervision has been completed. This training was designed
with the help of an international consulting company and was organized in all the existing
CWs in Kosovo. The certificate course on social work was designed as an accredited training
course in social work. Its implementation started only in October 2004, after the signature of
a memorandum of understanding between Ministry of Education and Ministry of Labor and



                                             25

Social Welfare. The course program was re-designed to respond to the Bologna Convention,
governing the standards of tertiary education in Europe. Out of a total of 79 students who
participated in the course, half were staff of the Ministry/CWSs and the other half were
university students. The first certificates for the course were issued by the University of
Pristina in June 2005. The certificate course could be completed successfully after the project
had been extended twice. Only during project MTR arrangements were put in place to make
possible the completion of this activity.

Meanwhile, an Advanced Course in social administration (master program) was additionally
requested by the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare. Unfortunately, only few subjects
were completed by a limited number of senior staff. Attaching the master course to the
University of Pristina was not the appropriate choice, considering the unclear situation in the
university and academia area. No action was taken even during the Mid term review to
revise/restructure the activity, although it became clear that its successful completion and
sustainability was quite unlikely.

Component 4: Support for Pension and Invalidity Fund is rated Satisfactory.
(actual total cost: US$ 0.12 million):

Originally, this component was also planned as an institutional building component, the
purpose of which would be to help strengthen essential services delivery in the Pension and
Invalidity Fund, through provision of technical assistance and training. It was to support the
operation of the Fund administration, under the circumstances of a new pension scheme, as
well as veterans and invalidity benefit scheme. More specifically, the component was to
support: (i) re-introducing administrative procedures for record-keeping; (ii) establishing a
system of accurate calculations of benefits; (iii) establishing a system of keeping track of
people in payment status, and (iv) providing information to the general public.

Achievements under this component: The component provided technical assistance and
training to the staff of Pension and Invalidity Fund. While the improvement of infrastructure
and basic equipment for Fund facilities has been provided under another Bank financed
project (Education and Health project), this project has specifically supported introducing of
administrative procedures of record-keeping, appropriate determination of the benefits,
providing information to the general public, etc. Establishing the working methodology of
the eligibility criteria as well as the procedures for verification of the eligibility, are
successfully completed. With project support, trained medical staff has been attached to the
commissions set up in 8 communes (seven parts of Kosovo and one in Mitrovica - settled by
Serbs). Specific administrative regulations were put in place in 2004 for the selection of
beneficiaries. Overall support offered under this component has already started to bring
positive results. While in 2004 around 68 percent of all applicants were selected to benefit
from invalidity fund, in 2005 this figure was reduced to 40 percent, and for 2006 reached 25
percent. This is the result of improved monitoring mechanisms and also better coordination
between the Fund and the Department of Social Services (responsible for distribution of cash
social assistance).




                                             26

The staff of the Pension and Disability Fund has also benefited from some training offered
under the project, until end of 2004 (when its staff was still under the Department of Social
Welfare). No further support was offered for capacity building of Fund staff. Currently, work
is in process for delegating certain responsibilities from the central to local offices,
maintaining mainly monitoring functions at central level. Considering the still fragile
capacity of Fund staff and the absence of any donor presence in this specific area, the
decentralization process seems to present a serious challenge for the government.

Component 5: Project Coordination Unit
(actual cost: US$ 0.83):

While the responsibility for technical aspects of the project lay with the Department of Social
Welfare in the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, technical assistance was offered since
project start to help the government with day-to-day implementation issues. Two
international experts were hired, one for project management issues and the other as
procurement expert. Their assignments were concluded before project mid term point and
they were replaced by local consultants. Since then, the PCU played a crucial role in
strengthening the ownership of the project as well as the coordination with the ministry and
concerned institutions. Also, the procurement and financial functions were handled
satisfactorily.




                                            27

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                                        28

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


         Names                    Title              Unit        Responsibility/Specialty
Lending


Hjalte S.A Sederlof Lead Operations Officer       ECSHD Task Team Leader
Kathryn Dahlmeier   Operations Analyst            ECSHD Operations Analyst

Seyoum Soloman      Procurement Specialist        ECSPS  Procurement

Hiran Herat         Financial Management
                    Specialist                    ECSPS  Financial Management Specialist

Kishor Uprety       Counsel                              Counsel
Joseph Fomoso       Disbursement Officer          LOA    Disbursement


Supervision/ICR


Hjalte Sederlof      Social Protection Specialist ECSHD Task Team Leader (Board approval
                                                         until June 2002)

Jeanine Braithwaite  Social Protection Specialist ECSHD  Task Team Leader (June-December
                                                         2002)

Kathryn Dalhmeier    Social Protection Specialist ECSHD  Task Team Leader (January 2003 ­
                                                         June 2004)
Csaba Feher          Senior Economist             ECSHD Task Team Leader since June 2004

Maria V. Vannari     Senior Procurement
                     Specialist                   ECSPS  Procurement

Olav Rex Christensen Financial Management         ECSPS  Financial Management
Elona Gjika          Financial Management         ECSPS  Financial Management
Kseniia Malenko      Finance Analyst              ECSPS  Finance Analyst
Lorena Kostallari    Senior Operations Officer    ECSHD ICR primary author
Elda Hafizi          Program Assistant            ECCU4 Program Assistant
Carmen Laurente      Senior Program Assistant     ECSHD Senior Program Assistant




                                          29

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

             Stage of Project Cycle                                USD Thousands
                                            No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                   consultant costs)
Lending
                     FY01                                     9                  90.21
                     FY02                                     1                  16.90
                                     Total:                  10                 107.11
Supervision/ICR
                     FY01                                                          0.70
                     FY02                                     9                  66.62
                     FY03                                    14                  53.81
                     FY04                                    24                 134.62
                     FY05                                    11                  64.96
                     FY06                                    13                  57.74
                     FY07                                     1                    2.07
                                     Total:                  72                 380.52




                                      30

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)




                                    31

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)




                                  32

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare on the Social Protection Project

1. Background

This document is the completion report of "Social Protection Project" (IDA/DFID GRANT
TF029817 and TF028929), prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare. The
project became effective as of June 2001, and was completed on 31st August 2006. (The
initial closing date was 29th February 2004, which was later extended twice, first to 28th
February 2005 and the second time extended to 31st August 2006.)


The report includes information on: project goals and component design, project activities
and outputs, the evaluation of the project and learnt lessons from the project which can be
used in future projects.

2. Project Development Objective

The project was conceived in support of the Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo. The
overall objective of the project was to improve the delivery of social services throughout the
whole Kosovo.

3. Project Components

The project has five components:

1. Strengthening the Social Welfare System
2. Upgrading the Social Welfare Infrastructure
3. Capacity Building for Centres for Social Welfare
4. Support to Pension and Invalidity Fund
5. Project Management

Component 1 - Strengthening the Social Welfare System

This component supports the institutional strengthening of Social Welfare System in Kosovo
by (i) organizational and institutional development at the sectoral level, involving definition
of objectives and responsibilities of several entities involved in social welfare, (ii)
strengthening policy analysis capability and administrative skills of staff in the Department
of Social Welfare and the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare, (iii) introducing a strategic
planning and policy development function in the Department of Social Welfare and the
Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare, and (iv) introducing administrative and IT-based
methods to prevent fraud and corruption in the social welfare system.




                                            33

Component 2 - Upgrading the Social Welfare Infrastructure

The objective of this component was to put into place a functional infrastructure of Centres
for Social Work, including the minority areas. This was achieved by renovating existing
Centres for Social Work and constructing new ones, as well as provision of office furniture
and office equipment for all Centres for Social Work.

Component 3 ­ Capacity Building for Centers for Social Welfare

The aim of this component was to provide a cadre of professional staff able to provide high
standards of service to the population of Kosovo by (i) provision of specialized training in
modern case management to update the professional skills of current CSW staff, (ii)
development of a staff technical guidance and supervision function at the CSW level by
providing selected social workers in each centre with accelerated training in case
management, (iii) and development of a certificate program in social work to ensure a future
generation of staff.


Component 4 ­ Support to Pension and Invalidity Fund

This component was included to provide the Department of Social Welfare with the capacity
to be able to handle basic administrative functions related to pensions, veterans and disability
pensions.

Component 5 - Project Management

This component was included to provide the Department of Social Welfare with the capacity
to effectively implement, monitor and evaluate the project. The Project Management Unit
was created to provide the financial, technical and logistical support to the Department and
the Ministry in the carrying out of the day to day management and implementation of the
Project.

4. Project Activities and Outputs

4.1.   Component 1 - Strengthening the Social Welfare System

4.1.1. Technical Assistance for Legislative Review - Phase 1

This activity aimed to review and update the current applicable Law for the delivery of
Social Services. It started in November 2002 and was completed in April 2003. The scope of
work for this activity was:

a) Identify and analyze the applicable social welfare laws, making use of OSCE report of
    December 2001.

b) Recommend a structure for replacement regulations taking into account current
    requirements and the need to update regulations in the future, and



                                            34

c) Produce an explanatory memorandum which will form the basis for drafting of the Law
    and which will comply with international professional and human rights standards.

The results of this TA were presented to the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare (MLSW)
in April 2003. The MLSW, after consideration of the recommendations, presented an
explanatory memorandum to Government in August 2003 with Government accepting the
proposal and forming an inter ministerial working group to draft the legislation.

4.1.2. TA Family Care Policies and Procedures

This technical assistance was completed in December 2003 and provided the MLSW with the
following:
a) Procedure Manual For Inter-country Adoption
b) Procedure Manual For Domestic Adoption
c) Procedure Manual For Foster Care
d) Interagency Protocol on child protection
e) Implementation Plan

4.1.3. Technical Assistance for Legislative Review ­ Phase 2

This technical assistance started on February 2004 and was completed on August 2004 as a
follow up of a consultancy ­ Legislative Review Phase 1.

The Government, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare, proposed a new law on
Family and Social Services based on the explanatory memorandum and the recommendations
made in phase 1. The Government formed an inter ministerial working group, under the
chairmanship of the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare, which is charged with the
responsibility of drafting the new legislation.

The International Consultant was engaged to assist the Inter Ministerial Working Group and
the Department of Social Welfare in drafting legislation and administrative instructions for
the implementation of legislation in the field of Family and Social Services.

The Law on Social and Family Services and the Regulations, which follow the Law were
prepared and finalized. The final draft Law was presented to the Government and approved.

4.1.4. Institutional Development of Department of Social Welfare, Ministry of Labour
and Social Welfare

This activity was one of the main technical assistance under this component.            The
International Consultant Company was engaged to undertake this work which started on July
2003 and was completed on March 2005.

The overall aim of this technical assistance was to put in place the means by which the DSW
and MLSW can develop policy and strategic plans on a continuous basis, within the
resources that it has available to it.




                                             35

It aimed to address three inter related areas:

Policy Practice and Development ­ designing and implementing a training programme to
impart knowledge and skills relevant to a) analysing and understanding social welfare
problems and issues; b) formulating policies and strategies to address them; c) recognising
the purpose, value and goals of effective administration of social welfare programmes; and d)
implementing and maintaining standards of service

Strategic Planning ­ facilitating the development of a strategic plan for the Department of
Social Welfare and establishing appropriate frameworks that enhance planning capacity
within the department. Such capacity must support the formation of links between policies,
implementation and evaluation

Organisational Structure ­ taking into account the current constraints (fiscal,
administrative and the diminishing role of UNMIK/International NGO's) make
recommendations on the organisational structure of the social welfare delivery system in
Kosovo, including the relationship between municipalities and centres for social work and
the staffing requirements of the central Department of Social Welfare.

The outputs from this project are as follow:

Objective 1

Mapping, Analysis and Review of the Kosovo Social Welfare System - "Draft Sketch on
social protection in Kosovo" - the report is a description of current social protection system
in Kosovo including also issues for reflection and urgent actions.

Design and implementation of a tailor made and integrated training program on
general social policy and welfare - "Draft report on Integrated Training Plan" - a report on
the training needs assessment based on surveys conducted with DSW staff in October 2003
and September 2004.
Overview of research, contacts and EU - "Development overview with research and social
policy documentation, inventory of contacts, information provision on social policies in SEE,
EU and elsewhere" - the document provides a list of research and policy documentation, an
inventory of contacts and many other related information.

Assessment of current social policy development - "Evaluation of the current social policy
(Focusing especially on drafting the Law on Social and Family Services)" - the report
focuses in the evaluation of the drafting process of the Law on Social and Family Services.

Training on social policy development - A seminar on Strategic Planning was held on 27th
and 28th October 2004. The seminar was attended by 35 participants from Department of
Social Welfare, Department of Pensions, Institute of Social Policy and Centres for Social
Work. Another seminar on the same topic was held on 23rd and 24th November 2004. Both
workshops focused on strategic and operational planning of the MLSW/DSW. The aim was
to process the plan itself through discussions.




                                              36

Objective 2

Development of reporting and monitoring system - "Development of reporting and
monitoring systems" - Proposal for strengthening and organising the reporting and
monitoring in DSW/MLSW. This paper includes (1) principles how to improve and develop
the monitoring and evaluation procedures in the DSW/MLSW, (2) a proposal how to
improve the current situation in DSW. A proposal is based on WB Social Protection Kosovo
Project's previous findings and evaluation.

Strategic plans and operational plans for DSW - "Development of social protection in
Kosovo - Draft Strategic Plan to 2012" - The draft Strategic Plan document was prepared
mostly based on the results of the workshops in October/November 2004.

Objective 3
Assessment of current administrative organisation and practices - "General
organizational review of the Department of Social Welfare" ­ the report presents proposal for
alternative models to restructuring DSW.

General organizational review - "General organizational review of the Department of
Social Welfare and the Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare" - The report assessed the
administration of the Department of Social Welfare and the Ministry of Labour and Social
Welfare and gave recommendations of its development.

Exit Strategy - Recommendations given for future development of Kosovo social protection
policy.

Trainings abroad under this component:

- Study Tour to Finland ­ took place from 26th November till 4th December 2003. The aim
of the visit was introduction with Social Services System in Finland. The participants were
the key officials of the MLSW, including the Minister.

- Study Tour to Slovenia ­ it took place from 27th February till 10th March 2005. In total, 14
participants from the Ministry attended the visit. The aim was to get familiar with the Social
Protection System in Slovenia as a country that went through transition.

4.1.5. IT Support

The project employed two local IT consultants from January 2002. The consultants
undertook the management of the Social Assistance Database and have provided support to
the Operational Monitoring Unit in analysis of the database.




                                           37

4.2. Component 2 - Upgrading the Social Welfare Infrastructure

4.2.1. Civil Works

The PMU, through the local consultants hired to undertake design and supervision works,
refined the program to take into account available resources and up to date information on
the state of repair at each CSW. The program of CSW renovation and construction was
developed including the minority areas. Procurement has been highly competitive with
construction companies in Kosovo showing their capacity to deliver quality results. The
project has been very successful in implementing the full range of activities planned.

In total, 12 CSWs were renovated and 8 new CSW buildings were constructed:

Pristina CSW - Renovation
Gllogovc CSW - Renovation
Gjilan CSW - Renovation
Kamenica CSW - Renovation
Lipjan CSW - Renovation
Southern part of Mitrovica CSW - Renovation
Prizren CSW - Renovation
Klina CSW - Renovation
Peja CSW - Renovation
Decan - CSW Renovation
Northern part of Mitrovica CSW - Renovation
Leposavic CSW - Renovation
Shtime CSW - Construction
Skenderaj CSW - Construction
Zvecan CSW - Construction
Zubin Potok CSW - Construction
Obilic CSW - Construction
Podujeve CSW ­ Construction
Fushe Kosove CSW - Construction
Prishtina CSW - Construction

4.2.2. Goods

This category aimed to provide equipping of CSWs to standard, including the provision of
furniture for reconfigured offices, generators, minor office equipment and equipment to
enable outreach services to minority enclaves.

The CSWs were provided with Mobile Team Kits (Portable Generators, Office equipment
including laptops, photocopiers and fax machines, Office supplies, Vehicles), application
Software for donated Korean computers, miscellaneous training equipment, photocopiers
and fax machines for CSW's and office furniture for all CSW's

The provision of mobile teams has greatly enhanced the capacity of the DSW to provide
services to minority communities. The kits are also deployed to facilitate the application for



                                           38

basic pensions (and later Disability Pensions) in minority areas and for those unable to attend
regional Kosovo Pension Administration offices.

The provision of furniture and equipment has upgraded all offices to an acceptable standard.

4.3. Component 3 ­Capacity Building for Centres of Social Welfare

The aim of this component was to provide a cadre of professional staff able to provide high
standards of service to the population of Kosovo by establishing accredited training for
professional social workers and a comprehensive training program to introduce modern case
management procedures into Centres for Social Work. A scoping study was provided in June
2002 to test the feasibility of an accredited training program which concluded that with
appropriate support this was possible. The study recommended that the start should be made
in establishing the institutional framework for this course.

4.3.1. Establishment of Institutional Framework for CSW Training

The consultant was recruited in November 2002 in order to establish the institutional
framework necessary for an accredited training course. The outputs from this work were:

a) Establishment of a Board of Studies consisting of the Ministry of Labour and Social
Welfare, the Ministry of Education and the University of Pristina to undertake the
establishment of the Accredited Course at the University of Pristina

b) Establishment of Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Labour and
Social Welfare, Ministry of Education and the University of Pristina on Accredited Course
on social work .

4.3.2. Training of CSW Staff

The aim of this activity was: a) establishing an accredited training course in social work, b)
delivery of on-the-job training in social work case management skills, and c) assistance to the
Department of Social Welfare in the establishment of a human resource development
functions.

The International Consulting Company was engaged to undertake this work which started on
August 2003 and was completed on August 2006.

a) Accredited Training in Social Work

Certificate Course in social work

A precondition for the building up of the study program was the extension of the project
period to cover at least two full academic years. A positive reply to extend the project period
until August 2006 was received from the World Bank, and the project was able to ensure the
sustainability of the study program and to start the pilot Certificate Course.




                                            39

A comprehensive Certificate Course in social work was developed at the University of
Pristina. The course required a year of full-time studies, an equivalent of 60 credits in the
European Credit Transfer System (ECTS).

Since the objective of the Certificate Course was twofold ­ first, to provide training in
modern social work for social sector personnel, and second, to create a flow of new entrants
to labor market with qualifications for social work professions ­ the MLSW decided that the
groups of students consists of CSW employees and university students.

The first year of teaching of the Certificate Course in Social Work training course started in
October 2004 on pilot basis with 35 students admitted (half of them university students and
the other half CSW employees) and was completed in June 2005. The second year of
teaching of the Certificate Course in Social Work started in November 2005 (delay caused by
the general strike in the Education Sector in Kosovo in October 2005) and was completed
successfully in June 2006 with 44 students admitted (half of them university students and the
other half CSW employees). All students who had successfully completed the course were
awarded certificates.

Intermediate Course in social work and social policy

Also the pilot Intermediate Course (Bachelor Course, Study Block B in the overall structure
of the study program in social work and social policy) started in November 2005 and was
completed in June 2006. All successful students were awarded certificates.

Advanced course in social administration

The Advanced Course in social Administration equivalent in total to 18 ECTS credits was
organized during the academic years 2004-05 and 2005-06. The objective of the master-level
courses was to enhance the professional competences of the MLSW staff in issues that have
to do with planning and implementation of social policies, with focus on poverty reduction.
The master-level courses were additional to the outputs defined in the project Terms of
Reference. These additional activities have been organized at the request of the MLSW to
address urgent training needs among its staff

b) Training in social work case management

The design of the training program was finalized in the course of April 2004. In addition to
training, the program focused also on policy design. The objective was to combine learning
and critical reflection on the participants' own work practices. This was done in the course of
assignments designed by the project team, and study materials for the background of the
assignments.

The trainings were organized in all CSW in Kosovo, including minority areas. All social
work personnel employed in CSWs in Kosovo attended the program, and the majority of
participants completed the program successfully. The program was evaluated positively by
the participants, and the subject matter as well as the approach of the program was deemed as



                                              40

relevant. Three textbooks on social work were produced both in Albanian and Serbian
languages.

c) Human Recourse Development

This activity aimed the development of the human resource development function at the
Department of Social Welfare, Ministry of Labour and Social Welfare. The work resulted in
establishment of a training and development unit within the MLSW, preparation of a
workforce plan in support of the Social Welfare Division in the MLSW, and support to the
Human Resource Unit at the MLSW. A comprehensive strategy paper containing a long term
strategy on human resource development was produced in January 2005.

Trainings abroad under this component:

- Study Tour to University of Tirana / Albania ­ This study tour took place from 24th till 27th
March 2005 with the objective to gain detailed knowledge on the activities the Department of
Social Work at the University of Tirana, obtain literature and study materials in Albanian
language, and discuss about options for co-operation. Participants were students of the
Advanced Course in Social Administration.

- Study Tour to Portugal ­ This tour took place 17th till 27th February 2006. Ten key officials
of the MLSW attended the tour. The objective of the tour was to provide an overview of
social service provision and corresponding professional training arrangements in Portugal.

- Study Tour to University of Helsinki, Finland ­ It took place from 1st till 5th April 2006.
The participants were the key persons from the partner organizations involved in the study
program building, the MLSW, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology and the
University of Pristina. The objective of the visit was to discuss about the options for co-
operation between the Universities of Helsinki and University of Pristina in order to
strengthen the sustainability of the study program in social work developed at the University
of Pristina.

- Study Tour to Albania ­ It was organized from 31st May till 4th June 2006. The objective
was to study NGO-based social service provision and to learn lessons concerning the
development of the non-governmental sector in the area of social services in Kosovo. In total,
20 persons participate in the tour. The study tour group consisted of social service team
leaders of Centers for Social Work and key staff members of the MLSW.

4.4.   Component 4 - Support to Pension and Invalidity Fund

4.4.1. Medical Disability Advisor

The principle objective of this technical assistance for Disability Pension Scheme was
development of a basic system of medical assessment for the Kosovo Disability Pension and
training of the Doctor's Commissions in the use of this system. It took place from June 2004
till August 2004. This project has designed a medical assessment system for the new Kosovo



                                             41

Disability Pension that satisfies the legislative requirements for this benefit, and is consistent
with contemporary disability assessment theory and practice, which will enable future
application of this system to the Kosovo War Invalids/Next of Kin Scheme and Social
Assistance Scheme. The development process has involved a collaborative approach with
medical practitioners who will use the assessment system.

4.5. Component 5 - Project Management

This component provided the Department of Social Welfare with the capacity to effectively
implement, monitor and evaluate the project.

The Project Management Unit was put into place almost one year after the grant agreement
became effective. During this one year period little progress was made in undertaking
procurement actions, drafting of terms of reference, or identification of detailed requirements.

With the establishment of the project management unit it was possible to achieve a sound
project management framework which included procurement procedures in accordance with
the Grant Agreement (i.e. as per World Bank Guidelines).

The project appraisal document proposed that a project management unit be created for this
purpose supported by a full time international project manager and full time international
procurement expert. In the event the international resources required for the project were
scaled down to a total of 22 man months (18 project managers and 4 procurement specialists).
Local counterpart consultants took full responsibility for project management from February
2004.

The Ministry was pleased with work of the PMU consultants both international and local in
managing day to day activities of the project.

Trainings abroad under this component:

- Project Management Workshop / International Law Institute / Washington DC ­ This
training took place from 6th till 17th October 2003. Two participants attended this training ­
Director of Department of Social Welfare and Project Manager of Social Protection Project.

- Procurement of Consulting Services / International Training Centre of the ILO Turin /
Italy This training was organized from 7th till 14th November 2003 and it was attended by
Local Procurement officer in the project.

- Project Cycle Management / Crown Agents / United Kingdom ­ Organized from 4th till
15th October 2004 and attended by the Project Manager of Social Protection Project.

- Management Development for Senior Executives / Crown Agents / United Kingdom ­
Organized from 18th till 29th October 2004 and was attended by the Director of Department
of Social Welfare.




                                              42

5. Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare standing on the project

Planning implementation of a Social Protection project in years 2000 ­ 2001 was a big
challenge for Department of Social Welfare, because the start of the project coincided with
the establishment of government institutions and reforms in social services system including
social schemes which required the different approach from the past. The Social Protection
Project in Kosovo funded by the World Bank / DFID was of a great importance and support
to us in setting up a new system.

The project as a whole assisted in many areas such as: setting criteria for poverty assessment
and management of social schemes in such conditions, methods for drafting strategic
planning in social services as well as drafting legislation and regulations that follow the
legislation.

The project has been very beneficial to Kosovo in terms of restructuring the Social Welfare
System in Kosovo including Social Welfare Infrastructure.

Lessons learnt to be consider in the future projects

The trainings in different areas that were financed from this project were very useful to local
staff, which is not the case with the staff that joint the DSW and MLSW later (during 2005-
2006) therefore there is a need for further support from the World Bank to continue with the
capacity building in order to keep sustainability of social protection. Unfortunately, the
Kosovo Budget can not meet these requirements and the further support from the Bank
would benefit a lot to local staff especially now when there is capacity within the Ministry to
manage project such is this one.




                                              43

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                    44

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoire and Management Letter for each mission from project identification till
completion. All project ISRs. Reports of all international experts involved during the
project. Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo (1999). Final review carried out by the
Department of Social Welfare.




                                          45

                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 35406

        20°00' E                                         20°30' E              To Kraljevo               21°00' E                                             21°30' E      This map was produced by the Map
                                                                                                                                                                            Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                            The boundaries, colors, denominations
                                                                                                         To Kraljevo                                                        and any other information shown on
                                                                                                                                                                            this map do not imply, on the part of
                       SERBIA                                                                                                                                               The World Bank Group, any judgment
                                                                                                                                                                            on the legal status of any territory, or
             KOSOVO                                                                                                                                                    ^    any endorsement or acceptance of
                                                                                                                                                                 To Nis     such boundaries.




                                                                                Ibar                                                                    Toplica



                                                                                               Leposavic´                                                                                          ^
                                                                                              (Leposaviq)                                                                                  To Nis

                                                             S
  43°00' N
                                                                      Gazivodsko  E                                                                                                                           43°00' N

                                                                         Jezero          ^            R                      B                        I                     A               To Leskovac


 M                                                                                  Zvecan
  MONTENEGRO
         NTENEGRO                                                Zubin Potok      (Zvecan)          Mitrovica         Podujevo

                                                                                                    (Mitrovicë)
                                                                                                                 ^                       Batlavsko                                Jablanca
                                                                                                                                           Jezero
To Ivangrad                                                                                                  Vucitrn

                                                      Istok                                                  (Vushtrri)

                                                     (Istog)
                                                                                Srbica                                    Lab
                                                    Beli                                                                               ^
   To                                                       Djurakovac
Ivangrad                                                Drim                        Klina                   Obilic´                PRISTINA
                                                                                                            (Obiliq)              (PRISHTINË)
                                  Pec´                                                                                                         Gracanicko
                                                                                                                                                        
                                 (Peje)                                                              Glogovac             Kosovo Polje            Jezero

                                 ^                                    Klina (Kline)                  (Gilogoc)            (Fushë Kosovë)                Novo Brdo              Kosovska

                              Decani                                                                                                                   (Novo Berde)            Kamenica                  To Leskovac
                             (Decan)                        ^
                                                     Radonjicko                                                    Sitnica   Lipljan (Lipjan)
  42°30' N                                             Jezero                 ^                                                                                                                               42°30' N
                                                                          Malisevo
                                                Ereni                                                                                                             Gnjilane
                                                    k           Orahovac                                                                                          (Gjilani)
                                                                (Rahovec)                                   Stimlje
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                           (Shtime)       ^                                       Morava
                                         Djakovica                                                                                                        Binacka
                                          (Gjakove)                                            Suva Reka           Urosevac
                                                                                               (Suhareke)           (Ferizaj)
                                                                                                                                                        Vitina
                                                                                                                                                  ^      (Viti)
                                                                                                         ^                Gabrica
                                                                                                                                             Kacanik
          A L B A N I A                                                                                  Strpce                            (Kacaniku)
                                                                                        Prizren       (Shterpce)
                                                                  BeliDrim


                                          Liqeni i                                                                                     Lepenac
                                          Fierzës                                                                                                                              F Y R
            To Durrës                                                                                                                                            M A C E D O N I A

                                                                             Gora
                                                                          (Dragashi)                                                                             SKOPJE              To Sofia
                MAIN ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                    42°00' N
                                                                                                                                                                 21°30' E

                RAILROADS
                                                                                                                                                                                                               30°
                SELECTED CITIES*                                                                                                       AUSTRIA                      20°
                                                         To Durrës                                                                                         H U N G A R Y                                MOLDOV
                NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                         SLOVENIA
                                                                                                                                                                                    R O M A N I A            A
                                                                                                                                                    CROATIA
                PROVINCE BOUNDARY
                                                                                            To Bitola                                                   BOSNIA AND
                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                    Adriatic    HERZEGOVINA    SERBIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Black
                                                                                                                                                                                       B U L G A R I A             Sea
                                                                                                                                                                               KOSOVO

                                                                                      To Bitola                                      ITALY              MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                                                             FYR
  *When two city names are shown, Serbian spellings                                                                                                       Sea            MACEDONIA

  are shown first, followed by Albanian spellings in parentheses.         0         10                                                                         ALBANIA
                                                                                                  20        30 Kilometers                                                                                            40°
  When only one name is shown, the spelling is the same in                                                                        40°

  both languages.                                                                                                                  Tyrrhenian                                            Aegean
                                                                          0                  10                20 Miles                                                     GREECE                             TURKEY
                                                                                                                                       Sea                                                  Sea

     20°00' E                                            20°30' E                                         21°00' E
                                                                                                                                                                     20°

                                                                                                                                                                                                              APRIL 2007

