Report No. PID10087
Project Name                     Kosovo-Social Protection Technical Assistance
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Other Social Protection
Project ID                       KVPE72405
Borrower(s)                      UNMIK
Implementing Agency
Address UNMIK/DSW
UNMIK Government Building
Contact Person: Evelyn Arnold
Tel: 381 38 549 549
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 28, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         April 30, 2001
Projected Board Date             July 2, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Background. Before 1989, Kosovo operated its own social protection
schemes under the general umbrella of Federal Yugoslav legislation. These
included contributory pensions and unemployment benefits, means-tested
child allowances for contributors on low wages, and very tightly
controlled social help for households with no resources (social
assistance). The latter operated through local Centers for Social Work
that provided cash benefits on a discretionary basis, as well as general
social services to vulnerable groups such as children, the elderly and
disabled people. The sector also includes various special institutions -
a home for mentally handicapped people, a home for the elderly, an
orphanage, and schools for the blind and for the deaf - which serve Kosovo
as a whole.In 1990, the various Kosovo schemes were merged with their
Serbian counterparts and directed from Belgrade. The basic benefit
structures were maintained, though with a number of changes of detail -
many of which had the direct or indirect effect of excluding Albanians
from eligibility. At the same time, many Albanian staff administering the
various schemes were dismissed and replaced by Serbs. During the past ten
years, basic social protection for most Albanian Kosovars has been
provided by the extended family network, by remittances from the large
Albanian community outside Kosovo, or by help in kind from various
humanitarian organizations. Particularly important among the latter was
the Mother Teresa Society, an organized charity funded by international
organizations and private donations, with an extensive network of branch
and local centers staffed by volunteers throughout Kosovo.Following the
conflict, large numbers of Kosovars faced extremely difficult
circumstances. Many households have lost the main breadwinner and there
are high levels of physical and psychological damage. While available
information about vulnerability still is scarce, pending results from the
ongoing household survey, the best indication of the overall level of need
may be the number of people receiving some form of help from the Mother
Teresa organization: some 850,000 in September 1999 or nearly half the
population. In addition, substantial help in kind is being provided by



the various humanitarian organizations, there is an unknown flow of funds
from family members outside Albania, and many households have begun to
receive a supply of cash, as regular stipends are being paid to public
sector workers. All of this suggests that the number of people without
any cash income is falling, but with formal sector opportunities for work
outside UNMIK limited, it is likely that poverty will remain pervasive for
some time to come.To address the immediate and most urgent needs, UNMIK
launched a rudimentary social assistance program in 1999, targeted at the
most vulnerable households (defined as those with a labor supply
elasticity of zero). The program, which draws on the combined initiatives
of UNMIK and international NGOs, channels modest cash benefits and
provides some social services, mainly guidance, through the remaining
network of centers of social work (CSWs). The program is gradually being
built up with the intention of it taking on the role of a basic safety net
for benefit and social service provision. Currently, it faces a numbre of
challenges: many centers were severely damaged during the conflict, and
most of them lack basic facilities and equipment; there is a shortage of
professional staff, and existing staff often lack basic staff skills and
professional knowledge; organizationally, there is a need for greater
coherence - between the Department of Social Welfare that sets policy and
standards, the Institute for Social Policy that provides monitoring and
evaluates the performance of CSWs, and regional and municipal welfare
officers that provide field level guidance and support to the CSWs.
Overall, the system suffers from shortages of relevant skills and
operational knowledge.The reestablishment of other social protection
schemes is also under consideration, not least because of pressures from
the Kosovar community to reintroduce the dormant pension scheme and
introduce schemes for war veterans, civilian victims of the recent
conflict and the handicapped. The reintroduction of the pension scheme, in
particular, will need careful consideration in light of limited resources
(see affordability section below), and new approaches to a pension system
will have to be considered. In particular, the merits of a flat-rate
pension scheme with limited eligibility should be explored. At the same
time, equity considerations will play an important role in shaping any
social protection program - how to satisfy the needs and priorities of
minority groups, especially the Kosovo Serbs. They face particular
problems for both program rules and program administration in present
circumstances in Kosovo, and any successful strategy must strike an
appropriate balance between universality and the specific needs of
different groups.The third sector - non-governmental, not for profit and
voluntary initiatives in society, plays an important role in Kosovo. In
terms of social protection, the previous system emphasized the role of the
state in the care of those most in need. In light of scarce resources and
a weak state infrastructure, the value of the third sector and civil
society to the care of those in need justifies increased attention. There
are over 500 NGOs registered with UNMIK, of which some 200 are
international NGOs. Of the local organizations, many are recent, have
been formed to attract donor funds and create paid jobs, and often are
unclear in their understanding of what the third sector can, or should,
do. Collaboration between NGOs is sparse, highlighted by competition for
funding. The majority have registered with UNMIK, as this is usually a
prerequisite for international support. To date, cooperation between the
public sector and third sector organizations seems to focus on specialized
services and beneficiary identification. In some areas a third sector
organization may provide a needed social service not available elsewhere
- 2-



(e.g. temporary shelter), or the government may draw on the resources of
the third sector to implement their programs (e.g. identification of
beneficiaries for the social assistance scheme, specific family
situations, runaways, domestic violence). One potential area of
cooperation, expressed by both government and third sector organizations
is the "service" NGOs could provide to the government in identifying
beneficiaries, particularly for the social assistance scheme. In some
areas the CSW have been directly involved in the design of NGO programs,
such as the development of youth centres. Affordability. In the past,
social programs were financed from payroll taxes and, to some extent, from
transfers from Belgrade. This allowed relatively abundant social
protection, especially the pension system was generous compared to Western
standards. With the conflict, the situation has changed. Most programs
are inactive, and only a narrowly targeted social assistance scheme
currently provides benefits and social services. The tax base is weak,
and payroll taxes practically non-existent. Resources are drawn from the
mainly donor-financed budget, and deficit financing is not possible.
Limited budget resources place an obvious constraint on the
reestablishment of the system. Furthermore, expenditures on cash
transfers, which depend on eligibility and household decisions to claim,
are notoriously difficult to control or forecast precisely. This places
additional constraints on the design of safety nets and social protection
programs and may require the setting of cash limits for individual program
expenditures.A cash limit applies a control to expenditures in a given
year. Because many social protection benefits can continue for long
periods once granted, it is also important to consider whether commitments
entered into in a given year can be met in subsequent years with the
resources likely to be available. This is particularly important because
experience suggests that the take-up of new payments or services tends to
increase over time and be accompanied by pressures for improvements in
coverage or benefit levels. It is therefore important to ensure that
spending schemes are not only affordable in the short term, but can also
be sustained over time. This is particularly relevant in the present
circumstances of Kosovo, where the time horizon for additional donor
resources may be limited and perspectives for expanding the tax base
modest.   Careful consideration therefore needs to be given to launching
continuing commitments such as restarting the pension scheme, unless it is
clear that donor funding can be replaced by adequate local resources when
the time comes. Particularly when resources are tight, it is important
both that the most vulnerable do receive help and that limited resources
are directed to those who most need them.
2. Objectives
The objectives of the project are (a) to provide a basic safety net for
the immediate future; and (b) to design sustainable social protection
programs for the medium term
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has a comparative advantage in assisting systemic reform and
resptructuring, and it has significant experience in this area throughout
central and easterns Europe over the past decade. The Bank also has
significant experience with promoting change and reconciliation in
post-conflict environments.
4. Description
-3-



The project would have the following components:
Refurbish, repair and equip centers for social work (CSW) to facilitate
the processing of clients
Develop a social welfare structure - determine the programs to be
transmitted through the CSW network (i.e. the nature and extent of the
professional task); define the responsibilities of and the nature of the
relationship between the Department of Social Welfare, the Institute of
Social Policy, regional and municipal social services and political
authorities; the interaction of this organizational structure with private
actors in the welfare area; the competencies required and the gap between
current capacity and that required; develop standards for accreditation
and professional qualifications; and prepare necessary regulatory acts.
Develop a plan for strengthening technical capacity of the social welfare
structure - including in-service training towards accredited and assessed
professional qualifications for those already in post, and training for
new entrants into the social welfare structure; and establish a research
capacity and engagement with the international academic community.
Develop a pension administration - the project would provide technical
assistance to design a pension administration capable of assuming
responsibility for administering a pension system, including related draft
regulatory acts
Develop an administrative structure for support to veterans, war invalids
and their survivors
Project management
x
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 5
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented over a period of two years. The United
Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo (UNMIK) will be the implementing
agency for the Project with various departments having a role in
implementation based on their respective functions in the
Administration.One of the main objectives of the project is to build the
capacity of the Department of Social Welfare of UNMIK, which will become a
public administration in charge of welfare in a future local authority in
Kosovo. The responsibility for implementing the Project from a
professional and technical point of view should therefore remain in this
department. However, the department has neither the capacity (in terms of
available human resources, skills, or time) nor the functional
responsibility within the Interim Administration to manage the funds with
respect to financial management or procurement requirements. According to
the structure of UNMIK, only the Central Fiscal Authority (CFA), which
acts as the Ministry of Finance, has the authority to open bank accounts,
conduct and monitor financial transactions including the appointment of an
independent auditor, and to establish the regulatory framework for
-4 -



procurement and expenditure transactions. It is, therefore, proposed that
the CFA would be responsible for the financial management aspects of the
Grant administration, including the opening of a Special Account as a
sub-account to their existing commercial bank account; replenish the
Special Account periodically; using their financial accounting system;
prepare the financial management reports required by the Bank; and have
the use of the Grant funds audited on an annual basis. An assessment of
the financial capacity of the CFA has been conducted. It is the
conclusion that the existing system meets at least the minimum needs for
proper grant administration and reporting. The system will be programmed
so that it is able to produce timely Project Management Reports (PMRs).
The CFA will appoint the European Court of Auditors to undertake periodic
audits of the entire consolidated Kosovar budget. It is acceptable to the
Bank for the European Court of Auditors to audit the use of grant funds.
With the exception of a larger than normal Special Account to facilitate
direct disbursements to suppliers by UNMIK, normal disbursement procedures
will be used. Once acceptable PMRs are produced, a move to PMR-based
disbursements could be considered.A separate department, the Central
Procurement Entity (CPE), will be responsible for carrying out all
procurement within UNMIK. It is proposed that the CPE would carry out the
agreed procurement plan according to agreed procedures on behalf of the
Social Welfare Department. However, the Department would be made
explicitly responsible for defining the terms of reference, determining
short lists, establishing evaluation committees, and contract management.
Besides carrying out procurement activities, the CPE would also have a
role in advising the Department on implementation matters and reporting.
In the department, one individual will be nominated to fulfill a
coordination function. The CPE would designate one individual within its
unit as having project procurement as his or her priority job
responsibility. If the CPE is not able to designate that person
immediately, Grant funds could be made available within the Project
Management Support Component for this purpose. If necessary, there will
be funds designated for the training of Kosovar staff of UNMIK in
procurement management and, specifically, procurement. An individual or
individuals in the Social Welfare Department will be jointly responsible
for collecting all information for the purposes of monitoring and
reporting on the progress of the project to the Bank and other
authorities.
7. Sustainability
TBD
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
A number of lessons have been applied in the design of this project:there
is a relatively brief window of opportunity during which donors and
international experts can have a significant impact on re-structuring
systems and re-formulating policy before systems and institutions become
entrenched and resistant to change;a strong emphasis should be put on aid
coordination to ensure complementary in donor initiatives and a priority
focus in view of limited implementation and policy development capacity in
Kosovodevelopment support should be designed to take into account current
and future resource constraints.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
- 5 -



10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         TBD
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Hjalte S. A. Sederlof
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 1 202 473 2524
Fax: 1 202 477 3387
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 23, 2001.
- 6 -



