Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22503-KOS
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4.20 MILLION
TO UNMIK FOR THE BENEFIT OF
KOSOVO, FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA (KOSOVO)
FOR A
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
June 29, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
South East Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 18, 2001)
Currency Unit = DEM
DEM 1 = US$0.4491
US$1 = 2.2265
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - -- Decmber 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BPK         Banking and Payments Authority of Kosovo
CFA         Central Fiscal Authority
CPE         Central Procurement Entity
CRS         Catholic Relief Services
CSW         Center for Social Welfare
DFID        Department for International Development (UK)
DHSW        Department of Health and Social Welfare
EU          European Union
FRY         Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
IAC         Interim Administrative Council
IOM         International Organization for Migration
JIAS        Joint Interim Administrative Structure
ILO         International Labor Organization
KFOR        Kosovo Force
KTC         Kosovo Transition Council
LSMS        Living Standards Monitoring Survey
NATO        North Atlantic Treaty Organization
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
OSCE        Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe
UNFPA       United Nations Population Fund
UNHCR       United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNICEF      United Nations Children's Fund
UNMIK       United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECA
Country Director:   Christiaan J. Poortnan, ECCO4
Sector Manager:   Michal J. Rutkowski, ECSHD
Task Team Leader:   Hjalte S.A. Sederlof, ECSHD



KOSOVO
SOCIAL PROTECTION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        8
3. Benefits and target population                                                       8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           11
2. Financial                                                                           11
3. Technical                                                                           11
4. Institutional                                                                       11
5. Environmental                                                                       12
6. Social                                                                              13
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     15
2. Critical risks                                                                      15



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    16
G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           16
2. Other                                                                             16
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       17
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        18
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  21
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       24
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 25
Annex 5: Financial Sumrnary                                                            26
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     28
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   39
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 40
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                41
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          43
Annex 11: The Pre-Conflict Social Protection Structure                                 44
Annex 12: The Current Social Assistance Scheme                                         46
Annex 13: Organizational Chart of Social Protection in Kosovo                          49
Annex 14: Background on Centers for Social Work                                        52
MAP(S)



KOSOVO
Social Protection Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
Human Development Sector Unit
Date: June 29, 2001                              Team Leader: Hjalte S. A. Sederlof
Country Manager/Director: Christiaan J. Poortman  Sector Manager/Director: Michal J. Rutkowski
Project ID: P072405                              Sector(s): SY - Other Social Protection
Lending Instrument: Grant from the Trust Fund for  Theme(s): Social Protection
Kosovo
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
l ] Loan    [ ] Credit   [X) Grant    I ] Guarantee   [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 4.20
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                           Local        Fo;r.eign       Total
BORROWER                                                     0.00           0.00          0.00
UK DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                  2.42           0.00          2.42
SPECIAL FINANCING                                            4.20           0.00          4.20
Total:                                                       6.62           0.00          6.62
Borrower: UNMIK
Responsible agency: UNMIK/DHSW
Address: UJNMIK Government Building
Contact Person: Ms. Sandy Hudd
Tel: 381 38 504 604         Fax:             Email: hudd@un.org
Estimated disbu sements Bank FYfUS$m):
FY         2002       2003      2004                                   l
Annual    1.50        1.50      1.20
Cumulative    1.50       3.00      4.20
Project implementation period: September 2001 to August 2003
OS PAD fODm Rev Mo-cP 2CO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objectives of the project are to: (a) design a basic safety net for the immediate future; (b) design a
sustainable social welfare system for the medium term; and (c) develop administrative capacity for delivery
of pensions, and veterans' and invalidity benefits
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
*   evidence of increased quality and consistency of service provision through centers for social work
(CSW), as reflected in regular monitoring of case worker performance (compliance with procedures,
accuracy of case selection and referrals, work plans) and, for clients, in feedback from the formnal
appeals process
*   blueprint (program designs) in place for a comprehensive welfare system, and focusing on priority
areas (welfare, pensions, veterans benefits, war invalids support)
*   simple administrative mechanisms in place for the delivery of pensions, and veterans' and invalidity
benefits
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: N/A                Date of latest CAS discussion: N/A
The proposed project is consistent with the Transitional Support Strategy for Kosovo (R99- 178, dated
September 16, 1999) which seeks to ensure efficiency and sustainability in public sector spending and build
effective, accountable and efficient public institutions. The World Bank's Economic Report on Kosovo
emphasizes the establishment of policies and institutions that will reduce reliance on external donor support
and promote private sector led recovery and long-term growth. It sets out the key reform areas in the
economic policy sphere: sustainable budget policies and institutions that ensure the efficiency and probity
of public spending; a framework of laws, regulations and institutions that encourage private enterprise
development; and a liberal trade and customs regime that allows Kosovo to realize its potential for growth
and exports in the context of its geographic location in the south-central Balkans. And, it emphasizes the
active involvement of the local population and its representatives in shaping policy through extensive
consultation with local public and private stakeholders.
In social policy, it emphasizes: (i) education - a primarily young population (over half the population is
under 25) needs to be educated; and human and capital skills that have eroded during a decade of civic
exclusion need to be restored; (ii) health care - neglected health services need to be rehabilitated and
appropriate health policy elaborated; (iii) social protection - the system confronts a number of challenges:
the social aftermath of conflict, economic restructuring in an environment where the local administrative
capacity requires substantial strengthening, diffuse roles of different levels of govenmment in social
protection, and local and intemational administrators striving to find an effective balance between the roles
of the public and non-govemrnmental sectors in social welfare provision. At the same time, the social sectors
constitute the major expenditure categories in the budget, accounting for nearly three quarters of total
spending, which highlights the need for restraint in adjusting programs and expenditures to Kosovar needs.
In the social area, the Bank, in collaboration with UNMIK other donors and local authorities, has initiated
a program of sector work and investment projects that aim at shaping effective policies and service delivery
mechanisms. A social assessment examines how conflict and displacement have affected social relations
- 2 -



and institutions in Kosovo and discusses reconciliation strategies. A social protection strategy examines
alternative strategies for social risk management, and a poverty assessment is being completed, which will
allow better definition of at-risk population groups. These initiatives, on which the proposed project draws,
have been extensively discussed with international and local Kosovar stakeholders drawn fom both majority
and minority communities. Two Economic Assistance Grants have been put into place (P069469 dated
May 13, 2000, and P071114, dated January 10, 2001), aiming at the creation of a functioning and effective
budget management system, including the adoption of a sound budget for 2001. An Education and Health
Project (P069516, dated May 2, 2000) provides technical assistance aimed at increasing the efficiency in
public resource use in health and education and improving governance and management in the two sectors.
The project has also financed sector work leading to the social protection strategy.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background. Before 1989, Kosovo operated its own social protection schemes under the general umbrella
of Federal Yugoslav legislation. These included contributory pensions and unemployment benefits,
means-tested child allowances for contributors on low wages, and very tightly controlled social help for
households with no resources (social assistance). The latter operated through local Centers for Social
Work (CSW) that provided cash benefits on a discretionary basis, as well as general social services to
vulnerable groups such as children, the elderly and disabled people. The sector also includes various
special institutions - a home for mentally handicapped people, a home for the elderly, an orphanage, and
schools for the blind and for the deaf - which serve Kosovo as a whole.
In 1990, the various Kosovo schemes were merged with their Serbian counterparts and directed from
Belgrade. The basic benefit structures were maintained, though with a number of changes of detail - many
of which had the direct or indirect effect of excluding Albanians from eligibility. At the same time, many
Albanian staff administering the various schemes were dismissed and replaced by Serbs. During the past
ten years, basic social protection for most Albanian Kosovars has been provided by the extended family
network, by remittances from the large Albanian community outside Kosovo, or by help in kind from
various humanitarian organizations. Particularly important among the latter was the Mother Teresa
Society, an organized charity funded by international organizations and private donations, with an
extensive network of branch and local centers staffed by volunteers throughout Kosovo.
As a result of the conflict, social programs were abandoned and have not subsequently been resumed.
Consequently, large numbers of Kosovars face extremely difficult circumstances. Many households have
lost the main breadwinner and there are high levels of physical and psychological damage. While available
information about vulnerability still is scarce, pending results from the ongoing household survey, an
indication of the overall level of need may be the number of people that are estimated to be eligible for cash
benefits under the UNMIK (United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo) program - some 55,000
families, or 300, 000 people, i.e. 10 percent of the population. In addition, substantial help in kind is being
provided by the various humanitarian organizations, there is an unknown flow of funds from family
members outside Kosovo, and many households have begun to receive a supply of cash, as regular stipends
are being paid to public sector workers. All of this suggests that the number of people without any cash
income is falling, but with formal sector opportunities for work outside UNMIK limited, it is likely that
poverty will remain pervasive for some time to come.
To address the immediate and most urgent needs, the United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo
(UNMIK) launched a rudimentary social assistance program in 1999, targeted at the most vulnerable
households (defined as those with no working members). This was replaced in mid-2000 with the current
program, which draws on the combined initiatives of UNMIK and international NGOs, channels modest
- 3 -



cash benefits to some 55,000 families and provides some welfare services, mainly guidance, through the
remaining network of centers of social work (CSWs). The program is gradually being built up with the
intention of it taking on the role of a basic safety net for benefit and welfare service provision (1).
Currently, it faces a number of challenges: (i) Albanian staff has replaced Serbs in the centers that are
located in ethnic Albanian areas (the majority of centers), and many of the replacements have outdated
skills harking back to the pre- 1990 period, or lack basic skills and professional knowledge altogether; many
centers were severely damaged during the conflict, and most of them lack basic facilities and equipment;
organizationally, there is a need for greater coherence - between the Department of Health and Social
Welfare (DHSW) that sets policy and standards, the Institute for Social Policy (ISP) that provides
monitoring and evaluates the performance of CSWs, and regional and municipal welfare officers that
provide field level guidance and support to the CSWs. Overall, the system suffers from shortages of
relevant skills and operational knowledge. Details on the system are provided in Annex
(1) Welfare services involve the provision of counseling, care and referral of at-risk individuals and households
(dysfunctional families, children, disabled, elderly, refugees and displaced persons, addicted, homeless,
single-parent families) and liaising with specialized referral agencies.
The reestablishment of other social protection schemes is also under consideration, not least because of
pressures from the Kosovar community to reintroduce the dormant pension scheme and introduce schemes
for war veterans, civilian victims of the recent conflict, and the handicapped. The reintroduction of the
pension scheme, in particular, will need careful consideration in light of limited resources (see affordability
section below), and new approaches to a pension system will have to be considered. In particular, the
merits of a flat-rate pension scheme with limited eligibility should be explored. At the same time, equity
considerations will play an important role in shaping any social protection program - how to satisfy the
needs and priorities of minority groups, especially the Kosovo Serbs. They generate particular problems
for both program rules and program administration in present circumstances in Kosovo, and any successful
strategy must strike an appropriate balance between universality and the specific needs of different groups.
The third sector - non-governmental, not-for-profit and voluntary initiatives in society, plays an important
role in Kosovo. In terms of social protection, the previous system emphasized the role of the state in the
care of those most in need. In light of scarce resources and a weak state infrastructure, the value of the
third sector and civil society to the care of those in need justifies increased attention. There are over 500
NGOs registered with UNMIK, of which some 200 are international NGOs. Of the local organizations,
many are recent, have been formed to attract donor funds and create paid jobs, and often are unclear in
their understanding of what the third sector can, or should, do. Collaboration between NGOs is sparse,
highlighted by competition for funding. The majority have registered with UNMIK, as this is usually a
prerequisite for international support. To date, cooperation between the public sector and third sector
organizations seems to focus on specialized services and beneficiary identification. In some areas a third
sector organization may provide a needed social service not available elsewhere (e.g. temporary shelter), or
the government may draw on the resources of the third sector to implement their programs (e.g.
identification of beneficiaries for the social assistance scheme, specific family situations, runaways,
domestic violence). One potential area of cooperation, expressed by both government and third sector
organizations is the "service" NGOs could provide to the government in identifying beneficiaries,
particularly for the social assistance scheme. In some areas the CSW have been directly involved in the
design of NGO programs, such as the development of youth centres.
Affordability. In the past, social programs were financed from payroll taxes and, to some extent, from
transfers from Belgrade. The structure of the social protection system, especially the pension system, was
generous compared to Western standards, although benefit payment often fell short of formal compensation
- 4 -



levels. With the conflict, the situation has changed. Most programs are inactive, and only a narrowly
targeted social assistance scheme currently provides benefits and welfare services. The tax base is weak,
and payroll taxes non-existent. Resources are drawn from the Kosovo budget, and limited budget resources
place an obvious constraint on the reestablishment of the system. Furthermore, expenditures on cash
transfers, which depend on eligibility and household decisions to claim, are notoriously difficult to control
or forecast precisely. This places additional constraints on the design of safety nets and social protection
programs and may require the setting of cash limits for individual program expenditures.
A cash limit applies a control to expenditures in a given year. Because many social protection benefits can
continue for long periods once granted, it is also important to consider whether commitments entered into in
a given year can be met in subsequent years with the resources likely to be available. This is particularly
important because experience suggests that the take-up of new payments or services tends to increase over
time and be accompanied by pressures for improvements in coverage or benefit levels. It is therefore
important to ensure that spending schemes are not only affordable in the short term, but can also be
sustained over time. This is particularly relevant in the present circumstances of Kosovo, where the time
horizon for additional donor resources may be limited and perspectives for expanding the tax base modest.
Careful consideration therefore needs to be given to launching continuing commitments such as restarting
the pension scheme, unless it is clear that donor funding can be replaced by adequate local resources when
the time comes. Particularly when resources are tight, it is important both that the most vulnerable do
receive help and that limited resources are directed to those who most need them.
Recurrent expenditures on social protection in 2000 amounted to $41.5 million, or 19 percent of the $215
million total recurrent budget in that year. For 2001, the provision for social protection is $42.5 million, or
18 percent of a $240 million budget. Cash benefit payments account for some 96 percent budget
expenditures on social protection.
Consistent with a policy of gradual self-sustainability, donor support is declining as a proportion of
recurrent expenditures. It fell sharply from 51 percent in 2000 to an estimated 32 percent in the 2001
budget. As the tax base widens, as there are improvements in both tax policy and tax administration, and
as the economy starts to grow over the next several years, there should be substantial increases in revenue
generated internally - to some $445 million in 2006 according to IMF estimates (IMF, Kosovo -
Macroeconomic Issues and Fiscal Sustainability, November 2000). The first call on this new revenue will
be the replacement of donor funding rather than improvements in provision. Taking account of this, the
IMF figures suggest an increase of 60 per cent in the General Government Budget for recurrent expenditure
between 2000 and 2006. If spending on social protection grew pro rata, it would amount to perhaps DM
130m in 2006. Given the many other calls on the Budget, it might be regarded as prudent to assume that
the share devoted to social protection would not grow significantly. On the other hand, this would actually
leave social protection taking a declining share of GDP - from 2.7 per cent at present to just 2 per cent of
GDP in 2006. Both figures are low by international standards, when the average for middle income
countries across the world is about 5 per cent These comparisons must be treated with caution. Kosovo is
clearly not a "typical" transition economy and several comparator countries are facing difficulties in
meeting their social commitments. They do suggest, however, that the figure of $65 million in 2006 is very
much at the low end of the range of prudent spending, and that there could well be room for spending
significantly more, with an "optimistic" scenario of as much as $155 million. The Social Protection
Strategy for Kosovo provides an indicative figure of $115 million for social protection in 2006.
- 5 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will focus on the following:
(a) strengthening social welfare services for the immediate future and the medium termn;
(b) developing basic administrative processes for pension, veterans' and invalidity benefit provision;
(c) building human resource capacity in social welfare
(d) developing models for collaboration between public agencies and the third sector in welfare service
delivery
The proposed project will primarily focus on rehabilitating the welfare system (described in Annex ). This
will provide the highest welfare impact (i.e. the most cost-effective way to reach the most vulnerable
population groups), and it is in line with UNMIK's priorities. The provision of adequate welfare services
will help the population better cope with the family-level problems that have arisen as a result of the
conflict and which, if not addressed, can be expected to have significant adverse effects on individual
behavior and Kosovar society more generally over time. In particular, they focus on the care of
dysfunctional families and vulnerable individuals. The project will also provide the pension and invalids'
administration with basic administrative skills needed to manage simple benefit delivery programs. The
introduction of such programs are strongly advocated by both majority and minority groups in the Kosovar
population. It is estimated that the revitalization of welfare programs, pensions and invalids' programs
along these lines will be affordable in light of current and expected recurrent budget constraints. It is
estimated that the project will add recurrent costs of no more than some $ 0.6 million.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would have the following components:
indicative             Bank-      % Of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)   Total       (US$M)  financing
-6 -



A. Strengthening the social welfare  Institutional         1.02       15.4       0.65        15.5
system:                              Development
(i) Developing the social welfare
structure - definition of objectives and
responsibilities of and interaction
between public and private entities
concerned with the planning,
management, administration and
delivery of social welfare services;
drafting of related regulatory acts,
instructions and guidelines; developing
standards for accreditation and
professional qualification; drafting of
job descriptions and determination of
skills requirements, staffing and
training needs
(ii) strengthening policy analysis and
administrative skills of UNMIK
Department of Health and Social
Welfare (DHSW) staff;
(iii) introducing a strategic planning
and policy development capacity in the
DHSW;
(iv) developing an information and
commmunications strategy aimed at
welfare system workers and the
general public;
(v) development of an information
technology strategy for the social
welfare network.
B. Upgrading of social welfare       Institutional         2.68       40.5        1.70      40.5
infrastructure:                      Development
(i) rehabilitation of CSWs
(ii) equipping of CSWs
C. Capacity building for CSWs:       Institutional         1.95       29.5        1.24       29.5
(i) training in service delivery for  Development
current CSW staff
(ii) development of a CSW-based
staff supervision function
(iii) development of a certificate
program in social work for future staff
-7 -



D. Strengthen essential services in the   Pensions &         0.17        2.6        0.10        2.4
pension, veterans' and invalidity benefit  Social Insurance
administration - recordkeeping, benefit
determination, pensions in status,
public information; and drafting related
regulatory acts
E. Project Management                 Unidentified           0.80       12.1        0.51       12.1
Total Project Costs                       6.62      100.0        4.20      100.0
Front-end fee                       0.00         0.0       0.00         0.0
Total Financing Required                         6.62       100.0       4.20       100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
At the level of welfare service delivery, the project will support UNMIK efforts to focus services on a set of
priority advisory and counseling services, rather than return to the broad menu of services that
characterized the previous, pre- 1 990s, system; it will separate the benefit payment function from the
welfare service function;it will provide more formal structure for public-private interactions in service
provision and staff training; and it will ensure service delivery to minority groups. For the longer term, it
will help UNMIK develop a blueprint for a coherent social welfare system for Kosovo.
In the area of pension provision and provision of benefits to veterans and invalids, UNMIK is currently in
the process of developing appropriate schemes, in large part based on analytical work done in the context
of sector work supported by the Bank and the British Department for International Development (DFID).
In anticipation of decisions to be taken in this area, the project will provide technical assistance to
strengthen routine administrative processes in the Pension, Veterans' and Invalidity Fund.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will increase efficiency and quality in service delivery:
I. It will allow the welfare system to provide appropriate responses to needs of poor and vulnerable
population groups, in the majority as well as minority communities. Better administration will improve
operations of the system; enhanced skills in counseling and care, and better defined referral functions,
will bring about more satisfactory services for the target population; and separation of welfare service
and benefit payment functions will improve targeting and timeliness of benefit delivery. The target
population for welfare services will consist of at-risk individuals and households, essentially
dysfunctional families, children, elderly, handicapped people and single-head households. Currently,
the target population for cash benefits is limited to households with no employed members, with
priority being given to households where no-one is capable of working.
2. It will develop a comprehensive plan for the social welfare system. This will clarify relationships
between different actors concerned with welfare, including lines of accountability. This in turn will
facilitate the development of appropriate strategies in the future, including in particular where to place
the emphasis in practice/service development.
3. The pension/veterans/invalidity component will allow those programs to get off the ground without
undue delays once decisions have been taken on pension and veterans' schemes.
- 8 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The project will be implemented over a period of two years. UNMIK (the DHSW, the Central Fiscal
Authority (CFA), the Central Procurement Entity (CPE)) will be the implementing agency for the Project.
One main objective of the project is to build the capacity of the Department of Social Welfare of UNMIK,
which will become a public administration in charge of welfare in a future local authority in Kosovo. The
responsibility for implementing the Project from a professional and technical point of view will therefore
reside in this department. For financial management and procurement, it will liaise with the CFA and the
CPE.
Financial management of the project will rest with the CFA. According to the structure of UNMIK, only
the CFA, which acts as the Ministry of Finance, has the authority to open bank accounts, conduct and
monitor financial transactions including the appointment of an independent auditor and establish the
regulatory framework for procurement and expenditure transactions. Therefore, the CFA would be
responsible for the financial management aspects of the Grant administration, including the opening of a
Special Account as a sub-account to their existing commercial bank account; replenish the Special Account
periodically; using their financial accounting system; prepare the financial management reports required by
the Bank; and have the use of the Grant funds audited on an annual basis. The system will be programmed
so that it is able to produce timely Project Management Reports (PMRs). UNMIK has decided to appoint
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank for the audit of the project accounts. The audit costs would be
bome by UNMIK as part of its operating costs. Normal disbursement procedures will be used. Once
acceptable PMRs are produced, a move to PMR-based disbursements could be considered.
A separate department, the Central Procurement Entity (CPE), will be responsible for carrying out all
procurement within UINMIK. It is proposed that the CPE would carry out the agreed procurement plan
according to agreed procedures on behalf of the DHSW. However, the DHSW will be responsible for
defining the terms of reference, detennining short lists, establishing evaluation committees, and contract
management. Besides carrying out procurement activities, the CPE would also have a role in advising the
Department on implementation matters and reporting. In the DHSW, one individual will be nominated to
fulfill a coordination function.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The current project design reflects the fact that resources for investment and subsequent operations,
maintenance and benefit payments are strictly limited and are likely to grow only modestly in the future.
This constrains a more ambitious approach which would be unaffordable. Moreover, implementation
capacity is strictly limited in UNMIK and within the Kosovar community. Therefore, we have chosen to
focus on developing essential support services that meet minimal requirements of a safety net, while at the
same time building up capacity to provide quality services over the medium term and expand provision if
the opportunity rises in terms of more abundant resources.
Another option considered was to forgo a project at this time and wait for a clearer political situation and
policy decisions in the area of social welfare. It was decided that although there are many uncertainties at
this time it would be better to proceed in order to support the DHSW in making informed policy decisions.
In addition, the social and poverty assessments pointed to the urgent and immediate need for assistance in
large segments of the population and, consequently the need for the early establishment of an appropriate
coping mechanism.
-9-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
I                 f7770 \ t 0 dU 0 0 ; \Sl;;i; Latest Supervision
Sector Issue             f          Project                    (PSR) Ratings
_______________________________ a__________L______________ (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation    Development
Bank-financed                                                        Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Improving local living conditions    Community Development Fund           S              S
Improving use of public resources and  Education and Health Project       S              S
strengthening govemance and
management processes in education and
health
Other development agencies
Benefit, service provision, capacity  UNMIK Social Welfare
building                             Department initiatives
Direct provision of social services,  Multiple agencies, bilaterals
improvements in infrastructire, training  and NGOs
of social workers
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A number of lessons have been applied in the design of this project:
*   the importance of local ownership, i.e.seeking input from all Kosovar constituencies in setting priorities
and designing delivery systems;
* there is a relatively brief window of opportunity during which donors and international experts can
have a significant impact on designing systems and formulating policy before interim arrangements
become entrenched and resistant to change;
* a strong emphasis should be put on aid coordination to ensure complementary in donor initiatives and a
priority focus in view of limited implementation and policy development capacity in Kosovo
*   development support should be designed to take into account current and future resource constraints;
the effective utilization of limited resources requires a particular emphasis on the welfare mix, i.e. the
diversification of welfare provisoin between different sectors, primarily government, for profit (private)
and the not for profit sector.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Among all groups in the Kosovar population, there is strong agreement that a safety net needs to be in
place. Under UNMIK, rudimentary services and targeted benefit payments aimed at the neediest groups -
families with no apparent resources and no members capable of working and, more recently, at families
where no-one is gainfully employed - have been introduced. Increasingly, there is interest in resuming
pension payments and in compensating war veterans and civilian victims of the conflict. While these are
areas worth consideration and therefore are addressed in proposed technical assistance under the project,
their actual implementation is strongly dependent on available resources for their recurrent operations.
- 10-



5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has a comparative advantage in assisting in the setting up of systems aimed at social risk
management, and it has significant experience in this area throughout central and eastern Europe over the
past decade. The Bank also has significant experience with promoting change in post-conflict
environments.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The focus of the project is on cost-effective use of limited public resources for basic service provision to
individuals and households that have been hardest hit by the conflict and begin building a sustainable and
effective social welfare system for the longer term. This should enhance the possibilities of integrating
at-risk individuals and households into the mainstream of Kosovar society as productive members with
enhanced capabilities to take on economic risk, i.e. it should improve labor market results for them, and at
the same time it should result in reduced dependency, delinquency and criminality, lowering the costs
associated with vulnerability and dysfunctional behavior among the population.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
An important factor in project design is the financial sustainability of the welfare system, and such
financial considerations will be an important element of project implementation.
Fiscal Impact:
The project should have minor fiscal impact. Incremental operating costs will essentially arise from better
maintenance standards and operating costs related to equipment such as the installation of generators in
CSWs. With regard to additional staff, current welfare department budgets already foresee an increment of
some 100 persons over the next year. It is unlikely that all positions will be filled, and some of those
resources will be reallocated to operations and maintenance costs. Currently, it is estimated that
incremental O&M costs will total $600,000 equivalent, or some 2 percent of the recurrent welfare budget.
3. Technical:
A sound strategy has been developed based on the following: a social assessment undertaken by the Bank, a
sector strategy analysis undertaken by UNMIK with the support of the Bank and DFID; and following
extensive discussions in the field with the UNMIK social welfare system managers and staff, with NGOs
operating in welfare in Kosovo, and with local authorities and other stakeholders, including representatives
of minority groups. The project will directly address needs that have been identified and expressed by these
entities and groups.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The implementation capacities of the UJNMIK entities (DHSW, CFA, CPE) that will implement the project
- 11 -



have been assessed, and DHSW and CPE will need strengthening to ensure adequate project
implementation.
Project management will be in the DHSW, specifically the social welfare section within that department.
The DHSW was formed in March 2000 by UNMIK regulation no 2000/10. It is responsible for the overall
management and implementation of policy in the areas of health and welfare. The social welfare section is
responsible for developing policy and strategies for social welfare, including regulatory frameworks, the
setting of standards, and the prevention, monitoring and control of social problems. The section has an
international staff of 14, a Kosovar co-director and national staff numbering 640 (including managers,
professional and support staff). It is described in greater detail in Annex 13.
4.2 Project management:
The DHSW will appoint a coordinator for the project from among the current staff. It will, moreover, be
strengthened with one international consultant, who will be recruited for the full period of project
implementation. That person will be responsible for the day-to-day monitoring of project implementation in
collaboration with relevant DSW staff, and for collecting all information for the purposes of monitoring
and reporting on the progress of the project to the Bank and other authorities.
4.3 Procurement issues:
In the CPE, one individual is currently designated to handle World Bank project procurement However, a
procurement assessment conducted during project preparation has determined that this will not be sufficient
to ensure adequate procurement under the project. Therefore, the CPE will recruit under the project, for a
period of five months, one international consultant familiar with World Bank procurement procedures. The
consultant will ensure start-up of the procurement aspects of project implementation and train a local staff
(recruited for the duration of the project) in World Bank procurement procedures. The latter will take over
the project procurement function once the international TA leaves, working under the guidance of existing
Department of Procurement staff.
4.4 Financial management issues:
An assessment of the financial capacity of the CFA has been conducted. It is the conclusion that the
existing system meets at least the minimum needs for proper grant administration and reporting.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project includes minor civil works for the rehabilitation of Centers for Social Work. These works may
have an adverse environmental effect relating to the disposal of debris following the rehabilitation. The
civil works on CSW buildings range between $1,300 and $65,000 with an average value of $30,000.
Currently, Serbian environmental regulations formally apply in Kosovo, but new regulations are being
prepared by UNMIK. These regulations specify that an environmental impact assessment must be done for
certain investments, generally larger scale works that are beyond the scope envisaged in the project.
However, DHSW will use these regulations as a guide for the preparation of an Environmental
Management Plan for this project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
It is expected that an enviromnental impact statement will have to be issued for the works relating to each
site, including a description of the main measures that will be taken to offset any adverse effects of the
project on the environment.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
- 12 -



Date of receipt of final draft: N/A
N/A
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The project and its potential environmental impact was discussed with the Department of Environment of
UNMIK including local counterparts. The proposed mitigation measures were discussed and agreed and
the superivison and certification by Regional Environmental Officers was also agreed. The rehabilitation
estimates were discussed in detail with the staff of DHSW in order to assess the potential environmental
impact from the proposed activities. The EMP was also discussed with DHSW to ensure that they could
ensure compliance with such measures through contracting. The EMP will be available to the public in
Kosovo and also through the Bank's InfoShop.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Department of Environment is in the process of recruiting and training Regional Environmental
Officers. These will be international staff with local counterparts for the interim. The training is being
conducted at the Regional Environmental Center for Eastern Europe. The Department of Environment
confirmed that these Officers would be responsible for the verification that works under the project have
been carried out in compliance with the applicable regulation on hazardous materials. Supervision
missions will also verify that provisions were included in contracts for contractors and that the REOs have
reviewed compliance. The EMP also includes a monitoring plan.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The project does address a number of important social issues that have been identified in the Bank's social
assessment and UNMIK's social protection strategy paper. These involve (i) giving Kosovar communities
a voice in UNMIK directed policy making; (ii) taking local specificities into account in service provision;
(iii) to the extent possible, avoiding an ethnic-based two-track service system; and (iv) recognition of
extended family structures and informal safety nets, i.e. civil society, in providing support.
Preparation of the UNMIK social protection strategy paper, on which the current project is based, involved
extensive consultations with Kosovar society - academic, professional, political and civil society
stakeholders, and their views are reflected in the conclusions of the report. Further consultation on the
focus and content of project components during project preparation has also involved the Kosovar
community, and terms of reference for the technical assistance will further emphasize the need for Kosovar
involvement. Training programs are exclusively focused on Kosovars. In fact, the underlying approach of
the project is in fact to gradually enable a smooth transition of responsibility for policy making and service
delivery in the area of social welfare from UNMIK to Kosovars.
In recognition of the importance of civil society in providing an adequate safety net - for reasons of limited
resources as well as social tradition, design of the organization and institutional processes of the social
welfare system will include analysis of how NGOs and civil society organziations can be incorporated into
a comprehensive approach to welfare provision, which involves public-private partnership. It is, moreover,
expected that the capacity building for CSWs component will be executed by an NGO.
Such public-private partnerships can be expected to strengthen the local character of welfare services.
- 13 -



Further strengthening of local specificity of service delivery will be introduced as CSWs move under the
jurisdiction of municipalities, and CSW management and staff acquire improved professional skills and
experience that will make them more comfortable in adapting their case work to local reality.
While measures to foster bridging between ethnic commnunities to a major degree is a function of adequate
security and time, there will be an effort not to duplicate the service network. Instead, immediate ethnic
and locality problems will be met through mobile outreach services, based in fixed centers. Thus, the
equipment component envisages the establishment of 16 mobile units for this purpose.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
See 6.1. above.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See 6.1. above
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
See 6.1. above
6.5 How will the project monitor perfornance in terrns of social development outcomes?
The DSW consistently monitors service provision, including the quality of services to all ethnic groups.
This will continue to be the case during and after project implementation.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)     _0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See Section 5 above related to the Environmental Assessment.
- 14 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainabiity:
The sustainability of the social welfare system in Kosovo in the medium to longer term depends on the
timeliness of economic recovery and a concurrent increase in public revenues. This will reduce pressures
on the welfare system as demands on the safety net diminish and, at the same time, it can be expected to
stabilize budget allocations and resource availability for welfare services. In the short term, the project has
been designed taking into account conservative assumptions regarding resource availability, i.e. the
recurrent costs arising from the project are expected to be moderate.
At the same time, political and consitutional uncertainities surrounding the future of Kosovo are
considerable, and may well have implications for the welfare system. The proposed project remains neutral
on that point. It aims at welfare services that can be delivered under current circumstances and reasonable
projections of medium-term developments. Extensive consultations with the local population ensure that
the project is adapted to the current environment.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
The local population does not recognize     M         1. Extensive consultations with local
ownership of the proposed welfare system              stakeholders (political, academic, professional,
and of changes in current structures                  general public, majority as well as minority
groups) have taken place in developing the work
that underlies the project (social assessment,
poverty assessment, social protection strategy).
2. Extensive experience and feedback has
already been received by UNMIK and NGOs in
fieldwork that is directly relevant to the
proposed project components
3. Project preparation, inlcuding terms of
reference, has included heavy involvement by
local as well as international staff in Kosovo,
and field visits have confirmed the relevance of
the proposed approaches
4. For the major tasks relating to the CSWs,
which are in direct contact with the population,
including minorities, qualified consultants will
have to have had relevant Kosovar field
experience
Staff turnover may be high                  S         Improved management and administration, and
training, should enable staff to cope better with
caseloads and reduce burnout
From Components to Outputs
-15 -



Adequate implementation capacity in          N         UNMIK entities (DHSW, CPE) have been
UNMIK                                                  reviewed for institutional capacity to implement
the project; they are being appropriately
strengthened for project implementation
Contracted consultants may not be able to    M         Terms of reference will require track record of
build trust with Kosovar CSW community                 successful collaboration with Kosovars in social
welfare training
Overall Risk Rating                          S         Political and constitutional uncertainties
influence the overall risk rating; however, as
noted in Sections D. 1. and F. 1., postponement
of the project would not be a feasible alternative
in light of current needs, and to minimize risk,
its design is relatively neutral with regard to
future adjustments
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The are no controversial aspects in the project beyond those relating to the political and cnstitutional
uncertainties.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
None
H. Readiness for Implementation
O I. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 I. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
0 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 16 -



I. Compliance with Bank Policies
0 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval.    roject complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
<C~~~~~~~~~~~~7 
%\Ujalte S. A. Sederlof                Michal J. Rutkowski               Christiaan J. Poortman
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director            Country ManagerlDirector
- 17-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
KOSOVO: Social Protection Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Sustainable social protection  Efficient and effective service ISP monitoring reports  Political stability
programs                   and benefit delivery       DHSW, CSW reports
Economic growth, expanding
tax base
Continued donor support
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
A basic safety net for the  Increase in quality and   ISP monitoring reports on    Recurrent expenditures are
immediate future; design of a  consistency of service  compliance with procedures,  increasingly met from local
sustainable welfare system for provision              accuracy of case selection and taxes; and donors continue to
the medium term;                                      referrals, work plans      cover the difference;
development of administrative Better organization of social
capacity for delivery of   welfare policy-making and    Reports from the appeals  Investment expenditures are
pensions, and veterans' and   service delivery        process                    provided by donors
invalidity benefits
DHSW, CSW administrative  UJNMIK implements blueprint
and operational reports   for welfare scheme and adopts
pensions, veterans' and
Project supervision reports   invalidity schemes
The local population
(including minorities) support
the proposed programs
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Design of a comprehensive Blueprint for the system  Project supervision reports    UNMIK adopts blueprint and
social welfare system                                 Handover reports of        the local population
consultants               (including minorities) support
the design of the proposed
programs
B. Functional CSW          Number of CSWs refurbished, DHSW, CSW reports
infrastructure, including for   equipped; mobile teams  Project supervision reports
minority groups            equipped
- 18 -



C. Functional CSW staff    Number of staff trained in    Contractor reports       Low staff turnover
supervision and delivery;  DHSW reports
certificate program designed  Project supervision reports
for training of future staff
D. Pension administration    Number of staff trained in    Contractor reports
able to handle basic       relevant administrative skills  DHSW reports
administrative functions                              Project supervision reports
related to pension, veterans',
invalids' administration
E. . Effective implementation, Timeliness of submission of  Implementation progress
monitoring, evaluation of  monitoring reports; quality of reports by UNMIK; financial
project                    monitoring and evaluation    audits; supervision reports;
activities; quality of financial, evaluation reports
procurement management
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:           (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
A. .Strengthening of the   $1.02 million              Project supervision reports    Adequate implementation
social welfare system                                  DHSW reports               capacity in UNMJK
B. Upgrading of CSW        $2.68 million              Project supervision reports
infrastructure                                        DHSW, CPE progress reports
C. Capacity building for   $1.95 million              Project supervision reports    Contracted consultants can
CSWs                                                  DHSW progress reports       build trust with Kosovar CSW
community
D. Strengthening essential   $0.17 million            Project supervision reports
services in the pensions,                             DHSW progress reports
veterans' and invalidity
administration
E. Project management      $0.80 million              Project supervision reports
- 19 -



- 20 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
KOSOVO: Social Protection Project
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$1.02 million
Strengthening the Social Welfare System
This component will define an appropriate organizational structure and related institutional arrangements
for the social welfare system. The design will take into account current fiscal, administrative and political
factors that may influence the system, and it will anticipate a diminished role for UNMIK and the
international third sector in the future. It will provide technical assistance and training for the following
elements:
(i) organizational and institutional development at the sectoral level, involving definition of
objectives and responsibilities of entities involved in social welfare(l); their duties and functions; mutual
relationships, including coordination, reporting and accountability; infortnation needs of each entity;
monitoring and evaluation methods, and forms and reporting mechanisms; recommendations on interaction
and working relationships with third sector entities in the delivery of social services, including incentives
for out-sourcing of functions third sector entities; draft regulations for each entity and functional job
descriptions for each task; and staffing needs and skills requirements for the system;
(ii) strengthening policy analysis capability and administrative skills of staff in DHSW;
(iii) introducing a strategic planning and policy development function in DHSW;
(iv) introducing administrative and IT-based methods to prevent fraud and corruption in the
welfare system; and
(v) support for an infonnation and communications strategy for the sector aimed at promoting
professional communications among welfare professionals and disseminating information about social
services to the general public.
The component will also provide technical assistance to develop an information technology strategy for the
sector. Since the conflict, welfare services have been receiving a variety of often inconsistent information
and commnunications technology support from donors and NGOs. Future development of the welfare
system will require a more consistent approach to the automation of existing processes and organizational
structures in social welfare, as well as one that will allow the gradual aligmnent of processes,
organizational structures and new technologies along the goals of social welfare.
(1) "Entities" include DHSW, ISP, Regional and Municipal Social Officers, CSWs, municipalities and municipal
departments of health and social welfare, other public entities involved in the delivery of social services, e.g.
Department of Justice, Department of Youth, Central Fiscal Authority, Department of Labor, and community
groups and international NGOs,
Project Component 2 - US$2.68 million
Upgrading of Social Welfare Infrastructure
This component will support the refurbishment of 20 and equipping of 32 CSWs. Many CSW office
buildings were damaged during the conflict, others have fallen into disrepair from lack of regular
maintenance, and in a number of instances facilities have been destroyed altogether or are occupied by
KFOR, with CSWs operating out of buildings that are inappropriate for the delivery of welfare services.
- 21 -



At the same time, there is a shortage of office equipment and office fumiture. NGOs and bilateral donors
are refurbishing and in some cases rebuilding CSWs, including providing office equipment. The
component would complement these initiatives by financing physical repairs to existing buildings and
reconfiguring offices, as well as providing essential equipment and furniture - photocopiers, fax machines,
safes, fire safety tools, storage heaters and generators. The component would also provide vehicles and
related communications and office equipment for mobile CSW teams that provide outreach services to Serb
enclaves.
Project Component 3 - US$ 1.95 million
Capacity Building for Centers for Social Work
This component will aim at building up a common standard of counseling, care and care planning in the
CSW network. It will do the following:
(i) provide training in modem case management for current CSW staff, many of whom either have
little or no previous experience in social work, or have not practiced social work for the past ten years and
whose skills have consequently eroded as well as becoming outdated; in addition to skills building in social
work, it would provide specialized training social work and the law, client-centered needs analysis, and
networking and advocacy;
(ii) develop a staff level technical guidance and supervision function at the CSW level by providing
selected senior-level social workers in each center with accelerated training in case supervision and
management;
(iii) introduce an outcomes assessment mechanism at the level of the ISP; and
(iv) develop a certificate program in social work to ensure a future generation of staff, this is
particularly important as many of the current generation of social workers are close to retirement and there
currerntly are no programs to replace such staff. For these purposes, the project would provide technical
assistance and training.
Project Component 4 - US$0.17 million
Support to Pension and Invalidity Fund
This component would provide technical assistance and training to help strengthen essential services in the
Pension and Invalidity Fund in anticipation of decisions being taken by UNMIK on the shape of the future
pension scheme, and on veterans' and invalidity benefit schemes. Fund premises were largely destroyed
during the conflict and it has ceased most operations. Administrative procedures employed in the Fund
have been inhreited from the previous period, and they have fallen into disuse, as there has been little need
to apply or modify them until now: the Fund's activities currently are limited to restoring computer records
of beneficiaries who were entitled to pension payments under the previous pension scheme of the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia, which was discontinued in 1999. With the expectation of a new pension scheme
and veterans' and invalidity benefit schemes being introduced, there is a need to restore Fund
administration. Thus, resources have been set aside under the Bank's Education and Health Project to
rehabilitate the facilities and provide basic equipment, including for the establishment/ maintenance of a
centralized data base or register containing information in a readily retrievable form. This project would
help (re)introducing administrative procedures for record-keeping, prompt and accurate determination of
benefits, keeping track of people in payment status, and providing information to the general public.
Project Component 5 - US$0.80 million
- 22 -



Proiect Mana2ement
The DHSW will have responsibility for all technical aspects of the project. Technical assistance (one
person for the duration of the project) would be provided to the DHSW for the day-to-day implementation
of the project. It is expected that this person would also serve more generally as support to the Department
Head in current management of the Departmnent.
- 23 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
KOSOVO: Social Protection Project
Local        Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component                    US $million    US $million    US $million
Strengthening the Social Welfare System                         0.00           0.98          0.98
Upgrading Social Welfare Infrastructure                         0.95           1.58          2.53
Capacity Building for Centers for Social Welfare                0.07           1.82           1.89
Support to Pension and Invalidity Fund                          0.00           0.16           0.16
Project Management                                              0.18           0.60           0.78
Total Baseline Cost                                             1.20           5.14           6.34
Physical Contingencies                                         0.09           0.00          0.09
Price Contingencies                                            0.00           0.19          0.19
Total Project Costs                 1.29           5.33           6.62
Total Financing Required                   1.29          5.33           6.62
Local        Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Category                   US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                             0.00            1.64          1.64
Works                                                             1.04            0.00          1.04
Services                                                          0.17            3.69          3.86
Incremental Operating Costs                                       0.08           0.00           0.08
Total Project Costs        1.29            5.33          6.62
Total Financing Required         1.29            5.33           6.62
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 6.62 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 63.44% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 24 -



Annex 4
KOSOVO: Social Protection Project
Not applicable.
- 25 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
KOSOVO: Social Protection Project
T   Year r  0  Year 2     Year 3        .Year 4    Year 5  Year 6  Year07
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          0.92        5.0        0.7        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0         0.0       0.6        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Costs          0.9        5.0        1.3        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing              0.9        5.0        1.3        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                   0.6        3.3       0.3        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        . . .              
Co-financiers DFID        0.32        1.7       0.4        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    0.92        5.0        0.7        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
| Year  I   Year 2  l Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5        Year 6  | Yearl7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         0.92        5.0        0.7       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Recurrent Costs           0.0        0.0        0.6        0.6        0.6      0.6        0.6
Total Project Costs         0.9        5.0        1.3        0.6        0.6       0.6        0.6
Total Financing            0.92        5.0        1.3        0.6        0.6       0.6        0.6
Financing
IBRD/IDA                  0.6        3.3        0.3        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Government                0.0        0.0        0.0        0.6        0.6       0.6       0.6
Central                0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Provincial             0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers DFID       0.32        1.7        0.4        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
- 26 -



Others                    0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    0.92        5.0       0.7        0.6        0.6       0.6        0.6
- 27 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
KOSOVO: Social Protection Project
Procurement
The procurement of goods and services will be done in accordance with the Association's procurement
guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 including all
revisions up to January 1999 and Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
dated Januarv 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. The project elements, their estimated
cost and procurement methods are summarized in Table A. The procurement capacity assessment of the
implementing agency was completed during the appraisal mission. This assessment and other procurement
information, estimated dates for publication of GPN and the Association's review process is presented in
the "Assessment of the Capacity of the Implementing Agency" in the project files.
Procurement Management: The Central Procurement Entity (CPE) of the Department of Public services
under the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo will be responsible for overall project
implementation and progress monitoring. The CPE will ensure that the procurement procedures, criteria,
and documentation agreed with IDA, are complied with satisfactorily. The procurement management
responsibilities and procedures are described in further detail in the Project Implementation Document.
The CPE will oversee the procurement and award of contracts under the project. The CPE will also have
responsibility for carrying out procurement intended for CPE operations (incremental operating costs) and
the capacity building component. To carry out its procurement responsibilities, the CPE will recruit a
full-time, in-house intemational procurement specialist for the project. This specialist will provide
procurement training to the CPE staff as well as prepare the various bidding documents required under the
project.
Procurement Arran2ements
The procurement methods and arrangements applicable to the various expenditure categories under the
Project are summarized below in Table A. Model bidding documents for national competitive bidding
(NCB) will be prepared by the CPE for use under the project. These documents, which are based on Bank
ECA Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) were again reviewed at appraisal and found to be suitable for
use under the project. A general procurement notice will be published in the United Nations' Development
Business by June 30, 2001. The GPN will be updated annually for all outstanding procurement.
Procurement under the project would be undertaken in accordance with the procurement arrangements
shown in Table A and Al. The procurement schedule for the project is presented in Table B 1. The main
procurement methods are highlighted below.
1. Procurement of Civil Works
Civil Works (US$1.04 million) will be procured as follows:
(i)    National Competitive Bidding (NCB). There will be a total of six small works contract packages
estimated to be above US$50,000 but below US$200,000 equivalent that would be procured under the
national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures under lump-sum, fixed price contracts. The PCU will use
ECA sample bidding documents for small works procurement. Invitation for bids would be advertised in
local newspapers. The aggregate amount under NCB is estimated at US$0.58 million
- 28 -



(ii)    Minor (small) works. Works contacts that are simple in design and small in value (under
US$50,000) would be procured according to Minor Works procedures. Such works contracts that are labor
intensive, geographically scattered and spread over time, due, in part to climatic conditions, would be
procured under lump-sum fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least 3
(three) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation and according to Bank guidelines.
The CPE will use sample bidding documents developed in the ECA region. The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, and relevant
drawings where applicable. The award would be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract. The
aggregate value under minor works contract is estimated to be US$0.46 million.
2. Procurement of Goods
Goods (approx. US$1.64 million) consisting of minor computer and office equipment, furniture and
generators will be grouped to the extent possible and considering project objectives, in package sizes that
will encourage competitive bidding. The following methods of procurement will be followed:
(i)    International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for contracts estimated to cost
more than US$100,000 equivalent per contract. It is estimated that contracts totaling US$1.52 million
(93% of total goods) will be procured through ICB procedures.
(ii)   International Shopping (IS) procedures will be used for readily available off-the-shelf goods of
standard specifications estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of
US$0.12 million (7% of total goods). These procedures will require quotations from at least three qualified
suppliers from two different Bank-member countries.
3. Selection Procedures for Services
Contracts for Consulting Services (US$3.87 million in technical assistance and training) required for the
Project will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines "Selection and Employment of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999. Contracts
will be packaged to include a combination of related skills and services, in order to make them attractive
and increase competition as well as to reduce the number of contracts to be managed. The following
methods of procurement will be followed:
(i)    Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for 3 consulting services and
training contracts such as technical assistance in organizational structure and training of staff of the
Departmnent of Health and Social Welfare.
(ii)    Quality Based Selection (QBS) procedures will be used for one consulting services and training
contract for capacity building of Centers for Social Welfare.
(iii)   Selection Based on Consultant Qualifications (CQ) procedures will be used for two consulting
services contracts (with a contract value below US$ 100,000) for Assistance on Fraud and Corruption
Prevention and for a local engineering firm to help supervise the civil works.
(iv)   Individual Consultants will be hired for various TA services such as strengthening the social
welfare system, providing support to the Pension and Invalidity Fund, strategic planning for the
- 29 -



Department of Health and Social Welfare and project management/procurement management, under
Section V of the Guidelines up to an aggregate amount of US$1.22 million equivalent, selected through
advertisement and on the basis of expressions of interest.
4. Incremental Operating Costs
The Grant will finance incremental operating costs of about US$0.07 million consisting of: (a)
communications, maintenance and operation of equipment procured or used under the project, office
supplies and publication of procurement notices in local newspapers.
5. Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in Development Business and will be updated
annually for any outstanding tenders. For any ICB contracts and consultants' contracts above
US$200,000, Specific Procurement Notices/Requests for Expression of Interest will be advertised in
Development Business, in the Public Procurement Bulletin of the UNMIK Interim Administration as well
as another appropriate newspaper of wide local circulation.
6. Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement of goods and services for the project will be carried out in
accordance with the agreed procurement plan. Prior to the issuance of any invitation for bidding, the
proposed procurement plan for the project will be reviewed by UNMIK (Department of Health and Social
Welfare and the Central Procurement Authority) and the Association will be advised of any revisions for its
review in accordance with the agreed procurement plan, which will be modified as appropriate and included
in the progress reports subject to Association review.
(i) Civil Works: The first five contracts regardless of their size under NCB, the first three minor works
contracts will be prior reviewed by the Association.
(i) Goods: Prior review of bidding documents, including review of evaluation, recommendation of award
and contract will be conducted for all ICB contracts, and the first two contracts under Intemational
Shopping regardless of their value.
(iii) Consulting Services: Terms of reference, projected budgets and proposed procurement method for all
consulting and training assignments will be subject to prior Association review. Request for Proposals
(RFP), short lists, terms and conditions of contracts, evaluation reports and recommendation for award,
and negotiated contracts will be prior reviewed by the Association for contracts for individual consultants
above $20,000 equivalent and firms above $50,000 equivalent and/or amendments which, respectively,
raise base contracts above these levels.
After award of contract, should any material modifications of specifications or terms of reference or waiver
of terms and conditions of a contract, and/or contract ceiling proposed to increase above 15% of the
original amount, the Association will reserve the right to prior review of such modifications (including
modifications to contracts for consulting services).
Procurement methods (Table A)
- 30 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category         _     Cs                NCB           Other          N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                                0.00             0.58            0.46           0.00         1.04
(0.00)           (0.36)          (0.29)        (0.00)        (0.65)
2. Goods                                1.52             0.00            0.12           0.00         1.64
(0.96)           (0.00)          (0.07)        (0.00)        (1.03)
3. Services                             0.00             0.00            3.87           0.00         3.87
(0.00)           (0.00)          (2.48)        (0.00)        (2.48)
4. Incremental Operating                0.00             0.00            0.07           0.00         0.07
Costs
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0.04)         0.00)        (0.04)
Total                                1.52             0.58            4.52           0.00         6.62
(0.96)           (0.36)          (2.88)        (0.00)        (4.20)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include
contingencies.
2 Includes small works procedures, goods to be procured through international shopping, consulting
services, services of contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance
services, and incremental operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project
funds to local government units.
- 31 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS    SFB     LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost
A. Firms              0.54    1.96    0.00    0.00      0.15    0.00    0.00     2.65
(0.35)  (1.25)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.10)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (1.70)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    1.22    0.00      1.22
___ ________________    (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.78)  (0.00)   (0.78)
Total  0.54    1.96    0.00    0.00     0.15    1.22    0.00      3.87
(0.35)  (1.25) , (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.10)  (0.78)  (0.00)   (2.48)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants per Section V of Consultants Guidelines
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.
- 32 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement              Prior Review
Expenditure Category      (US$ thousands)             Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                 below US$200,000 and            NCB              first 5 contracts overall
above US$50,000
below US$50,000           Minor Works                 $1.08
2. Goods                  above US$100,000               ICB                     $1.52
US$50,000 - US$100,000            IS                     $0.12
3. Services              Firrns above $50,000         QCBS (3),                  $0.54
QBS (1)                  $1.96
CQ (2)                   $0.15
Individuals above $20,000     Indivual (5)               $1.22
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$6.59 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Section 1: Capacity of Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
Requirements:
Brief Statement
The overall responsibility for project management and coordination rest with the CPE within UNMIK. The
CPE will be supported by Technical Assistance consisting of: a full time Procurement Specialist, a
short-tenn Intemational Procurement Specialist, and a full time Procurement Assistant. The CPE
Procurement Specialist has received a two week Bank sponsored procurement training in Sarajevo during
the spring of 2000 aand has been hadling procunnent related activities on all Bank financed projects in
Kosovo. The CPE Procunnent Specialist would definitely need to receive on-the-job training working
along with and Intemational Procurnent consultant the project.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper Status. A CPAR
for Kosovo has not been done.Are the bidding documents for the first year ready by negotiations. Yes
[] No [X]
Section 2: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project Launch Workshop: 7/2001
Estimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice: 06/30/2001
- 33 -



Indicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business: Yes. For ICB
and consultant services
Domestic Preference for Goods: No
Retroactive financing: No
Advance Procurement: No
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All procurement related documentation that requires Bank's prior review will be cleared by Procurement
Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff. No packages above mandatory review thresholds by
RPA are anticipated. The CPE will maintain complete procurement files which will be reviewed by Bank's
supervision missions. The Procurement Plan will be updated annually. Procurement information will be
recorded by the CPE and submitted to the Bank as part of the quarterly and annual progress reports. This
information will include: revised cost estimates for the different contracts; revised timing of procurement
actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts; as
well as compliance with aggregate limits (within 15%) on specific methods of procurement.
Co-financing: No
Section 3: Procurement Staffing
Indicate the name of Procurement staff or Bank's part of the Task Team responsible for the
procurement in the Project:
&ame: Seyoum Solomon (ECSHD)    Ext:32393
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement:
There is a procurement capacity at the CPE even though it needs to be strenghtened. The CPE will
complement its procurement capacity by hiring a part-time foreign TA procurement Specialist on as needed
basis, and a full time Procuremnent Assistant. The Procurement Assistant will recieve an intensive
procurment training in Turin, Italy in September, 2001.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 34 -



Disbursement
Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
The project will be financed from the Kosovo Trust Fund administered by the Bank (US$4.00 million) and
co-financing will be provided by the UK Department for Intemational Development (US$2.73 million).
DFID will provide these funds as joint financing through a trust fund to be administered by the Bank for
this project. A Memorandum of Understanding will be signed with DFID prior to the approval of the
project by the Vice President.
The proposed Grant, including the co-financing trust fund, would be disbursed as shown in Table C. It is
expected that the proceeds of the Grant will be disbursed over a period of 2.5 years, which includes six
months for completion of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications. As there is no standard
disbursement profile for Kosovo, the disbursement forecast is based on previous experience. The project
completion date is August 31, 2003 and the closing date is February 29, 2004.
Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Category        Amount of the Trust    Amount of the        % of Expenditures
Fund Grant           DFID Grant          to be financed
Allocated (US$          Allocated
millions)          (US$ millions)
Works                       0.610                 0.360          64% out ofthe
Trust Fund and 36%
out of the DFID
Grant
Goods                       0.945                 0.555         64% out of the Trust
Fund and 36% out of
the DFID Grant
Consultants' Services       2.200                 1.300         64% out of the Trust
Fund and 36% out of
the DFID Grant
Incremental                 0.035                 0.015         64% out of the Trust
Operating Costs                                                 Fund and 36% out of
the DFID Grant
Unallocated                 0.410                 0.190
TOTAL                       4.200                 2.420
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Some of the proceeds of the Grant are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) as follows: (a) civil works for all contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each (with the
exception of the first three contracts); (b) goods costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract (with
the exception of the first two contracts); (c) service contracts for (i) individuals costing less than
US$20,000 each; and (ii) firms costing less than US$50,000 each; (d) operating costs, all under such terms
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Receipient. Disbursements against goods
and services exceeding the above limits will be made against full documentation and respective
- 35 -



procurement guidelines. SOEs will be certified locally by the Central Fiscal Authority. Related
documentation in support of SOEs will not be submitted to the Association , but will be retained by CFA
for at least one year, after receipt by the Association of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement is made. This documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and
supervision missions. If ineligible expenditures, including those not justified by the evidence furnished, are
financed from the Special Account (SA), the Association will have the right to withhold further deposits
into the SA. The Association may exercise this right until the Recipient has (a) refunded the amounts
involved, of (b) submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures that can be used to offset the ineligible
amounts, if the Association agrees.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, UNMIK will establish, maintain and operate, under conditions
acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in DEM in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. An
initial authorized Special Account allocation of DEM600,000 will be established. An authorized allocation
of the Special Account will be DEM 1.2 million. The balance of the SA may be drawn once the aggregate
disbursements of the Grant total $1.0 million or more. The account size is justified for several reasons: (i)
being able to authorize payments directly from the Special Account to contracts rather than requesting any
direct disbursements will be administratively easier for the CFA to manage; (ii) frequent Special Account
replenishment applications would also be an undue administrative burden on the CFA; (iii) the Special
Account will be held in a very secure banking environment as it will be a sub-account of the bank
accounting containing all donor funds supporting the Kosovar consolidated budget; and (iv) the Project has
a short implementation period, requiring a very quick disbursement method. The minimum amount of each
application should be 20% of the authorized allocation. Replenishment applications should be submitted
by the CFA at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other
appropriate supporting documents.
Proiect Accountini
The Central Fiscal Authority (CFA), acting under the authority of the Special Representative of the
Secretary-General, is responsible of the overall financial management of the Kosovo Budget and the
budgets under the responsibility of the municipalities, which together from the Kosovo Consolidated
Budget (KCB). Specifically, the CFA is responsible for budget process and preparation, treasury
functions, revenue analysis, tax collection and customs administration. Currently, the CFA is funded
primarily through the Intemational donor community and its day-to-day management is conducted by
intemational experts. One of its key objectives is to allocate, commit and track funds for public sector
spending through an automated system to enhance accountability and government financial operations.
To ensure that expenditure are consistent with the amounts and purpose set out in the KCB, regulations
have been approved by the Special Representative of the Secretary-General. To prevent abuse and fraud,
explicit administrative instructions and procedures are in place for the conmmitment and expenditure of
public money. Also, in order to minimize the risk of fraud and malfeasance, an independent officer from
the procurement process checks and confirms that these rules have been adhered to. A detailed description
of the instructions and procedures are found in the PIP.
The Bank has discussed with the representatives of the Central Fiscal Authority (CFA), Bank's reporting
requirements for projects and the need for the establishment of a proper financial management system to
produce Project Management Reports (PMR). As the participants under the project fall under the umbrella
of the KCB, all project related payments would be made via the STA, and the accounts would be
maintained as part of the CFA's accounting system. The current financial system at the CFA is able to
- 36 -



produce the integrated PMRs (Financial report, Progress Report and Procurement Management Report), as
required by IDA. PMRs are being produced for the Urgent Road Project and the Educationa and Health
Project. In order to be able to produce PMRs for this project the following actions will be taken:
*   A chart of accounts will be developed for the project by the CFA in coordination with the Social
Welfare counterparts, and will be incorporated into CFA's own chart of accounts with budget
classification codes based on the GFMIS;
*   An expatriate staff, assigned to the CFA and funded under the Bank's PSD TA project will be in
charge of producing the PMRs for this project. She will have counterparts in the Department of Social
Protection and the Central Procurement Authority (CPA), who will coordinate project implementation
and assist in the preparation of the PMRs;
*   The CFA will utilize traditional Association disbursement procedures. A move to PMR based
disbursements will be considered once a Association FMS has reviewed and certified the PMRs as
acceptable for disbursements.; and
*   The selection of an auditor acceptable to the Association, to audit the project accounts should be
completed no later than May 15th, 2001
The Treasury Department of the CFA has:
* adequate financial management capacity to properly handle the tasks of disbursement and accounting
required for implementation of the project objectives; and
3   proper monitoring mechanism to report accurately on the status of the expenditure for the project as a
whole, its various components and each expenditure category as represented in the Grant Agreement,
by each funding source.
Project Audit and Other Reportin2
Project Audits
VTNMIK has decided to appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Bank for the audit of the project
accounts. The audit costs would be bome by UNMIK as part of its operating costs. Project accounts,
financial statements, the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures will be audited in accordance with
the Guidelines for Financial Reporting andAuditingfor Projects Financed by the World Bank (March
1982) as well as the Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (January 1995). In
particular, Intemational Auditing Standards (IAS) as published by the International Federation of
Accountants (IFAC) will be consistently applied. The CFA will provide the Bank (within six months of the
end of each fiscal year), an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
including an opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, on disbursements against certified
SOEs, or against PMRs. The opinion should mention whether the SOEs/PMRs submitted during the fiscal
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawal applications.
Project Reporting
UNMIK, lead by the Department of Health and Social Welfare, in coordination with the CFA and CPA,
will ensure that proper project progress reports are prepared and submitted to the IDA in a timely fashion.
These include comprehensive quarterly reports covering project financing, implementation progress
(including variance reporting), procurement progress and contract expenditure. The reporting system will
be in compliance with the formats provided by the IDA in the Project Financial Management Manual
- 37 -



(Exposure Draft, February 1999). A copy has been given to the CFA. These include: project status
reports, reflecting: (i) the status of implementation progress, problems encountered, corrective actions
needed, rationale for actions; (ii) the current state of project indicators; and (iii) the current costs of each
project component and estimated costs of completion Procurement reports, including (i) which describe the
progress of procurement activities against the plans set forth in the PIP, variations in progress, reasons for
variations, and remedial actions; (ii) bid evaluation reports, as they arise in the procurement processes.
- 38 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
KOSOVO: Social Protection Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      6
First Bank mission (identification)             09/15/2000                    09/15/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     04/02/2001                    04/02/2001
Negotiations                                    06/04/2001                   06/04/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/01/2001                   09/01/2001
Prepared by:
UNMIK Department of Social Welfare with assistance from consultants
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Hjalte S.A. Sederlof              Lead Operations Officer, Team Leader
Kathryn Dahlmeier                 Operations Analyst
Seyoum Soloman                    Procurement Specialist
Hiran Herat                       Financial Management Specialist
Kishor Uprety                     Counsel
Joseph Formoso                    Disbursement Officer
- 39 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
KOSOVO: Social Protection Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
In project files
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Kosovo Social Assessment
Financial Management Assessment
Procurement Capacity Assessment
C. Other
Kosovo Social Protection Strategy
*Including electronic files
- 40 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
KOSOVO: Social Protection Project
Not applicable.
- 41 -



KOSOVO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Not applicable.
-42 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
KOSOVO: Social Protection Project
Not applicable.
- 43 -



Additional
Annex 11
The Pre-Conflict Social Protection Structure
The benefit structure that existed in 1999 was similar to that of most of the Federal Yugoslav Republic,
though with specific features that effectively excluded the majority of the population. The major benefits
were:
The pension scheme, which included age pensions (with a number of early retirement provisions),
invalidity and survivor pensions, and disability allowances. In practice, only a comparatively small
proportion of the population was in the scheme, almost all of them employed in the state sector.
Perhaps a quarter or less of those over retirement age actually received a pension, with only 32,51 1
receiving an age pension as of the last payment in February 1999. In addition, there were 27,403
invalidity pension beneficiaries, 27,664 survivor pensions, and 10,550 disability pensions. It also
estimated by UNMIK that 6-10,000 additional people would have become entitled to old age pensions
between early 1999 and the end of 2000. This was in part a reflection of the former Yugoslav pension
system, which is purely a social insurance program, and for which participation for farmers was
initiated only in the 1970s. It also reflected labor market exclusion of Albanian Kosovars, many of
whom who were denied the opportunity to build up contribution histories after 1989. Kosovar experts
also note that the system had the largest arrears of any part of the former Yugoslavia at the time of
cessation of payments. The system was administered by a network of regional pension fund offices.
Unemployment benefit, which was both based on a contribution record and means tested. The program
was administered by the Employment Service through a regional network, which also ran a range of
active labor market programs;
Child allowances were payable on a means-tested basis to people in work on low incomes. During the
1990s, eligibility rules discriminated against ethnic Albanians in two ways. First, only households with
children in Serbian language schools were entitled to child allowances, effectively excluding many of
the Kosovar Albanians even where parents continued to work in the formal sector. Second, limits on
the number of children that could be counted for means-testing purposes worked against ethnic
Albanian households, due to larger family sizes;
Cash payments of social help were clearly seen as a last resort, carrying a high degree of stigma.
These were given both on a regular basis and as one-time help for those experiencing temporary
difficulties. Payments were targeted according to means and categorically, with the emphasis on those
unable to work. These benefits and other social services were administered through a regional network
of Centres for Social Work (CSW) similar to those found throughout former Yugoslavia. No social
help payments were made for the two years prior to the conflict - when payments were last made, they
went to only 39,000 people; and
A range of social services administered by CSWs, including placement of children in care; custody
assessments; services for the handicapped, etc.
Financing of all aspects of the system was by contributions paid by employers and employees. In practice,
the latter were largely notional. All salaries were set in terns of net take home pay. The various
contributions were calculated as a percentage of this net pay, which itself remained unaffected by changes
-44 -



in a contribution rate. In addition, social protection was subsidized from the budget to some extent,
including funds from the Fund for Undeveloped Regions, a Yugoslavia-wide fund which distributed
resources from richer to poorer regions, and of which Kosovo was a major beneficiary.
- 45 -



Additional
Annex 12
The Current Social Assistance Scheme
The scheme is intended to help families without resources.
Benefit unit
Benefit is awarded not to an individual or a household, but to a family, all members of which must
meet the qualifying conditions. In keeping with the rules of the previous scheme, a family is
defined as three generations living together under one roof Although this defuuition does not
correspond exactly with the local tradition of extended family support, it appears to be generally
accepted and has the merit of maintaining the primacy of families' support for their members.
Categories ofpeople eligible for help - Category One
The first stage of the scheme, "Category One", took effect from May 2000. This is intended for
families without resources where no one is capable of work or expected to make themselves
available for work. A family can only get Category One benefit if each member falls within one of
the following categories:
*  over 65 and not employed
*  under 15 and dependent (under 18 if in full-time education)
*  18-65 and incapable of work due to permanent disability confirmed by a Regional
Commission of Doctors
*  single parent with child under 10 and no other adult in the household
*  full-time career for a person over 65 or permanently disabled (one carer per family).
By November 2000, over 37,000 payments were being made under Category One, at a monthly
cost of DM 3.7m.
Categories ofpeople eligible for help - Category Two
It was envisaged originally that about 25,000 families would claim as unable to work under
Category One, and the same number would claim as unable to find work under Category Two.
Because the take up for Category One was higher than expected, Category Two was introduced
in November 2000 with highly restrictive rules, designed to protect the overall cash limit. This
extended eligibility for social assistance to families with a member who was capable of work but
unable to find a job, subject to stringent additional criteria:
* no one in the family is employed, even on a casual basis, or self-employed
* the family is not getting help from any members working in or outside Kosovo
*  any member who is capable of work must obtain a certificate from the Office of
Employment certifying he/she is available and seeking work
- 46 -



* the family must include at least one biological child of a couple in the household who is
under 5, or a double orphan under 15 in the family's full time care
* the family must not own a motorized vehicle
* the family was on the food aid list in September 2000.
These additional criteria mean that, not only must an unemployed family be out of work through
no fault of their own, but their situation must be more desperate than that of a comparable family
where no one is capable of work. Though stringent, this reflects public attitudes in Kosovo.
Treatment of resources
Resources include any income, in cash or in kind, received by any member of the family. This is
deducted Mark for Mark from the benefit due until the benefit is eliminated. Special rules apply to
children aged 15-18 who have left school and are working. They do not count for benefit, but
their earnings are disregarded unless they exceed DM 120 a month, when the family is excluded
from benefit. Capital assets are not generally taken into account, but families owning more than
half a hectare of land are disqualified unless they can prove that security risks such as mines
prevent access to the land. In addition, families claiming under Category Two are disqualified if
they own a motorised vehicle
Benefit rates
Benefit for a family consisting of one person is DM 65 per month, of two DM 90, of three DM
100, of four DM 110 and of five or more DM 120. These rates are all that is affordable within the
existing budget. They are also not unreasonable in relation to employment earnings - there is a
risk of creating work disincentives.
But without supplementation, they are arguably below subsistence level.  As food aid is
withdrawn, it will be very tempting for families to fail to declare help received from overseas or in
kind, casual employment income and other low-visibility items such as takings of children - many
of whom sell small items in the streets. It is such types of income that enable those families that
are in work to subsist on their generally low eamings. The risk here will be the development of a
culture in which cheating becomes an accepted way of life.
The risk of fraud is always present in benefit schemes. DHSW are very conscious of this and have
devised systematic verification procedures to minimise the risks. However successful these are,
the best safeguard is social disapproval of false claims. This can only be achieved if the system is
seen to be operating fairly. Very low benefit rates erode support for the system, and as the
economy improves it is important that people on benefit are seen to share in the growth in
prosperity.
Administration
Centres for Social Work administer the scheme in accordance with instructions laid down by the
Department of Health and Social Welfare. Applicants must apply and present full documentation
- 47 -



to the Centre for Social Work, which keeps a written record of all applications, whether or not
they are successful. Each applicant receives a unique number, which includes the code for the
relevant Centre for Social Work. Home verification visits are made in some Category One and all
Category Two cases before the claim is decided.
Successful applicants receive a social assistance card, which is valid for three months. They must
present the card at the local office of the national payments agency (BPK) in order to receive
payment each month. If they fail to collect their money twice in a row, they lose their entitlement
to benefit. The Centres for Social Work submit full lists of approved payments to the DHSW,
which passes these on to the BPK for cross-checking against claims. The DHSW also sends a
payment order to the CFA for approval and transmission to the BPK so as to fund payments. At
the end of each monthly payment period, the BPK, Centres for Social Work and the DHSW
reconcile actual against expected payments, first locally, then Kosovo-wide.
Unsuccessful applicants have a right of appeal, initially to the Centre for Social Work Director,
then to the ISP and ultimately to the courts. As of November 2000, the ISP had received about
100 claims, of which some 75 had been determined, about half in the applicant's favour. No
appeals had yet gone to the courts.
-48 -



Additional
Annex 13
Organizational Chart of Social Protection in Kosovo
Penn        e.        h                             ofh
| Pinar dt iVc |                |  DHW                CO|  employ Laour|
So; Soty  ia
toles           WofeHrs                  eli  
Institute                           4n 
A)~~~~~~e
A.~
A.~~~~.
g.
r                                                  hoit      tiGOa 
/ \        >            | ~~~~WFP 
(Community)             
|Municipalities|
DireGt rnanagerialfaccountabiiity relationship
..........  Exchange of information
OooooooAoo  Relationship not clear at this stage of study
?????????  Relationship to be considered critically in study
- 49 -



The above diagram shows the various bodies involved with social protection in Kosovo and the main
relationships between them.
Department of Health and Social Welfare The DHSW was formed in March 2000 and is responsible for
the overall management and implementation of policy guidelines formulated by the Interim Administrative
Council in the field of health and social welfare. The Social Welfare section is responsible for developing
policy and strategies for social welfare, including regulatory frameworks, setting of standards, and the
prevention, monitoring and control of social problems. DHSW is responsible for:
*   hiring the directors of the CSWs (in collaboration with the municipal authorities) and social
welfare institutions;
*   preparing and implementing the Social Assistance Scheme;
*   preparing, managing and implementing the social welfare budget, including salaries and
operating costs for those institutions for which it is responsible;
*   designing and managing the transition from food aid to cash benefits; and,
*   coordinating training initiatives in the area of social welfare.
Regional and Municipal Welfare Officers There is a network of intemational Regional Social Welfare
Officers, whose main fanction is maintaining a communication and support relationship between DHSW
and the CSWs. The RSWOs are responsible to the Regional Administrators and are hired by the Region,
however they are also responsible to DHSW in Pristina for policy direction. As of July 1, 2001, the
RSWOs will report to DHSW. There are also international Municipal Social Welfare Officers who are not
line managed by the DHSW but rather report to the Municipal Administrations. The MSWOs are
responsible for ensuring that the municipal social welfare structures understand and implement the policies
which are received from DHSW (sometimes through RSWOs).
Centers for Social Work The CSWs are the main point of contact for the population with the social
welfare system. There are 32 CSWs with one located in each municipality. They range in size from 7 staff
members to 32 staff members with a total staff size of approximately 400. The mandate of the CSWs
includes:
*   Studying social problems;
*   Developing plans and programs for social protection;
3   Undertaking measures to prevent people from falling into a state of social need;
3   Determining the type of social protection required by a person in need; and,
3   Founding, developing, and following the work of 'joint work organizations" and social
protection services.
Institute of Social Policy The ISP is responsible for research and analysis of social welfare issues.
Staffed by 10 persons, this Institute is responsible for managing the appeals process, developing
the research basis needed for the formation of sound social policies, and supervise the work of the
CSWs. The ISP currently does not have the staff capacity to carry out all of these roles. As for
the research there will need to be much assistance to develop this area, but possibly linkages with
the statistical agency data could be developed, rather than their current vision of generating their
own data source. In addition there is some question as to whether the ISP should be a
government body, or an independent agency. Currently it is under the responsibility of DHSW.
Pension and Invalidity Fund The only significant provision for retirement pensions in Kosovo was
through participation in the arrangements established by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for workers
throughout the FRY. Until 1989, these arrangements were administered locally in Kosovo by the Pension
- 50 -



and Invalidity Fund under the general autonomous relationship between Kosovo and FRY which existed at
that time. From 1989 to 1999, control of the operations was transferred to Belgrade with the Pension and
Invalidity Fund only responsible for payment of funds received from Belgrade. All benefit payrnents were
discontinued in January or February of 1999 because of the onset of hostilities, and remittance of
contributions ceased at about the same time. Currently the Fund is not paying any benefits but only
maintaining data on previous beneficiaries.
Staff Engaged in Social Protection
Departmental HQ                               10
Centers for Social Work                      400
Kosovo Social Insurance Fund                  80
Institute for Social Policy                   10
Shtime Special Institute                     100
Elderly Home                                  50
TOTAL                                        650
- 51 -



Additional
Annex 14
Background on Centers for Social Work
Centers for Social Work were established in Kosovo in the 1960s/70s as the main public service through
which the government provides assistance to vulnerable categories of people. The director of each Center is
appointed jointly by the DHSW and the municipality, although it is unclear whether this refers to the
intemational or local municipal bodies. The Centers are staffed with social workers, psychologists,
pedagogues, administrators, lawyers, and economists. As part of the "local" government, CSWs are a
strong point of connection between the international (DHSW) and local government. Salaries are paid by
UNMIK based on a contractual relationship. Of note is that particularly in Serb areas, personnel did not
sign a contract as this would result in a loss of contributions. Although the DHSW has continued recognize
the workers in these CSWs, this is not the case in other departments. UNMIK also provides the Centers
with funding for running costs, stationary supplies, and tries to attract intemational financial support for
the Centers.
A structure that exists throughout the former Yugoslavia, the mandate of the CSWs includes:
Studying social problems;
Developing plans and programs for social protection;
Undertaking measures to prevent people from falling into a state of social need;
Determining the type of social protection required by a person in need; and,
*      Founding, developing, and following the work of "joint work organizations" and social
protection services.
Beneficiaries include:
Children
*      Deprived of parental support
Disrupted in their physical and psychological development
*      Educationally neglected
*      )Disrupted in development by family circumstances
*      Adults
Materially unprotected, and completely incapable to work
Elderly without family support
Invalids
With social negative behavior
Other persons in the state of social need for other reasons
Specifically, beneficiaries may receive:
Material help
Help for the preparation for work
Placement in "joint work organizations" of social protection
*      Special social work services
The mandate of the CSWs is far reaching. Activities may include things like: marriage counseling, foster
care and adoption, support for families and children in conflict with the law, reintegration of adults released
from prison, home care visits for the elderly and disabled, burial of persons without family, psycho-social
counseling, and work with youth organizations. The primary methods through which the CSWs resolved
issues were cash-benefits or referral to other organizations, although some Centers did engage in clinical
- 52 -



social work.
There are approximately 400 staff in the CSWs serving a population of 2 million (a ratio of 1 staff for
every 5,000 citizens). This ratio is expected to decrease in the next year as the DHSW has budgeted for
100 additional staff, although not all will be placed in the CSWs. Of the current staff, many are not
qualified for the profession which they are to fill, and of those who are, many have not been working in
social welfare for the past decade and knowledge of modem social work practices is lacking. As the often
forgotten partner, even in the previous system, the physical working environment also needs to be
improved, both in terms of the physical building and in terms of equipment needs. That said, it raises
questions as to how the previous system functioned, and whether all the roles to be fulfilled by the CSWs
really happened.
The major program being implemented by the CSWs currently, is the Social Assistance Scheme. Supported
by the DHSW, this represents a significant change in the role of the CSW, compared with the previous
system. It is a cash-benefit program open to the general population, with beneficiaries selected on specific
eligibility criteria. Currently 50,000 families are included in program. This program has overwhelmed the
CSWs with work in identifying and verifying potential beneficiaries for the program, at the same time as
providing needed support to some of the poorest segrnents of the population. It has resulted in an increased
profile of the Centers for some of the international structures, and in more "violent incidents" in the Centers
when individuals discover that they are not eligible for assistance. The program connects with the
employment bureaus, as some beneficiaries are required to provide documentation of unemployment - a
positive and also difficult step towards inter-sectoral collaboration. The capacity of the CSWs to handle
this Scheme varies, with some being able to effectively "split" responsibilities between administration of the
Scheme, and those who deal with professional social work, while in other Centers this division has not been
achieved.
It appears that services currently offered by the CSWs primarily address the needs of young offenders,
orphans, and survivors of domestic violence. The court system began functioning earlier this year, and one
CSW noted that it has 60 cases of young offenders. In the area of foster care, there are approximately
1,200 orphans in Kosovo, however the other area coming to the forefront are single-headed households.
Domestic violence appears to be coming more prominent, and the need for emergency shelters. Some
Centers are also active in serving displaced persons living in collective centers. For the majority of residents
in the collective centers their home is completely destroyed, although for some their previously rented
premises are not available, and others are displaced from areas where they would have been part of the
minority population.
The Centers for Social Work are currently overwhelmed by the demands placed on them with the Social
Assistance Scheme. This is expected to calm down over the next 6-month period as the bulk of registration
will have been completed and the introduction of a more staggered form of verification developed. By
spring 2000 the bulk of food aid ended, and although the CSW role in this area ended, this loss of income
support may actually result in an increased demand on the Centers rather than the expected decrease. What
should be considered though, is the change that this program has made in the role of the CSWs from
previously, particularly considering the number of cash-benefit clients they now deal with.
In Kosovo (and the former Yugoslavia) the CSWs had a role in cash assistance and social service
programs. Previously the Centers were often divided into two departments, one for professional work in
social and family legal protection, and the other for global accounting and financial duties. Although there
are suggestions to separate these two roles into independent structures, any separation of these
responsibilities should be thought through carefully, particularly considering the current maze of
- 53 -



government structures. Benefits in joint responsibility include the familiarity of this form of working, and
the knowledge the Centers' staff have of the population they serve. It may be advisable sometime next year
to evaluate the ability of the CSWs in targeting, as well as the effectiveness of the Social Assistance
Scheme, to verify this assumption.
In the previous system there was an administrative committee for each Center composed of 5 members, 3
from the comrnunity and 2 from the CSW. This committee acts as an executive board, and is nominated or
dismissed by the municipality. There was also a regulatory committee to reviews the CSW affairs and
finances, and a professional board (like a consultative board) could also be established. Responsibility for
the CSWs is returning to the municipalities, and it is unclear whether this also means that these boards are
to be reestablished. As key accountability structures for the CSWs and the municipalities, it raises the
question as to what accountability structure is envisaged in the future.
The CSWs are poorly equipped and the working environment is unsatisfactory. There are some basic
requirements for heating, roof repairs, toilets, as well as for other equipment such as tables, chairs,
photocopiers, telephone/fax lines. This basic equipment is required for the implementation of, for example,
the Social Assistance Scheme. In addition improvements to the physical space in the Centers is required.
Currently some do not have a "reception" space, others have no "counseling rooms". Regardless of the
future role of the Centers it can be expected that these will still be required.
The Centers do not have the same referral resources as previously, and some of those previous resources
may not be deemed appropriate for modem social work practices (e.g. institutional care). In the previous
system there were bodies referred to as "joint work organizations" and possibly 3rd sector organizations
could be viewed as part of this, or a replacement for the same. This will be discussed in the later section.
Centers for Social Work were set up at a time when many people had jobs, and therefore turned to their
employer for support. The number of people served by the CSWs as permanent cash beneficiaries could be
presumed to have been significantly less. Previously the Centers had a "pot of money" for special cases, in
order to respond to "emergency" cases, such as payment of funeral expenses, for an expensive medicine, or
even to buy diapers for a recent orphan. For the beneficiaries now, they turn to the CSW for this type of
support, however the Center does not have such discretionary financing available to it.
Capacity-Building in the CSW
Capacity-building within the Centers for Social Work has come from two directions: the move from food
aid to cash benefits, and the idea to pass community information services provided by internationals, with
international (UNHCR) support, to a local body. Funded by various donors, the international NGOs
involved in this are ADRA (Adventist Development and Relief Agency), ICMC (International Catholic
Migration Commission), and CARE. Other agencies involved include European Children's Trust (ETC),
CRS (Catholic Relief Services), Movimondo, SAVE the Children, CARITAS Spain, and UNICEF. All
have contributed in some way to improving the working conditions in the CSWs (e.g. equipment, loan of
vehicles, small physical reconstruction activities), and some are actively involved in training.
Training is coordinated by the DHSW, with all international NGOs working with identified CSW.
Although the skill level of the staff in the Centers varies, topics in common in each training program are
ethics of social work, needs assessment, case management, child protection, and gender sensitivity. The
methodology varies with some having short weekly sessions and others a couple of longer sessions per
week. Some include "conferences" on specific topics, others include shadowing in fieldwork. The
background purpose however varies, with some viewing the CSW as the body responsible for clinical
- 54 -



social work, others as an organization only involve itself in cases connected with the courts. Although the
Centers do respond positively to the idea of training, there is some frustration. Since continuing
professional training was not obligatory in the previous system, some question why this is required
considering their professional background. Other Centers are frustrated as they do not have the time nor
space to apply the learnings due to the daily work demands, and others request training which moves
beyond basic social service skills to more clinical social work practices. Of note is that the funding for
NGOs involved in training ends between December 2000 and June 2001, and no potential donor for
continuing the program has been identified.
- 55 -



