Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
TF029817
TF028929
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Social Protection Project)
between
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM 
ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Kosovo and 
as Administrator of the DFID Grant)
Dated July 16, 2001
TF029817
TF028929
TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of July 16, 2001 between UNITED NATIONS INTERIM 
ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Administrator).
WHEREAS (A) the Board of Governors of the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development (the Bank), acting on the recommendation of its Board of Executive 
Directors, decided on September 30, 1999, to transfer from Bank surplus, by way of 
grant, $25,000,000 to a trust fund (the Trust Fund) for Kosovo, Federal Republic of 
Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) (Kosovo), established by Resolutions of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution No. 99-7) and the Administrator 
(Resolution No. IDA 99-4) and to be administered by the Administrator, to be used for 
financing an emergency reconstruction program in Kosovo;
(B)
the Board of Governors of the Bank further decided on September 27, 2000, 
to transfer from Bank surplus, an additional amount of $35,000,000 (Additional 
Contribution) to the Trust Fund;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
Page  2
the Administrator to assist, from the Additional Contribution, in the financing of the 
Project; 
(D)
the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, through its Department of  International Development (DFID), has agreed to 
provide a grant in an amount equivalent to $2,420,000 (the DFID Grant) to assist in 
financing  the Project and the International Development Association has agreed to act 
as Administrator of the DFID Grant, to the extent and subject to these funds being 
made available to the Administrator; and
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend  a grant out of the Trust Fund and the DFID Grant to the 
Recipient for the benefit of Kosovo upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions" (the General Conditions) set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Eligible Categories" means the categories set forth in the table in Part 
A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
"Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods and services for 
the Project;
(c)
"DEM" means  Deutsche Mark;
(d)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(e)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; and
(f)
"Environmental Management Plan" means the plan, dated April 26, 2001, 
setting forth the measures to address the environmental effects of construction work 
under the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Grant Agreement: 
(a)
a  grant out of the Trust Fund in an amount of four million two hundred  
thousand United States Dollars ($4,200,000) ( the Trust Fund Grant); and 
(b)
the  DFID Grant in an amount equivalent to two million four hundred and 
twenty thousand United States Dollars ($2,420,000) (both amounts hereinafter referred 
to as the Grant).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed  out of the proceeds  
Page  3
of the Grant. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 29, 2004, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, technical, administrative, 
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 1.23 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Administrator, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Recipient shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators agreed upon from time 
to time between the Recipient and the Administrator, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, on or about September 1, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph 
(a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, by December 1, 2002, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on 
the matter.
Section 3.05. The Recipient shall ensure that the Environmental Management Plan 
be implemented  in a timely manner.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Administrator, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
Page  4
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Administrator, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not 
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an 
opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such 
audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Administrator may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) 
of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Administrator has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of 
such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether 
the Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure 
submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support 
the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Administrator for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Recipient, not later than  
December 31, 2001, or such later date as the Administrator shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Administrator, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, 
and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for 
the four-month period following the period covered by said 
report; and 
(B) shows separately expenditures financed out of the 
proceeds of the 
Grant during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant during the 
four-month period following the period covered by 
said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
Page  5
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) 
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Recipient shall  prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable 
to the Administrator, and furnish to the Administrator not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such 
period.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been  
fully disbursed and the parties have fulfilled their obligations thereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United 
Nations for Kosovo is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes 
of Section 1.28 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
1.26 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
United Nations Interim 
  Administration in Kosovo
Pristina
Kosovo
Facsimile:
212-963-8113
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
UNITED NATIONS INTERIM 
    ADMINISTRATION IN KOSOVO
By /s/ Hans Haekkerup
      Authorized Representative
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(Acting as Administrator of the Trust Fund for Kosovo 
and of the DFID Grant)
By /s/ Giuseppe Zampaglione
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Amount of the
 Trust Fund 
 DFID Grant
Grant Allocated
 Allocated
   % of
Expressed in
Expressed in
Expenditures
  Dollars
  Dollars
to be Financed
(1)
Works
  610,000
  360,000
64% out of the
Trust Fund Grant
and 36% out of
the DFID Grant
(2)
Goods
  945,000
  555,000
64% out of the
Trust Fund Grant
and 36% out of
the DFID Grant
(3)
Consultants'
2,200,000
1,300,000
64% out of the 
services
Trust Fund Grant
and 36% out of
the DFID Grant
(4)
Incremental
   35,000
   15,000
64% out of the
Operating Costs
Trust Fund Grant
and 36% out of
the DFID Grant
(5)
Unallocated
  410,000
  190,000
TOTAL
4,200,000
2,420,000
For the purpose of the table above, the term "Incremental Operating Costs"  means the 
expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including office space, office supplies, publication of procurement notices, vehicle 
operation, travel and supervision costs, but excluding salaries of officials and 
employees of the Recipient.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under  
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each (with the exception of the first 
two contracts); (b) works under  contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each 
(with the exception of the first three contracts); (c) services of consulting firms, 
under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (d) services of individual 
consultants, under contracts costing less than $20,000 equivalent each; and (e) 
operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Administrator  shall 
Page  7
specify by notice to the Recipient.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Recipient shall open and maintain in DEM a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Administrator, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Administrator shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a 
request from the Recipient for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Administrator of a Project Management Report pursuant 
to Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Recipient for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex  B  to  this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish 
to the Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Administrator 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Administrator determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Administrator determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; or
(c)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said 
Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special 
Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at 
any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account pursuant to Section 1.15 of the General Conditions. Upon such 
notification, the Administrator shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether 
further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Administrator, provide such additional evidence as the 
Administrator may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Administrator shall so request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment. Unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, no further 
deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
Page  8
be.
(b)
If the Administrator determines at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, refund to the Administrator such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or 
(c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount 
equivalent to DEM 1,200,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, 
unless the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to DEM 600,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Grant Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 1.07 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Administrator requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as 
the Administrator shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special 
Account shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from the Grant Account under one or 
more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant, minus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Administrator 
pursuant to Section 1.07 of the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures 
as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall 
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Page  9
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Administrator may otherwise specify by notice to the Recipient, 
all withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Administrator into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Administrator 
from the Grant Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Grant Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Administrator has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of DEM 2,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) design a basic safety net for the 
immediate future; (b) design sustainable social welfare system for the medium term; 
and (c) develop administrative capacity for delivery of pensions, and veteran’s family  
benefits.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Recipient and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Strengthening the Social Welfare System
Provision of technical advisory services and training for: (i) organizational 
and institutional development at the sectoral level, involving definition of 
objectives and responsibilities of several entities involved in social welfare; (ii) 
strengthening policy analysis capability and administrative skills of staff in the 
Department of Health and Social Welfare (DHSW); (iii) introducing a strategic planning 
and policy development function in DHSW; (iv) evaluating and improving administrative 
and IT-based methods to prevent fraud and corruption in the welfare system; (v) the 
preparation of an information and communications strategy for the sector aimed at 
promoting professional communications among welfare professionals and disseminating 
information about social services to the general public; and (vi) development of an 
information technology strategy for the sector.
Part B:
Upgrading of Social Welfare Infrastructure
Refurbishing of centers for social welfare (CSWs) to a standard that will allow 
their adequate functioning in the provision of social services and the payment of 
targeted poverty benefits, including: (i) rehabilitation of CSWs; and (ii) equipping 
of CSWs to standard, including the provision of furniture for reconfigured offices, 
generators, minor office equipment and equipment to enable outreach services to 
minority enclaves.
Part C:
Capacity Building for Centers for Social Welfare
Page  10
Building up an adequate and common standard of counseling, care, and care 
planning in the CSW network, including: (i) provision of specialized training in 
modern case management to update the professional skills of current CSW staff, many of 
whom either have little or no previous experience in social work, or have not 
practiced social work for the past ten years and whose skills have consequently eroded 
and become outdated; (ii) development of a staff technical guidance and supervision 
function at the CSW level by providing selected social workers in each center with 
accelerated training in case management; (iii) introduction of an outcome-assessment 
mechanism at the level of the Institute of Social Policy; and (iv) develop a 
certificate program in social work to ensure a future generation of staff.  
Part D:
Support to pension planning and administration
Provision of technical advisory services to DHSW in the detailed design of a 
pension scheme, and  training to the Kosovo Social Insurance Fund in pension 
administration. 
Part E:
Project Management
Provision of financial, technical and logistical support to DHSW and provision 
of procurement expertise to the Recipient in the carrying out of the day to day 
management and implementation of the Project. 
*   *   *
The Project is  expected to be completed by August 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 below, works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.
2.
International  Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Page  11
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $460,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Administrator, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Administrator for its 
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Administrator, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract  estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first five contracts  to be procured in accordance 
with the procedures referred to in Part C 1, the first two contracts to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C 2, and the first three contracts 
to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C 3 above, the 
following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or execution of any 
contract, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Administrator a report on 
the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; and
(ii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
Page  12
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for capacity building for CSWs under Part C of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for technical assistance under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Administrator for its prior review and approval. The contract shall 
be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.  
SCHEDULE 4
General Conditions
Page  13
Section 1.01.  Application of General Conditions
Without limitation or restriction upon the scope of any other provisions of this 
Agreement, these General Conditions set forth certain basic terms and conditions 
applicable to this Agreement.
Section 1.02.  Definitions
The following terms have the following meanings wherever used in these General 
Conditions:
(a)
"Administrator" means the International Development Association, acting 
as administrator of the Trust Fund;
(b)
"Closing Date" means the date specified in Section 2.03 of this Agreement 
after which the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of 
the recipient to withdraw from the Grant Account.
(c)
"Dollars" and the sign "$" mean dollars in the currency of the United 
States of America.
(d)
"Grant" means the grant provided for in this Agreement;
(e) 
"Grant Account" means the account opened by the Administrator on its 
books in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the Grant is credited;
(f)
"Project" means the project for which the Grant is made, as described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and as the description thereof may be amended from time 
to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Administrator; and
(g)
"Taxes" includes imposts, levies, fees and duties of any nature, whether 
in effect at the date of this Agreement or thereafter imposed.
Section 1.03. Grant Account
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to the Grant Account and may be 
withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient as provided in this Agreement and in these 
General Conditions.
Section 1.04.  Currencies in which Withdrawals are to be Made
Except as the Recipient and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, withdrawals 
from the Grant Account shall be made in the respective currencies in which the 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are 
payable. 
Section 1.05.  Valuation of Currencies 
Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of this Agreement to determine 
the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as reasonably 
determined by the Administrator.
Section 1.06.  Withdrawal from the Grant Account
Page  14
The Recipient shall be entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account amounts 
expended or, if the Administrator shall so agree, amounts to be expended for the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and of these General 
Conditions. Except as the Administrator and the Recipient shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories, other 
than the territory of Kosovo, which is not a member of the Administrator or for goods 
produced in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.
Section 1.07.  Special Commitments by the Administrator
Upon the Recipient's request and upon such terms and conditions as shall be 
agreed upon between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Administrator may enter 
into special commitments in writing to pay amounts to the Recipient or others in 
respect of expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
notwithstanding any subsequent suspension or cancellation by the Administrator or the 
Recipient.
Section 1.08.  Applications for Withdrawal or for Special Commitment
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account or 
to request the Administrator to enter into a special commitment pursuant to Section 
1.07 of the General Conditions, the Recipient shall deliver to the Administrator a 
written application in such form, and containing such statements and agreements, as 
the Administrator shall reasonably request. Applications for withdrawal, including the 
documentation required therefor, shall be made promptly in relation to expenditures 
for the Project.
Section 1.09.  Reallocation
Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Grant or the percentages for 
withdrawal set forth or referred to in this Agreement, if the Administrator has 
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Grant then allocated to any withdrawal 
category set forth in this Agreement or added thereto by amendment will be 
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that category, 
the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient:
(a)
reallocate to such category, to the extent required to meet the estimated 
shortfall, proceeds of the Grant which are then allocated to another category and 
which in the opinion of the Administrator are not needed to meet other expenditures; 
and
(b)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce 
the percentage for withdrawal then applicable to such expenditures in order that 
further withdrawals under such category may continue until all expenditures thereunder 
shall have been made.
Section 1.10.  Evidence of Authority to Sign Applications for Withdrawal
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator evidence of the authority of 
the person or persons authorized to sign applications for withdrawal and the 
authenticated specimen signature of any such person.
Section 1.11.  Supporting Evidence
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator such documents and other 
Page  15
evidence in support of the application as the Administrator shall reasonably request, 
whether before or after the Administrator shall have permitted any withdrawal 
requested in the application.
Section 1.12.  Sufficiency of Applications and Documents
Each application and the accompanying documents and other evidence must be 
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Administrator that the Recipient is 
entitled to withdraw from the Grant Account the amount applied for and that the amount 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account is to be used only for the purposes specified 
in this Agreement.
Section 1.13.  Treatment of Taxes
It is the policy of the Administrator that no proceeds of the Grant shall be 
withdrawn on account of payments for any taxes levied in the territory in which the 
Recipient is located on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply thereof. To that end, if the amount of any taxes levied on or in 
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant decreases or 
increases, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, increase or decrease the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in this 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the Administrator.
Section 1.14.  Payment by the Administrator
The Administrator shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the 
Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
Section 1.15.  Suspension by the Administrator
If any of the following events of suspension shall have occurred and be 
continuing, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any other obligation under 
this Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Project can be carried out or that the Recipient will be able to perform its 
obligations under this Agreement.
(c)
After the date of the Agreement and prior to the effective date, any 
event shall have occurred which would have entitled the Administrator to suspend the 
Recipient’s right to make withdrawals under the Grant if the Agreement had been 
effective on the date such event occurred; 
(d)
A representation made by the Recipient in or pursuant to the Agreement, 
or any statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by 
the Administrator in making the Grant, shall have been incorrect in any material 
respect.
(e)
Any action shall have been taken for the dissolution, disestablishment or 
suspension of operations of any Project implementation entity.
(f)
Any other event specified in this Agreement for the purposes of this 
Section shall have occurred. The right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
Grant Account shall continue to be suspended in whole or in part, as the case may be, 
Page  16
until the event or events which gave rise to suspension shall have ceased to exist, 
unless the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient that the right to make 
withdrawals has been restored in whole or in part, as the case may be.
Section 1.16.  Cancellation by the Administrator
If (a) the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account 
shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Grant for a continuous 
period of thirty (30) days, or (b) at any time, the Administrator determines, after 
consultation with the Recipient, that an amount of the Grant will not be required to 
finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, or (c) at 
any time, the Administrator determines, with respect to any contract to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in 
by representatives of the Recipient or of a beneficiary of the Grant during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Recipient having taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Grant, or (d) at any time, the Administrator determines that the procurement of any 
item is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement 
and establishes the amount of the expenditures in respect of such item which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Grant or, (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Grant shall remain unwithdrawn from the Grant 
Account, the Administrator may, by notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Grant shall be cancelled.
Section 1.17.  Amounts Subject to Special Commitment not Affected by Cancellation or
Suspension by the Administrator
No cancellation or suspension by the Administrator shall apply to amounts 
subject to any special commitment entered into by the Administrator pursuant to 
Section 1.07 of the General Conditions except as expressly provided in such 
commitment.
Section 1.18.  Effectiveness of Provisions after Suspension or Cancellation
Notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension, all the provisions of this 
Agreement shall continue in full force and effect except as specifically provided in 
this Agreement.
Section 1.19.  Cooperation and Information
(a)
The Recipient and the Administrator shall cooperate fully to assure that 
the purposes of the Grant will be accomplished. To that end, the Recipient and the 
Administrator shall:
(i)
from time to time, at the request of any one of them, exchange 
views 
with regard to the progress of the Project, the purposes of the 
Grant, 
and the performance of their respective obligations under 
this 
Agreement; and furnish to the other party all such 
information related 
thereto as it shall reasonably request; and
(ii)
promptly inform each other of any condition which interferes with, 
or 
threatens to interfere with, the matters referred to in paragraph 
(i) above.
Section 1.20.  Insurance
The Recipient shall insure or cause to be insured, or make adequate provision 
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Page  17
Grant against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof 
to the place of use or installation. Any indemnity for such insurance shall be payable 
in a freely usable currency to replace or repair such goods.
Section 1.21.  Use of Goods and Services
Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall cause all 
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Grant to be used exclusively 
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 1.22.  Plans and Schedules
The Recipient shall furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Administrator 
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract 
documents and construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material 
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Administrator shall 
reasonably request.
Section 1.23.  Records and Reports
(a)
The Recipient shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to 
record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to 
be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the 
Administrator's representatives to visit any facilities and construction sites 
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant and any plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property, equipment, 
records and documents relevant to the performance of the obligations of the Recipient 
under this Agreement; and (iii) furnish to the Administrator at regular intervals all 
such information as the Administrator shall reasonably request concerning the Project, 
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure 
of the proceeds of the Grant and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(b)
Upon the award of any contract for goods or services to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant, the Administrator may publish a description thereof, the 
name and nationality of the party to which the contract was awarded and the contract 
price.
(c) 
Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any event not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Recipient and the Administrator, the Recipient shall prepare and 
furnish to the Administrator a report, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Administrator shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the 
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance 
by the Recipient and the Administrator of their respective obligations under this 
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.
Section 1.24.  Maintenance
The Recipient shall at all times operate and maintain, or cause to be operated 
and maintained, any facilities relevant to the Project, and promptly as needed, make 
or cause to be made all necessary repairs and renewals thereof.
Section 1.25.  Land Acquisition
The Recipient shall cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to 
acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be 
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Administrator, promptly 
upon its request, evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that such land and rights 
Page  18
in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 1.26.  Notices and Requests
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any other agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement 
shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or 
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at 
such party's address specified in this Agreement, or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. Delivery made by facsimile transmission shall be confirmed by mail.
Section 1.27.  Evidence of Authority
The Recipient shall furnish to the Administrator sufficient evidence of the 
authority of the person or persons who will, on behalf of the Recipient, take any 
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed by the 
Recipient under this Agreement, and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
Section 1.28.  Action on Behalf of the Recipient
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the Recipient may be taken 
or executed by the representative of the Recipient designated in this Agreement for 
the purposes of this Section or any person thereunto authorized in writing by such 
representative. Any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement 
may be agreed to on behalf of the Recipient by written instrument executed on behalf 
of the Recipient by the representative so designated or any person thereunto 
authorized in writing by such representative, provided that, in the opinion of such 
representative, such modification or amplification is reasonable in the circumstances 
and will not substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient under this 
Agreement. The Administrator may accept the execution by such representative or other 
person of any such instrument as conclusive evidence that in the opinion of such 
representative any modification or amplification of the provisions of this Agreement 
effected by such instrument is reasonable in the circumstances and will not 
substantially increase the obligations of the Recipient thereunder.
Section 1.29. Settlement of Disputes
Any dispute arising out of, or relating to, this Agreement which is not settled 
by agreement of the parties shall be finally settled by arbitration in accordance with 
the UNCITRAL Arbitration Rules as at present in force.
Section 1.30.  Execution in Counterparts 
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be 
an original.
