Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3002 EGT
Development Credit Agreement
(East Delta Newlands Agricultural Services Project)
between
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 12, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3002 EGT 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 12, 1998, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the International Fund for 
Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in an amount equivalent to 
twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the 
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the IFAD Loan Agreement) to be entered 
into between the Borrower and IFAD; 
(C)
Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Principal Bank for 
Development and Agricultural Credit (PBDAC), established and operating pursuant to its 
Statutes (as defined in Section 1.02 (a) of this Agreement) with the Borrower’s 
assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to PBDAC 
part of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and PBDAC;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; 
or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations.”
(c)
 Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any 
amount of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, 
or (b) at any time, the 
Association determines, after consultation with the 
Borrower, that an amount of the Credit 
will not be required to finance the Project’s 
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Association determines, with respect to any contract to 
be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes 
the amount of expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the 
Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in 
the 
Development Credit Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from 
the Credit Account, the Association may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals 
with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the 
Credit shall be cancelled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Statutes” means Presidential Decree No. 117 of 1976, pertaining to the 
establishment and operation of PBDAC, as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(b)
 “Beneficiary” means a farmer, agribusiness enterprise or an agricultural 
input and output trader to which PBDAC proposes to make or has made a Subloan; 
(c)
“Sub-project” means a specific development project to be carried out 
under Part B (2) of the Project by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan; 
(d)
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Association and PBDAC 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
(e)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
Page  3
this Agreement;
(f)
“Statement of Policy” means the statement of lending and investment 
policy, adopted by the Board of Directors of PBDAC on September 15, 1994, as amended 
to the date of this Agreement; 
(g)
“Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by PBDAC to a 
Beneficiary for a Sub-project, in part out of the equivalent of the proceeds of the 
Credit relent to PBDAC under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
(h)
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and PBDAC pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
supplemental to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and “Subsidiary Loan” means the loan to 
be made pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR11,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
expenditures made (or if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A and B (1) of the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if 
the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by PBDAC on account of withdrawals 
made by a Beneficiary under a Subloan to meet the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Sub-project in respect of which the withdrawal from the 
Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account: 
(i) in the Central Bank of Egypt for the purposes of Part A of the Project, and (ii) 
in PBDAC for the purposes of Part B of the Project, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special 
Accounts, shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower and 
PBDAC of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or cancelled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
Page  4
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 1 and July 1 commencing January 1, 2008 and ending July 1, 2032. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 1, 2017 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.09. PBDAC is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions in respect 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category (4) of the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.10. The Borrower represents that it has designated its Ministry of 
Finance for the purposes of handling, on behalf of the Borrower, debt service payments 
with respect to the Credit. 
ARTICLE III 
Description of the Project; 
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end:  
(i)
shall carry out Part A of the Project, through the Borrower’s 
Ministry of 
Agriculture and Land Reclamation, with due diligence 
and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, agricultural and 
environmental 
Page  5
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for said Part; and  
(ii)
without limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement, shall cause 
PBDAC to perform in accordance with 
the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of PBDAC therein 
set forth, shall 
take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable PBDAC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such 
performance.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall: (i) coordinate the overall implementation of the Project; and (ii) carry out 
Part A of the Project, in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time 
to time to Category (4) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement to PBDAC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and PBDAC under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association, including that:
(i)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be the 
equivalent 
(determined as of the date, or the respective 
dates, of repayment) of the 
value of the currency or 
currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account, on 
account of 
expenditures under Part B (1) of the Project and payments under 
Sub-loans, expressed in terms of Special Drawing Rights as of the respective 
dates of withdrawals. 
(ii)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be (A) charged, on the principal amount 
thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest 
at the rate of 0.875% 
per annum, (B) charged, on the principal 
amount thereof not withdrawn from 
time to time, a commitment 
charge at the same rate applicable to the Credit 
pursuant to Section 
2.04 (a) of this Agreement, and (C) repaid over a term of 
35 years, 
including a grace period of ten years. 
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for Parts A and B (1) of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Part B of the 
Project shall be carried out by PBDAC pursuant to Section 2.04 of the Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
Page  6
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part A of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out said Part.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
PBDAC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that PBDAC will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
Page  7
(c)
The Statutes or the Statement of Policy shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the 
operations or financial condition of PBDAC or its ability to carry out the Project or 
to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PBDAC or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(e)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the 
terms of the agreement 
providing therefor; or
(B) 
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity 
thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is 
not caused by the failure of the 
Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) 
adequate funds for 
the Project are available to the Borrower from other 
sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the 
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and PBDAC. 
(b)
Any event specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
(c)
The event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) (ii) of that 
Section. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions. 
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been entered into by the Borrower and 
PBDAC, respectively; 
(b)
the Project Management Unit, the Regional Working Committee and the 
National Coordinating Committee, referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, have been established with resources and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association; and
(c)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD Loan Agreement 
have been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by PBDAC, 
Page  8
and is legally binding upon, PBDAC in accordance with its terms; and 
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower and PBDAC in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of State for International Cooperation and the Head of the Sector for International 
and Regional Financing Organizations of the Ministry of International Cooperation of 
the Borrower are severally designated as representatives of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of  International Cooperation
(International and Regional Financing 
  Organizations Sector)
8 Adly Street
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
Fax:
Ministry of International 
391-5167
Cooperation
Cairo
For the Bank:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Cairo, Arab Republic of Egypt, as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Zafer El-Bishry 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  9
By /s/ Khalid Ikram 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works for Part A of
   3,680,000
17%
the Project
(2)
Goods for Part A of
   1,480,000
32.5% of foreign
the Project
expenditures, 32.5%
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory costs)
and 28.5% of local
expenditures for 
other
items procured 
locally
(3)
Consultants' services
     740,000
50%
and training for Part A
of the Project
(4)
for Part B of the
Project:
(a) Sub-loans
   4,460,000
23% of amounts paid
by PBDAC
(b) Goods, works and
      740,000
60%
training for subpart
(1) thereof
TOTAL
   11,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and 
(b) 
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR1,100,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after December 31, 1996.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms and conditions as the 
Page  10
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower: (a) under contracts not exceeding 
(i) $200,000 equivalent for goods, (ii) $500,000 equivalent for works, and (iii) 
$50,000 for services of consultants and training; and (b) for payments made by PBDAC 
under Sub-loans.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to provide essential support services to 
facilitate the settlement, improved agricultural production and increased farm incomes 
of about 29,000 low income families settling on newly developed lands in the East 
Delta.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective:
Part A:
(1)
Strengthening of institutional capability to facilitate the efficient 
coordination and supervision of Project execution and the monitoring and evaluation of 
soil and water quality thereunder, and the provision therefor of staff and staff 
training, technical assistance, office equipment, vehicles and incremental operating 
costs. 
(2)
Establishment and initial operation of effective agricultural extension and 
applied research services, and the provision therefor of specialized and field 
extension staff, field research, technical assistance and staff training, inputs for 
experimental and demonstration plots, multimedia extension materials, and equipment 
for a soil and water research station. 
(3)
Construction of on-farm tertiary irrigation and drainage systems for 
smallholders on about 20,000 feddans through the contribution by the beneficiary 
smallholders of about 20% of the cost thereof in labor for land leveling, canals and 
drains earthworks. 
(4)
Construction and equipping of a water treatment plant and primary water 
distribution network to provide piped water supplies to villages in South Hussainya 
and North Hussainya.
(5)
Establishment of community organizations to assist farmers with group access to 
agricultural credit and in the development of water user associations, and the 
provision therefor of office equipment, vehicles, technical assistance, community 
development personnel and personnel training.
Part B: 
(1)
Construction, equipping and staffing, including the provision therefor of staff 
training, of four new village banks by PBDAC.
(2)
Provision by PBDAC of loans to: (a) farmers for the purchase of agricultural 
inputs and farm machinery; (b) enterprises for the establishment and expansion of 
operations of agribusinesses; and (c) traders for the establishment and expansion of 
operations of agricultural input and output trade. 
**
* 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
Page  11
1.
The Borrower shall, through its Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation, 
maintain arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, for the overall coordination 
and supervision of the implementation of the Project and for the carrying out of Part 
A thereof. For this purpose, the Borrower shall, inter alia, establish, pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (b) of this Agreement, and thereafter maintain, with resources and terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association: 
(a)
a Project Management Unit in the East Delta, headed by a full time 
Project Director, to be responsible for the day to day management and supervision of 
the implementation of Part A of the project; 
(b)
a Regional Working Committee, headed by the Project Director and 
comprising of representatives of the Borrower’s departments and agencies in the East 
Delta involved in the carrying out of the Project and representatives of farmers 
benefiting thereunder, to be responsible for the coordination of the implementation of 
Part A of the Project; and 
(c)
a National Coordination Committee, headed by a National Coordinator and 
comprising of representatives of PBDAC and the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and 
Land Reclamation and its Agricultural Research Center and Central Administration for 
Agricultural Extension Services, Ministry of Public Works and Water Resources, 
Ministry of Planning, to be responsible for provision of policy guidance under the 
Project.
2.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
employ consultants with qualifications and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, to assist in the carrying out of the Project; and 
(b)
carry out the training under the Project in accordance with guidelines 
agreed with the Association.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, including the measures undertaken to ensure the provision of irrigation water 
in the East Delta in quantities and quality adequate for the achievement of such 
objectives;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about December 31, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by April 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, including the adequate 
provision of irrigation water therefor, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
Page  12
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(b)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, and works under Parts A (3) and B 
(1) of the Project, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Commercial Practice
Goods to be procured by Beneficiaries under Part B (2) of the Project, may be 
procured in accordance with the normal commercial practices of such Beneficiaries at a 
reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of 
delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance 
facilities and spare parts therefor.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more and for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. 
3.
Post Review
Page  13
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
Services under Part A of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to 
the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the 
Special Account for Part A of the Project and Category (4) set forth in said table in 
respect of the Special Account for Part B of the Project; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts A and B (1) of the Project 
and payments made by PBDAC on account of Sub-loans made under Part B (2) of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
in respect of the Special Account for Part A of the Project and an amount equivalent 
to $400,000 in respect of the Special Account for Part B thereof, to be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) 
of this Schedule. 
Page  14
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the respective 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the respective Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the 
Credit Account under the respective eligible Category, and 
in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other 
evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Category for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the respective Parts of the Project, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, 
withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
Page  15
after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
