                                                                                     49233

Egypt: East Delta Newlands Agriculture Services (P049166)

Request for Legal Amendment of Schedule 1 of the International Development
Association Credit Agreement (Cr. 3002       - EGT) -January      16,2009



1-      Background: the East Delta Agriculture Services Project (EDASP) has been
funded by the Government of Egypt (GOE), IDA and IFAD. An IDA Credit of SDR 11.1
million was approved by the Board on November 4, 1997. The objectives are to improve
agriculture production and increase farm incomes for about 29,000 low income.families
in the project area through the provision of essential infrastructure and agriculture support
services. The Project became effective January 25, 1999. It was formally restructured,
with approval by the Board in 2002. Since the restructuring the project has been
implementing activities in accordance with the restructuring plan; the project is focused
on the Project description as delineated at the time of the restructuring. The Project
Development Objectives (PDO) and related targets remain unchanged. The Project scope,
activities and projected outcomes have not changed. In recent years, the project has been
implementing at a good pace, making good progress towards reaching its targets and
PDO. IDA is committed to assisting the GOE with completion of its project until the
Credit closing date and to this end the closing date has recently been extended on an
exceptional basis until December 31, 2009 in order to complete several remaining
infrastructure contracts. The Project is expected to be completed by the revised closing
date and it is expected that any loan funds will be cancelled at completion. The Project is
in compliance with all covenants listed in the Credit Agreement.



2-      The GOE has asked for a change in the allocation among categories. Over the
years, there have been cost changes in different project components. Many projects
(especially large infrastructure projects) include a contingency category of 10%-15% to
address cost changes that can take place during implementation. This Project,
nevertheless, was not designed with such a category. However, there has been increase in
infrastructure costs, as often happens with infrastructure projects (due to variation orders
and price escalation, etc.). In addition, costs were less planned in the consultants and
training category (all activities in the consultants and training category have been
completed according to the plan in the Staff Appraisal Report and at restructuring,
however, costs were less than expected due to all expenses being incurred in local
currency, whose value in relation to the SDR fluctuated during implementation). These
factors have necessitated the need for the requested changes in allocations. With these
changes, the works category allocation will be SDR 6, 820, 000, the goods category 2,
580,000 and the consultants/ training category will become 500,000; Category 1 (Works)
will increase by 20% (10.2% of the total amount of the credit), Category 2 (goods)
category will decrease by 7% (1.8% of the total amount of the Credit), and Category 3
(Consultants Services1training) will decrease by 65% (8.4 of the total amount of the
Credit).

3-      The GOE has also requested that the disbursement percentages in schedule 1 of
the Development Credit Agreement be changed. The need for this is due to the Project
being financed by both IDA and IFAD, with IFAD Loan having an earlier closing date
than IDA Credit. In order to make the most use of IFAD funds prior to the earlier IFAD
project closure date, in IVovember of 2007 the IFAD disbursement percentage for works
was increased and the IDA disbursement percentage decreased. Now that the IFAD funds
have been utilized, as planned, there is no need to increase the IDA disbursement
percentages. The implementation of the requested changes would result in the following
percentages: Works- 80%; Goods-100% of foreign expenditures, 8O%0f local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) and 80% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally and consultants and training-55%.

4-      This memorandum seeks your approval to amend Schedule 1 of the Development
Credit Agreement in order to change allocations among categories and change
disbursement percentages, as requested by the Government of Egypt in their letters of 21
and 23 December 2008.

