Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFRCIAL USE ONLY
Z,9     CCG -
Report No. P-5431-UG
REPORT AND RECO MENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT OF SDR 69.5 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
IN SUPPORT OF AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
NOVEMBER 27, 1990
Thbis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Uganda Shillings (USh)
US$1 - USh 510
UShl = US$.0020
US$1 - SDR 0.6950
SDR1 - US$ 1.4388
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
COFFEE SEASON (CS)
October 1 - September 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ABIREVIATIONS AtND ACRONYMS
ADP      Agricultural Development Project
AGSEC    Agricultural Secretariat
AIDS     Acquired Zamume Deficiency Syndrome
APC      Agricultural Policy Committee
ARP      Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
ASAC     Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
BOU      Bank of Uganda
CCB      Consortium of Commercial Banks
CG       Consultative Group
CIF      Cost. Insurance and Freight
CMB      Coffee Marketing Board
cNU      Coffee Subsector Monitoring Unit
CS       Coffee Season
CSB      Coffee Subsector Budget
CSM      Coffee Subsector Management
EEC      European Ecoaomic Coinunity
ERC      Economic Recovery Credit
ERP      Economic Recovery Program
ESA"     Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
FAO      Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FY       Fiscal Year
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
HARE     Head-Start Program for Agricultural Research and Extension
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IMF      International Monetary Fund
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
LMB      Lint Marketing Board
LPRP     Land Policy Research Program
m        Million
HAIF     Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries
MISR     Makerere Institute of Social Research
MOA      Ministry of Agriculture
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MPED     Ministry of Planning and Economic Development
WGO      Non-Governmental Organizations
NRC      National Resistance Council
ODA      Overseas Development Administration
OGL      Open General Licensing
PAPSCA   Program for Alleviation of Poverty and the Social Cost of Adjustment
PASP     Program for Strengthening of Agriculture Sector Planning
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PEC      Presidential Economic Council
PER      Public Expenditure Review
PFP      Policy Framework Paper
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PMB      Produce Marketing Board
RDP      Rehabilitation and Development Plan
SAC      Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF      Structural Adjustment Facility
SDR      Special Drawing Rights
SIP      Special Imports Program
SPA      Special Program of Assistance
SPPF     Special Project Preparation Fkcility
UNDP     United Nations Development Program
USAID    United States Agency for Interr.?ticr'l Development
UTGC     Uganda Tea Growers Corporation
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislosed without World Bank authorization.



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY . .............................. .........  i-iii
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ..........   1
A.    Background .....**................................... 1
B.   The Economic Recovery Program FY88-90.                        2
C.    The Policy Framework ......... . . .......          .....4
D.   Experience in Past Lending .................      ...  9
E.    Bank Assistance Strategy and Lending Operations . .11
F.   Relations with the IMF ......15
G.    Sumary Assessment             .... ..... .15
PART II - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR .    ................................ 16
A.    Introduction ....................................  .17
B. Recent Performance             ..17
C.   The Coffee Subsector and Financial Stabilization ........... 18
D.   Growth Opportunities, Development Constraints and
Strategy ................ .................................. 21
PART III - THE AGRICULTUJRAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM ....... ........... 24
A.   Coffee Crop Financing and Marketing Reform ....... .......... 25
B.    Pricing and Marketing of Other Agricultural Products ....... 29
C.    Sectoral Management ................    ........................ 31
PART IV - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT .................... 32
A.   Origin, Objectives and Main Features       ....              32
B.  Costs and Financing                  ... .                    37
C. Disbursement. . .                                              39
D.  Procurement ... ........40
E.    Implementation and Monitcring            ....42
F.   Environmental Impact ....................... ......  44
PART V  - IMPACT AND RISKS ........      ..................................... 44
PART VI - SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND CREDIT CONDITIONS ....... ........... 47
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION .... ............................................. 49
TABLES
1.   Sector Adjustment Actions to be Monitored under the Credit ....... 35-36
2.    Summary of Cost of Investment Component ..**   ...................... 37
3.   Financing Plan for Investment Component .....    ..................... 38
4.   Procurement Methods for the Project Investment Component .41



ANNEXES
1. Uganda Country Data
Table 1s Economic Indicators
Table 2: External Financing
Table 3s Balance of Payments
2. Status of Bank Group Operations in Uganda
3. Supplementary Data Sheet
4. Draft Letter of Agricultural Policy and Matrix of Policy
Actions under ASAC
5. Draft List of Eligible Items under ASAC Import Support
Component
6.  Summary Desription and Cost Estimates of the Investment
Component
7. Disbursement Schedule and Allocation of Credit by Disbursement
Categories
8. Supervision Plan
9. Implementation Schedule
10. Project Management Structure (Chart)
11. List of Documents in Project File
WORKING PAPERS IN TECHNICAL SUPPORT VOLUME
1.   Organizational, Financial and Institutional Restructuring of CMB
2.   Financial and Organizational Retsructuring of Cooperative Unions
3.   Marketing Strategy for the Coffee Subsector
4.   Strengthening of Sectoral Planning
5.   Research Support for Land Use and Policy Development
6.  Head-Start Program For Agricultural Research and Extension



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:         The Republic of Uganda
Amounts           IDA Credits SDR69.5 M (US$100.0 H equivalent)
Beneficiaries$   Agricultural producers, agro-industry. marketing
agents, and traders of agricultural inputs and outputs.
Terms:            Standard for IDA, with 40 years maturity
Onlending:        The Government would pass on as grants US$0.8 H to Makerere
Institute for Social Research for land policy research, and
US$1.4 M to Coffee Marketing Board for technical
assistance in organizational restructuring.
ProJect and Proaram ObJectives: Under the Second Economic Recovery Credit the
Government has initiated macroeconomic and cross-sectoral policies to meet the
stabilization targets of the Economic Recovery Program. The proposed project
broadens and deepens the agricultural sector components of these policies. It
emphasizes reforms in the coffee subsector because of the subsector's dominant
position as earner of foreign exchange, user of credit, and source for
Government revenue. Specifically, the project supports the objectives of the
Government's Sectoral Adjustment Program (hereinafter referred to as the
Program). The objectives are as follows: (a) to facilitate financial
stabilization by controlling credit expansion through improved institutional
arrangements for financing coffee crop procurement, and financial
restructuring of marketing intermediaries; (b) to promote agricultural growth
and diversification by creating competitive systems for processing and
marketing of export crops through reform of marketing institutions, enhanced
coffee export incentives, more efficient public spending, and strengthened
agricultural research and extension institutions and sectoral management.
Prolect Description: The project is a hybrid: it has an adjustment component
and a complementary investment component. Under the adjustment component the
credit would finance agricultural sector recurrent imports in support of
significant policy reforms in the sector. The credit would retroactively
finance up to US$17 M of imports to assist the Government in meeting essential
imports and its cash financing gap during the early months of 1991. Actions
to be monitored under the credit include transfer of the responsibility for
crop financing from the Central Bank to commercial banks, restructuring of the
Coffee Marketing Board (CMB) as a commercial marketing organization within a
competitive marketing system, rehabilitation of cooperative unions, broadening
of private sector participation in coffee exports, reforms of the export
taxation system to introduce trade incentives, and establishment of a
semiautonomous national agricultural research organization. Under the
investment component the credit would fund (a) a Head-Start Program for
Agricultural Research and Extension to implement high priority adaptive
research and extension activities with relatively quick effects on
agricultural growth and diversification, (b) support for a program for land



- ii -
policy research, (c) a program to strengthen agricultural sector planning, (d)
technical assistance for coffee subsector management, including CMB
restructuring, and (e) institutional support for project coordination and
monitoring.
Benefits.   The Government's Sectoral Adjustment Program is expected to affect
favorably the stabilization and growth objectives of the Economic Recovery
Program. Coffee crop finance reforms will increase the efficiency in the
allocation and use of credit, reduce overall credit requirements and the
inflationary pressures, and also help rationalize the financial sector.
Restructuring of CMB will increase accountability and improve operational
efficiency. This in turn, will contribute to a more efficient use of public
resources and a lower fiscal deficit. Project-induced growth is expected from
(a) an increased supply of agricultural inputs, (b) more competitive systems
for processing and marketing export crops through privatization or
reorganization of parastatals, and strengthening of cooperative union
processors, (c) better price and tax incentives for capturing higher export
values, (d) more efficient sectoral investment, (e) an improved organizational
structure for an agricultural research program to address constraints on
diversification of agricultural production, (f) funding of high priority
research and extension activities, and (g) strengthened sectoral management.
The Program is not expected to affect any specific population group adversely.
Risks. Program and project implementation entails risks related to slippage
in the macroeconomic reform program and the Government's implementation
capacity. Program objectives and sustainability of reforms depend Gn the
Government's adherence to its macroeconomic policy framework, particularly in
the context of external shocks and lower than anticipated aid receipts.
Failure to pursue a realistic exchange rate policy would increase the tax
burden on coffee producers and reduce exports of the main foreign exchange
earning commodity. The sustainability of crop finance reforms depends on the
liquidity in the financial sector. This sector needs to be supported by
monetary and credit policies that promote private savings and efficiency in
the use of financial resources. Delays in civil service reform would postpone
benefits from the proposed organizational structure for agricultural research
and restrain progress toward the diversification of agriculture production and
exports. The second-tranche release of the proposed credit would be subject
to the Government's continued adherence to the macroeconomic framework as per
the Policy Framework Paper and the DWF's Enhanced Structural Adjustment
Facility. While the above risks remain real, they need to be taken since
overall progress toward stabilization and growth depends on agricultural
sector reform. Weak implementation capability is a concern in all Bank
operations in Uganda. The Public Expenditure Review and civil service reform
initiatives should help strengthen ministerial implementation capabilities.
The credit includes technical assistance, emphasizing training, to strengthen
sectoral management and implementation capability in key ministries and
parastatals.



- iii -
Estimated Costs (US$ M):                    Local           Foreian   Total
Sectoral Adjustment Component                             85.0         85.0
(agricultural inputs)
Investment Component
Agricultural Research and Extension        2.3              3.7         6.0
Land Policy Research                        .5               .6         1.2
Sectoral Planning                           .2             2.6          2.7
Coffee Subsector Management                 -              1.5          1.5
Project Coordination and Monitoring         .5             2.3          2.8
Total Baseline Cost                        3.5            10.8         14.2
Physical Contingencies                      .3             1.0          1.3
Price Contingencies                         .3               .8         1.1
Total Cost (Investment Component)          4.1            12.5         16.6
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         4.1            97.5         101.6
(Note: Figures are rounded off and therefore do not necessarily add up
to totals.)
Sectoral
Financing Plan (US$ M):                  Adjustment      Investment      Total
Government                                   _              1.6          1.6
IDA                                         85.0           15.0        100.0
Total                                       85.0           16.6        101.6
Estimated Annual Disbursements (US$ M) FY91 PY92   FY93   FY94   FY95
Annual
- Adjustment Component                 35.0   36.0   14.0     -        -
- Investment Component                  2.0    4.9    3.8    2.5    1.8
Cumulative                              37.0   77.9   95.7   98.2  100.0
APpraisal Report: This is a combined President's and Staff Appraisal Report.
Economic Rate of Return: Not calculated.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON AN AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA
1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit to
the Government of Uganda of SDR 69.5 million (US$100.0 million equivalent) in
support of its program for agricultural sector policy adjustment. The
proposed credit would help finance a hybrid operation consisting of an
agricultural sector adjustment component focusing on reforms mainly in the
coffee subsector and an investment component supporting improved agricultural
research and extension and sectoral management and planning.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Background
2.   When the present Government of Uganda assumed power in January 1986, it
inherited an economy that had been devastated by wars and economic
mismanagement over a period of a decade and a half. Political institutions
had broken down, and economic activity had been strangled by rampant inflation
and shortage of foreign exchange. Major trunk roads had deteriorated for
years, and much of the vehicle fleet was either destroyed or stolen. Most
manufacturing plants had closed, and productive agricultural areas had been
ravaged. The new Government slso :nherited a considerable external debt
burden with arrears on medium- and long-term debt amounting to US$54
million (M).
3.    The new Government moved quickly to build a broad based government and
to restore peace and security to most parts of the country. The success in
achieving political stability was, however, initially not matched with success
in the economic arena. Despite a modest recovery of agricultural output,
conditions worsened throughout 1986. Transportation bottlenecks and lack of
foreign exchange, coupled with expansioi.ary fiscal and monetary policies,
resulted in extreme supply shortages and accelerated inflation rates.
4.    In early 1987, the Government recognized that a major reappraisal of
economic policies was required and approached IDA and the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) for assistance in the design and financing of an Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) to arrest the economic decline and set the basis for
sustained development. The first phase of ERP was initiated in May 1987 when
the IMP and IDA announced strong policy initiatives in the context of a Policy
Framework Paper (PFP) (1987188 - 1989190). In support, the Fund Board in June
1987 approved Uganda's request for an arrangement under the Structural
Adjustment Facility (SAF), and an IDA Economic Recovery Credit (ERC I) and an
African Facility Credit were approved in September 1987, with cofinancing from
a number of multilateral and bilateral agencies. To accelerate implementation
of reforms, the Government sought and obtained in 1989 an Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF) 't.iom the Fund and a Second Economic Recovery Credit
(ERC II) from IDA. The ES'J ?upports further demand management initiatives,
while ERC II supports a fu -thfgr deepening of the structural measures,
emphasizing those that impinge on the stabilization objectives. To help
bridge the external financing gap while ERC II was being prepared, an ERC I



Supplemental Financing request was approved by the Bank's Board on April 21,
1989, and a Second Supplemental Financing was approved on December 18, 1989.
A fourth PFP (1990191 - 1992/93) that focused on the structural and
stabilization measures was approved by the Committee of the Whole on September
4, 1990, and, along with a second-year ESAF, by the Fund Board on September
10, 1990.
B. The Economic Recoverv Program FY88-90
Performance
5.    The ERP has three principal aims: to bring about internal financial
stability and lower the rate of inflation, to reduce the imbalances in the
external accounts, and to promote economic rehabilitation and growth. The
results of ERP, now entering its fourth year, have been increasingly positive.
Substantial progress has been made in reviving economic activity and creating
a climate for growth. During its first year of implementation (FY88), the
annual year-end cumulative inflation rate stood at 240 percent. This rate
during FY89 was reduced to 86 percent (the target was 55 percent), and at the
end of FY90 it was reduced to 29 percent (the target was 30 percent). The
Government's increasing success in reducing the rate of inflation reflects a
greater ability to effectively control its expenditures, and progress in
restraining the surge in private sector demand for credit, notably that for
crop finance.
6.    The initial efforts to restore fiscal and monetary discipline were
hampered by external shocks. The major shock was the collapse of the
International Coffee Agreement in 1989 and the subsequent precipitous fall in
international coffee prices. Consequently, foreign exchange earnings and
government tax revenues relative to targets declined dramatically.  The
negative impact of these events was exacerbated by weak implementation
capacity and reluctance by the Government to take unpopular corrective actions
(for example, exchange rate adjustments or expenditure cuts) in a timely
manner. Nevertheless, progress made in controlling inflation over the pait
year demonstrates the Government's intent to pursue the stabilization goal
with vigor. Since November 1989, the Government has implemented monthly
exchange rate adjustments to avoid any real appreciation in the exchange rate.
Monetary policy was tightly programmed for PY90, and while monetary growth is
expected to be larger than targeted, the targets for both the overall credit
and government repayment to the banking system are expected to be met. On the
fiscal side, the deficit (excluding grants) is expected to be well within the
revised program target for the year.
7.    The most important achievements during the past three years have been
the restoration of peace and security, the reestablishment of political
institutions, and the introduction of a measure of discipline in the public
service. As a result, confidence in the private sector has improved. The
environment for the private sector also has improved significantly as a result
of the dismantling of price controls, the liberalization of the trade regime
through the creation of an Open General Licensing (OGL) System followed by a
Special Imports Program which made foreign exchange available on a first-come



- 3 .
first-served basis. the abolition of some parastatal export and distribution
monopolies, the suspension of the foreign exchange surrender requirements for
noncoffee exports, and most recently the legalizing of the parallel market and
the establishment of foreign exchange bureaus. Recognizing the critical
importance of improvements in infrastructure and transportation, the
Government has pursued with considerable energy and success the reclamation of
water supply and sewerage systems, the rehabilitation of major trunk roads and
railways, and repair and replacement of the country's vehicle fleet.
S.    Policy reforms and exchange rate adjustments have led to progress toward
more realistic relative prices. The real effective exchange rate depreciated
by 47 percent relative to its June 1989 level. Moreover, with the liberal
policy on "no-forex, imports, a sizable amount of imports comes in at the
parallel market exchange rate, and all noncoffee exports receive an effective
exchange rate close to the parallel market rate. As a result of these
positive developments, there has been a significant supply response. GDP data
suggest an impressive annual growth rate averaging 6.6 percent in the first
three years of the program, allowing a rise in per capita GDP of nearly 3
percent per year.
9.    In snmiary, the program of economic reforms, after a shaky start, is
beginning to take hold with increasingly positive results, and the ERP is
being implemented in steadily improving country environment. The Government
is demon..trating a strong commitment to the economic and social well-being of
the Ugandan people, and is making a concerted effort to rebuild a consensus on
the economic policy agenda. However, the macroeconomic situation while
characterized by greater stability remains fragile and vulnerable to external
shocks.
Maior Development Issues
10.   Uganda faces major structural, institutional, and financial problems
that must be addressed during the next three years. First, underlying
structural problems, principally in the financial and coffee sectors, continue
to impede stabilization. Second, although government expenditures have
increased somewhat in recent years, government revenues and expenditures are
still very low. As a result, resources for economic and social services
remain inadequate. Thus, increased efforts to strengthen revenue mobilization
are a priority. Third, while the program has succeeded in reducing inflation,
more has to be done to reduce inflationary pressures. Fourth, the sharp
decline in the export prices of coffee during the past 18 months and the
recent increase in petroleum prices following the Gulf war have highlighted
once again Uganda's vulnerability to adverse external developments. Its
export base must be diversified. Fifth, a stepped-up program of institutional
strengthening, including parastatal and financial sector reforms, is required.
Sixth, a major reform of the civil service is urgently needed to achieve a
streamlined, efficient, effective, and manageable service. The policy
framework for the Government's Economic Recovery Program over the next three
years, reviewed below, addresses these issues.



- 4 -
C. The Policy Framework
Medium-Term Economic Obiectives and Strategy
11.   Building on the results obtained during 1989/90, the Government's
macroeconomic objectives over the period 1990/91-1992/93 are: (a) to sustain
an annual real GDP growth rate of 5 percent, allowing per capita income to
rise by at least 2 percent per year; (b) to reduce the annual inflation rate
to below 10 percent by the end of the program period; and (c) to strengthen
the balance of payments sufficiently to permit an improvement in the net
foreign assets of the Bank of Uganda, (key macroeconomic indicators for the
period 1990/91-1992/93 in Annex 1). The achievement of these objectives in a
deteriorating external environment depends on strong policies to reduce
financial imbalances and improve resource allocation. External financial
support for ERP also must be increased.
12.   To this end, the program includes measures: (a) to improve incentives
for expansion and diversification of exports and efficient import
substitution, through exchange rate policy, exchange and trade liberalization,
price incentives, and adequate support services and infrastructure; (b) to
increase domestic savings through incentives for private savings and by
reducing the fiscal deficit and the operating losses of parastatals and
marketing boards, and actions to further develop and improve the operations of
the banking industry; Cc) to improve the efficiency of the public sector; and
td) to strengthen tax administration and broaden the tax base to effect a
s,:stantial increase in revenues. To help sustain economic performance,
runabilitatien of the devastated transportation and power supply systems will
continue to be emphasized, and major improvements in the delivery of health
care services and education will be needed. The Government also intends to
press ahead with the implementation of a program designed to alleviate the
plight of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged social groups.
Macroeconomic Policies
13. The program aims at establishing a market-clearing exchange rate system
by the end of 1991. This system would reflect a more liberal trade and
payments system. To this end, the Government will continue to implement the
basket peg system with monthly reviews to prevent a real appreciation of the
shilling. It also will review on at least a semiannual basis, the exchange
rate policy in light of developments regarding Uganda's external
competitiveness and progress in achieving market-clearing exchange rates.
This policy should make it possible to provide better incentives to coffee
growers without compromising the contribution of the coffee sector to the
budget. In addition, it should increase the flow of foreign exchange from
noncoffee exports into the banking system. Pending the establishment of a
market-clearing exchange rate, noncoffee exporters are free to sell their
export proceeds to foreign exchange bureaus at freely determined rates. The
additional incentives created by the bureaus should greatly facilitate the
diversification of the export base and the flow of resources into the banking
system.



. 5 -
14.   Regarding trade and payment systems, the Government wants to expand the
OGL import system as the availability of foreign exchange improves. The
initial access under the system will continue to be restricted to avoid
reversals due to irregular supply of foreign exchange. Such reversals would
undermine the private sector's confidence in the system. The Special Imports
Program will continue to play a buffer role in allocating foreign exchange
whenever import support flows exceed OGL requirements. A strategy and
timetable for achieving full liberalization of the trade regime, consistent
with the envisaged exchange rate policies has been established. Given the
severe shortage of foreign exchange, the Government will review its barter
commitments that are not tied to the importation of essential imports. With
respect to commitments for which goods and services have already been
received, the Government is reviewing the outstanding obligations with
creditor governments and institutions. It expects to reschedule them on
favorable terms. With respect to coffee barter, the Government will strictly
limit new commitments. Any barter export of coffee will be additional to a
minimum of 220,000 bags a month sold for cash, with an annual limit to total
barter coffee exports of 240,000 bags (less than 10 percent of projected total
coffee exports) for 1990191.
15. The Government will implement a sustainable growth-oriented fiscal
program during the three-year period to promote private sector activities.
Budgetary policies have several goals: improving revenue collection through
reforms of the taxation system and improvements in tax administration,
allocating resources to produce better and expanded economic and social
services, contributing to the rehabilitation and expansion of the economy's
productive capacity, building an enhanced structure of economic incentives,
and increasing public sector efficiency. To achieve the programmed
deceleration in the inflation rate, the fiscal program will try to reduce
Government liabilities to the banking system during the three-year period.
Revenue and expenditure targets will result in an initial increase in the
overall deficit (excluding grants) as a percentage of GDP from an estimated
5.7 percent in 1989190 to 6.5 percent in 1990/91, followed by a decline to 6.2
percent in 1992/93.
16. The Government is committed to pursuing monetary and credit policies
that will strengthen Uganda's net foreign asset position. stabilize inflation
at low levels, and contribute to the mobilization of domestic savings, while
simultaneously providing adequate financing for key sectors to sustain
economic growth. To these ends, the Government will strengthen the capacity
of financial institutions to contribute to the development of the economy, and
it will implement a domestic monetary program to support a steady and
significant decline in the inflation rate. A programmed substantial increase
in private sector credit should ensure adequate financing for the productive
and trading sectors. Crop financing operations of the banking system will be
kept under review to ensure that they are in line with the targeted level of
credit expansion. The Government proposes to begin the process of
transferring crop financing operations, including the financing of the Coffee
Marketing Board, to commercial banks from the 1990191 crop year. Furthermore.
positive real interest rates will be maintained to encourage private savings
and to improve efficiency in the use of financial resources.



- 6 -
17.   Sustained economic growth requires a broadly based and efficient
financial infrastructure, including a strong supervisory and regulatory
banking system, and a good statistical base for monitoring key financial
indicators and the performance of individual institutions. Accordingly, the
Government plans to strengthen the capability of the Bank of Uganda to
formulate, monitor, and implement monetary policy, and to supervise the other
banks. Actions to this effect will be developed from the Government's review
of the financial sector study recently carried out in conjunction with the
World Bank. Other aspects of the financial system to be addressed during
1990191 include financial restructuring of the problem banks, compliance of
commercial banks with prescribed cash and liquidity ratios, and accounting and
managerial practices in the banking sector and financial institutions.
Sector Strategies and Policies
18.   Agriculture.  The Government's goals are to diversify agricultural
production, processing, and the export base, while achieving food self-
sufficiency and improving the well-being of the rural population. Increased
resource productivity is a primary objective. Future production increases
will have to come from increased yields rather than expansion of area
cultivated. Export diversification is required to reduce the vulnerabllity of
the economy to a volatile international coffee market. While nontraditional
exports gradually develop, the coffee subsector needs to perform strongly and
in a manner that supports the stabilization objective. The attainment of
these objectives is constrained by inadequate producer incentives, inefficient
marketing systems and institutions, a poor infrastructure, weak agricultural
support services, inefficient use of public resources in the agricultural
sector, and a weak agricultural sector planning capability. Therefore,
Government's development strategy is to establish an efficient incentive and
regulatory environment, to strengthen agricultural support services, to
improve the infrastructure supporting transport, processing, and marketing, to
pursue coffee subsector policies that help keep the economy on the
stabilization track, and to improve the efficiency of the public expenditure
program and sectoral planning. This strategy and its associated policies are
reviewed in Part II, Chapter D.
19. Industry. The Government's industrial sector strategy is to encourage
private sector participation by improving the policy and regulatory
environment for industrial and business enterprises, and to promote industrial
development linked to agricultural production. To this end, the Government is
reviewing the industrial licensing system with a view to simplifying it. The
Government also will seek further improvements in the business environment in
the areas of regulations governing business operations and labor markets,
foreign trade and payments regime, internal trade and price controls,
financial sector operations, and the investment code. Parastatal reform, to
be implemented through action plans commencing in 1990/91, aim at increasing
the efficiency of statutory boards and public enterprises and reducing public
sector losses through divestiture and liquidation of industrial public
enterprises, rationalizing and strengthening management of enterprises
retained in the public sector, and improving the monitoring of parastatals and
implementat'on of public enterprise reform.



20. Infrastructure. In the transport sector the Government's strategy
includes continued rehabilitation of highways, railways, and feeder roads
decimated by years of neglect and civil war. To eliminate transport
bottlenecks that limit agricultural production, rural feeder roads and road
maintenance will be emphasized. Priorities for investments and appropriate
policy measures to sustain maintenance will be determined through a Transport
Sector Review (para. 36). The deterioration of power and telecommunications
infrastructure is also constraining economic activities. The immediate energy
constraints are being addressed through rehabilitation of the Owen Falls Power
Station and associated transmission and distribution systems. To meet the
growing energy demands, the Government intends to exploit the country's
hydropower potential in A way that is consistent with a least-cost expansion
plan and environmental constraints. Through pricing and other policies, the
Government also will try to ensure operational efficiency. Significant
progress has been made in providing safe water to the six major towns, but the
situation elsewhere remains critical. To begin addressing these needs, the
Government intends to increase the budgetary allocations for the maintenance
of existing systems while exploring suitable technologies for water supply and
sanitation services to small towns and rural communities.
21.   Human Resources Development.  The Government's most urgent challenge is
to restore institutional capacity and strengthen the human resource base. The
AIDS epidemic, the impact of which is being felt throughout Ugandan society,
adds a special crisis dimension to this challenge. The Government's strategy
for controlling AIDS involves intensifying AIDS education, improving blood
screening and epidemiological surveillance, medical treatment for patients and
control of sexually transmitted diseases. It recognizes, however, that the
strategy demands a multisectoral approach rather than a too narrow focus on
the health aspects. The severity of the AIDS epidemic is dramatically
increasing the demand on the limited health services. More generally in the
health sector, where resources have been largely devoted to hospital-based
curative care, the Government's strategy is to meet recurrent costs for drugs,
medical supplies, and maintenance; to improve access to foreign exchange by
public and nongovernmental organizations; to introduce user charges, and to
gradually reallocate expenditures toward primary health care. The decline in
the quality of education has resulted in a scarcity of skills throughout the
economy. To produce the best use of limited resources the Government intends
initially to concentrate increased resource allocations on enhancements to
quality of primary and secondary education and on strengthening management
capacity, while reducing expenditures for non-instructional activities. This
strategy would be followed by increased support to salaries and other
operational expenses.
22.   Environment.  The breakdown of civil order and public services during
the past 15 years has resulted in extensive encroachment on forest lands,
deterioration of water supply and sanitation systems, resurgence of human and
animal diseases, and a decline in the wildlife population. The Government
recognizes that protection of the environment, including the resource base
that supports agricultural production, is a necessary condition for
sustainable development. It is committed to the preparation of a National
Environmental Action Plan to promote a more balanced and sustainable use of
its renewable natural resources.



- 8 -
23.   Public Sector Management.  The Government has started to address
weaknesses in its system of planning and budgeting expenditures. The
integration of Recurrent and Development Estimates has been strengthened
through a common classification system and joint review procedures. The
Government will address the fundamental question of expenditure priorities
through an Issues Paper on Government Expenditure. The paper will guide the
preparation of the 1991/92 budget by recommending expenditure priorities and
by addressing the roles of the public and private sectors. Within the public
sector the relative roles of the Central Government, public enterprises, and
local authorities will be examined. To improve financial management, the
Government intends to implement a budget reform program in 1990191 that will
make budget preparation and implementation more efficient. The Rehabilitation
and Development Plan (RDP), which is Uganda's equivalent of a public
investment program, will be tailored to the implementation capacity of the
Government and the parastatals. Ongoing projects will be reassessed in the
light of the Government's new priorities, and new projects will be included
only if they meet selection criteria based on economic and social rates of
return or cost effectiveness.
24. The Government is making progress toward revitalizing the civil service.
A permanent information system has been established involving an Establishment
Register, a payroll number scheme to prevent salary payments to unauthorized
personnel, and computerized staff lists to verify payroll numbers. This
system has resulted in considerable savings in the Government wage bill
through identification of ghost' workers. In addition the Government has
decided to reduce the number of daily wage workers in all ministries and
departments by 50 percent as of August 1990. The establishment of a
comprehensive information system for the civil service is a prerequisite for
the design and implementation of a comprehensive package of civil service
reforms. Such reforms will be recommended by a Public Service Review and
Reorganization Committee which is about to issue its report. They are
expected to cover the reorganization of the civil service into a smaller and
more efficient service, the raising of pay levels, and the consolidation of
allowances and benefits. Taking these recommendations into account, the
Government will begin to implement a comprehensive reform package in 1991/92.
25.   Poverty Alleviation.  The Government's strategy to reduce poverty is
three-pronged. First, economic growth supported by policies described above
promote the productive use of labor, the poor's most abundant asset.
Revitalization of agricultural production and diversification of sources of
cash income to agricultural producers are key elements in this strategy.
Second, through its program of health and education the Government seeks to
provide basic social services to the poor, with emphasis on family planning,
nutrition and primary education. This will require increasing expenditures in
these areas consistent with improvements in the implementation capacity of
Government ministries. Third, the impact on poverty and social displacement
of the last two decades of civil disturbances has created the urgent need for
a special program to address the victims of the wars - widows, orphans,
disabled etc., and to bring them into the recovery process. To this end, the
Government, assisted by the Bank, has prepared a Program for Alleviation of
Poverty and the Social Cost of Adjustment (PAPSCA). The program recognizes
that the implementation of ERP places immediate and heavy demands on the



-9-
Government's limited resources. It therefore attaches priority to the
involvement in implementation of local communities and non-governmental
organizations. It also initiates an urgently required program to strengthen
the statistical data base for monitoring household living conditions and
poverty indicators.
D. Experience in Past Lending 1J
26.      IDA and the IMF supported an initial effort at economic
stabilization and recovery during the early 1980s. In June 1981, the
Government adopted a comprehensive Recovery Program. IDA committed the
Reconstruction 1I and III credits in 1982 and 1984, respectively, and also an
Industrial Rehabilitation credit (1982) and an Agricultural Rehabilitation
credit (1983). These credits financed imports and reinforced policy measures
adopted under the IMF agreements and institutional development efforts under
IDA and UNDP technical assistance projects. Initial experience was
encouraging, both in terms of stabilization and recovery of output. However,
in 1984 the economic program went off track, and security conditions began to
deteriorate once again. Inflation accelerated to 125 percent in 1985, and the
recovery effort was overwhelmed by the intensification of civil strife.
27.      Since resuming lending to Uganda in FY87, IDA has provided 14
credits totaling US$565.7 M. (In addition, a Livestock Services Project
(US$21 M) was recently approved by the Board.) Of this amount, two IDA
credits and an African Facility credit totaling US$255 M (or 45 percent of the
lending program for FY87 to FY90) were in the form of fast-disbursing
assistance in support of the Government's Economic Recovery Program. Through
a technical assistance credit (FY88), IDA has strengthened the administrative
and institutional capacity of the key ministries responsible for implementing
the recovery program. Other credits have assisted in the rehabilitation of
Uganda's essential infrastructure. They have improved productive capacity and
bolstered basic social services. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank Loans, IDA Credits, and IFC investmente in Uganda as of June 30, 1990.
28.      Implementation of IDA-financed projects, which had slowed down
during the civil disturbances in 1985 and 1986, has shown a steady improvement
with the return of peace and stability to much of the country. Disbursements
rose to US$77.7 H in FY86, declined slightly to US$63.3 M in FY87, and then
increased sharply to US$107.1 M in FY88, reflecting the more rapid
disbursements under ERC I. Disbursements in FY89 were US$ 99.9 M, rising to
US$164.9 M in FY90. The lending program for Uganda increased dramatically
from one operation in FY87 to five in FY88, six in FY89, and five in FY90,
including two supplements to ERC I and the Second Economic Recovery Credit.
29.      Economic Recovery Credits.  Experience under ERC I and ERC II has
been satisfactory, despite delayed progress in meeting the objectives of the
1/ Annex 2 summarizes the status of Bank Group Operations in Uganda as
of September 30, 1990.



- 10 _
stabilization program. As the program progressed, the Government acquired a
greater understanding of how various policy measures affected the economy.
ERC I supported policy measures taken under the first two years of the
Economic Recovery Program; specifically, a limited OGL System was introduced
to improve foreign exchange allocation, a Public Sector Investment Program was
prepared consistent with available resources and economic priorities, and an
action plan for the restructuring and divestiture of public enterprises was
agreed with IDA and initiated. Under ERC II, the key measures implemented by
the Government have been a restructuring of public expenditures, tax and
tariff reform, coffee export marketing liberalization, and civil service
reform. The economy has generally responded favorably to these initiatives,
but initial expectations of the speed at which economic stabilization could be
achieved were unrealistic in light of the devastation, including that of
essential government institutions, caused by the civil war.
30.      Agricultural Sector Credits.  In the recent past, IDA assistance for
agricultural development has consisted of a broad-based sector operation, the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (ARP) (US$70 M); two area deve'lopment
projects, the Agricultural Development Project (ADP) (US$10 H) and the
Southwest Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project (US$10 M); a Forestry
Rehabilitation Project (US$13 M); a Sugar Rehabilitation Project (US$24.9 M);
and most recently a Livestock Services Project (US$21 M). The ARP was
successful in rehabilitating export crop processing facilities, and it
financed a large part of agricultural input imports over the past six years.
The establishment of an institutional capability to support and rationalize
policy making in pricing of export commodities was a major project
contribution. Policy initiatives for crop marketing reforms could not be
successfully pursued however, due to political instability. The two area
development projects aim at increasing farmer productivity in the southwest,
northern, and eastern parts of the country through distribution of
agricultural inputs, reestablishing extension services, and rehabilitation of
rural roads. Progress in implementation has been slow due to political
instability, inadequate counterpart funding, lack of supporting
infrastructure, and limited project implementation capabilities in the
agricultural sector ministries. For similar reasons progress on the Forestry
Rehabilitation Project has been slow. Implementation of the Sugar
Rehabilitation Project, aimed at restoring sugar production at the Kakira
Sugar Estate to historical levels, is proceeding satisfactorily under private
sector management. The Livestock Services Project is not yet effective.
31.      The above IDA assistance has been complemented by extensive support
from other donors. USAID assistance focuses on private sector development and
export diversification with ongoing projects promoting nontraditional
agricultural exports, food crops research and agricultural training, and
cooperatives. EEC assists in the establishment of seed distribution and
support services for smallholder tea farmers, and has also financed
importation of agricultural inputs. Assistance from the African Development
Bank, DANIDA and German bilateral aid has concentrated on strengthening of
livestock support services and dairy development. UNDP together with FAO is
supporting the Agricultural Census, agricultural research and extension in
numerous relatively small projects focusing on individual crops or product
groups. IhAD is cofinancing two regional development projects with IDA.



- 11 -
32.      IPC Operations.  IFC has a total investment of US$12.0 million in
four companies -- Sugar Corporation of Uganda, Uganda Tea Corporation, Toro
and Mityana Tea Company, and the Development Finance Company of Uganda -- with
US$0.4 million in equity and US$11.5 million in loans. All committed amounts
were fully disbursed by June 1988. Arrears to IFC are currently over $3
million and, as a result, no new IFC investments are being contemplated at
this time. In view of the important role that IFC could play in the
privatization process in Uganda, the Bank strategy is to work toward a
solution of the arrears problem so that IFC could once again become an active
partner in Uganda's development.
E. Bank Assistance Strategy and Lending Operations
33.      A candid and open dialogue on policy issues has contributed a shared
view of the reform agenda and an appropriate policy umbrella for Bank
assistance. The Bank will continue to play a leading role in assisting the
Government to design and implement its Economic Recovery Program, steer the
economy towards sustainable long term growth, and mobilize the required
financial resources to support the program. It undertakes this role by
supporting its policy dialogue through economic and sector work, on key
components of ERP, designing and implementing a lending program which combines
adjustment and investment lending, and improving aid coordination.
The Lendins Program and Economic and Sector Work
34.      The planned volume of lending over the period FY91 to FY95 averages
US$180 M per year (essentially unchanged from the FY88-90 period) involving
about four new operations every year. The emphasis on quick-disbursing
lending (about 50 percent) will continue because of Uganda's strained balance
of payments which has been aggravated by the sharp decline in world coffee
prices and, more recently, the rise in oil prices. Structural adjustment
lending is required to support the continued implementation of the policy
agenda for sustainable macroeconomic stability and structural reforms. Hence,
two planned structural adjustment credits would sequentially provide essential
import support based on the Government's satisfactory implementation of its
program of reforms in the areas of macroeconomic policies (para. 12-17), civil
service (para. 24), and public expenditures (para. 23). Reform initiatives in
the latter area are being defined under the Public Expenditure Review.
35.      Progress toward stabilization facilitates a deepening of reforms in
key sectors that in turn will pave the way for investments in agriculture and
industry and the rehabilitation of the social and economic infrastructure. A
significant part of the quick-disbursing lending over the next five years will
be channeled through adjustment operations in the agricultural, financial,
industry, education, and transport sectors. The sectoral policy agendas for
this lending will be developed through intensified economic and sector work.
36.      An ongoing Financial Sector Review focuses on linkages between
macroeconomic stability and financial sector performance and will prescribe a
detailed reform agenda including strengthening of bank supervision and
restructuring of financial institutions. Support for strengthening of the



- 12 -
financial sector will initially be included under the first of the two
structural adjustment credits. This will be followed by additional support
under a planned Financial Sector Adjustment Credit based on the Government's
satisfactory implementation of financial sector reform. In the transport
sector, the planned adjustment operation will support implementation of policy
initiatives to restore road maintenance capacity, and to improve expenditure
allocations and cost recovery. These policy issues and associated investment
priorities are being addressed under the ongoing Transport Sector Review. The
Private Sector Assessment Study will lead to a program of policy, regulatory
and institutional reform to maximize private sector development. In the
education sector, the policy agenda, to be supported by an adjustment
operation, is being defined through a dialogue based on the Government's
recent review of education policy. It focuses on reducing education costs,
increasing budget allocations for primary education, cost recovery, and
institutional reforms in the Ministry of Education.
37.      While the Government under ERC II initiated macroeconomic and cross-
sectoral policies to meet ERP's stabilization targets, the proposed
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit addresses the agricultural sector
underpinnings for these policies. Thus, the proposed credit would involve
support for agricultural sector imports based on satisfactory progress in
implementation of the agricultural policy agenda. Further quick-disbursing
assistance under a second agricultural sector adjustment operation would be
based on progress in the implementation of policy measures and reforms to
support diversification of agricultural production and exports. In support
thereof, a planned Agricultural Sector Memorandum will review the incentive
and regulatory environment and its effect on diversification of production and
exports.
38.      The investment part of the lending program supports the Government's
strategy to restore the productive base through investments in agriculture,
industry, and the economic infrastructure designed to stimulate increased
participation of the private sector in the economic process. Simultaneously,
it focuses on the restoration of the social infrastructure and longer term
development priorities including poverty alleviation, management of the
environment and the natural resource base, and the development of human
resources and institutions to sustain the delivery of the Government's
programs.
39.      In the agricultural sector (para. 18). the Bank will support the
Government's strategy to increase resource productivity and diversify
production through improvements in agricultural services, including extension,
research, land management, and credit. The proposed credit would initiate the
rebuilding of these services and improve the efficiency of the public sector
agricultural investment program and sectoral planning. In addition, IDA will
continue to support the Government's initiatives to prepare investment
operations designed to: (a) support the comprehensive strengthening of
agricultural research, extension and agricultural training institutions,
(b) promote rural agricultural enterprises and services, (c) strengthen the
delivery systems for agricultural credit, and (d) encourage private sector
participation in the marketing of milk. Complementary support for the
rehabilitation of rural infrastructure will be necessary. In the industrial



- 13 -
sector (para. 19) the planned adjustment lending will be complemented by
lending supporting the the program for divestiture or closure of public
enterprises including those affected by ownership disputes, and restructuring
and managerial strengthening of viable public enterprises that are not ready
for privatization.
40.      In the transport sector, the Bank's main objective is to support
sectoral policy adjustments (para. 36), and help mobilize donor support for
such initiatives and an associated prioritized investment program, in which
emphasis will shift from exportlimport routes, where rehabilitation progress
has been good, to rehabilitation of rural roads. Lending for other economic
infrastructure would support rehabilitation of urban infrastructure services,
extensions to the electricity generating, transmitting and distributing
capacity to meet medium-term demands, and improvements to rural water supply.
41.      The Bank's investment lending in the education and health sectors
supports the Government's strategy of restoring basic social services. In the
health sector lending will aim to strengthen the primary health care education
and delivery systems, with emphasis on the AIDS epidemic, and to improve their
financial performance through better planning and budgeting and the
development of alternative financing schemes. In support thereof, a study
will be undertaken to evaluate the likely economic impact of AIDS assuming the
continuation of present trends. In the education sector, the Bank's
assistance focuses on the restoration of high-quality education through more
efficient use of available resources. Investment lending, to follow the
planned sector adjustment operation, would support improvements in the overall
quality of education.
42.      Longer-term Development Priorities.  A key aspect of the Bank's
assistance to Uganda is suppport of the Government's strategy for sustainable
and equitable long term development. This strategy addresses the alleviation
of poverty and meeting the urgent needs of vulnerable population groups (para.
25), effective protection of the environment and the natural resource base
(para. 22), and manpower development and the building of institutions to
increase the efficiency of public sector interventions and maximize private
sector participation (para. 21 and 24).
43.      With regard to poverty alleviation, the Bank's assistance strategy
has the following four elements. First, the above lending program in
promoting growth and diversification will offer opportunities for productive
use of labor, including that available within the poorer groups of society.
Second, through the dialogue on the public expediture program the Bank will
support Government stepping up expenditure allocations for basic social
services in the health and education sectors. Third, to enable public
institutions to effectively expand the delivery of such services the Bank,
through policy dialogue and lending, will support the strengthening of social
sector ministries. Finally, the Bank is supporting the Government's special
program for the alleviation of poverty and social cost of adjustment. Also,
it will work with other donors and NGOs to provide short-term assistance with
an impact on the most vulnerable groups in the population, and monitor the
impact of the adjustment program on the poor through the Social Dimensions of
Adjustment initiative.



- 14 .
44.       While the pressure on the environment is not as high in Uganda as
in other Sub-Saharan countries, it is increasing and needs to be addressed to
sustain economic growth. The Bank supports the Government's strategy of
preparing an Environmental Action Plan, including the strengthening of public
institutions involved in environmental management and monitoring. As a first
step, it will provide technical assistance to help the Government establish an
appropriate institutional and legal framework for environmental protection and
to develop cost-effective information systems to meet priority needs of
resource users, planners and decision makers. The Bank also supports the
development an environmental policy related research capacity at the Makerere
University in Kampala.
45.      Institutional weaknesses limit the Government's ability to implement
the policy agenda and impede project implementation. Issues of capacity
building and institutional reform therefore figure prominently in the dialogue
and planned lending operations. The Bank's strategy is to address central
policy measures in the context of structural adjustment lending.
Complementary assistance to improve the government's capacity for economic and
financial management and implementation of reforms at the sectoral level will
be provided through technical assistance through freestanding operations or
attached to individual sector operations. Also. a major study will guide the
development of an action plan to remove constraints within the civil service
to the effective use of available talent, prepare a medium and long term
training program to address key skill gaps, and elaborate a strategy and
framework for future Bank initiatives in capacity building.
Aid Coordination
46.      The Bank will continue to play the lead role in mobilizing external
assistance for Uganda. This will be done principally in the context of the
Consultative Group (CG) for Uganda and the Special Program of Assistance to
debt-distressed low-income countries. The CG meetings have been effective in
raising donor support and building consensus around the ERP and its policy
agenda. IDA expects to continue to schedule them at 12- to 18-month
intervals. Aid coordination meetings at the project level have been
reasonably successful; those held at the sector level have been less so,
largely because the Government has not been able to present the donors with
clearly articulated sector strategies. The Bank's Resident Mission in Kampala
will continue its regular meetings of local donor representatives to exchange
views on government priorities, major new donor initiatives, and ERP
implementation. Aid coordination efforts could be improved, however, if tbe
Government were to chair periodic meetings with the local donor community.
Overall, the Government's own aid coordination efforts need to be
strengthened, and an effective intergovernmental coordination mechanism needs
to be established. The Government's role in donor coordination would be
enhanced by the development of an accurate and up-to-date data base on donor
commitments and disbursements. Assistance to the Government in this important
area will be an integral part of the Bank's capacity-building initiative.



- 15 -
F. Relations with the IMF
47.      The Fund has supported the Government's ERP since June 1987 when the
first Structural Adjustment Facility was approved. Since then, the Bank and
the Fund have synchronized their support for the program (paras 3-4). Under
the three-year arrangement for the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility,
now in its second year, quantitative benchmarks for domestic credit, the
budget deficit, nonconcessional lending, external arrears, and international
reserves have been established. They will be closely monitored over the
current fiscal year along with structural benchmarks for exchange rate
adjustments, reconciliations of the Government's accounts with CMB and BOU
accounts, and limitations of barter sales of coffee. The appraisal and
supervision of the IDA Economic Recovery Credits have been closely coordinated
with the Fund's ESAF missions. Given the importance of the coffee subsector
in the economy, Bank and Fund staff since 1987 have maintained a regular
dialogue on the subject of coffee subsector policy to ensure consistency
between policy measures and the macroeconomic framework. This dialogue is
expected to intensify under the proposed credit.
G. Summary Assessment
48.      Despite the gains achieved during the first three years of ERP,
Uganda faces major challenges. The inflationary pressures, now under better
control, need to be reduced. Structural reforms in the financial and coffee
sectors are required to consolidate stabilization. Strengthened revenue
mobilization is required to provide resources for critical economic and social
services. The sharp decline in the export price of coffee underscores the
need for Uganda to diversify its export base. Civil service reform is
urgently required to achieve a streamlined, and manageable service, and the
parastatal and financial sector reform programs need to be stepped up. These
challenges are reflected in the Government's PFP for the next three years, as
well as in the Bank's assistance strategy over the next five years. This
strategy has three main elements. First, through its economic and sector
work, the Bank will deepen the policy dialogue in key areas of ERP -- namely,
financial intermediation, public expenditures, civil service reform, export
diversification, and environmental management. Second, the Bank will support
the Government's implementation of policy reforms in these and ancillary areas
through structural and sectoral adjustment lending. Third, through investment
lending, the Bank will assist the Government's continued effort to
rehabilitate the country's infrastructure and essential public services.
49.      Progress in strategy implementation will be evaluated on the basis
of the following three criteria. The first is the Government's ability to
implement macroeconomic policies (primarily monetary, fiscal, and exchange
rate policies) and sectoral reforms (financial sector reforms and coffee
subsector policies) that can accomplish and sustain the financial
stabilization objective as measured against the targets for inflation, the
fiscal deficit, and credit expansion. The second criterion is the
government's capacity to restructure public expenditures to place greater
emphasis on primary education, primary health, road maintenance, and
agricultural support services, and to implement a comprehensive reform of the



- 16 -
parastatal sector and the civil service. The third and final criterion is
future growth and diversification of the economy (measured by the dependence
of the economy on coffee for export earnings and government revenues). The
policy environment should encourage private sector investment and continued
progress in the rehabilitation of the economic infrastructure.
PART 1I - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Introduction
50.      Agriculture dominates Uganda's economy.  It accounts for over two-
thirds of the GDP, 99 percent of export earnings, 80 percent of employment,
and 40 percent of government revenues. Its contribution to the economy is
even larger if one considers that agriculture is the economic base for much of
the manufacturing and service industries. The country is endowed with some of
the best agricultural land in Sub-Saharan Africa. It has a benign climate
with good rainfall and low temperature variability. Some 85 percent of a
total arable land area of 6.3 million ha is cultivated, predominantly by
smallholders and with prominent participation by women. A cultivated area per
capita of about 0.4 ha indicates that pressures on arable land resources are
not as severe as in many other Sub-Saharan countries.
51.      The 'low-resource  agricultural system uses labor as the principal
input, involves relatively low cash costs and productivity per unit of labor
and land, and produces a limited marketed surplus (30 percent of food crop
production is marketed). Farmers reduce risks by diversifying their crops and
integrating farming with livestock keeping. Food crops dominate agricultural
production in terms of contribution to GDP as well as land under cultivation.
Coffee, by far the most important cash crop, accounted for over 95 percent of
all export earnings in 1989. Uganda's reliance on this single crop for export
earnings is more pronounced today than it was 15 to 20 years ago. The
economy's extreme vulnerability to external shocks was amply demonstrated in
1989 when the International Coffee Agreement collapsed, prices plummeted, and
Uganda's export revenues dropped by US$100 M from programmed levels.
Consequently, the Government attaches highest priority to the diversification
of the agricultural export base.
52.      The agricultural sector under the Economic Recovery Program is
recovering from the devastation of two decades of political instability and
economic mismanagement. However, the production levels generally remain below
1965-70 levels. Further growth in production depends on a policy environment
that is conducive to private sector initiative and is supported by adequate
infrastructure. Sound agricultural support services also are important.
While the agricultural sector remains the main engine of growth for the
economy, its performance, particularly that of the coffee subsector, directly
affects financial stabilization. Developments over the past two years have
demonstrated that the performance of the domestic coffee industry has major
implications for monetary and fiscal objectives through the demand for crop
finance and generation of foreign exchange and export duty revenue. Hence,



- 17 -
the Government in September 1989 began implementing coffee subsector policies
designed to safeguard the objectives of the stabilization program (para. 55).
B.   Recent Performance
53.      Over the period 1981 to 1989 the agricultural sector (including
crops, livestock, forestry, and fishing) contributed on average 70 percent of
GDP at factor costs. Food crops accounted for 76 percent; livestock products
16 percent; cash crops, 4.5 percent; and forestry and fishing, 3.5 percent.
During the same period, GDP growth in agriculture averaged about 2 percent per
annum, with the rate of growth rising to an everage of 5.5 percent per year
over the period 1986 to 1989. While real output of cash crops showed marginal
growth over the past decade, that of food crops has grown at an average rate
of 2.7 percent since 1981 and by 6.1 (over 10 percent for the marketed
surplus) since 1986. The growth registered over the past four years comes
primarily from the improved security situation and an improved transport
system. It also reflects better availability of agricultural inputs, brought
about by the liberalized trade and foreign exchange allocation regimes and
increased donor-funded import support.
54.      The recovery of food crop production since 1986 represents an
expansion in the area cultivated rather than increased yields. It was
facilitated by the rural population's rehabilitation and cultivation of
abandoned or new lands, improved security and economic opportunities enabling
a more dynamic labor market. restoration of rural marketing services, and the
removal of obstacles to trade in food crops through the simplification of
licensing regulations and the opening up of export trade to the private
sector. Also, distortions in the producer incentive structure (para. 56) have
drawn labor from cash crops into food crop production. The slow recovery of
production in the livestock subsector has been primarily caused by the animal
population declining by 30 percent over the past fifteen years due to looting
and deteriorating disease control. A reversal of this trend is a high
priority.
55.      Of the cash crops, coffee, sugar, and tobacco production grew
significantly in the past four years. The reactivation of the once
flourishing cotton industry in Uganda has been hampered by the late return of
security to the north, lack of producer incentives as determined through the
administered pricing of seed cotton, inadequate seed supply and distribution
systems, and an inefficient and financially weak processing sector suppressing
primary production. Under these circumstances, the Government's decision to
liberalize internal marketing of lint has had little impact. Production of
tea remained stagnant until 1989, when Government introduced trade incentives
through foreign exchange retention privileges for exporters, and international
tea prices simultaneously started to recover.
56.      These differentials in subsectoral growth reflect a biased incentive
structure.  The bias is caused by distortions in export crop prices introduced
through the pricing system and the overvalued exchange rate. The distorting
effect of the overvalued exchange rate on the prices for cotton and tea was
removed in March 1989, when exporters of these commodities were no longer



- 18 -
required to surrender their export receipts at the official exchange rate.
Coffee, however, remains heavily taxed. An official export tax on coffee is
retrieved as the difference between the export price and the sum of the fixed
producer price and processing and marketing margins. The total export tax
levied on the producer has fluctuated over the past six years between 75 and
90 percent and presently stands at 65 percent. 21 The effective tax on
coffee farmers is even higher considering that the fixed processing and
marketing margins reflect inefficiencies of the marketing agents (para. 60).
Prices for food crops, on the other hand, remain freely determined by the
market.
C. The Coffee Subsector and Financial Stabilization
Recent Developments
57.      The amount of coffee procured annually by the Coffee Marketing Board
increased by 20 percent between 1986 and 1989 as farmers sold off coffee
stored during the civil disturbances. Favorable rains contributed to the
substantial increase in CMB's purchases in 1989. As of end May 1990,
procurement during the current crop season (starting October 1, 1989) was
about 30 percent below the corresponding level in 1989. This is the effect of
Government's policy decisions in September 1989 to enforce higher quality
standards and exercise tighter control on crop finance credit. It also
reflects the Government's policy to contain producer prices in order to reduce
crop financing requirements, the budget deficit, and inflation. The large
fall in the world market price of coffee since 1989 has reinforced these
concerns. Thus, between 1986 and 1989 incentives to coffee farmers fell
dramatically, as the Government-controlled producer price was reduced by over
50 percent in real terms. The fact that coffee supplies to CMB under these
circumstances did not decline reflects in part a relatively low price
elasticity of supply in the short run. In the longer term, however, falling
real prices will have a large effect on production levels as farmers neglect
proper cultivation practices, thus reducing the productivity of coffee trees;
fail to replace overaged trees with new ones; and adjust their farming
strategies to changing relative prices. 'While the analytical base does not
allow quantitative conclusions regarding supply behavior, it is generally
considered that the fall in coffee deliveries to CMB during 1990 in part
reflects such long-run adjustments by farmers. To mitigate against these
developments, the Government needs to substantially increase coffee prices to
farmers.
Crop Finance Demand
58.      The economy depends on coffee for foreign exchange, government
revenue, and cash income for the rural population. Therefore, subsector
policies need to be consistent with macroeconomic objectives, particularly the
21    Measured as the difference between the producer price and the
export price calculated at the market exchange rate (net of
marketing costs).



- 19 -
stabilization objective. Given that demand for coffee crop finance
constitutes a substantial share of overall credit requirements (27 percent of
total domestic credit and over 40 percent of private sector credit over the
past three years), effective management of such demand is critical for
financial stability. This was amply demonstrated by the credit expansion and
the dramatic rise in inflation during the latter part of FY89.
59.      Coffee crops must be financed because of the lag between procurement
from farmers and export shipment by CMB.3/ Financing has traditionally been
met by commercial banks, with marketing boards on-lending to cooperative
unions and to primary societies. Demand for crop financing has increased
steadily wn real terms in recent years. Between the coffee year 1985186
(CS86) and CS90, crop finance utilized by procurement agents per ton of coffee
handled ard by CMB per ton of coffee exported increased in real terms by over
250 and 80 percent, respectively. As a result, coffee crop finance has
doubled its share of total credit issued by the banking system, reaching 35
percent in FY90.   The increase in the demand for credit indicates growing
inefficiency in the use and allocation of credit.
60.      Underlying these developments are the following structural problems.
First coffee crop financing depends heavily on institutional credit. As a
statutory board, CMB the main borrower is unable to raise its own funds under
present pricing arrangements. Moreover, the generally poor financial
situation of cooperatives, to which extensive war losses and excessive
diversification of activities have contributed, precludes significant internal
financing. Second inefficiencies in CMB and the cooperatives increase the
financing needed to hold and process stocks. CMB suffers from inadequate
financial management and inventory control procedures. Cooperative uni-ns
operate at low levels of capacity with excessive overheads, and their weak
management structures are often subject to political interference. Third
primary, secondary, and tertiary buyers all draw cash advances from the Bank
of Uganda (the Central Bank) or commercial banks to finance their coffee crop
purchases. This puts excess liquidity in their hands and has enabled
cooperative unions to divert crop finance funds to purposes other than crop
procurement. Fourth BOU's direct financing of CMB has led to inefficient
negotiation of export bills and has increased CMB's short-term demand for
credit. Finally the Government maintains a policy of unlimited coffee
procurement. If exports do not expand along with procurement, such a policy
automatically raises crop finance requirements.
Institutional Arrangements for Crop Finance
61.      Concerns about delayed payments to farmers, poor liquidity in
commercial banks, marketing board loans to noncreditworthy cooperative unions,
and the commercial banks' apprehension about deteriorating financial
management of CMB led the Government in December 1988 to direct BOU to assume
sole responsibility for providing crop finance at all levels of the marketing
3I The term 'crop finance' refers to financing required for the purchase,
transport, processing and marketing of export crops. Coffee accounts for
more than 80 percent of overall crop finance demand.



- 20 -
chain. BOU's advances were made either directly to CMB or through commercial
banks to intermediaries at the processing stage (cooperative unions) and the
procurement level (primary cooperative societies). Private processors
continued to receive credit directly from commercial banks. These measures
caused crop finance credit to expand more than coffee stocks warranted,
thereby contributing substantially to the unprogrammed expansion of overall
credit that caused the inflationary pressures during the latter part of FY89.
There were several reasons for this. First, the new system eliminated
farmers' contributions to the financing of crop procurement by substituting
cash payment on delivery for chits issued by primary buyers. Second, BOU gave
CMB an unlimited overdraft facility, which encouraged CMB's continued
inefficient use of credit. The main reason for the surge in credit, however,
was the Government's failure to pay CMB promptly for large quantities of
coffee diverted for barter trade.
62.      In response to these developments, the Government in September 1989
began implementing measures to help keep credit within the ESAF monetary
benchmarks. These measures, supported under ERC II, included: (a) the
enforcement of stricter quality standards for coffee sold to CMB, which was
expected to slow down coffee procurement, and (b) the establishment of a
Coffee Subsector Budget (CSB) for CS90. The CSB set targets for crop finance
credit (based on physical and financial benchmarks reflecting better
performance standards), export proceeds and tax revenues, and CMB's exports
and stock-holding -- all to be supported by a comprehersive monitoring system.
For barter trade, the Government has agreed under the second annual ESAF
arrangement, (that is, for PY91), to limit barter sales of coffee to 60,000
bags a quarter or a cumulative total for the fiscal year 1990191 of 240,000
bags. It has also agreed to pay CMB before any barter shipments of coffee
take place and to settle its debts to CMB on a quarterly basis.
63.      The above initiatives were designed to bring the growing demand for
coffee crop finance under better control. However, the performance of the
coffee subsector as recorded over the first three quarters of the CS90, (up to
June 30, 1990) indicates that such control has not been fully achieved.
Notably, coffee crop finance credit outstanding (USh 21.2 billion on May 30,
1990) exceeded that at the end of the last coffee year (USh 20.6 billion on
September 30, 1989). During the same time, procurement prices remained
unchanged, procurement dropped 30 percent, and exports dropped by 20 percent.
CMB's stocks were reduced by more than 50 percent. As a result, the amount of
crop finance utilized per ton of coffee procured and exported rose
significantly in real terms. These developments illustrate two things.
First, the Government needs to establish an effective system for monitoring
the implementation of the CSB to ensure that credit delivery conforms to
approved benchmarks. Efforts to accomplish this are being implemented under
ongoing IDA credits and will be further monitored under the proposed credit.
Second, the Government's coffee subsector policy actions initiated in
September 1989 did not address the structural problems that cause inefficient
use, and increased demand for credit (para. 60). These problems will be
addressed under the coffee crop finance and marketing interventions of the
proposed credit.



- 21 -
D. Growth Opportunities, Development Constraints, and Strategy
Growth Sources and Constraints
64.      While seeking to diversify the economy, the Government is looking to
the agricultural sector as the main source of growth. Such growth is required
to boost foreign exchange earnings and to meet increasing domestic consumption
as population and incomes rise. If agricultural technologies currently
practiced in Uganda were to prevail, the country by the year 2000 would run
short of arable land to support domestic food crop demand. This would leave
little or no room for producing export crops to earn foreign exchange, and the
pressure on land resources would increase. With improved production
technologies and current long-term projections for crop prices, Uganda's
comparative advantage remains with the traditional export crops: coffee,
cotton, and tea. 4/ Of the food crops presently produced, some are
regionally competitive. International competitiveness, however, is limited by
high transport and handling costs resulting from Uganda's landlocked position.
65.      In the short to medium term, prospects for recapturing of lost
export markets for the traditional export crops offer important opportunities
for growth. Tea exports in 1989 represented about 20 percent of annual
exports in the early 1970s; with less than half of the country's 20,000 ha
planted with tea being cultivated. Improved prospects for international
prices and recent actions to liberalize tea exports and grant foreign exchange
retention privileges should encourage rehabilitation of tea estates and
smallholder gardens as well as the reintroduction of known yield-improving
husbandry practices. The remaining constraints are inadequate incentives to
smallholders (that is, export incentives need to be passed on to
smallholders), weak leaf collection and extension services for smallholders,
inefficient and financially bankrupt parastatals owning and managing tea
factories, and unresolved issues of ownership of expropriated estates.
66.      The potential for growth in cotton production lies in increasing the
present low average yield (around 400 kglha) and the area under cultivation.
Yield improvements are achievable with existing cotton seed varieties,
provided the farmers' price for cotton is raised relative to prices for
competing food crops. Other key constraints are a seed distribution system
that has ceased to function and financially weak and inefficient cooperative
unions that control ginning. These unions remain tied to the Lint Marketing
Board for sale of their lint. The development of improved seed varieties with
prospects of yields beyond 1000 kg/ha represents another longer term source of
growth. To realize it, the necessary adaptive research needs to be initiated
now. In the case of coffee, the sources of growth are improved quality and
increased yields from better husbandry practices and the replanting of coffee
trees. Overaged robusta coffee trees should be replaced with the higher
valued arabica species wherever feasible. The main constraints are the
41 Given present low level of farming technology and depressed international
prices for its traditional export crops, Uganda's comparative advantage
in the short term lies with food crops such as bananas and beans.



- 22 -
noncompetitive export trade, inadequate export trade incentives, distorted
producer prices, and the shortage of suitable replanting material.
67.      Sustained sectoral growth depends on farmers adopting improved
production technologies and the development of nontraditional exports,
including horticultural products. Improved technical messages are already
available for some crops, such as maize and beans, and can substantially
raise yields provided the extension system is made more efficient. To this
end, constraints related to funding, fragmentation of extension services, and
the dilapidated state of supporting facilities will have to be addressed. To
help producers raise productivity further, an expanded program for food crop
research is essential. Such a program needs to develop appropriate
technologies and practices for seeds and planting material, soil management,
weed management, pest control, postharvest handling, storage, and marketing.
The main impediment is the absence of an organizational structure within which
a prioritized national agricultural research plan can be cost-effectively
implemented.
68.      The development of nontraditional exports is being encouraged under
the recently introduced export-import scheme for noncoffee products. The key
constraints on export diversification, apart from the weak agricultural
research and extension services, are the political and financial environments
and the inadequate infrastructure for moving agricultural products from
primary production centers to the international transport network. While
considerable progress has been made toward restoring the private sector's
confidence in the Government's ability to manage the economy, the private
sector remains hesitant and uncertain about the Government's intentions and
policy initiatives. Growing stability and economic progress will establish the
required confidence.
69.      Growth with diversification involves import substitution as well as
export diversification. Prospects for import substitution include dairy,
sugar, tobacco, and edible oil production. In dairy, the key constraint is
the inefficiency of the fresh milk collection and processing system,
controlled and operated by a parastatal agency.  Growth in sugar p-oduction is
dependent on the completion of the rehabilitation of sugar estates, timely
access by sugar companies to the necessary foreign exchange, and a pricing
policy that ensures efficient import substitution. The development of
domestic production of edible oil depends on increased domestic production of
oilseeds. To pave the way for the rehabilitation of oilseed mills, the
Government must resolve issues of ownership of these assets.
70.      Adoption of improved agricultural practices and diversification in
production and exports involve adjustments by farmers of production strategies
as well as investments in new technology. Such decisions and investments must
be supported by effective agricultural support services, including research
and extension, as well as by efficient markets for transfer of land ownership.
The effectiveness of agricultural research and extension has been eroded by
destruction of infrastructure, loss of skilled manpower due to inadequate wage
incentives, and totally inadequate operating funds. The challenge is to
create a lean and sustainable organization for research and extension to
address the main technical constraints facing farmers. Complex land tenure



- 23 -
systems and the abolition in 1975 of all freebolds of land have limited the
ability of progressive farmers to acquire land. Other negative consequences
include deforestation and encroachment on reserve lands as well as abuses in
land management. Revisions to the present legislation and the rehabilitation
of the land administration system are being initiated with Bank assistance.
Implementation of land reform requires an improved understanding of the
performance of land markets, the relationship between tenure systems and
productivity, and the feasibility of policies determining access to common
resources. Investments in the above areas of agricultural research and
sectoral management are therefore indispensible and immediate complements to
the Government's Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (Part III).
Public Expenditures and Sectoral Management
71.      Expenditures in the agricultural sector are spread over production,
marketing, and service activities, thus reducing the effectiveness of
interventions. The allocation of recurrent expenditures heavily favors salary
costs primarily because of serious overstaffing in the unskilled ranks. This
allocation renders the essential support services inoperative. The
agricultural sector investment program, which accounts for about 25 percent of
the Rehabilitation and Development Plan, needs to be revised to ensure
compatibility with objectives for public sector interventions and
implementation capacity, including the availability of funding for recurrent
costs.
72.      Weak institutions for agricultural sector planning, project
implementation, and monitoring contribute to low returns on public
expenditures in the sector and constrain agricultural development.
Responsibility for sectoral management is fragmented, and the central planning
agency (the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development) is unable to
provide the necessary leadership and coordination. The fundamental problems,
however, are those facing the country's civil service as a whole -- namely,
inadequate salaries, shortage of skilled personnel, overstaffing in unskilled
ranks, and insufficient funding of operating and maintenance costs. The
solution depends on successful economic recovery and comprehensive civil
service reform, including rationalization of ministerial functions and
programs (para. 24). Since economic recovery depends on improved public
sector efficiency, it is essential for the Government, anticipating progress
in civil service reform, to strengthen agricultural sector planning by
upgrading planning skills. The Government also needs to improve coordination
between the central planning ministry and the four agricultural line
ministries (Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Animal Industry and
Fisheries, Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing, and Ministry of
Environment).
Sectoral Development Strategy
73.      The Government's strategy for agricultural development addresses the
tecbnical, economic, and institutional constraints referred to above and the
sectoral objectives reviewed earlier (para. 18). Hence, as spelled out in its
Letter of Agricultural Policy (Annex 4), the Government intends to:



- 24 -
(a)   establish and maintain an efficient incentive and regulatory
environment built on the principles of market-determined prices and
reduced public sector involvement in marketing,
(b)   strengthen its agricultural support services, particularly in the
areas of research, extension, and educatior,
(c)   pursue coffee subsector policies consistent with the stabilization
objectives,
(d)   improve the efficiency of the public expenditure program and
concentrate public investments and expenditures in areas where the
private sector cannot directly capture the returns such as
agricultural research and extension, preventive veterinary services,
and natural resource conservation,
(e)   strengthen sectoral planning and project implementation by upgrading
planning skills and coordinating the planning process.
74.      The Government will continue to improve the infrastructure
supporting transport, processing, and marketing of agricultural products. The
Government's medium-term program for the implementation of these strategies is
described in Part III.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRA(
75.      The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (the Program) is
presented in the Government's Letter of Agricultural Policy (Annex 4). The
Program sets out the reform agenda for implementation of the Government's
agricultural sector strategy. It complements the Government's macroeconomic
and cross-sectoral policies to promote ERP's stabilization and growth
objectives. The Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program has two objectives.
The first is to support financial stabilization (by controlling credit
expansion through improved institutional arrangements for financing coffee
crop procurement and restructuring marketing intermediaries). The second
objective is to promote agricultural growth and diversification (by creating
competitive systems for processing and marketing export crops through
institutional reform, enhancing coffee export incentives through price and tax
reform, making public spending more efficient, and strengthening agricultural
research and extension institutions and sectoral management).
76.      The Program emphasizes reform of the coffee subsector.  This
reflects the importance of consolidating and improving the stabilization gains
already made. The close link between the coffee subsector and the
stabilization objective (Part II, Chapter C) will remain until the
agricultural sector and the economy have diversified. In addition to revising
the institutional arrangements for coffee crop financing, the reform program
involves opening up coffee exports to the private sector, converting CMB into
a commercial marketing organization, and a gradual freeing up of the
administered pricing system, initially by rationalizing the system of coffee



- 25 -
taxation. To be effective, these initiatives have to go forward jointly in an
orchestrated manner.
A. Coffee Crop Financing and Marketing Reform
Coffee Crop Finance Reform
77.      The structural problems underlying the increasing demand for crop
finance and the inefficient use of crop finance credit were reviewed earlier
(para. 60). The Government is addressing these problems by revising the
institutional arrangements for coffee crop financing and simultaneously
restructuring the coffee marketing system and its marketing intermediaries.
Specifically, the Government has taken actions to transfer the full
responsibility for direct lending for coffee crop financing from BOU to the
commercial banks. The actions are designed to regularize crop finance lending
on a commercial and sustainable basis.
78.      The principles underlying the revised arrangements are as follows:
lending by commercial banks should be supported by a minimum level of internal
financing by marketing intermediaries (corresponding to the base working
capital required), and BOU should provide refinancing of commercial bank loans
in case of need.  Lending will meet financing requirements over and above the
minimum finance required during the year (the base working capital). The BOU
and commercial banks, through a Memorandum of Understanding have agreed on
principles governing extension of credit for CS91, lending terms and
conditions, arrangements for sharing of export bills, and monitoring by BOU.
BOU has issued to commercial banks guidelines for refinancing coffee crop
finance loans starting with CS91. Lending by commercial banks will be on
regular commercial terms at interest rates set within ceilings determined by
the Government. At the current rate of inflation, these interest rates are
positive in real terms. Under the ongoing ESAF arrangement, the Government
has agreed with the Fund on a formula for adjustment of interest rates to
ensure that they remain positive. As a condition for the release of the
second tranche, the Government will, in the context of the macro-economic
framework as set out in its PFP for FY91-93, continue to apply policy measures
to ensure that positive real interest rates on commercial bank loans,
including crop finance loans, are maintained.
79.      In the case of the Coffee Marketing Board, the transfer of crop
finance lending from BOU to the commercial banks has been facilitated by the
following actions. First, based on a reconciliation of CMB's net trading
assets, the Government has settled its outstanding debt to CMN which occurred
on account of barter sales and excess duty recovered. The ESAF arrangement
provides for future prompt settlement of Government transactions and debts
with CMB (para. 62). Second, using the proceeds of the sale of foreign
exchange from the proposed credit, the Government has decided to provide CMB
with equity capital to enable it to internally finance its base working
capital requirements for CS91 'estimated at USh 9.5 billion) and CS92.
Pending the realization of such proceeds, BOU has deferred CMB's repayment of
its outstanding debt, equivalent to the base working capital required by CMB
for CS91. CMB's repayment of such debt to BOU has been guaranteed by the



- 26 -
Government, pending the intended settlement by the Government of such debt
with BOU on behalf of CMB using counterpart funds to be generated under the
proposed credit. Third, on the basis of the above arrangements, BOU has
formally terminated its crop finance facility for CMB, thereby allowing CMB to
conclude a crop finance agreement with commercial banks. As a condition of
second tranche release, the Government will inject additional equity capital
into CMB to meet CMB's incremental base working capital for CS92. The amount
required will be determined in the context of the Coffee Subsector Budget by
projected levels of procurement and the magnitude of future adjustments of
producer prices and processing margins. It will also reflect CMB's ability to
meet any incremental base working capital requirements from retained profits,
that is from the profit element which, starting with the CS9l, has been
included in the fixed margin for coffee exporters. After CS92, CMB is
expected to finance its incremental working capital requirements through
retained trading surpluses.
80.      The Government is strengthening the system for coffee subsector
budgeting and monitoring. A Coffee Subsector Monitoring Unit (CMU) has been
established in the Agricultural Secretariat of the Bank of Uganda. The CMU,
following annual work plans, will prepare annual CSBs, monitor subsector
performance relative to CSB targets, analyze actual versus targeted outcomes,
report quarterly on its findings, and recommend appropriate revisions to
targets and corrective policy measures. The Government's Economic Monitoring
Committee is responsible for initiating appropriate policy decisions based on
its review of CMU's reports. The annual review of ongoing CSBs and the
adoption of new CSBs, including work plans for their implementation, will be
undertaken in consultation with IDA prior to the start of each coffee crop
season. Based on a detailed review of the implementation of the Coffee
Subsector Budget (CSB) for CS90, the Government has established a CSB for CS91
with an accompanying work plan. To help CMB implement the plan, arrangements
have been completed, with financing from ERC II, for recruitment and training
of staff and the installation of a computer-based monitoring system. As a
condition of release of the second tranche of the proposed credit, the
Government will implement the coffee subsector budgeting and monitoring system
according to the adopted work plan and establish a CSB for CS92 that is
satisfactory to IDA.
Restructuring of the Coffee Marketing Board
81.      The export monopoly and coffee procurement monopsony enjoyed by CMB
for 20 years have been abolished (para. 87). However, until the private
sector has firmly established its capability to competitively handle Uganda's
exports, CMB will play a major role as exporter. To enable CMB to perform
this task in a cost-effective way and within a competitive marketing system,
the Government has begun a program to restructure CMB into a commercial
marketing organization capable, inter alia, of retaining trading profits,
generating own funds for financing base working capital requirements, and
paying its employees adequate incentives.
82.      During the first phase of the restructuring program, the following
measures have been completed. First, CMB's regulatory functions have been
transferred to the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing, pending the



- 27 -
establishment of a separate regulatory body. Second, within the framework of
the Coffee Marketing Act, the Government has ensured that CMB is able to
retain trading profits and receive equity from the Government. Third, CMB
management has completed key actions toward improved inventory, financial, and
marketing controls. These actions include the establishment of standardized
procedures for stock reporting, cash budgeting consistent with the Coffee
Subsector Budget, and monitoring of such a cash budget -- all satisfactory to
CMB's financiers. A marketing plan for CS9l has been adopted based on a
detailed review of its commitments, stocks and expected procurement. The plan
is consistent with the cash budget and the overall limits for barter sales as
per the ongoing ESAP arrangement (para. 62). Finally, an international firm
of auditors has initiated an audit of CMB's balance sheet as of September 30,
1990, based on terms of reference satisfactory to IDA. The auditors have
completed an initial assessment of CMBI's coffee stocks and net trading assets,
which is a prerequisite for commercial banks to assume the financing of CMB.
The audit will also provide a basis for the detailed financial restructuring
of CMB.
83.      The Government intends to complete the program for financial and
institutional restructuring of CMB before the start of the CS92. CMB's
financial, inventory, and marketing controls will be further strengthened
according to an agreed work plan and with the help of consultants financed
under an ongoing IDA technical assistance credit and the proposed credit.
Also, the Government will formalize as equity its capital injections to
support CMB's base working capital (para. 79).   As a condition of release of
the second tranche, the Government will complete the financial and
institutional restructuring of CMB consistent with the findings of the Balance
Sheet Audit Report for CMB's fiscal year 1989/90. This restructuring will
include the formal contribution of the Government's injections of working
capital in CMB for the coffee seasons starting on October 1, 1990 and October
1, 1991 respectively, as equity capital in CMB. It will also include the
strengthening of institutional arrangements for development and regulation of
the coffee industry consistent with the Government's coffee export
liberalization strategy (para. 87). The above restructuring program will
allow CMB to operate as a commercial coffee trading organization. In
addition, the Government intends to register CMB under the Companies Act to
facilitate possible future divestiture of Government ownership. The extent
and timing of such divestiture will be determined by the competitive market
forces of the liberalized coffee marketing system.
Restructuring the Cooperative Unions
84.      Some fifteen cooperative unions are engaged in coffee operations.
They suffer from worsening liquidity, are under-capitalized, and return little
to their shareholders. Because crop finance loans by commercial banks to
cooperative unions are no longer backed by BOU guarantees, many unions have
difficulty obtaining crop finance. In principle, the Government leaves it to
the free market forces to determine the participants in the coffee industry.
It acknowledges, however, that the poor state of affairs in the cooperative
sector in large measure has resulted from factors outside the direct control
of the cooperatives. The Government has interfered in union management, and



- 28 -
compensation for substantial losses and damages to assets during the civil
disturbances has not been made.
85.      The Government has a strong political comnitment to the cooperative
movement in Uganda. It supports a program to help the cooperatives regain
creditworthiness and financial viability. The Government also intends to hold
the unions to performance standards through effective monitoring and auditing
and (in the case of coffee) by adopting crop finance benchmarks. The Uganda
Cooperative Alliance (the apex organization of the cooperative movement), with
assistance from USAID and the Swedish Cooperative Center, is already
implementing program components for managerial strengthening and accounting.
86.      Interim arrangements have been completed for reorganizing and
financing the coffee operations of the three main unions that have entered the
coffee export trade. Individual business plans for coffee operations have
been established for CS91. They cover procurement, processing and trading
operations as autonomous profit centers. To strengthen the financial standing
of the unions, a sum of Ush 1 billion, generated from the US PL 480 Import
support program, has been made available to the Cooperative Bank for onlending
to cooperative unions as term loans. On the strength of their business plans
and improved financial standing, the three unions have secured crop finance
for CS91. To support these measures, the Government is amending its
legislation governing regulatory functions in respect of cooperative societies
so as to allow cooperative unions to operate their business independently. To
this end, a Cooperatives Societies Bill has been tabled with the National
Resistance Council, which is expected to enact it during the 1991 session.
The above measures will be followed by the implementation of a comprehensive
program for financial and managerial restructuring of the cooperative unions.
The responsibility for such a program rests with the cooperatives themselves
which are expected to sell off nonproductive assets, cut down overhead costs,
strengthen management, increase capital contributions from shareholders, and
take other measures to improve their capital base and liquidity. The
Government will support the program through appropriate policy action
including legal reforms, measures to support mobilization of funds, and
compensation for agreed war losses and damages. Under its overall tax reform
program the Government will address taxation regulations affecting the
cooperative sector.
Liberalizing Coffee Marketing
87.      As envisaged under ERC TI, the Government has adopted a
comprehensive strategy for liberalizing export marketing. As a first step,
the Government in September 1990 issued export licenses to three cooperative
unions based on their compliance with licensing criteria related to processing
capacity, financial standing, and managerial competence. These unions have
now started to export coffee. During the second half of the coffee year
ending September 30, 1991, the Government intends to broaden participation in
exports to also include private sector parties outside the cooperative
movement. The Government envisages that the future roles and market shares of
CMB and other exporters in coffee marketing will be determined by their
ability to procure and export coffee. As a condition for release of the
second tranche, the Government will issue coffee export licenses to at least



- 29 -
two private sector entities other than cooperatives, qualifying as per adopted
criteria for coffee export licensing. It also will take appropriate measures
to facilitate a significant increase in the share of coffee exports handled by
the private sector.
Coffee Taxation and Pricing
88.      As the procurement and marketing system becomes more competitive,
the Government intends to gradually replace the administered system of pricing
with a system in which prices are freely determined by the international
market. As a first step, the Government intends to revise the residual system
for taxing export revenues (para. 56). This system fails to reward quality
improvements and maximization of sales prices, prevents exporters from
realizing trading profits, and discourages entry into the export trade. In
place of this system, the Government has decided to introduce by the start of
FY92, i.e. by July 1, 1992, a system of taxation designed to reward exporters
for maximizing export quality and price while safeguarding the Government's
revenue objective. With the export tax reform, the fixed marketing margins
for exporters will be abolished. The export price less the aggregate of
Government tax, producer price, and margins payable to processors will then
accrue to exporters as trading profits. Pending the introduction of such a
system, the Government has revised the margin for coffee exporters to include
a profit element based on the opportunity cost of capital to the exporter. It
will monitor the adequacy of this incentives relative to entry into the export
trade.
89.      The administered margins for processors and fixed producer prices
will be abolished once a competitive procurement and marketing system ensures
that the farmer receives an equitable share of the export price of coffee. In
the meantime, upward adjustments of coffee producer prices are necessary to
prevent a decline in coffee production and improve the quality of coffee
produced (para. 56-57). Adjustments will provide adequate incentives to
induce farmers to adopt yield-improving husbandry and replanting practices.
Wherever possible, robusta coffee will be replaced with the higher-value
arabica coffee. Price adjustments will also reflect the objective of
returning a competitive price and an increasingly larger share of the long-
term export price to the farmer and to reward farmers and processors for
producing high-quality grades of coffee. They will take into account
movements in international prices and the exchange rate, progress in reducing
processing and marketing margins through efficiency gains, the development of
alternative sources of Government tax revenues, and progress in financial
stabilization. Based on these principles, the Government, in consultation
with IDA, will twice yearly adjust coffee prices and margins. Hence, the
Government, following its devaluation of the USh in November 1990, increased
the producer price by 60 percent, the processing margin by 24 percent, and the
export margin by 6 percent.
90.      As a condition for release of second tranche, the Government will
ensure that the profit elements in the fixed export margins are maintained at
levels which are adequate to induce entry into the trade and allow exporters
to internally raise working capital, and revise the coffee price-grading
system to provide incentives for maximization of quality and sales value.



- 30 -
Also, the Government will adopt an action plan to implement, by July 1, 1992,
a new coffee export taxation system desi8ned to further strengthen the export
trade incentives while safeguarding fiscal objectives under the stabilization
program. Design and implementation procedures will be based on a study of the
implications for government revenues, producer and marketing incentives, and
tradeoffs between fiscal objectives and incentives to the subsector. The
study, to be financed under the ongoing Second Economic Recovery Credit, will
be undertaken by the Government in consultation with IDA and IMF.
B. Pricing and Marketing of Other Agricultural Products
Pricing
91.      It is government policy for agricultural input and output prices to
be determined by market forces. However, pending improved access by producers
to markets the Government will continue to fix producer prices, and where
applicable processing and marketing margins, for the traditional export crops.
A major objective is to halt the decline of real producer prices for the
traditional export crops and to establish the necessary incentives for farmers
to rehabilitate tea production and reactivate cotton production. In line with
the 100 percent retention scheme for noncoffee exports, the Government will
increase the share of the export price going to producers of cotton, tea,
tobacco, and cocoa. Pending price liberalization, the Government will carry
out twice yearly reviews and adjustments of producer prices. These reviews
will be done in consultation with IDA based on an already agreed methodology.
With increased competition in procurement and export marketing of cotton, tea.
cocoa, and tobacco, the Government intends to review the rationale for fixing
producer prices for these crops and to allow them to be freely determined in
the market.
Marketing Liberalization and Parastatal Reform
92.      The Government has reduced its control of the marketing of
agricultural products and inputs in an effort to promote competitive marketing
systems that will reduce marketing costs, expand trade, and help diversify
production. The Government intends to deepen and broaden these initiatives
and couple them with reforms of the marketing parastatals. In the area of
food crop marketing, the export monopoly of the Produce Marketing Board (PMB)
has been abolished in favor of opening up the export trade to private sector
initiatives. Incentives for such participation have been established under
the Agricultural Non-Traditional Export Promotion Program in the form of 100
percent foreign exchange retention privileges and associated import
entitlements. Based on an ongoing study on the future role and organization
of PMB, the Government will restructure it to cost-effectively implement a
reduced mandate in food crop marketing and storage.
93.      In the area of tea processing and marketing, the Government has
abolished the export monopoly of the Uganda Tea Authority. It has also
decided to restore the Uganda Tea Growers Corporation (UTGC) as an outgrower
service organization financed through cost recovery from outgrowers and to
return the ownership and management of UTGC's tea factories to the private



- 31 -
sector. The detailed modalities for implementing these initiatives, which
will involve financial restructuring of UTGC and its factory companies, are
presently being finalized. In cotton marketing, the Government has taken
steps to liberalize the internal trade in seed cotton and lint. Farmers are
no longer required to sell through the cooperative union ginneries.
Ginneries, presently all owned by cooperative unions, are allowed to sell lint
directly to local textile mills or for export, rather than through the Lint
Marketing Board (LMB), provided they are free of debt to LMB. The operations
of LMB will be streamlined, taking into account the recommendations of an
ongoing study. In dairy marketing, the Government will gradually reduce the
-role of the Dairy Corporation in favor of private sector participation. This
initiative will initially lead to ownership and management of district milk
collection centers by farmers' organizations. It will be implemented under a
National Dairy Development Plan that defines strategies for milk shed
development. The plan, including its projected investment requirements will
be completed by the end of 1990. It is envisaged that the implementation of
the policy agenda in the above areas would be supported under an IDA operation
following the proposed credit.
C. Sectoral Management
Agricultural Research and Extension
94.      Agricultural growth and diversification of exports depend largely on
the implementation of a program that would reactivate agricultural research
and extension services to develop and disseminate new technologies (para. 70).
Such a program is urgently needed. Implementation requires reform of the
institutional framework for research and extension as well as funding of
facilities and individual program elements, some of which are ready for
implementation and will have a relatively quick effect on the sector's supply
response. The Government is preparing a national agricultural research plan
with IDA financed assistance from the International Service for National
Agricultural Research. It intends to establish a semiautonomous national
agricultural research organization to manage the implementation of the
research plan. Detailed arrangements for the establishment of such an
organization are expected to be finalized by March 1991. As a condition for
release of the second tranche, the Government will establish a semiautonomous
National Research Organization to plan and oversee the implementation of a
national agricultural research program satisfactory to IDA.
95.      The Government also intends to adopt and implement a strategic plan
for reorganizing and managing sustainable agricultural extension services.
Proposals for such a plan are being prepared with assistance from UNDP, FAO,
and IDA. The Government relies on continued broad support from the donor
community for the implementation of these initiatives. To this end, the
Government has requested financing from IDA for a proposed National
Agricultural Technology Development and Training Project.



- 32 -
Public Expenditures
96.      In the context of ERC II, the Government is consulting with IDA on
the size and composition of the overall Rehabilitation and Development Plan
for the period FY91 to FY93, the composition of recurrent expenditures, and
appropriate levels of nonsalary operating and maintenance expenditures in key
sectors. Measures to strengthen expenditure control and monitoring and
improve efficiency of public investment will be based on the findings of the
Public Expenditure Review (paras. 23 and 34). The outcome of this review is
expected to be discussed with the Government in January 1991.
97.      The Government recognizes the need to improve the efficiency of
government expenditures in the agricultural sector (para. 71). It will
regularly review the agricultural RDP to ensure that projects conform with
criteria for public sector intervention (para. 73) and that investment
priorities reflect subsector development strategies, the implementation
capacity of Government ministries, and the availability of funds to support
recurrent costs. New projects will be added to RDP only when all priority
projects within the sector are fully funded. The annual budget process will
ensure adequate funding for recurrent expenditures to support effective
implementation of priority projects. Action will be taken to enhance and
target the recurrent budgets of the agricultural sector ministries to priority
areas of public intervention. In particular, the Government will adopt an
agricultural RDP for FY92 to FY94 that identifies high priority projects, with
a recurrent budget allocations for FY92 reflecting: (a) progress by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries in
privatizing state-farms and commercial marketing and service activities and
adjusting the extent of land and number of group employees retained to a level
that is consistent with the national research program; and (b) an increase in
real terms in the allocation for non-wage operating expenditures for selective
high-priority research and extension activities compared with FY91
allocations.
PART IV - TEE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (ASAC)
A. Orisin, Obiectives and Main Features
Oriain
98.      In September 1988 the Government asked IDA to finance a broad-based
agricultural project to enhance the agricultural sector's supply response
under the Economic Recovery Program. Such a credit would complement IDA
assistance under the Economic Recovery credits by financing the importation of
agricultural inputs in support of the Government's implementation of its
agricultural policy agenda. This agenda was broadly defined in the
Government's Policy Framework Paper for 1988/89 to 1990191, and it was updated
in subsequent PPPs. Developments during the first half of 1989 demonstrated
the urgen\.y of establishing a package of coffee subsector policies to promote
stabilization (Part II, Chapter C). The Government and the Bank in November
1989 agreed on a first set of such policy measures under ERC II. These



- 33 -
measures needed to be followed by more comprehensive coffee subsector reforms,
emphasizing revisions to the institutional arrangements for crop finance and
associated restructuring of CMB. Preparatory work for such reforms proceeded
under the guidance of the Agricultural Policy Covmittee (APC) with close
involvement of the Bank of Uganda, the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing,
and the Coffee Marketing Board. An IDA mission in March 1990 reviewed this
work. Ar. IDA mission to appraise the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
(ASAC) took place in May 1990.
Objective and Main Features
99.      The proposed ASAC supports the objectives of the Government's
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (para. 75) and responds to the need for
balance of payment support to help reduce Uganda's projected external
financing gap (Annex 1, Table 2). The project is a hybrid consisting of a
sector adjustment component and a complementary investment component.
100.     The adiustment component of the project, supported by quick-
disbursing funds equival-ent to US$85 M for importation of essential sector
inputs including fuel, would monitor government actions that are critical to
achieving the objectives of the Program, in particular its stabilization
objective. Actions by the Government to implement the Program as well as
actions to be completed as conditions for release of the second tranche were
discussed in Part III. They are summarized below (Table 1) and are also shown
in the policy matrix attached to the Government's Letter of Agricultural
Policy (Annex 4). The Working Papers in the Technical Support Volume elaborate
on the background to and justification for the above reforms.
101.     The investment component of the project, at a total cost of US$16.6 M,
would support the Program's growth and diversification objectives and strengthen
the Government's capacity to implement the Program.  The focus of the component
is therefore on strengthening agricultural research and extension services,
development of land policy reform through support for land policy research, and
institutional and human resources development to improve sectoral management.
The emphasis on support for agricultural research and extension would bring the
key role of science and technology in the agricultural development process into
sharper focus at the highest level of economic management within Government, and
it would help to broaden the ownership of the sectoral reform program.
The Investment Component
102.     The investment component would consist of the following programs and
support activities (details in Annex 6 and the Technical Support Volume). All of
the costs below refer to base costs.
(a)   A Read-Start Program for Agricultural Research and Extension (US$6.0 M).
HARE would implement high-priority adaptive research and extension activities
through a series of subprojects. The activities would focus on production
constraints and adaptive research to fine-tune technologies and improve their
dissemination. The Program would involve selective renovation and minor
construction of research facilities, office facilities, and District Farm
Institutes; acquisition of vehicles and equipment; payment of staff allowances



- 34 -
and incentives; training of research and extension staff as well as farmer
training; and technical assistance.
(b) A Program for Strengthening of Agriculture Sector Planning (US$2.7 M).
The aim of PASP is to improve the efficiency of development project
implementation, policy reform implementation, and project preparation and
appraisal. The program would rationalize responsibilities among central
and sectoral planning agencies, introduce improved planning procedures, and
develop planning skills. The program also would provide for local and
overseas training, planning specialist services, office and logistical
support, and incremental operating costs including local staff allowances.
(c) Land Policy Research Program (US$1.2 M). LPRP would complement
ongoing USAID-financed efforts to enhance the capacity of the Makerere
Institute for Social Research (MISR) for sustained applied research in land
access and policy development. The link between this research and policy
formulation and implementation would be reinforced by strengthening the
role of the Agricultural Secretariat in research planning and in
disseminating research findings. LPRP would upgrade the skills of MISR
staff through overseas training, rehabilitation of office and housing
facilities, logistics support (transport and equipment), and workshops and
study tours for research staff and policymakers.
(d) Support for Coffee Subsector Management (US$1.5 H). CSM would assist
the Coffee Marketing Board in implementing its restructuring program and
the Government in the detailed design of subsector policy reforms. The
support to CHB (US$1.2 H) would be for management advisory services, a
training program for senior technical staff, consulting services to
establish a management information system, and improvements in
communication facilities. Consultant services for design of coffee
subsector reform and implementation modalities would include Coffee Export
Taxation Study and advisory services for the Agricultural Policy Committee
(US$0.3 4).
(e) Support for Project Coordination and Monitoring (US$2.8 M. This
includes a Project Preparation Facility Advance of US$1.3 M, provides for
staffing, logistics facilities, and operating costs of a Project
Coordination Unit, and support for the Agricultural Policy Committee's
oversight function.



UGAIQA
AOttCaL1UlAL SEC=iYRDJUSTWENT CREDIT
TABUE 1 - ACTIONS TO BE MOrnIORED UWDER TW CREDIT
SUBSECTOR                   ACTIONS COMPLETED PRIOR TO 80ARD PRESENTATION                               CONDITIONS OF SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
Coffee Crop                 (a) Satisfactory Implementation of the Coffee Subsector                      (c) In the context of tho macroeconomic framework as
Finnnce                     Budgeting and Monitorlng System for the coffee year 1989/90                 set out in the Government's Policy Froamwork Paper
(CS90), and adoption of a Coff-e Subector Budget for CS91,                  (FY91-FY93) continua to apply policy measures to
Including a work plon for tho Coffee Subsector Monitoring Unit              ensure thot positive real interest rates on
to monitor ite implemntotion (pore 80). 1/                                  coemercinl bank loons, including crop finnnce loans
are maintained.
(b) Execution of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Bank
of Uganda (QBO) and Coemercial Banks to fund coffee crop                    (b) Progruos  in implementotion of the Coffee
finance requirement for CS91, and iswue by BOU of It.                       Subsctor Budgeting and Monitoring System for the
guidelimne  for refinancing crop finaonc  loans (pars 78).                  CS91. according to an agreed work plan. and adoption
by the Government of a Coffee Subcector Budget for
(c) Settlemnt by Government of its due  to the Coffee                       CS92, satisfactory to IDA (parn 80).
Morketing Board (CMH) (par* 79).
(d) Injection of fresh capital in CMB by the Government,
adequate to cover CMb's bas working capital requiremnto for
CS91 (pare 79).
(e) Termination by CCU of it. crop finance facilitu with CMB,
thereby allowing cemercial banks to assume CMB financing (pore
79).
CMB Restructuring           (f) Separotion of regulatory from trading functions (pars. 82).              (c) Complete the financial ond institutional
restructuring of CMB satiefactory to IDA, consistent
(9) Satisfoctory progress by CMB on implemetation of an                     with the findings of the CMB Balance Sheet Audit
organizational restructuring program in respect of finoncial,               Report, including formalizing Covernant's injection
inventory and morketing controls (pars. 82).                                of working capital to CS91 so contribution to CM8'e
equity, providing additional equity capital, so
(h) Ensure that CMB is epmpered to obtain crop finance from                 required, to meet CMB's Incremental bas  working
co"mercial banks, retain trading profits, and receive equity                capital requirements for CS92, ond strengthening
fro  the Government (pars. 82).                                              institutional orrangements for developmenot *nd
regulation of the coffe industry consistent with
(i) Initiation by an intornotional firm of auditors of audit of             tho Govoenment's coffee export liberolization
CMB'e balance sheet as of September 30, 1990 (pars 82).                     strategy. (paers  79 and 63).
g/ The Coffee Subsector Budget e  stblihes monthly torgete for: (i) crop finance credit
based on physical and financial benchmrks, reflecting expected performance standards;
(ii) *xport proceeds and tax revenues; and (iii) CMB performance with respect to exports
and stockholdings. Monitoring of actual performance relative to CSS targets will enable
Governmnt toidentify in a timely fashion appropriote corrective policy interventions
required to ensure consistency of coffee eubsector performonce with macro-economic objective.



E        CTOA CTION1 COMETED PRIOR TO OA   PSEWITATION                                          CONDITIONS OF SECOND TRAIOCE ELSE
C.peetiue Unto            (I) Put Is plae 11- orr we  te_. te reee ganeti.n
mgstre.tering end         and fINeWclio  et of coffe. eOps:    l.eiding viAl, business
upevieiee                 Plane for coopertive maim  lieseed to enter the export tred.
(vote U).
a" Prelng                                                                                       (d) lIss. cettoe espeort lIc..es to et leat twe
privatO sector partes othe  tha ceop twee aN
npiemet usest  to e lgliticatly l            rcre_s the
saor, of the cottfa  *sporto by the private eot.,
byt (1) ensring adequate pretit *lewen. to
* Vorters' fiae  margins;  Dw (11) ..t.blia.le n
price gradiog etrectas. few coffee to sexteai
qualitr and "Ii.  value. Adop as Ation Plan to
inplenet a NW cottee exprt taxatle  estm to           I
tarthwr inc_se tre  incentve. slto eag*toardln    w
fietOl objectilw unde the stabi*Iaatian pror.    4
ReeseWrebAgriouiturat Reemreb Orgesiatian to plan *                                                                                          d
eVrsee the  splea11_  tet ieof a n    pleti
agrlculteurl reserch progr. stiesectery to MA
(pora P4).



- 37 -
B. Costs and Financing
Cost Estimates
103.     The proposed project costs would be US$101.6 M, including a quick-
disbursing credit of US$85 H to finance importation of agricultural inputs,
and the costs of the investment component amounting to an estimated US$16.6 M.
including physical and price contingencies.
104.     Investment Component.  The total cost of the investment component.
exclusive of duties and taxes, is estimated at US$16.6 M, of which US$12.5 M,
or 75 percent, would be foreign exchange. The estimated costs of the
individual parts of the component are summarized below (Table 2) with details
in Annex 6 (Attachment 2). Baseline costs refer to June 1990. Physical
contingencies of 10 percent have been applied to all cost items. Price
contingencies, equivalent to 7 percent of the baseline costs, reflect
projected local and international inflation rates and a continuous adjustment
of the exchange rate in line with maintaining a constant purchasing parity
exchange rate (Annex 6, Attachment 2, Table 5).
Table 2 - Sunmary Cost of Investment Component
--------USh ail --------  -------      000 ---------
Foreian                  Foreign
Activity                             Local Exchange   Total    Local Exchange  Totsl
Agricultural Resarch & Extension(HARE)  16s.6  1869.6  3056.2    2291.4  3705.1  6990.6
Land Policy Rnsearch (LPRS)          264.7   323.8  509.2      619.1   644.8  1183.9
Sectoral Planning (PASP)             79.1  1322.0  1401.1     155.0  2592.2  2747.2
Coffee Subsctor Management (CSU)      5.1   762.9   786.0       10.0  1635.0  1545.0
Project Coordination                 251.0  1166.2  1419.2     492.1  2290.6  2782.7
Base Cost                           1788.5  5491.5  7260.0    8467.7 10767.6 14236.3
Physical Contingencie                163.6   496.6   660.2     820.8   973.7  1294.C
Price Contingencies                  710.9  1913.9  2624.6     28M.9   794.6  1083.5
Total Including Contingncies        2643.1  7901.9 10545.0    4077.4 125U5.6 16613.3
Financing
lOS.     Of total project costs of US$101.6 M, IDA would finance US$100.0 M,
including US$85 M as quick-disbursing funds and US$15.0 M (or 90 percent) of
the cost of the investment component. Under the adjustment component
retroactive financing would be allowed for expenditures incurred after
September 1, 1990 up to a maximum of US$17 M. The Government faces an
extremely tight foreign exchange cash flow situation, including a very low
level of foreign exchange reserves. This situation has been exacerbated by
the recent oil price shock which has almost doubled Uganda's monthly import
bill for petroleum and petroleum products. Retroactive financing under ASAC
will provide the Government with cash resources to meet essential imports and
reduce the foreign exchange cash financing gap during the early months of
1991.



- 38 -
106.     The annual agricultural sector import requirements (petroleum
excluded) are estimated to be about USS80 H. The quick-disbursing part of the
proposed credit net of the ceiling amount for petroleum products (para. 109)
is US$68 K. This would be sufficient to finance 22 percent of the
agricultural sector import requirements in FY91, 45 percent in FY92, and 17
percent in FY93. The total quick-disbursing funds (US$85 M) would meet 40
percent of Uganda's projected external residual financing gap in FY91 (impact
of oil price increase considered), 48 percent in FY92, and 29 percent in FY93
(Annex 7, Table 2).
107.     The Government's contribution to project financing would amount to
US$1.6 H. It would meet 39 percent of the local expenditures under the
investment component. The financing plan for the investment component is
further detailed in Table 3 below.
Table 3 - Financing Plan for the ASAC Investment Component
(US$ H)
Foreign Cost   Local Cost        Total
Component Part           IDA   GOU     IDA    GOU    IDA    GOU    TOTAL
RARE                     4.4    -      1.6    1.1    6.0    1.1       7.1
LPRP                      .8    -        .3     .3    1.1      .3     1.4
PASP                     3.1    -        .1     .1    3.2      .1     3.3
CSH                      1.8    -       -       -     1.8     -       1.8
Project Coordination    2.5    -         .4     .1    2.9      .1     3.0
Total                   12.5    -      2.6    1.6   15.0    1.6    16.6
108.     The Government would use the proposed IDA credit as follows.  US$85
H would be made available to BOU for the foreign exchange allocation scheme.
It would retain US$12.8 H of the credit to help finance the implementation of:
(a) the Head-Start Program for Agricultural Research and Extension through the
agricultural sector ministries (US$6.0 H), (b) the Program for Strengthening
of Agricultural Sector Planning by the Hinistry of Planning and Economic
Development (HPED) and the agricultural sector ministries (US$3.2 H), (c)
AGSEC's responsibilities under the Land Policy Research Program (US$.3 H), (d)
technical assistance for implementation of coffee subsector reform through
HPED (US$.35 H), (d) ASAC project management (US$ 1.7 H), and (e) refinancing
the Project Preparation Facility Advance (US$1.25 H). The balance of the
credit, US$2.2 H, would be passed on as grants to the Hakerere Institute for
Social Research (US$800,000) for its Land Policy Research Program and to the
Coffee Harketing Board (US$1.4 H) for its technical assistance program in



- 39 _
support of restructuring. An assurance to this effect was obtained during
negotiations. Given the importance of CMB restructuring in the Government's
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program, which underpins the proposed credit,
the execution by the Government of a subsidiary grant agreement with CMB,
satisfactory to IDA. would be a condition of credit effectiveness. Execution
of a subsidiary 8rant agreement with MISR, satisfactory to IDA, would be a
condition of disbursement under the LPRP part of the investment component.
C. Disbursement
109.     The quick-disbursing part of the IDA credit (US$85 M) would be
disbursed in two tranches. The first tranche of US$50 M would be released
upon credit effectiveness (expected in February 1991) and the second on
fulfillment of agreed conditions (expected in October 1991). Total
disbursements related to the importation of petroleum and petroleum products
would be subject to a ceiling of 20 percent (US$17 M). IDA funds for the
investment component (US$15.0 M) would be disbursed over four years. A
schedule of projected disbursements and a proposed allocation of the IDA
credit by disbursement categories are presented in Annex 7.
110.     Special Accounts.  To facilitate disbursement, the Government would
establish three special accounts: one for the quick-disbursing component
(Special Account A), one for the HARE part of the investment component
(Special Account B), and one for the remaining parts of the investment
component (Special Account C). All special accounts would be opened by the
Government in a commercial bank through the Bank of Uganda in US dollars on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. At credit effectiveness, IDA would
make an initial deposit of US$15.0 M into Special Account A. Upon fulfillment
of the conditions of disbursement for the investment component, the Borrower
would ask IDA for an initial deposit of US$450,000 into Special Account B and
US$650,000 into Special Account C. The special accounts and statements of
expenditure would be audited periodically by an independent auditor.
lll.     Special Account A would be replenished monthly up to the limit of
the amount of each of the two tranches on the basis of procedures similar to
those agreed under ERC II - namely, fully documented reimbursement
applications for contracts exceeding US$100,000, and statement of expenditure
for items below US$100,000. The Bank of Uganda would retain all relevant
supporting documentation (invoices, customs declaration, and evidence of
payment) for review by supervision missions.
112.     Special Accounts B and C would be replenished at least quarterly
upon receipt of satisfactory evidence that all expenditures were eligible for
financing, together with a bank statement reconciled with invoices or
statements of expenditure submitted. Disbursements would be made against full
documentation except for payments under US$20,000 equivalent, which would be
made against statements of expenditure with all supporting documentation
(invoices, customs declaration, and evidence of payment) being retained for
review by IDA supervision missions and the project auditors. Assurances that
the Borrower would operate the two special accounts according to these
procedures were obtained during negotiations.



- 40 -
113.     Proiect Accounts.  To ensure counterpart funds and facilitate
disbursement in local currency, the Government would establish in the Bank of
Uganda two Project Accounts in Uganda Shillings, one for the HARE program and
one for the remaining parts of the investment component. The Government would
make initial deposits on those accounts totalling USh28 M and USh3t H
respectively, equivalent to the projected average of quarterly local
expenditures under the investment component to be met by the Government during
the first three project years. An assurance to this effect was given during
negotiations. The establishment by the Government of the two Project Accounts
with an initial deposit totalling USh 65 M would be a condition of
disbursement under the investment component.
D. Procurement
114.     Adiustment Component.  The quick-disbursing part of the credit would
finance 100 percent of the CIF costs of eligible goods according to a positive
list (Annex 5). Contracts for goods to be imported by the Government or the
private sector, each estimated to cost the equivalent of US$2M or more, would
be awarded following a simplified International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedure using a standard bidding document to be cleared with IDA. Imports
of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less than US$2H would be awarded:
(a) in the case of imports by the Government, on the basis of the standard
procurement procedures of the purchasing institutions satisfactory to IDA,
involving three price quotations; (b) for private importers, in accordance
with standard commercial practice provided that, whenever possible quotations
from eligible suppliers from at least two countries would be sought. Single
source purchase would be used only for proprietary equipment or where
compatibility with existing equipment would call for standardized equipment
and spare parts. IDA would carry out an ex-post review of all contracts
awarded according to the simplified ICB. Procedures and contracts under the
simplified ICB threshold would be reviewed by IDA supervision missions on a
sample basis.
115.     Trade verification procedures are in force in Uganda. The Government
has appointed Societe Generale de Surveillance S.A. to certify the quality and
quantity of goods and the price of shipments. Except for ICB, all other
procurement under this credit would be subject to price verification.
116.     Investment Component.  Procurement procedures for the investment
component are summarized in Table 4 below.



- 41 -
Table 4 a Procureat Methods
for the Protect investment CouDoent
(US$ M4)
Proirest lethod
CateO../Itm                     ice      LCB  Other b/   N.A. c.      TOTAL
---f                      ------  -                 -----
Civl works                               0.n0                          0.39
(0.60)                        (.80)
Eql_pmet and SIles             1.07      0.47      0.64                2.06
(1.0?)    (.47)     (.54)              (2.03)
Vehicles                       0.60                0.15                1.14
(.69)               (.15)              (1.12)
C.e.wlte..y Serc                                   6.30                6.30
(6.80)             (0.30)
Trs aig                                            2.90                2.90
(2.53)             (t2.53)
permaesl end Opertlag Cost                                   3.22      3.22
(2.10>)    (2.16)
MAL                 2.06      1.80      9.n        .22     10.61
(2.1)     (1.3)     (0.4)     (2.2)    (15.0)
of Figus In peab_ees are .stlssted to be floaeefd wder the priped IDA edilt
b/ Includes procuremss% of censetent sevvic  following IDA guld.lin.s  locl
procdure Involving supoiers qu_11 tles VW direst Orde. Ales, Includes P prtocurasat
of vehicles am 8 0.16.), siequi_ment (U15 0.26) NW ceseltent services (65U 0.696).
ci None-prcrsmst ceteqy.
117.     About 11 conttracts for civil works individually small in value and
spaced in tim (rehabilitation and minot now construction) totaling US$0.9 M,
would be awarded through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA. Procurement of vehicles, equipment, and
supplies totaling US$2.1 M vould be grouped 4herever possible Into bid
packages of at least US$100,000 for procurement through SCB. Contracts for
supplies and equipment estimted to cost less than US$100,000 but more than
US$25,000, aggregating to US$0.5 1 would be awarded on the basis of LC8
procedures acceptable to IDA. Contracts of US$25,000 or less, aggregating to
US$0.5 M, would be procured through direct competitive shopping based on at
least three price quotations. Consultants (US$6.3 M) would be recruited in
accordance with IDA guidelines for the bmploymsnt and Use of Consultants
(Annex 6, Attachment 4). Overseas and local training (US$3.0 M) would be by
direct placement in consultation with IDA based on agreed training programs.
Other procurement expenditures such as staff allowances and recurrent
operating costs vould follow local government procedures.



- 42 -
118.     Under the investment component all bidding packages for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, bidding packages for
goods equivalent to US$50,000 or more, all contracts for appointment of
consultants, and overseas training placements would be subject to prior IDA
review of procurement documentation. This would result in a coverage of about
90 percent of total contracts under the investment component (Annex 6.
Attachment 2). The balance of contracts would be subject to postreview by InA
during supervision missions.
E. Implementation and Monitoring
Management of the Agricultural Sector Adijustment Credit (Annex 10)
119.     The Minister of Finance on the Government's behalf has appointed the
Agricultural Policy Committee (APC) to manage the implementation of the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (Annex 4). The Committee which reports
to the Presidential Economic Council, has served as the Government's
agricultural policy advisory body since 1982. Its membership includes the
Permanent Secretary from MPED (chair), the Ministry of Finance, the Permanent
Secretaries from the four agricultural ministries, the Ministry of Industry
and Technology, the Ministry of Commerce, the Governor of the Bank of Uganda,
the Chairman/Managing Director of the Uganda Commercial Bank and the General
Secretary, Uganda Corporation Alliance. The Committee would meet every three
months to review implementation of the adjustment program under ASAC. The APC
would appoint an ASAP Coordinator and an ASAP Financial Advisor with
responsibility for ensuring that the Program proceeds as per the Letter of
Agricultural Policy (Annex 4) and ASAC implementation schedule (Annex 8).
120.     A Project Coordination Unit (PCU), consisting of a Project
Coordinator and a Financial Controller, would be established within the
Agricultural Secretariat, which already serves as the Agricultural Policy
Coumittee's secretariat. It would be responsible for overall implementation
of the ASAC investment component, including planning, procurement and
financial control, and coordination of activities carried out by Project
Implementation Units (PIUs) that handle various programs under the investment
component (details in Annex 6). The establishment of the PCU and the
appointment of a Project Coordinator and a Financial Controller would be a
condition of disbursement for the investment component.
121.     Two interministerial committees would act as review committees for
project activities under ASAC's investment component. A Subcommittee on
Agricultural Research and Extension would be established by APC to approve
work plans and budgets under the Head-Start Program for Agricultural Research
and Extension, oversee the work of the HARE/PIU, and monitor and evaluate the
progress and effects of individual subprojects. Under ASAC's support for land
policy research, the existing Land Reform Committee, serving as a coordination
committee, would approve proposals, prepared by the Makerere Institute of
Social Research and the Agricultural Secretariat, for annual land policy
research programs and associated work programs. Terms of reference for the
Agricultural Policy Committee and its Program Coordinator and Financial



- 43 -
Advisor, the Project Coordination and Implementation Units and their
respective key staff, and the two coordination committees specific to HARE and
LPRP were agreed at negotiations (Annex 6, Attachment 6). The establishment
of an APC Subcommittee on Agricultural Research and Extension and the
HAREIPIU, including the appointment of a qualified PIU Head and Senior
Agricultural Services Advisor on terms satisfactory to IDA, would be
conditions for disbursement for HARE.
122.     Administration of funds.  The allocation of foreign exchange for
importation of agricultural inputs would be managed by BOU under its Special
Imports Program. Procedures under ERC II would be followed except that
eligibility would be determined on the basis of a 'positive' list (Annex 5).
The local funds generated by the foreign exchange sales of ASAC would be
placed in a separate Government of Uganda account in the Bank of Uganda. The
Government proposes to use part of these funds to inject equity capital in the
restructured Coffee Marketing Board. Under the investment component, the PCU
would be responsible for administration of project funds, including
authorization of all withdrawals from the Special Account C. The HARE,
because of the size and range of its activities and location away from
Kampala, would have its own financial administration (including its own
Special Account and Project Account) to ensure that funds are passed on to
agencies responsible for individual subprojects in accordance with agreed
budgets and work programs.
Monitoring and Reporting
123.     Because of the scope and complexity of the Program and Government's
limited administrative capacity, close monitoring would be required. The APC
would monitor the implementation of the Program and the effectiveness of
policy actions taken thereunder. It would submit semiannual progress reports
to IDA, one month after the end of each six-month period. The reports would
monitor the implementation and impact of measures to reform coffee crop
finance arrangements and decontrol coffee marketing, including restructuring
of marketing agencies. They also would monitor marketing liberalization and
parastatal reform in the noncoffee sector, reorganization of agricultural
research and extension institutions, and rationalization of the public
expenditure program (Part III). The purpose is to assess whether the
Government's policy actions are effective in meeting its stabilization and
growth objectives, and to identify obstacles in a timely manner.
Implementation of the investment component would also be monitored by the
Agricultural Policy Committee. The Project Coordination Unit would prepare
for APC review, and later submission to IDA, quarterly progress reports based
on reports by the project implementing agencies.
124.     Assurances were given at negotiations that the Government would
prepare for IDA semiannual progress reports on the Program and quarterly
progress reports on the implementation of the investment component, in formats
and on a time schedule acceptable to IDA. The first reports would be due by
August 1, 1991, covering the period up to June 30, 1991.
125.     IDA missions to review project implementation would be scheduled to
coincide with the review of key steps in the implementation of the Program



_ 44 -
(Project Implementation Schedule In Annex 8). Because of the strong links to
the macroeconomic program, staff from the Country Operations Division and the
Resident Mission in Kampala would participate in these relatively frequent
missions. An ASAC Supervision Plan is shown in Annex 9.
Mid-Term Review
126.     At the beginning of the third project year, a Mid-Term Review would
be carried out of the investment component. The review would be carried out
jointly by the Government and IDA with the Project Coordination Unit
responsible for preparatory arrangements and coordination. The main purpose
of the review will be to assess progress accomplished toward institutional
objectives for sectoral management, and on the basis of such an assessment
establish work program priorities with an associated plan for utilization of
project resources for the remainder of the project period.
Accounts and Audits
127.     For quick-disbursing funds supporting the adjustment component, BOU
would maintain separate accounts, including those for Statements of
Expenditures and the Special Account A. Under the investment component, the
Financial Controller of PCU would be responsible for maintaining project
accounts. Also, CMB, following sound accounting practices, would maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect its operations and financial
condition. These annual accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. The audited accounts and the audit report would be
submitted to IDA not later than six months after the close of each fiscal
year. Assurances on these arrangements were given during negotiations.
F. Environmental Impact
128.     The HARE would contribute to conserving the agricultural resource
base bys (a) demonstrating appropriate crop rotation practices and soil and
water conservation techniques; (b) introducing high-yielding varieties of
crops with pest and disease resistance, thereby minimizing heavy dependence on
chemical pesticides; (c) promoting the use of crop and animal residues for the
production of organic compost; (d) introducing postharvest handling and
storage techniques to minimize losses of food grains and horticultural crops;
(e) developing the necessary techniques for the utilization of plantation
forests to lessen the pressure on dwindling natural forest stands; and
(f) establishing fisheries management practices (for example, fish capture
methods, types of fishing gear, and fishing frequency) to conserve the
fisheries resources on inland lakes.
129.     The Land Policy Research Program supported under ASAC would
constitute a necessary first step to create a policy environment that would
promote rational land use and management. It would focus on the urgent need
to protect forest and wildlife reserves, and on incentives for accessing land
in the vicinity of forest and game reserves, thereby limiting pressures on
these reserves and encouraging cooperation with protection efforts. The



- 45 -
research program would support the development of policies of accessing
couimual grazing lands of northern Uganda which promote sustainable land use.
130.     The project would finance agricultural inputs including pesticides
and fertilizers. An assurance was given by the Government during negotiations
that the procurement of pesticides and other agricultural and agro-industrial
chemicals will be restricted to material considered appropriate under Bank
Guidelines. Fertilizer usage is not expected to pose significant
environmental problem in Uganda since the level of application is relatively
low because of the natural fertility of the soil.
PART V - IMACT AM) RISK
impact of Adiustment Component
131.     Government actions under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program,
monitored under the proposed project, are expected to have a favorable effect
on the stabilization and growth objectives of UP. With respect to
stabilization, the coffee crop finance reforms will increase the efficiency in
the allocation and use of credit for coffee crop procurement. This will help
reduce overall credit rcquirements and the inflationary pressures on the
economy. The transfer of lending for crop finance from the central bank to
the commercial banking system is essential for rationalizing the financial
sector and strengthening financial intermediation. The revised institutional
arrangements for crop financing are predicated on improving the financial
management and control system of the Coffee Marketing Board. Through
increased accountability and operational efficiency, such improvements will
lead to more efficient use of public resources and a reduced fiscal deficit.
Actions under the Program to rationalize operations of other marketing boards
are expected to reinforce this effect.
132.     The adjustment component would support the achievement of the annual
sectoral growth target of 5 percent. Project-induced growth is expected as a
result of: (a) an increased supply of agricultural inputs; (b) more
competitive and efficient systems for processing and marketing export crops
through privatization or reorganization of parastatals, and strengthening of
cooperative union processors; (c) better incentives for capturing higher
export values through a revised export tax system and price-grading structure
for coffee; (d) more efficient sectoral investment; and (e) the creation of an
organizational framework for management of an agricultural research program
that would address constraints on diversification of agricultural production.
133.     Incremental gains in production are expected in export and food
crops. Production gains should be more substantial for tea and cotton for
which land requires rehabilitation or intensive preparation. Broadening of
private sector exports, parastatal reforms, and improved trade incentives in
the coffee subsector will establish a competitive environment for procurement
and export of coffee. Such an environment, coupled with a gradual restoration
of real producer prices, is expected to improve the quality and export prices
of coffee, boost production volume, and help prevent a decline in the



- 46 -
productivity of the coffee resources. A process is in place to safeguard
farmers' incentives for traditional export crops by adjusting producer prices
according to an agreed-upon methodology. This, together with an emerging
competitive input distribution system, should suppozt effective demand for
agricultural inputs.
134.     Social impact.  ASAC-supported measures are not expected to
adversely affect any specific population group. A competitive marketing
system and enhanced incentives for export crops favor the rural population in
income distribution. The restructuring of marketing parastatals could
displace staff. The need for compensatory measures would be addressed under
the Government's initiatives to support income-generating activities for
displaced civil servants. These initiatives are being developed under the
Government's Program for the Alleviation of Poverty and the Social Cost of
Adjustment.
Impact of Investment Component
135.     Activities under the investment component address the objectives of
growth and diversification, or they support the effective implementation of
the adjustment component. Strengthened agricultural sector planning is
expected to promote growth by making the use of public resources in
agricultural development more efficient. Land policy research will help
implement land reforms and establish institutions that promote tenurial
security and efficient land markets. The goal is more productive land.
136.     The Head-Start Program for Agricultural Research and Extension will
demonstrate at the pilot level the relatively quick production response that
can be derived from improved production technologies. The subproject on
technology dissemination through better extension will demonstrate in four
districts the immediate beneficial effect of improved technologies on
agricultural production and diversification. Support for research and
production development for cotton, groundnuts, and simsim is expected to yield
or test improved seed varieties and to demonstrate associated production
effects for smallholders in selective areas. A subproject on smallholder
dairy productivity is expected to demonstrate production gains from improved
management practices. In the forestry subsector, demonstration of proper
techniques for production, harvesting, and utilization of timber will promote
efficient use of forest plantations and increase the productivity of the agro-
forestry systems. Experience from implementation of HARE will provide
essential guidance for the organization and implementation of effective
extension services on a national scale.
Risks
137.     The achievement of these benefits entails some risks.  They relate
to slippage in implementation of the macroeconomic reform program, and the
Government's implementation capacity.
138.     The sustainability of Program reforms and the attainment of their
objectives depend on the Government's adherence to its macroeconomic and
cross-sectoral policy framework (para. 11-17). For example, failure by the



- 47 -
Government to pursue a realistic exchange rate policy would, other things
being equal, increase the already excessive tax imposed on the coffee farmer.
The same consequence, albeit with less severity, would follow from delays in
implementing tax reforms to reduce the dependence on the coffee tax for
government revenue. Such developments would likely suppress or reduce
production and exports of the commodity on which the Government in the short
to medium term so heavily depends for its foreign exchange. While crop
finance reforms should reduce demand for institutional crop finance credit,
their sustainability depends on the liquidity of the commercial banks. Such
liquidity could be jeopardized if the Government were to pursue monetary and
credit policies that do not promote private savings and efficiency in the use
of financial resources.
139.     Among ERP's many cross-sectoral policies, civil service reform
(para. 24) is the key intervention required to sustain agricultural support
services, such as agricultural research and extension. These services need to
be provided by the public sector, but can only be extended effectively if the
civil servants are paid a living wage and adequately supported by operational
funds. Both of these conditions depend on civil service reform. Postponement
of reform implementation would threaten to negate the benefits from the new
organizational structure for agricultural research proposed under the Program,
render the activities to be initiated under HARE less sustainable, and
generally delay progress toward the objective to diversify agriculture
production and exports.
140.     The Government's commitment to an appropriate macroeconomic policy
framework has been demonstrated in its recent Policy Framework Paper. The
delivery on such a commitment on occasion has been slow, but it has
nevertheless progressed in a deliberate fashion. The second-tranche release
of the proposed credit would therefore be subject to the Government's
continued adherence to the macroeconomic framework as set out in the PFP for
the period 1990191 to 1992193. 'While the above risks remain real, they need
to be taken at this stage. Postponing support for agricultural sectoral
adjustment until further progress is made on the macroeconomic program is not
an alternative, given that overall progress towards stabilization and growth
depends on agricultural sector refori.
141.     Weak imnlementation is a concern in all Bank operations in Uganda.
Actions expected to emerge from the PER review, together with civil service
reform initiatives, should strengthen ministerial implementation capabilities.
In addition, the proposed credit has a technical assistance component that
should improve sectoral management and implementation capability in key
ministries and parastatals.
PART VI - SIM'ARY OP AGREEMENTS AND CREDIT CONDITIONS
142.     The following agreements and assurances were abtained during
negotiations:
(a)   The Government will open and operate three special accounts,
according to procedures satisfactory to IDA (para. 110-112).



- 48 -
(b) Terms of reference for the Agricultural Policy Committee Including
its Program Coordination and Financial advisor, the Project
Coordination Unit, the Project Implementation Units, and the two
coordination committees of the Head-Start Program for Agricultural
Research and Extension and the Land Policy Research Program were
agreed (para. 121).
(c)   Procedures for progress reporting, satisfactory to IDA, will be
followed (para. 124).
(d) Accounting and auditing procedures, satisfactory to IDA, will be
followed (para. 127).
(e) Procurement of pesticides and other agricultural or agro-industrial
chemicals will be restricted to material satisfactory to IDA (para.
130).
143.     As a condition of effectiveness, the Government will execute a
Subsidiar7 Grant Agreement with CMB (para. 108).
144.     As a condition for the release of the second tranche of the quick-
disbursing component of the credit, the Government will implement the measures
described in the policy action matrix attached to the Government's Letter of
Agricultural Policy and summarized in Table 1 (pages 35-36).
145.     Conditions of disbursement under the investment component would
include the followings
(a)   a deposit by the Government of a total of USh65 N into the two
Project Accounts as a contribution to project costs (para. 113).
(b)   The establishment of Project Coordination Unit, including the
appointment of a Project Coordinator and a Financial Controller
(para. 120).
146.     Additional conditions of disbursement for Individual parts of the
investment component ares
(a)   in the case of the Head-Start Program for Agricultural Research and
Extension, the establishment of an APC Subcommittee on Agricultural
Research and Extension and the appointment of a qualified VIV Head
and Senior Agricultural Services Advisor with qualifications and on
terms satisfactory to IDA (para. 121);
(b)   in the case of the Land Policy Research ProRram, execution by the
Government of a subsidiary grant agreement with the Makerere
Institute for Social Research (para. 108).



- 49 v
PA2 VTII -            ionOSD&?IOE
147.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.  I recomiend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed IDA Credit.
Attachments
Washington, D.C.                       Barber B. Conable
November 27, 1990                          President



- 50-                                          .%NX    t
Table I
UM: KEY MDUCECM SIC INOICATUlS. 1984/8519V93
0st      .   "..   Projec i    "
Ito                                1i8s   19Wl8  196/    197W88  198   1 90  1990/91  1991/92  19Vi3
Grsh Rates
SOP (FWtor Cat)                       -9.3       1.2      3.3     6.6      6.9      6.3      5.0      5.0      5.0
Gross Oowstic 1ii    (00Y)             -4.7    -2.8    -0.4       6.0      5.6      3.7      5.3      4.6      4.5
MYV pe cPlta                           -7.3    -5.3    -3.1       3.2      2.7      0.9      2.4      1.7      1.?
Private CtAstlonr cmita                -6.8    -7.5       3.2     4.5      4.6    -0.2       0.1      0.2      0.1
Debt Service 1/
0Dt Service (1BS mill ion)            186.2   201.5   217.4   207.0   238.2   113.7    183.9   172.0   143.1
ohw Interest (USS OIllItI)          53.0    44.0    47.0    57.0    08.0    64.0    61.0    60.0    56.0
Debt SrvicelXo 2                       42.0    41.2    42.9    46.6    54.2    61.9    56.0    45.0    31.7
Oebt Service*P                         5.8      5.7      3.7     3.5      4.5      4.3      4.7      4.2      3.2
Ratios to GP
Gross lIwestuet                         7.1      9.1      8.6    11.1     10.7     12.2    14.7    15.3    15.8
Oatlc Savinge                           4.8      7.5      5.3     5.0      2.2      1.6      3.2      3.5      4.6
Natioru Sevinge                         4.3      9.0     8.2      6.1      3.2      2.4      4.4      4.9      6.1
Ptilc lenestst                          2.8      4.8      3.9     6.1      4.5      5.2      6.1      6.1      6.1
PthlIc Savingp                          0.3    -1.7    -0.9    -0.5    -1.3    -1.4    -0.7    -0.8    -0.5
Private itwestamt                       4.3      4.2      4.7     5.0      6.1      7.O      8.7      9.1      9.5
Private Savings                         4.0     10.8      7.1     6.6      4.5      3.8      5.0      5.7      8.6
Gonrint Rwts                            9.9      7.4      5.0      6.5     5.0      5.9      7.4      8.3      9.2
SOWnt Ewwiltures                       14.7    12.2       9.4     12.8     9.8      11.8    13.9    14.7    15.4
(oenil Deficit                         -4.7    -4.9    -4.4    -8.1    -4.3    -5.7    -8.5    -6.4    -6.2
Marginal Rates
Private Saving.P                       1.37     1.68    -0.34    -0.08    40.32    -0.16    0.34     0.12     0.1.
Natirul Savinp P                     -0.10     1.08    -0.31    -0.03    -0.47-   -0.28    0.83     0.11     0.25
Misallnsoi
CPI (14/85  100)                      100.0   223.0   815.2   2347.9  5618.8   8956.4  10568.5  11836.8  13020.4
Real Exhag Rate (198U85 * 100)        100.0    97.6    173.5    131.9   112.1      94.7    94.7    94.7    94.7
Export Gr0h Rate                       -1.3    -5.S      10.8    -5.0     24.4    13.9    -3.7       15.3    17.5
E brtsP 3/                             12.7    10.9      6.8      5.5      6.1      4.8      5.7      8.5      7.3
I t Grth Rate                           6.4   -21.5    22.7       6.0    12.1   -41.7    -9.2         6.1      4.2
lart8sP 31                            1S.0      12.5    10.1    11.7    14.6    15.4    17.2    18.3    18.3
Curent Acmt. (uSrS liII Ion)          49.5       0.5  -140.8  -295.0   -8.8   449.0    405.0   42.0  -423.0
Curent Acmt/  3 4/                     -2.8    -0.0    -2.4   - -5.0    -7.4    -9.8   -10.4   -10.4    -9.5
ross esevs (10t:s of 1"rts)             1.9      2.0      0.7      0.8     0.6      0.4      t8       0.8      0.9
1/ o0a cmmitwint basis.
2V Exrts of gam  ad servieso Includin private transfers.
V Cakiulat  using te off lial  0idiinp rate. Flutatian  In the series are largply the result of esfnge rate adjwtments.
4/ In the text, te ratio of the arrat aomivt dotlIit to GO has ben cailuated wiui  the parallel market exhe rate
to rooe the ilect of   ewi rate adJustmt.



- 51 -
ANN EX i
Tablc 2
MM: Extsfl  Firllmrf:  Pblrou.ts ard Sm
(MlII llo   of U8I; 1964M-19m9)
prallb    Est          ProJection 
198/   1985/8  198       1987/8  198/89 1989/90  1990/9  1991/92  199V93
Exteri Finu1int  PeQlrimts
"Trret tcAnt, :iudlIr graft                90       0      141     295      389     448      405      428     423
Amwrtiatlon                               77       76       90      85       88      88       89       79      a9
Ow        InnArrers                        59     -19       45     -47      -28      19        0       20      20
Chwp  InRerwss                            -32       1      -3        4       -5     -11       12       12      12
OtIu RRuee r     ps                         1       3        8      -7       -6     -12        0       10       9
iw Rupurcues                              58       84      81       el       80      47       35      19       16
Othev lti,nt                               63      89       91      22      -11      -1        0        0       0
Total Finucilr RsPjIremnts           318     234      423      413     507      579     541      588      549
Oltirsemmts: ExistingC  ltUints           283     234      331     373      449      538     328      141      128
Grats                                     684      31       40      92      185      190     151       65      49
Love                                      183     178      2s      210      168     288      176       78      79
Bllateral Credltors                     29      35       43      97       51      104      28       16       14
wiltilateral Creditors                 155     142      183      113     138      182     148       60      65
o Wlorld 8u*                          75      77       87      93       93      144     112       31      28
o/w Adjustmnt Lnding              42      33       28       32      44       a        52       0        0
lif Purdms                                 0        0      32       34       0        0        0       0        0
SDfitSAF                                   0        0       28       0       94      43        0        0       0
lrt-Teri, nit                              15      25        7      37        2       17       0        0       0
Olursxwumt: xpected Now Coit3ents          0       0        0       0        0       0      138      320     343
rants                                       0       0        0       0        0       0       48      148     181
LOOs                                       0        0        0       0        0       0        0       88     144
Bllateral Creditors                      0       0        0       0        0        0       0        6      15
tltilateail Creditar                     0       0        0       0        0        0       0       82      130
o/u orId Buk                          0       0        0       0        0        0       0       71      108
o/w  jd)utut Lmnadr                0        0       0        0       0        0       0       45       ao
IMF truIfehl                               0        0       0        0       0        0        0       0        0
SAFESf                                     0        0        0       0        0       0       71       B8       0
siart-Ter, nst                              0       0        0       0        0        0      19       18      17
Total Idmtif led Flnuiolq                238      234      331     373      449      538     464      461     471
FlnuclrqSin p                             53        0       92      40      5a       43       77      105      78
0Dbt R.uts8llrg     ulllatIcn              53       0       92      40       58       43      30       30      80
Ruol8al FircirGo6p 1/                      0        0        0       0        0       0       47       75      48
Ircmr   In Relsdal Flnhir r 9qmp dJ to
lowt of oll prese Inorm                                                                       40
1/ ECeuBIow of AM ftx*.



- 52 -                                                  ANNEX  I
Tab le 3
UWtM : BMME   OF PA1W93S, 19084-1992/93
(M11111a of U.S Dollars)
prel In    Et          Projwctlna
low     1sm   l9W   1 W8f 197/88 SIsm9  1910   1990/1  1991/92 199/
Evports (gmnft)                 403    4a8       u        40B     324      321     m        223     288      328
lrrdwdise (fb)                 379     3       379      384     2        268     185      184     227      295
ohW ODffee                   342     353      390     35       286     282      187     153      177     213
Nu-FaetorSsrvioo                24      25       10      22      26       33      37       39      41       43
laort (g.4fs)                   450      484     448     000    682       762      708     873      749     819
Mmrdihrdse (cif)                G      404      380     514     545      648     68       578     847      7Q8
Project blatd                128     158      105     154      176     287     238      23      252      271
*D-project bslated           281     239      273      3      332      345     290      332     388      429
Deflle                         9       7        2              37       Go      90        9       9        8
No-Faotor Ssrvlou               82      OD      as      s8      137      114      88       95     1C2      111
Roor  salanae                   -47      -78     -57    -194    -31 5     -41    -         40    -41    -491
Not Fator Irmam                -47      -53     -4       -47     -5        8       64     -61      -60      -56
o/ Net lnterst                 -47     -5      -44      -47     -57      -8      -4       -61     -0       -5
jrrent Prlvat Truufers           28       40      101     100     120      118      99      108     115      124
C/A Baeleae (EXIl grants)      -48       -0        0    -141    -295    -389    -449    -405    -426    -423
C/A Baanle (Inl  rants)           3      -25      32    -101    -268    -224    -259    -208    -213    -193
Officlal Trntfers                 71      64      31       40      92      165     19D      197     213      230
CA  lqoirt 9ort                 0       0       0        0      33       49      e8       68      74       80
NoST LcOOM                     -4        10  1012         136     125      162     198       87      85      155
Dlustem.fnts                    0     183      178     22       210    18      268      176      164     224
Project LoaB                  0     134      141     193      168     121      114     107      112     120
lort S=ort Lomns             0       50      38       32      42       68     172       69      52      104
hpaPyets                       88      7?       78      90      85       as      88       89      79       69
Ksya" CoawetIan                   0       30      29       28      10       18       a       0        0       0
Short-Tero, nt                   e4      -15       1      -31      37      -17      11       19      18       17
Oantorpartto IMF vatlon           12      12     -49      -2D     -10        7      -3        2       0       0
Errors & Golsslau                81      -6      -a       -91     -22       11       1        0       0       0
Overall Balanae                  74       45      25      -79     -63    -108      -46      -99    -110      -21
Flnhwcltn:                      -74      -45     -25       79      63      108      48       99     110       21
Ibtay Auhorltles                -52      -39     -38       22     -14       18      22       22      25      -37
Grosw PRuswn COi,eI            -81      32      -1       33      -4        5      11      -12     -12      -12
IW, not                        39      -70     -35      -3      -17       ?       -1      34       47     -16
SFIESAF m Pd     6Ird       S9       0        0      57       34      94       42      71       66       0
Othur, nt                     -10       -1      -8       -8       7        a      12        0     -10       -9
co.eolal 8tos. net                0        0      -5       10     -10        6       0        0       0       0
Exfermal ArrJea                 -68      -S9      19      -45      47       28     -19        0     -20      -20
E,oaptinal flnnclng              41       53       0       92      40       58      48       77     105       78
RudediU It*                     41       0       0       92      40       53      41       30      30       30
Oebt Caoellatlon                0       53       0        0       0        5       2        0       0        0
Rhsdal FirfIgiuo6p U0                    0      -0        0       0        0       0       47      75       48
Inee In Rhsidmal fI      Ir GNP
uan to lpoct of oll price Increase                                                           40
Mm Ito:
ross ReerWs (EP)                          683      4       31      35       30      19       31      43       55
In matel of loarts                     1.9     2.0      0.7     0.8     0.6      0.4     0.6      0.8     0.9
SOIURE: BSn* of UIga, Wt. ud staff estlates.
1/ E,IUBIw of ASSMo.



- 53 -
STATUS OF SAW CR01 OPERATIONS IN U DA                       ANNEX 2
___--__-----------  - -                       t~~P.0  1 of 2
A. STATEMNT OF SAW LOANS AN  IDA OEDITS
(as of Septomer *0, 1900)
111Iton----_-
Aseent(Leee Cancellatlons)
Leon or       FPlet                                                                  Undie-
credit NO.    year    borrower   Purpose                             Book      IDA   bureed
One (1) loan and sightse  (16) fully dlabred,                        0.40   N9.15
Of which SECAL*, SALe end Prorm Leons/Credits .1
Cr. 0340 b/   10M      Uganda      Economic Recovry Credit/SAF               24.00     0.08
Cr. 1841-1   1to       Uganda      Econeme Recovery Credit           0.00     1.70
Cr. 12C2-0   1992    Ugenda        Reconstruction Credit II          0.00    70.00
Cr. 1474-0   1964    Ugand         Reconstruction III                0.00    60.00
Cr.124        1982    Uganda       IDF I                                     a5.00     4.97
Cr.128      1t88      Uganda      Agricultural Rehabilitation               70.00     0.50
Cr.1484       1904     Uganda      Second Technical AssIstetc                15.00     1.89
Cr.1445       1904    Usand        Third Highway                             56.00    28.72
Cr.1689       1065    Ugnd         Agricultural Devolopmmnt                  10.00     7.11
Cr.1560       10J6     Uganda      Second Pow                                20.60    26.07
Cr.161        1005    Uganda       Petrolum Exploration
Promotion                                5.10     6.40
Cr.10to       1987    Uganda       Fourth Highay                             10.00     5.10
Cr. 124       1906     Uganda      Foroetry RehbtIlitatIon                   18.00     9.03
Cr.1844-0 b/ 1900      Uganda      Economic Recovery CredIt/SAF              S5.00     1.92
Cr.1969       100      Ugsada      South Wb t Ag. Rebab.                     10.00    10.05
Cr.1898       100      Ugand       Sugar RehabilitatIon                      24.90    22.#0
Cr.1094       1900     Ugand       Health Rec.                               42.60    86.80
Cr.1961       100      Usgnda      Tech. Aest. III                           10.00    16.86
Cr.1844-2 b/  1909     Ugand       Econ. Recovery Credit                     25.00     2.14
Cr.1962       1000    Uganda       Public EnterprIse                         15.00    11.7?
Cr.1965       100    Ugand         Education IV                              22.00    10.90
Cr.1996       1909     Uganda      Railways I                                 7.00     6.54
Cr.1991 c/   1986      Uganda      Telecom II                                52.80    42.09
Cr.041 b/   1990      Uganda      Economic Recovery Credit                  12.00     1.06
Ce.1644-3 b/ 100    Uanda         Economic Recovery Credit                   1.50     0.20
Cr.2067 b/   1900    Uganda        Ecomic Recovery Credit                   125.00    61.S0
Cr.20SI       100    Uganda        Poverty a See. Costa                      20.00    27.60
Cr.2124       1990    Ugnda        Water Supply II                           00.00    62.75
Cr.2176 c/   1991    Ugand         Livestock                                 21.00    22.40
Total                                         0.40  1152.05   427.47
of whtIh repaId                             6.40    24.73
Total held by Sank & IDA                      0.00  1127.27
TOTAL Undisbured                                              427.47
a/ Approved after FY0O
b/ SAL, SECAL or Program Loan/Credit
c/ Not yet effective
ugledl.-wkl
11.18.90



- 54-
ANNEX 2
PON 2 of 2
S. STATEMENT OF IPC INESTMENTS IN UWMA
(as of S_ptomber t0, 1990)
Amount to USE mll ion
Fiscal
Year       OblIger                           Type of 8ustnee             Loan   Equity   Total
1965       Mule* TextilIs, Ltd.              Toxtiles                    2.79    0.71       8.50
1972       Tourim Promotion* Servigw         Tourim                      1.11       -      1.11
1984       Toro and lityans Too Co., Ltd.   Food and Food
(TAUTECO)                        Processing                1.62       -      1.62
1964       Sugar Corporation of Uganda       Food and Food
Processing               6.00       -      6.00
196        Uganda Tea Corporation Ltd.       Food and Food
ProcteIng                 2.61      -      2.61
19865      Oevelopmnt Finance Compny         Devlopmet Finance             -      0.88     0.38
of Uganda                                                 --  --  -
Total gross com_ltmne                                       16.U3     1.09    17.42
Los: Repyinnte, cancellation,
exchane ad) ustmsnte,
terminations and sales                                 4.61     0.72    6.23
Total Ceomitments now held by IFC:                          11.82    0.87    12.19
Totsl undisluroed (including                                 0.00    0.00    0.00
participants" portion)
Source:  IFC Disureemete Section
ug2dl .wk1l
11.9.90



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
AGRZCUTURAL SECTOR ADJSTh     CREDIT
SUPPLEMETJARY DATA SHEET
I.   TIMETABLE OF K-EY EVENTS
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project        18 months (November
1988-May 1990)
(b)  Project prepared by                      GOM Agricultural Policy
Coaumittee, with
assistance from IDA
5C)  Identification mission                   November 1988
(d)  Appraisal Completed                      June 1990
(e)  Negotiations                             October 8, 1990
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness            February 1, 1991
II. SPECIAL IMPLEMENTATION ACTIONS
None
I_I. SPECIAL CONDITIONS
Conditions of Board Presentation
Coffee Crop Finance
(a) Implementation of the Coffee Subsector Budgeting and Monitoring
System for the coffee year 1989/90, and adoption of a Coffee
Subsector Budget for the coffee year beginning October 1, 1990,
including a work plan for its implementation by a Coffee
Subsector Monitoring Uhit, satisfactory to IDA (para 80).
(b) Execution of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Bank of
Uganda (BOU) and commercial banks to fund coffee crop finance
requirements for the crop season beginning October 1, 1990, and
issue by BOU of guidelines for refinancing of coffee crop
finance loans, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para
78).
lc) Settlement by Government of its dues to the Coffee Marketing
Board (CMB) (para 79).



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
(d) Termination by BOU of its crop finance facility with CMB,
thereby allowing commercial banks to assume financing of CMB
(para. 79).
(e) Injection of fresh capital into CMB by the Government, adequate
to cover CMB's base working capital requirements for the crop
season beginning October 1, 1990 (para 79).
CMB Restructurin8
(f) Separation of regulatory functions from CMB's trading functions
(para. 82)
(g) Satisfactory progress by CMB on implementation of its
organizational restructuring program in respect of financial,
inventory and marketing controls (para.82).
(h) Ensure that CMB is empowered to obtain crop finance from
conercial banks, retain trading profits, and receive equity
from the Government (para. 82).
Ci) Initiation by an international firm of auditors of audit
of CMB's balance sheet as of September 30, 1990, and completion
of an initial assessment of CMB's coffee stocks and net trading
assets (para 82).
Cooperative Union Restructuring and Supervision
(j) Completion of interim arrangements for the reorganization and
financing of coffee operations, including the adoption of viable
business plans for cooperative unions licensed to export coffee
(para 86).
Conditions of Effectiveness
Ca) Execution of a Subsidiary Grant Agreement between the Government
and the Coffee Marketing Board, satisfactory to IDA (para. 108).
Conditions of Second Tranche Release
(a) Crop Finance: In the context of the macro-economic framework as
set out in the Government's Policy Framework Paper (FY91-FY93)
continue to apply policy measures to ensure that positive real
interest rates on commercial bank loans, including loans for
coffee crop finance are maintained (para 78).



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
Cb) Crop Finance: Progress in implementation of the Coffee
Subsector Budgeting and Monitoring System for the crop season
beginning October 1, 1990 according to an agreed work plan, and
adoption by the Government of a Coffee Subsector Budget for the
crop season beginning October X, 1991, satisfactory to IDA
(para. 80).
(c) CMB Restructuring: Complete the financial and institutional
restructuring of CMB, satisfactory to IDA, consistent with the
findings of CMB's Balance Sheet Audit, including Cl) the
formalization as equity of the Government's initial contribution
to CMB's base working capital and the injection of additional
equity capital to meet CMB's incremental base working capital
requirements for the crop season beginning October 1, 1991, and
(2) strengthening of institutional arrangements for regulation
of the coffee industry, consistent with the Government's export
liberalization strategy (para. 83).
(d)  Coffee Marketing and Pricing:  License at least two private
sector parties other than cooperative unions for coffee export.
and take appropriate measures to facilitate a significant
increase in the private sector's share of coffee exports by (1)
ensuring adequate incentives for the private sector to enter
coffee exports through profit elements in export margins; and
(2) establishing a price-grading structure for coffee to
maximize quality and sales value. Adoption of an action plan for
implementation of a revised coffee export taxation system to
further strengthen trade incentives, while safeguarding fiscal
objectives (paras 87 and 90).
Ce) Agricultural Research: Establishl a semi-autonomous National
Agricultural Research Organization to plan and oversee the
implementation of a national agricultural research program,
satisfactory to IDA (para 94).
ANX.3



-58 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 18
- -. -    .... ----.-.._ ....               ou*t OF   UhINUN OF PhINAM,
P.O. BOX 6147.
~~p*   5ISZiJh     KAMPALA. UGAOA.
(l1/23/9q)
.Mr. Barber Conable
President
The World Bank
Doar Mr. Conable:
Re. Letter of Agri utural PoLic
X       As part of its Economic Recovery Program (ERP),
the Government of Uganda has been undertaking stabilization
and structural reforms of the economy. Since the Government
launched ERP in May 1987, the program has been supported by
an International Dovelopment Association (IDA) Economic
Recovery Credit of SOR 50.9 million and an African Facility
Credit of SDR 18i. million approved in September 1987, and a
Second Economic Recovery Credit (ERC 1I) of SOR 98.1
million, approved in January, 1990. The ERP has also been
supported by two Structural Adjustment Facility arrangements
and the current Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
(ESAF) arrangement from the International Monetary Fund
5 (IMP), and by assistance from other multilateral and
bilateral donors.
2.        Over the last three years we have achieved
considerable progress in implementing ERP. In Qecember, 1989
we wrote to you in connection with ERC II, indicating our
commitment to broaden and deopen the economic reform
program. With support from ENC IZ and under the ESAF
arranqements we are implementing macroeconomic and cross-
sectoral policies to promote ERP's stabilization and growth
objectives. These policies must be complemented by measures
addressing structural constraints in various sectors of the
economy, including that of agriculture.
3.        Agricultural sector growth is impeded by marketing
inefficiencies, inadequate producer incentives, poor
infrastructure, weak support and planning services, and
inadequate availability of foreign exchange for importation
of inputs. To address these constraints an agenda for
sectoral adjustment has been established under the
Government's Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program.
Initial'support for implementation of ASAP has been provided
under SDA's Zconomic Recovery Cr'dits. For further support,
particularly in the areas of coffee crop finance and
marketing reform, the Government of Uganda hereby requests
from IDA an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC).
Against a brief review of the macroeconomic situation and
framework, we wish to recapitulate our agricultural sector
objectives and strategy, focusing on actions which will be
monitored under ASAC, as set out in the attached policy
action matrix (Attachment).



59                          ANNEX 4
s&ancmJc EraMewcrk                                   Page 2 of 18
4.        The broad medium term objectives of ERP are to
promote economic growth, restore financial stability of the
economy, including bringing down the annual rate of
inflation, and strengthen the balance of payments enough to
sustain improvement in net international reserves.
Significant progress towards achieving these objectives has,
been achieved. Production has rebounded as peace returned
to most of the country and the rehabilitation of
infrastructure got under way. Thus, the economy grew at
annual rates of over 6 percent in FY88 and FY89, with the
qrowth rate for FY90 estimated at 5.6 percent.
5.        While considerable progress has been made in
brinaing down the inflation rate, the key objective of
stabilization in yet to be fully accomplished. From an
annual rate of 240 percent in FY86, the end-year inflation
rate for FY89 was reduced to 86 percent, a considerable
improvement in spite of exceeding the target of 55 percent.
To further reduce inflationi to targeted levels, the
Government instituted a number of corrective actions,
including policies designed to control the demand for crop
finance credit. As a result the inflation target of 30
percent by end-June, 1990 has been achieved. In the
external sector, overall balance of payment pressures
intensified in FY89 and FY90. This reflects in particular
the impact of the continuing decline in international coffee
prices to well below programmed levels and the slowdown in
the disbursements of import support assistance. Most
recently the dramatic increase in oil prices as a result of
the Gulf crisis has almost doubled our monthly import bill
for petroleum products and exacerbated an already extremely
tight foreign exchange cash flow situation, including a very
low level of foreign exchange reserves.
6.        On December 12, 1989 we wrote to you in connection
with ERC II describing in detail the macro-economic policy
agreements reached with IDA and the Fund and the targets to
be accomplished under ERP as specified in the Policy
Framework Paper (1989/90-1991/92).. In June 1990 the
Government concluded discussions with IDA and the IMF on the
fourth Policy Framework Paper (PFP) which outlines the
intended policies for implementation during the period
1990/91 to 1992/93. The Government's macroeconomic
objectives for this period are to: (a) sustain an annual GDP
growth rate of 5 percent, (b) reduce the annual inflation to
below 10 percent by the end of the program period, and (c)
strengthen the balance of payments sufficiently to permit an
improvement in the net foreign assets of the Bank of Uganda,
while reducing external arrears by US$20 million a year and
maintaining an adequate level of imports.
Agricultural Sector Strategy
7.        Our economy is dominated by agriculture, and
remains dependant on growth in the agricultural sector,
Such growth has to meet the rising food requirements of a
growing population. Through exports it also has to generate
foreign exchange earnings to enable us to import



*-  - 60 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 18
agricultural inputs which we are not able to produce on our
own, modernize our economy, and improve the living standards
of our people.
8.        These broad goals translate into sectoral           %
development objectives. rirst, we need to increase
agricultural production by raising the productivity of
resources used in agriculture.  Sectoral growth has in
recent years largely resulted from land and labor coming
back into production as a result of improved security and
improvements in roads and transport systems. Whil this
process is continuing, we recognize that further expansion
in output, particularly of food crops, will have to come
mainly from increased yields. Greater production will
enable more efficient use of the crop processing capacity
which hae been rehabilitated over the last five to ten years
with the help of donors, including that of IDA under the
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project. Sgeond, we need to
diversify the production base and reduce the heavy
dependence on coffee for export earnings and tax revenue to
Government. The vulnerability of our economy to changing
world market conditions for coffee was amply demonstrated
during 1989. Initially, such diversification will involve
primarily recapturing lost markets for tea and cotton, and
the substitution of local production for imports, as in the
case of sugar. The subsequent and main thrust of
diversification will depend on the development of non-
traditional exports, including horticultural products.
Third, it will take time to overcome impediments to
diversification. Meanwhile, it is essential that our coffee
subsector performs strongly with respect to quantity and
quality-of coffee exported, and in a manner consistent with
the goals of our stabilization program.
9.        The above objectives are affected by technical,
economic, and institutional constraints in the form of
inadequate producer incentives, inofficient marketing
systems and institutions, an infrastructure in need of
further rehabilitation, weak agricultural support services
including most importantly research, extension, tnd credit
delivery systems, inefficient use of public resources in the
agricultural sector, and a weak capability for agricultural
sector planning. our sectoral development strategy is
therefore built around the following four main elements, all
of which have a direct bearing on the diversification
objective.
10.       irst, we are committed to establish an incentive
and regulatory environment that promotes efficient use of
capital, land and labor in the production, processing and
marketing of agricultural commodities. To this end, it is
Government policy objective that prices of agricultural
inputs and outputs are freely dotermined by market forces.
For traditional export crops the present system of
administered prices will be gradually phased out as the
marketing systems become more competitive. In the meantime,
producer prices for these crops will be set so as to provide



61 Al -ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 18
farmers with gutficient incentives to adopt improved
production technologies and to rehabilitate land.
11.       Also, the Government is reducing its controls and
direct involvement in the marketing of agricultural products
and inputs, with the view to creating more competitive
marketing systems, designed to lower marketing margins,
thereby raising prices to producers and income to the
nation. This requires reforming marketing parastatals in
line with trade liberalization objectives. These policies
are embedded in the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program,
and are also supported by macroeconomic initiatives designed
to control inflation, strengthen the value of our currency,
and facilitate access by the various economic sectors,
including that of agrlculture, to foreign exchange.
12.       The Government is committed to improve the
efficiency of land markets as a means to stimulate
investments in land improvements, promote intensification
rather than extension of agricultural production, and to
support diversification. The efficiency of land markets is
seriously constrained by the complexity of the land tenure
system operating in Uganda and the legal uncertainties
surrounding the 1975 Land Reform Decree abolishing freehold
land tenure system. This adversely affects the ability of
farmers to acquire land, has contributed to deforestation
and encroachment on reserves, and has resulted in abuses in
land management. The first step towards revising the
present legislation and rehabilitating the land
administration system is presently being implemented with
financial support from IDA. Detailed formulation and
implementation of land reform and land policy is dependent
on an improved understanding of land values and their
relationship to farm economics, terms of access to lands and
their impact on productivity, relationships between land
use, land capability and interregional migration, and the
feasibility of policies determining access to communal
13.       Second, the adoption by farmers of improved
production technology requires the establishment of viable
services for agricultural research and extension, seed
distribution, and preventive animal health services. Since
incentives for private sector involvement in these areas by
nature are limited, we have to ensure the establishment of
sustainable services through our public investment and
expenditure program. While adaptive research and extension
components are being implemented under regional agricultural
development projects, supported financially by IFAD and IDA,
they lack in scale and national focus.
14.       It will take time for the full benefits of
investments in researclh and extension systems to
materialize. Since they hold the key to sustained growth in
the sector, investments must be initiated as a matter of



-62                                ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 18
priority.  To pave the way for these ilnvestments, we are
under the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program defininq
our medium-term national research priorities and an
appropriate organizational framework for implementing the
research program and its associated extension activities.
As a head-start, we propose under ASAC to initiate the
implementation of high priority adaptive research and
extension activities with expected relatively quick impact
on agricultural growth. Investments in urgently required
research to generate improved planting materials to replace
over-aged coffee trees will be carried out witn EEC support
under the Coffee Farming Systems Development Project. For
livestock sector support services, the key public sector
interventions involve establishing sustainable preventive
veterinary services while encouraging the private sector
participation in clinical veterinary services. This we
expect to address under the Livestock Services Project
recently approved by the IDA Board of Executive Directors.
i5.       Systems for dissemination of improved agricultural
production technologies need to be supported by efficient
delivery of farm credit. While efforts to expand the rural
branch-network of the commercial banks are underway, the
establishment of an efficient agricultural credit system
depends on a healthy financial sector that provides a
resource base and incentives for commercial banks to engage
in agricultural lending. As a result of the review of the
financial sector currently undertaken jointly with IDA, we
expect to take action to accomplish these objectives.
16.       third, we will continue and intensify our efforts
to rehabilitate and expand our physical infrastructure in
road, rail and other transport systems, as well as in
communications and power distribution. investments in
transportation, particularly rehabilitation of feeder roads,
are necessary to provide farmers with access to markets and
to lower marketing costs. Investment priorities will be
defined under the Transport Sector Review which commenced
its work in September, 1990. The review will also address
key issues such as the restoration 'of road maintenance
capacity, the appropriate balance between maintenance and
investment expenditures, and cost recovery.
17.       yjrth, while seeking a diversified production
baso, the economy will continue for some time to rely
heavily on coffee exports for foreign exchange, and to
depend on coffee for a substantial contribution to tax
revenues. Also, the financing of procurement of coffee
continues to demand substantial short term credit. Coffee
policies must therefore be consistent with fiscal
objectives, stabilization goals and efforts to strengthen
the balanco of payments. hence, we propose to broaden and
deepen coffee policy actions to contain coffee crop finance
credit within ERP's monetary benchmarks, create a
competitive marketing system, and improve incentives to
farmers to sustain coffee production at around current
levols, and to processors and exporters to upgrade export



-63                                ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 18
quality. This is essential at a time when falling
international coffee prices adversely affect Uganda's
foreign exchange cash flow. To implement these strategies,
the Government will retorm institutional arrangements for
coffee crop finance, restructure marketing intermediaries,,
and gradually liberalize coffee marketing and pricing. The
main focus of the proposed ASAC will be on the
implementation of these coffee subsector initiatives.
A. Coffee Crop Financing. 1iciqnc_aQ gdMarketina
Coffee Crop Finance Reform
18.       In September 1989, the Government began
implementing measures to help contain a rapidly growing
demand for crop finance credit. These measures, supported
under ERC II, included the enforcement of stricter quality
standards for CMB procurement of coffee. The Government
also adopted benchmarks governing extension of credit by the
Bank of Uganda (BOU) and commercial banks to market
intermediaries, and BoU ceased to guarantee lending by
commercial banks to cooperative unions, Further, the
Government, in consultation with IDA and the Fund, decided
that producer prices for coffee would remain unchanged up to
June 30, 1990. As a result, the supply of credit for crop
financing has been contained, CMB's stocks held pending
exports have been substantially reduced, and cooperative
unions have been forced to start raising their own finance.
19.       To effectively manage credit and other subsector
policies relative to ERP targets the Government has
initiated the establishment of a Coffee Subsector Budgeting
and Monitoring System. A Coffee Subsector Budget (CSB) was
adopted for the crop year 1989/90, setting targets which
link crop finance credit to physical and financial
benchmarks for enhanced performance standards. Similarly,
it set targets for export proceeds and tax revenues, and for
CMB performance in terms of exports and stock-holding - all
to be supported by a comprehensive monitoring system. For
barter trade, the Government agreed under the ESAF
arrangement to limit barter sales of coffee, and to ensure
that CMB be paid before any barter shipments of coffee take
place.
20.       The performance of the coffee subsector over the
1989/90 coffee season, i.e. up to September 30, 199C, Shows
that total crop finance issued amounted to 169.2 percent of
the revised target under the CSI, and to 170.4 percent of
the target under the revised CSB, adjusted for actual
performance. The revised targots reflected lowered
projections for procurement and exports (procurement from
3.2 million bags to 2.9 million bags and exports from 3.4
million bags to 3.1 million bags. crop finance utilized by



- 64 -                    g~~~~~~ANEX 4
-64-
Page 7 of 18
CMB aMounted to 176.3 percent of the revised target adjusted
for actual performance. since procurement and exports fell
short of the revised targets by 848 878 and 735 249 bags
respectively, CM8's stocks of coffee were increased to 348
503 bags compared to 338 000 bags as projected under the
revised CSB. Given that export revenues fell short of the
revised target by USS 53.2 million (equivalent to USh. 23.4
billion at the exchange rate of USh. 440 per US 5), export
tax revenues realized amounted to USh. 13.4 billion compared
to USh. 25.2 billion as targeted under the revised CSB.
Also, given that coffee exported under barter exceeded the
targeted level at September 30, 1990 by 129 422 bags, we
have taken measures to strictly limit further barter
commitments for the current coffee season. We also propose
to limit coffee exports under barter contracts to 240 000
bags for the cottee crop season beginning October 1, 1990.
21.       The above coffee subsector policy initiatives are
bringing the growing demand for coffee crop finance under
better control. They do not, however, address the.
structural problems that cause inefficient use of credit and
increased demand for credit. first, coffee crop financing
depends heavily on institutional credit. As a statutory
board, CMB, the main borrower, is unable under present
pricing arrangements to raise its own funds. And the poor
financial situation of most cooperatives precludes
significant internal financing. ftr4nd, constraints within
CJB and the cooperatives increase the financing needed to
hold and process stocks. Cooperative unions operate at low
levels of capacity with excessive overheads and with weak
management structures. CMB suffers from inadequate financial
management and inventory control procedures.  Thir, buyers
at all market levels all draw cash advances from BOU or
commercial banks to finance their coffee crop purchases.
This puts excess liquidity in their hands and has enabled
cooperative unions to divert crop finance funds to purposes
other than crop procurement.  Einally, the Government's
commitment to procure what coffee the farmers wish to sell
means that unless export marketing agencies have the
capacity to market what is procured, stocks will accumulate
and raise crop finance demand.
22.       The Government is addressing these structural
problems by revising the institutional arrangements for
coffee crop financing, supplemented by coffee marketing
reform, including a program for restructuring the marketing
intermediaries. The responsibility for direct lending for
coffee crop financinq from BOU has been fully transferred to
the commercial banks. This transfer is designed to
reqularize crop finance lending on a commercial and
sustainable basis.  Its key features are that CMB and other
intermediaries meet their financing requirements partly out
of their own resources, and that the Central Bank provides
refinancing for commercial banks in case of need.



-65 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 18
23.       Lending for coffee crop finance by commercial
banks will cover financing requirements over and above the
base working capital requirements of marketing
intermediaries, i.e. the minimum finance required during the
year.  Lending will be on regular commercial terms at
interest rates set within ceilings determined by the
Government. At the current rate of inflation these interest
rates are positive in real terms, and the Government is
committed to pursue policies to ensure that such positive
rates are maintained. Principles governing extension of
credit, identification of commitments by individual
commercial banks for financing of the coffee subsector,
lending terms and conditions, arrangements for sharing of
export bills and refinancing, and supervision by BOU have
been formally agreed between the BOU and commercial banks,
and will be reviewed prior to each coffee crop season,
starting with the season beginning October 1, 1991.
24.       In the case of Coffee Marketinq BoArd, the
transfer of crop finance lending from BOU to commercial
banks wao effected on November 23, 1990,  with the bank of
Uganda terminating its crop finance facility to CMB. The
transfer was facilitated by Government settling its dues to
CKfl on account of barter sales and refunding excess export
duty recovered. To enable commercial banks to resume
lending, CMB has implemented key steps toward improved
systems and procedures for financial and inventory control
(para. 28 hereof). Pending Government's proposed equity
injection in CMB, BOU has deferred CMB's repayment of part
of its outstanding advances from BOU. This arrangement will
enable CM1 to meet its base working capital requirements for
the 1990/91 crop season. The Government wil.l as required
inject further equity to meet incremental requirements for
the current crop season and prior to the subsequent crop
season. The size of any sucth further injections will be
determined within the context of the Coffee Subsector Budget
by the magnitude of future adjustments of producer prices
and processors margins, and on tthe ability of CMB to meet
incremental base working capital requirements from the
profit element which has been included in its export margin
as of the start of the present crop season. The Government
proposes to finance these injections from the proceeds of
part of the sale of foreign exchange from the requested
Credit.
25.       Beginning with the coffee crop season 1989/90,
crop finance loans by commercial banks to cooperative unions
are no longer backed by guarantees from BOU. Financially
weak unions therefore have difficulty obtaining crop finance
loans. While the Governmcnt intends to support the
implementation of a comprehensive program to restructure
cooperative unions, such a program will take time to
implement. Interi... arrangements hiave therefore been put in
place to ensure financing based on prudent banking
practices. These arranaements include a program to
reorganize and finance the coffee operations of the major
cooperative unions (see para. 31).



-66-                               ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 18
26.       The Government will continue to refine the system
for coffee subsector budgeting and monitoring which was
initiated last year. A Coffee Subsector Budget has been
adopted for the crop year 1990/91. To strengthen the system
for establishing and monitoring CSBs a coffee Monitoring
Unit (CHU) has been established in BOU's Agricultural
Secretariat, which will assume the task previously
undertaken by BOU's Coffee Desk. The CMU will perform its
responsibilities according to approved work plans, which
include preparation of annual CSB's, monitoring of coffee
subsector performance relative to CSB targets, analysing
actual versus targeted outcomes, reporting to the
Government's Economic Monitoring Committee on the
performance of the coffse subsector relative to targets, and
the submission of recommendations for revisions to targets
and corrective policy actions, as appropriate. The first
such work plan, covering the coffee year 1990/91 has been
established. To enable the CMU to implement the plan, we
have completed arrangements for strengthening CMU staffing,
traininq of its staff, finalization of the ongoing computer
system development, and acquisition of equipment - all
supported by funding from ERC II. Annual reviews of ongoing
C8Ss and the adoption of new CSBs, prior to the start of
each coffee crop season, will be undertaken in consultation
with IDA.
Rgatructuring CML
27.       As Government policy emphasizes more involvement
of the private sector in the processing and marketing of
agricultural products, the role of the marketing parastatals
is changing. The objectives for restructuring the marketing
boards are to increase operational efficiency, eliminate
dependence on the Government budget, increase the
responsiveness to industry needs, and provide better
incentives to farmers. As part of tthis agenda the
Government will implement a program of organizational,
financial and institutional restructuring of CMI. The
objoctive is to remove regulatory functions from CMB and
convert CMB into a commercial marketing organization within
a competitive system for procuring,.processing, and
marketing coffee for export. As a commercial organization
CMB needs to be able to retain trading profits and pay its
employees adequate incentives. It is also desirable to
provide for future divestiture of Government ownership, as
determined by the market forces of a liberalized coffee
marketing system.
26.       The first phase of the program to turn CMB into a
commercially operating entity has been completed. The
following actions have been completed. First, the
regulatory functions or CMB have bcen assigned to the
Marketing Department of the Ministry of Cooperatives and
Marketing, pending the establishment of an autonomous
regulatory body. We have requested IDA assistance in
financing technical services to help prepare detailed
proposals for the establishment of such a body. Second, we



-67                              ANNEX 4
Page 10 of 18
have ensured that within the framework of the existing
coffee Marketing Act CMB io able to retain trading profits
(a profit element has been added to its marketing margin)
and to receive equity from the Government. Thirds key
actions have been taken toward establishing .mproved
inventory, financial, and marketing controls. In this
regard, CMB's management has adopted standardized procedures
for reporting of coffee stocks, acceptable to its
financiers. it has adopted a cash budget for crop finance
for the coffee season 1990/91 consistent with the CSR, and
established a monitoring system to report to commercial
banks its performance against the cash budget. A marketing
plan for the coffee season 1990/91 has been established.
This plan is consistent with CMB's cash budget and is based
on a review of its present commitments for coffee exports
against available stocks and expected procurement and
marketing arrangements to honor current commitments and
disposition of remaining supplies. The marketing plan also
takes into account the established overall linit of 240,000
bags for coffee to be sold under barter during the.coffee
crop season starting October 1, 1990. Also, CMB with the
help of an international firm of auditors has initiated an
audit of its balance sheet as of September 30, 1990, and an
initial assessment has been made under this audit of CMB's
stocks and net trading assets.
29.       The second phase of CMB restructuring which we
intend to complete by June 30, 1991 involves the following
steps. First, further strengthening of CMB's financial,
inventory and marketing controls will proceed with the
assistance of consultants financed under an IDA technical
assistance credit. Second, the Government will convert
BOU's outstanding advances to CME into equity, by settling
such advances from counterpart funds expected from the sale
of foreign exchange that we would expect to be forthcoming
under the requested Credit. Additional equity injections
would be made as necessitated by increases in incremental
base working capital requirements which cannot be met from
CMB's retained trading profits. We expect that such
injections will no longer be.required once a revised coffee
export taxation system has beon put ih place (para. 37).
The above measures of CMB restructuring are all necessary
steps to allow CMB to operate as a commercial coffee
marketing organization. Furthter to thiese measures we are
proposing to register CMB under the Companies Act, so as to
facilitate possible future divestiture of Government
ownership.
agauctS4ing the Cooperative Unions
30.       Some thirty cooperavivc unions, half of them
engaged in coffee operations, suffer from worsening
liquidity and under capitalization and provide limited if
any returns to shareholders. This is a result of high
inflation, war losses, lack of critical inputs, weak
management, and the pricing, crop finance, and payment
systems. The Government will support a program of reform to



-68 tANNEX 4
Page 11 of 18
restore creditworthiness, financial viability, and better
union operations and to hold the unions to performance
standards through effective monitoring and auditing and (in
the case of coffee) by adopting crop finance benchmarks.
31.       Pending the implementation of a comprehensive
program for financial and managerial restructuring, interim
arrangements for reorganizing and financing coffee
operations of coffee unions have been put in place by the
Uganda Cooperative Alliance (UCA) for the current crop
season. Unions licensed to enter the coffee export trade
have adopted business plans for the coffee operations
covering procurement, processing, and trading operations as
autonomous profit centers within overall union operations.
To strengthen the financial standing of the unions, a sum of
Ush 1 billion, generated from the US PL 480 import support
program has been made available to the Cooperative Bank for
onlending to cooperative unions as medium term loans,
repayable from future profits. On the strength of the
business-plans, and improved financial standing, these
unions have secured crop finance arrangements for the
current crop season.
32.       To support the above measures, the Government is
in the process of completing an amendment to the
Cooperatives Societies Act so as to revise its rules and
regulations governing the supervision of cooperative unions
and societies to allow them to operate their business
independently. The Cooperative Societies Bill (1990) has
been submitted to the National Resistance Council and is
expected to be considered by the Council in 1991.
33.       The above actions will be followed by the
implementation of a comprehensive program for financial and
managerial restructuring of the cooperative unions. The
responsibility for the implementation of such a program
remains with the cooperative unions themselves, which are
expected to take measures to divest nonproductive assets,
reduce overheads, improve management, increase shareholders'
contributions and take other appropriate measures to
strengthen their capital base and liquidity. The Government
is committed to support the restructuring program thr3ugh
appropriate policy actions, including legal reforms,
measures to support mobilization of funds, and compensation
for agreed war losses or damages. In addition, the
Government will address taxation measures affecting the
cooperative sector in the context of its overall tax reform
program.
Liberalizing Coffee M4arketino
34.       In our letter to you of December 12, 1989 we
informed you of the steps the Govcrnment proposed to take
toward creating a more competitive export marketing system
for coffee. By removing CMB's oxport monopoly we expect to
expand total and unit value of coffee sales as well as to
reduce marketing costs. As foreseen under ERC II, a
comprehensive strategy for liberalizing export marketing has



*   *'  - 69 -                   ANNEX 4
Page 12 of 18
been developed, identifying the roles of CMB and private
sgctor agents in the marketing process and trade and other
incentives required to encourage the development of an
effective export trade. The strategy also addresses
appropriate administrative arrangements for export revenue
recovery and taxation. These proposals will be implemented
following consultations with IDA as agreed under ERC II.
3S.       We have initially allowed three cooperative unions
to enter the export trade, having satisfied ourselves that
they meet eligibility criteria related to processing
capacity, financial standing and managerial competence, as
agreed under ERC II. These unions have now started to
export coffee. We propose to gradually broaden
participation by the private sector in the export trade to
include private sector parties other than cooperatives.
Specifically, we propose during the crop season ending
September 30, 1991, to issue export licenses to at least two
such parties. Based on the comprehensive export marketing
strategy adopted by the Government in October 1990, we will
implement pricing, taxation and other measures designed to
significantly increase the private sector's share in coffee
exports and the overall foreign exchange earnings from
coffee. We envisage the future roles and market shares of
CMB and other exporters in coffee marketing to be determined
on the basis of the respective competitive strengths of
these marketing agents in procuring and exporting coffee.
Coffee Pricing
36.       The present system of administering prices of
coffee to be paid to farmers, processors and marketing
agents stems from the centralized system of procurement and
export which was introduced some twenty years ago. As we
move towards a more competitive and open marketing
arrangements, this system will gradually be replaced by one
through which prices at various market levels are determined
by the competitive market forces, reflecting also movements
in the international prices for coffee. In implementing this
policy we will be guided by the objective of ensuring that
the farmer receives a competitive price and that his share
in the export price of coffee increases.
37.       As a first step in implementing this policy we
intend to revise the present export taxation system.  Under
the present system, the Government retrieves as coffee
export tax any surplus of sales rovenues over the sum of
LJLUUU%;FL LJL .L%;b atLU pLV:|J$&'  *u &itI.tM.JLI  1.z4L1ga-b.  LAIC
residual nature of the tax fails to reward efforts to
upgrade product quality or maximize the unit value of sales,
and coffee exporters are precluded from realizing trading
profits. This discourages entry Into the export trade. We
have, therefore, decided to replace the present system by a
new system of taxation within the framework of the fiscal
objectives under the stabilization program. The new system
will give exporters adequate incentives to improve quality
and to sell the most profitable quality mix, while



-70                              ANNEX 4
Page 13 of 18
sateguarding the Govornment's need for revenue. The
detailed design and modalities for implementation of the new
taxation system will be d-cided on the basis of a detailed
study of the implications for Government revenues, producer
and marketing incentives, and tradeoffs between fiscal        %
obleotives and incentives to the subsector. This study will
be undertaken by a Government Task Force, assisted by
specialists financed under ERC Ir and conducted in
consultation with IDA and IMF. We intend by August, 1991,
to adopt an action plan for Implementing a new coffee export
taxation system, and to finalize all administrative
arrangements and start implementation of the new system on
July 1, 1992.
38.       Pending the introduction of the revised taxation
system we have already revised the exporters, fixed margin
to include a profit element over and above costs. This
element has been established on the basis of the opportunity
cost of capital to the exporter with the view to ensuring an
measure of incentive sufficient to induce the private
parties to enter and remain in the coffee trade. We will be
closely monitoring the response by the private sector to
these incentives with the view to adjustments as
appropriate. As we move to replace the present residual
export taxation system with a new system, the fixed
marketing margins for exporters will be abolished, and the
export price less the aggregate of: (i) tax payable to the
Government, (ii) producer price, and (iii) margins payable
to processors margins will accrue to export agents as
trading profits. As the marketing system becomes more
competitive, administered margins for processors and fixed
producer prices will be discontinued altogether.
39.       Prior to the recent adjustments of coffee producer
prices, the farmer's share of the export price for coffee
was about 35 percent.  This reflected the inefficiencies of
the marketing intermediaries, the Government's objective of
taxing the coffee subsector, and its policy over the last
two years to leave producer prices for coffee unchanged as a
way to reduce crop financing requirements, the budget
deficit, and inflation. Ho'jever, to improve quality and
prevent a serious decline in coffee production, an upward
adjustment of coffee producer prices has been effected,
resulting in an increase in the farmer's share of the export
price to 44 percent. This adjustment is targeted to provide
adequate incentives to induce farmers to adopt yield-
improving husbandry and replanting practices, including
wherever possible replacing robusta coffee with the higher-
value arabica coffee. The producer price adjustment has
also taken into consideration the objective of returning an
increasingly larger share of the long term export price to
the farmer.
40.       In addition to the factors referred to above, the
recent adjustment in producer prices reflects movemonts in
international prices and the exchange rate. The marketing



71-                            ANNEX 4
Page 14 of 18
margin has also been adjusted to include an element of
profit to exporters.
41.       Future adjustment in producer prices will in
addition to the factors mentioned (para. 39 above) reflect
progress in reducing processing and marketing margins
through efficiency gains, the development of alternative
sources of Government tax revenue, and progress in financial
stabili2ation. Efrorts to restructure and streamline
operations of the CMB and cooperative unions and to
rationalize processing capacity utilization are expected to
lower overheads and operating costs.  Also, producer prices
and margins by product grades will be revised to reward
processors for producing high-quality grades of coffeo. The
above measures will be implemented in consultation with IDA.
B. Pricing and Marketing  other Crog   s
and Agricultural Products
42.       As indicated earlier, it is Government policy that
agricultural input and output prices be determined by market
forces. However, the Government will continue for the time
being to fix producer prices and, where applicable,
processing and marketing margins, for the traditional export
crops. With increasing competition in procurement and
export marketing of cotton, tea, cocoa and tobacco, the
Government intends, as for coffee, to review the rationale
for fixing producer prices for these crops instead of
allowing them to be freely determined in the market.
43.       The Governzent recognizes the need to reverse the
trend over the past five years of generally falling real
producer prices for the traditional export crops. It aims
therefore, to establish the necessary incentives for farmers
to rehabilitate tea production, and reactivate cotton
production. To this end it will, pending price
liberalization, carry out periodic reviews and adjustments
of producer prices. These reviews will be done in
consultation with IDA based on an already agreed
methodology. In line with the 100 percent retention scheme
for non-coffee exports, the Government will increase the
share of the export price going to producers of cotton, tea,
tobacco and cocoa.
MaCkating Liberalization and Parastatal Reform
44.       In our letter to you of December 12, 1989 we
informed you of recent measures that we have taken to reduce
Government control of the marketing of agricultural products
and inputs. These measures are designed to reduce marketing
costs, expand trade and growth and diversification in the
agricultural sector. We propose to deepen and broaden these



-72 -                            AMNEX 4
Page 15 of 18
policy initiatives and couple them with reforms of the
marketing parostatals.
43.       In the area of food crop marketing, the export
monopoly of the Produce Marketing Board (PMB) has been
abolished to allow participation by the private sector.
Incentives for such participation have been established
under tho Agricultural Non-Traditional Export Promotion
Program in the form of 100 porcent foreign exchange
retention privileges and associated import entitlements.
based on the outcome of an ongoing study on the future role
and organization of PMB we intend to restructure PMB to
cost-effectively implement a reduced mandate in food crop
marketing.
46.       In the area of tea processing and marketing, we
have abolished the export monopoly of the Uganda Tea
Authority. We have also decided to take measures to restore
the Vganda Tea Growers Corporation (UTGC) as an outgrower
service organization financed through cost recovery from
outgrowors, and to return the ownership and manag6ment of
its tea factories to the private sector. The detailed
modalities for implementing these policy initiatives, which
will involve financial restructuring of UTGC and its factory
companies, are presently being finalized under an ASAP
reorganization study.
47.       In the area of cotton marketing, we have taken
steps to liberalize the internal trade in seed cotton and
lint. Cotton farmers are now able to dispose of their seed
cotton to private buying agents and are no longer
restricted to sell through the cooperative union ginneries.
All ginneries, presently owned by cooperative unions, are
allowed to sell lint directly to local textile mills, rather
than through the Lint Marketing Board (LMB), provided they
are not indebted to LMB. The operations of 74B will be
streamlined, taking into account the recommendations of the
ongoing study.
48.       Finally, in the area of dairy marketing, while
supporting the role of the Dairy Corporation in the
collection, handling and processing of milk, we propose to
continue encouraging and supporting the private sector
participation. This initiative will initially involve
farmers organizations assuming ownership and management of
district milk collection centers. It will be implemented as
part of a National Dairy Development Plan defining
strategies for milk shed development and the establishment
of marketing systems linking milk sheds with urban centers.
We expect to complete the Plan, including its projected
investment requirements, by December, 1990. Its
implementation will require external financial assistance,
and we look forward to support from the donor community,
including IDA.



V                                73                              ANlEX 4
Page 16 of 18
C. Sectorsl Man 2aemnt
AgriclLltura1 Regearch Ago~ Extension
49.       Agricultural growth and diversification depend
largely on rcactivating agricultural research and extension
services to develop and disseminate new technology. The
effectiveness of such services has been eroded by
destruction of the supporting infrastructure, serious
overstaffing in the unskilled ranks, and totally inadequate
wage incentives and operating funds to support the
maintenance of transport and equipment. Uganda is not in a
position to re-establish its old fragmented agricultural
research network and broad research agenda. Rather, the
challenge now is to create a lean organization with an
agenda that addresses the main technical constraints facing
farmers.
50.       Under ASAP, the Government is preparing a national
agricultural research plan, which we expect to adopt later
this year. Assistance in th's effort is being provided by
the International Service for National Agricultural Research
with financial support by IDA. We intend to establish, by
August 1, 1990, a semi-autonomous national agricultural
research organization to manage the implementation of the
rosearch plan. The Government also intends to adopt and
implement a plan for reorganizing and managing sustainable
agricultural extension services. Proposals for such a plan
are currently being prepared with the assistance from
UNDP/FAO and IDA. We look forward to continued broad
support from the donor community for the implementation of
these initiatives. To this end, the Government has
requested financing from IDA for a proposed National
Agricultural Technology Development and Training Project.
Detailed preparation of such a project would commence as
soon as above initiatives on research planning and
organization have been completed.
S_ExMenditureia       .
51.       The Government recognizes the need to ensure that
public programs result in efficient use of scarce resources.
To this end, we have recently taken steps to improve budget
formulation and align spending with sustainable revenue
capacity. A limited number of development projects,
including four in the agricultural sector, with crucial
links to ERP have been selected for special monitoring by
the Ministry of Planning and Economic Development. As
communicated to you in our letter of December 12, 1989, we
are taking further measures to strengthen expenditure
control and monitoring and improve efficiency of public
investment. The details of such measures will be based on
the findings of the Public Lxpenditure Review which now is
being completed and in which we have been assisted by IDA.
Also, in the context of ERC 11, we are consulting with IDA
on the size and composition of the overall RUP, composition



- 74 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 17 of 18
of recurrent expenditures, and appropriate levels Of non-
salary operating and maintenance expenditures in key
sectors.
52.       The Rehabilitation and Development Plan (RDP)
relating to the agricultural sector and covering the period
FY90 to FY92 envisages average annual investments of about
US$100 million or about 25 percenlt. The agricultural
investment program consists of a large number of projects
scattered over a large number of areas and activities, many
of which were inherited by this Government.  we will keep
this development program and its associated ordinary
budgoting arrangements under close review and revision, in
consultation with IDA, with the view to ensuring better
consistency with sectoral investment priorities,
implementation capacity, and availability of funds to
support recurrent costs. Public investments in the
agricultural sector will be concentrated to areas where the
private sector cannot directly capture returns to
investment. These areas include agricultural research,
training and extension, control of epidemic and contagious
animal diseases, preservation of natural resources
supporting agriculture, including forestry and fisheries,
market information systems, and infrastructure.
53.       Agricultural projects, within the areas of
concentration indicated above, will be added to RDP provided
they can be justified on thie basis of estimated economic
rates of return, where applicable, or cost effectiveness.
On the basis of the indicated areas of concentration for
public interventions and selection criteria we intend to
identify, starting with RDP for FY9l/92-93/94, a group of
high priority agricultural investment projects. Through the
annual budgetary process we will ensure that adequate
allocations of funds for recurrent expenditures are made to
support effective imp3ementation of these priority projects.
Further agricultural projects, meeting the criteria
indicated earlier, will be added to RDP on3y as long as all
priority projects within the sector are fully funded.
54.       Resources provided for tthe agricultural sector
under the recurrent budget are spread thinly over
production, marketing and service activities, thus reducing
the effectiveness of our the interventions. Action will be
taken to enhance and target the recurrent budget. of the
agricultural sector ministries to priority areas of public
intervention indicated above. This will involve the
following measures: First, the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA) and the Ministry of Animal lndustry and Fisheries
(MAIF), following reviews of their present state-farm
production and commercial marketing and service activities,
will divest to the private sector activities not strictly
required to support researcht, extension, and preventive
veterinary programs. ln cases where this in not feasible,
the activities will be discontinued or restructured in a
cost effective manner. Action plans to this effect will be
reflected in the recurrent budgat for FY91/92.  Scond, MOA



-75.-                          ANNEX 4
Page 18 of 18
and MAIF presently incur heavy expenditures in the form of
salaries to group employees for maintenance and security of
land bolonging to its research stations. The location and
extent of excess land will be determined based on a detailed
survey and the requirements as projected from the national
research plan to be completed by November 1990. MOA and MAI!
will adjust the number of group employees to be consistent
with such requirements, reflecting recurrent expenditure
implications reflected in the FY9l/92 budget.  Third, with
the help of the above measures, the budgetary allocations
for non-wage operating and maintenance expenditures for
selective high priority research and extension activities
will be increased in real terms over the levels budgeted for
in 1990/91.
Concluding Remarks
55.       Continued progress in achieving the stabilization
and growth targets of the Government's Economic Recovery
Program depends on structural reforms in the agricultural
soctor. The Government proposes to implement such reforms
in the context of its Agricultural Sector Action Program.
The success of the program depends on the provision of
adequate financial assistance. In this context the
Government requests for your favorable consideration the
provision of an Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit in the
amount of USS100 million, of which US$85 million in quick
disbursing funds, with the balance to support investments
designed to strengthen our agricultural sectoral support and
planning services. It is our intention to expedite the
reform program in a manner and pace which are politically,
administratively and technically feasible in Uganda's
context, and consistent with our overall development goals.
While my ministry will remain responsible for the
implementation of thie program, the Agricultural Poilicy
Committee has been assigned the task of overseeing and
guiding the implementation process.
Attachment: Annex 1.
(LSP 11/23/90)



AORICULTJLRAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
MATRIX OF POLICY ACTIONS
1. Coffee Crop Financtns
Government's                    Action Program/                 Actions Completed/Porfor-       Actions ProposOd under ASAC
Obiectives                      Strategies                      mance under ERCI & II
*Contain crop finance           *Establish credit               *Established a Coffee           Prior to 0Brd Presentation:
credit within monetary          benchmrks and effective         Subsector Budget (CSB)"
targes of the Economic          monitoring of coffee            for 1989/  based on credit    *Satisfactorily implement the Coffee Subeector Budgeting
Recovery Progrm.                subsctor performance.           benchmarks reflecting           and Monitoring System (CSBM) for the coff-e y er 1989/90,
enhAnced perorance              and adopt CSB for the coffee yeor 1990/91, ;cnl schedule
*Improve efficiency of us       *Strengthen the operotions,    standards.                       and work plan for o Coffee Subsector Monitoring Unit to
of crop finance credit,         including financial and                                         fully monitor CSB.
management practices, of
*Ensure prompt paymnt to        processing and marketing        *Enforced stricter quality      oReinstate com_rcial bn'ks as lenders for crop finance,
farmers.                        Institutions.                   standards for coffee sold       i.*. (a) BOU and comercilt banks agree on financing
to the Coffee Marketing         principles, com_itmnts by individual banks, lending
eRevise institutional           Board (CMB).                    terms, and refinancing and monitoring by BOU; (b) Covt.
arrangements for crop                                           settle its debt to CUB; (c) BOU through appropriate steps
finonce by reinstating                                          terminsto its crop finance facility to COB. thereby
comercial banks as lenders                                      allowing conuercial banks to asume CIB financing.
for crop finance, supported
by capital re 'rueturing of                                     Prior to Second Tranche-:
marketing i armediaries.
*Continuo to apply policy measures to ensure that
positivo real interest rates on comerci;l bank loans,
including crop finance loons, are maintained.
almpl_ent the CSBM system for coffee year 1900/91
according to adopted work pin, and adopt CSB for
1991/92.
*Govt. to inject equity capital In CMB for 1990/91 crop
yer, and incremental equity for 1991/92 as necessary.
The 'Coffe  Subsector Budgot  establishe  monthly targets for (i) crop finance credit based on physical and financial benchmarks, reflecting
expected performance standards; (ii) export proceeds and tax revenues; end (iii) CMB performance with respect to exports and etockholdinge.
Monitoring of actual performanc  relative to CSB targets will enable Government to identify In a timely fashion appropriate corrective policy
interventions required to ensure consistency of coffee subsector performance with macro-economic objectives.
C!O



2. Coffee Pricing and Marketing
Government'c                    Action Progresm/                Actions CompletAd/Perfor-       Actions Proposed under ASAC
Obi ctives                      Strate;ies                      mance under ERCI and II
2.1 Pricins of ExPOrt Crops
*Improve Incentives for         *Adjust producer prices and   *Producer prices and              Prior to Second Tranche:
producers and processors of    proce 8ing/marketing             margin. reviewed as per
export crops to: (1)            margins for coffee,             methodology established         *10su- coffee export licences to at lest two non-
rehabilitate and develop        following methodology           under ARP.  Adjustments         cooperative private sector parties, and bsed on a
tea and cotton production;      agreed with IDA.  Increase      temred by foreign               comprehensive coffee marketing *trategy, implemnt
(II) sustain the                farmrs' share of the long       exchange rate policy and,       meaures to significantly increase the private sector's
productivity of the coffee      term coffee export price to   in tho case of coffee, by         share In coffee export by (o) ensuring profit *leents in
resources; and (Mii)            provide incentives for          monetary and fiscal             the fixed margins for exporters which are adequate to
increse product quality         improved husbandry              objectives, resulted in         induce private sector to enter and remain in the coffee
and export vslue,               practices and replanting of   falling real prices to            trade and to enable exporters to internally raise working
ov-rsged coffee tres.           coffte farmers.  Processing    capital; and (b) establishing a price grading structure
margins for coffee adjusted    for coffee to mximize quality and sales volue.  Adopt an
*Increase price and tax         to reflect enhanced             ection plan for implemntstion of a new coffee export
tncentive  for exporters to    performance standards.           toxation system designed to further increase incentives
maximize returns on sales       Also, a profit elent has        to exporters to maximie, *xport valuo, while sofeguarding
and for producer./              been Included in exporters      fiscal objectives under the stabilization program.
processors to raise             margin to strengthen
quality,                        incentives of exporters.
-4
*DUe to macro-economic                                                                        '4
constraints and falling
world market prices for
coffee, no sdjustmente were
made to producer prices
following devaluations in
Oct. and Nov. 199g.
Processing and markoting
margins wore raised to
reflect impect on costs
from Oct. 199 devaluation.
In July 1990 producer price
for robusta kiboko was
raised from USh6O to USh76,
and in November 1900 the
price was further Increase
to UShl2O/kg.
Is



2. Coffee Pri;ns snd Marketing (contd.)
Government .                    Action Program/                 Actions Completed/P-rfor-       Actions Proposed under ASAC
Oblectives                      Strategies                      mance under ERCI A II
2.2 Processing and
Marketing Institutions
*Ectablilh efficient and        *Abolish CdB'. export           *A comprehensive strategy       Prior to Board Preosntation:
competitive system  for         monopoly and provide            for liberalizing coffee
internal and external           incentiveo for private          oarketing and pricing hos       *Separate CMB'o regulatory function from its trading
marxkting of agricultural       sector participo-               been adopted and                function.
products to incras  export   tion in export.                    lmplementation initiated
earninga, diversify tho                                         with: (a) the licensing of      *Satisfactory progress in organizational restructuring of
agricultural export traen,    eRestructure CMB,                 those cooperative unions        CUB's trading function, i.e. establish internal controls
reduce marketing costs and      consintent with liberalized    for export of coffte; (b)        of markoting function, prepare marketing plan for
dependence by parastatals       export marketing, to o          rmoved zonal rostrictions       1990/91, and establish adequate inventory control end
on the Govornment budget,       commercially viable ond         on coffee procurement and       financial managment information system.
and promote Inter-district      financially autonomous          on traders' cholce of
trade.                          organization and fealitate    buyers.  The strotogy calls    *Initiate CiB'n balance sheet audit, and complete as part
divestiture to private          for: (a) further broadening    of such sudit an initial assessment of CMB's coffee
sector,                         of liberalization to            stocks and net troding assts.
private ector other than
*Improve performance of         cooperative unions; (b)         *Ensure that CMB is empowered to obtain crop finance from
cooperative unions;             revision of export taxation    commercial banks, retain trading profits ond receive
eliminate dependence on         system; and (c) gradual         equity from the Government.                                   
Govt. support and               freeing up of pricing of
interference; hold unions       coffee.                         *Complete interim organiza-tional and financial
to performanco standards                                        restructuring of cooperative unions designated for coffeo
through effective                                               exports.
monitoring.
Prior to Second Tranche:
*Foster efficient
utilization of agro-                                            *Complete institutional and financial restructuring of
procossing capacity through                                     CUB.  Strengthen institutional arrangements for
incentives and regulatory                                       regulatory functlons consistent with Government's export
omsures                                                         liberalization strategy.
Other Actions:
'Through appropriate policy actions, including meaoures
for legal reforms, mobilization of funds, and
compenostion of agreed war losse, support the
restructuring of cooperative unions, including thos
licensed for coffee exports.



3.  Sectoerl Manammt
Governmnt's                     Action Program/                 Actions Coeploted/Porfor-       Actions Proposed under ASAC
Obiective                       Strate2ies                      mance under ERCI end It
8.1 Public Expenditure.
*Improvi efficiency in tho      *Establish and secure           *Incorporsted all RDP           Other Actions
allocation of resources to      funding for high priority       projects in Dovelopent
the agricultural sector;        agricultural projects;          Budget for 1989/90;             *Adopt an agricultural sector RDP for FY91/92-FY93/94,
lncrosse tho contribution       adopt cler criteris for         strengthened expenditure        Including identification of a set of high priority
of tho Rehabilitation and       including new agricultural      controls in response to         investment projects, with recurront budget allocations
DOevolopmnt Plan (RDP) to       projects under ROP.             roevnue shortfall in first      for FY91/92, reflecting: (a) MOA and MAIF action plans to
agricultural growth within                                      half of 1988/89*  Selected      divest to privato sector, state-farms and commercial
fiscal and monotary policy      *Ensure adequate budgetary    seven projects, including         marketing and  sorvice activitios; (b) MOA and MAIF
constraints,                    allocations for non-salary      four in agriculture, with       action plans to optimize land use and group employees
opersting and maintenance       crucial ERP linkages, for       consistont with the Notional Agricultural Research
expenditures.                   special monitoring by WPED.   Program; and (c) an increase in real terms in the
budgetary allocations to agricultural sector ministrios
*Improve eoctoral               *Based on tho Public            for non-wage oporating and maintenance expenditures for
investment planning and        Expenditure Review findings    selective high priority research end exKtnsion activities
monitoring, and projoct         adopted revised ROP for         compared to FY90/91 allocations.
implementation through          FY1990/91-1992/93 and
strengthoning of                Recurrent and Development
agricultural ministries.        Budgots for 1990/91; agreed
with IDA for FY90/91 on: 
(a) guidelines on
composition of total
recurrent expondituros; (b)
appropriate levels of non-
salary operating and
maintenance expenditures in
three key sectors including
agriculture; and (c) the
site and composition of the
RDP, including locally
funded projects.
ORDP investment efficiency
remins  eriously Impaired
by inadoquate institutional
arrangements for project
selection, revision and
monitoring, and limited
locol funding of recurrent
costs.
eo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ t41
'8iIE
iO



. Sec tral UafnoaMnt (contd.)
Covern mnt's                    Action Program/                 Actions Completed/P-rfor-       Actions Proposed under ASAC
Oblectives                      Stratogies                      mance under ERCI and II
3.2 AsnOlturaIR! _  rch
*ndExt non
*Establish reosrch and          * Implement an integrated                                       Prior to Second Tranche:
extension *ervices within a   national agricultural
rational and sustainable        reserch plan and support                                        *Esteblish a somi-;utonomouz National Agricultural
froamork to support             the implementation of such                                      Research Organization.
increased tfrm r                a pian through a somi-
productivity and                autonomous Notional                                             Other Action
diversified agricultural        Agricultural Rea rch
production.                     Organization.                                                   *Adopt a national ogricultural to eerch plan.
*Organtz  and fund                                              *Adopt and start implmentation of a strategic plan for
extension services to                                           reorganizing, menagino and funding agricultural extension
effectively transfer                                            services.
re srch generated
technical messages t'
producors.
0
51(412
o ..



- 81 -
ANNEX 5
UGANDA
AGRCULTURE SCTR ADJUSTMET CREDIT
List of Eligible Imports under Adlustment Component 11
1.    Agricultural chemicals (fertilizers)
Agricultural tools and equipment, including raw materials
therefor
Agro-processing chemicals and preservatives
Agro-processing inputs and materials
Agro-processing (including sugar processing) machinery and
equipment
Animal feed raw materials and feed mixes
Animals, live
Bicycles, including spares
Fishing gear and equipment
Lorries, including spares
Outboard engines, including spares
Packing material
Pick-up vehicles, including spares
Seeds (crop, pasture)
Tractors, including spares and implements
Veterinary drugs and acaricides
Veterinary equipment
2.    Petroleum products
1/   To be consistent with IDA guidelines on the use of agricultural and
agro-industrial chemicals.



- 82 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 10
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF THE INVESTMENT COMPONENT
Introduction
1.      ASAC's investment component consists of: (a) a Head-Start Program for
Agricultural Research and Extension, (b) support for a Land Policy Research
Program, (c) support for a Program for Strengthening of Agricultural Sector
Planning, and (d) technical assistance for Coffee Subsector Management. In
addition, the project includes institutional support for coordination and
monitoring of project activities. The background, objectives, main features,
cost estimates, and implementation arrangements for each of the above elements
are summarized below. Details are in the Technical Support Volume of the
President's Report.
A. Head-Start Program for Agricultural Research and Extension
Background
2.        Agricultural growth and diversification depend on agricultural
research and extension services to develop and disseminate new technology.
The effectiveness of these services has been eroded by destruction of the
supporting infrastructure, inadequate wage incentives and operating funds, a
poorly defined and ill-managed research program, and fragmentation of
responsibilities among subsector ministries. The challenge is to create a
lean organization with an agenda that addresses the main technical constraints
facing farmers. The Government, advised by the International Service for
National Agricultural Research (ISNAR) and FAO, is preparing a national
agricultural research plan, proposes to establish a semi-autonomous national
organization to manage the plan's implementation, and plans to adopt and
implement a strategic plan for reorganizing and managing sustainable
agricultural extension services. The Government will depend on financial
support from the donor community for the implementation of these initiatives.
It has requested IDA for financing of a broad based project focusing on
agricultural technology and training.
Objectives and Main Features
3.      Implementation of these initiatives will take time.  Interim
organizational and funding arrangements are necessary to: (a) carry out high-
priority adaptive research and extension activities with expected relatively
quick impact on ERP's agricultural growth and diversification objectives
through the dissemination of known technologies, (b) selectively provide
operational support to research and extension staff which will also help to
strengthen staff motivation anl morale, and (c) prepare and train staff for



- 83 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 10
the envisaged subsequent implementation of a national agricultural research
program.
4.      To this end, the proposed project would finance a Read-Start Program
for Agricultural Research and Extension (HARE) for a period of up to four
years. It would fund the implementation of the following priority
subprojects, identified and prepared by the agricultural sector ministries in
the context of the Agricultural Policy Committee's (APC) Working Group 9 on
Agricultural Research and Extension.
Table 1 : HARE Sub-Projects 1/
Proponent    Implementing
Sub-Project Titles                          Agencies        Units
1.  Technology dissemination               MOA       DFIs, MU, MAIF, MEP
2.  Improving production & utilization    MEP        Forestry Dept.
of forest plantations
3.  Increasing smallholder dairy           MAIP      DVSAI, MU
4.  Strengthening cotton                   MOA       Namulonge, DFIs
research and development
5.  Fish culture R & D                     MAIF
6. Groundnut and simsim R & D              MOA       Namulonge, DFIs
7.  Agro-forestry research & extension    MEP        MU, MEP-Forestry
8.  Fishing practices impact study         MAIF      UFFRO
9.  On-farm Grain Storage (under prep.)   MAIF
5.      A synopsis of each subproject is in Attachment 1.  Sub-projects 2 to 9
would in addition to research facilitate technology dissemination through
extension training and on-farm trials. HARE would act as a catalyst for
closer interaction of these two services. Farmer participation in decision-
making, planning, implementing and evaluating research and extension
activities would be a critical factor in assuring that these services continue
to be relevant and useful. The HARE will finance civil works (mainly
renovation), incremental operating costs including staff incentives, training,
technical assistance, and a study to prepare proposals for an Agricultural
Technology and Training (AGTECH) Project.
l/Abbreviations: MOA (Ministry of Agriculture), HEP (Ministry of Environment),
MAIF (Ministry of Animal Industry and Fisheries), DFI (District Farm
Institutes), MU (Makerere University), UFFRO (Uganda Fisheries Research
Organization).



- 84 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 10
Costs and Financing
6.      The total cost of HARE is estimated at US$7.0 million (M), including
physical and price contingencies but excluding any taxes and duties (details
in Attachment 2). IDA would finance US$5.8 H, or about 83 percent of total
costs, with Government financing the balance, i.e. US$1.2 M equivalent.
Implementation Arrangements
7.      Management and Coordination. Program implementation would be the
responsibility of a Subcommittee on Agricultural Research and Extension
(SCORE) to be established by APC, a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and the
managers of the nine individual subprojects assisted by technical staff from
the concerned agricultural subsector ministries. Each subproject would
involve research and extension activities to be conducted on-station, at
outreach and satellite stations in target districts, or on farmers' fields.
Research components would be operated from selected national research stations
and extension components from DFIs. At the district level coordination and
monitoring of subproject activities would be done through existing District
Productivity Committees.
8.       SCORE would comprise senior technical officers from the agricultural
ministries, and representatives from the Ministry of Planning and Economic
Development (MPED), Ministry of Finance, MU, and the Agricultural Secretariat
of the Bank of Uganda (AGSEC). It would approve annual work plans and
budgets, oversee the management by PMU of funds, and monitor and evaluate
progress and impacts of sub-projects based on periodic progress reports
prepared by sub-project managers. In addition SCORE would arrange for and
oversee the preparation of an Agricultural Technology and Training Project, to
be funded under HARE and commence following the review by donors of the
Government's proposals for reorganized research and extension services by mid
1991. PIU would be responsible for day to day management, procurement,
disbursement of project funds for subproject implementation, coordination of
subproject implementation, and progress and financial reporting to SCORE and
the ASAC Project Coordination Unit. It would be located at the Kwanda
Research Station outside Kampala, but for administrative purposes be attached
to AGSEC, i.e. IDA funds and Government funds would be made available to HARE,
through AGSEC, for management by PIU. The PIU would include a Head/Director
(TORs in Attachment 4) to be appointed by SCORE, a Financial Controller, and
senior locally recruited technical staff and administrative staff seconded to
HARE from subsector ministries. It would be supported throughout the project
period by an internationally recruited senior agricultural services specialist
and by short term consultants in various technical areas. (Draft TORs for
SCORE and PIU/Head are in Attachment 6).
9.      Financial Administration.  The PIU would pay particular attention to
ensuring timely availability of funds to subprojects. It would have its own
financial administration separate from the rest of ASAC, and have access to a
Special Account (for IDA funds) to be exclusively used for HARE expenditures
(foreign and local) eligible for IDA financing. Through the ASAC Project



- 85 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 10
Account in local shillings (Government's contribution) the PIU would access
the remaining resources required to fund HARE subprojects. The Financial
Controller of PIU would be accountable to the ASAC's Project Coordination Unit
for the administration of HARE funds. He would also be responsible for
procurement of HARE goods and services. Vehicles, computing equipment and
other standardized equipment for HARE would be procured under contracts
encompassing the needs of all ASAC investment component activities.
10.     Pending completion of reforms of the civil service and its salary
structure, salary supplements, including performance related bonuses, are
essential to attract and motivate research scientists and extension workers
for implementing priority programs. Under the project, the staff allowances
and incentives have been harmonized with those offered under other IDA and
donor financed projects. The structure and levels of these allowances would
be kept under review during project implementation to ensure compatibility
with the implementation of civil service reform.
11.     Technical Assistance and Training.  Technical assistance (US$1.2 M)
would involve the services of an experienced international agricultural
services advisor and a financial controller (locally recruited), for a period
of four years. It would also involve hiring a suitable international
institution or consulting firm to prepare investment proposals for an
Agricultural Training and Technology Project (Attachment 4). Training (US$
1.15 M) would be a key activity under HARE, and would involve farmer training
as well as overseas and local training for ministry staff, and local seminars
and workshops (Attachment 5).
B. A Program for Strengthening of Agricultural
Sector Planning.
Background
12.     The responsibilities for policy analysis, sectoral and project
planning, monitoring and coordination, and collection and processing of
agricultural sector data are fragmented among the four agricultural sector
ministries, the central planning ministry and the AGSEC. The procedures for
planning, budgeting and monitoring are poorly defined. The institutional
capabilities of government ministries to undertake these functions have been
eroded for reasons common to the civil service generally, namely attrition of
skilled staff, loss of staff incentives and motivation due to inadequate pay,
and deteriorating working facilities and reduced mobility resulting from
insufficient budgetary support. The strengthening of these capabilities is
essential to improve the efficiency of public expenditures and to implement
the Government's Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program. Development projects
are growing in numbers and complexity, calling for effective monitoring and
close coordination of budgetary requirements. The policy initiatives in key
sub-sectors together with their ensuing effects on parastatal marketing and
processing organizations require intensified supervision and guidance. The
pipeline of agricultural projects increasingly demands local preparatory



- 86 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 10
inputs to ensure that projects conform with established sub-sector objectives
and strategies.
13.     Civil service and budgetary reforms are expected to address some of
the structural problems that explain the above deficiencies, including
streamlining the civil service, possibly involving mergers of ministries, and
increasing the pay scale for civil servants. Implementation of such reforms,
once started, will be gradual and so will its impact on agricultural sector
planning capability. In the meantime, efforts must be initiated to develop
improved sectoral management procedures and the human resources required to
implement them. Such initiatives need to be planned in such a way that their
implementation can be facilitated within a possible future scenario of a
reduced number of agricultural sector ministries. Their design also needs to
recognize ongoing Government initiatives to strengthen public sector
management.
Objectives and Main Features
14.     The proposed Program for Strengthening of Agricultural Sector Planning
(PASP), to be implemented over a four year period, has three objectives:
(a)   Increase Government's ability to ensure timely project
implementation in accordance with agreed plans and work programs
through more efficient programming, budgeting, monitoring, and
evaluation procedures, and better inter-ministerial
coordination.
(b)   Strengthen the capability of agricultural sector ministries to
oversee, coordinate and support implementation of Government
policy initiatives, relative to parastatal agencies.
(c)   Build up the capability of ministerial planning units to
actively participate in identification, preparation and
appraisal of new projects.
15.     These objectives would be attained through four principal strategies:
First, the planning and monitoring responsibilities among ministerial planning
units, the Sector Planning Department in MPED and AGSEC would be rationalized
to achieve a more effective utilization of existing institutional capabilities
and resources. Second, improved procedures would be introduced for planning,
programming, budgeting, monitoring, and evaluation. Third, the staff
resources of the planning units would be enhanced through Government filling
essential established posts that currently are vacant, and improvement of
staff skills through a comprehensive training program. Fourth, office
environment and logistics support would be upgraded.



- 87 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 10
16.     The PASP foresees that agricultural policy analysis will continue for
the time being to be the main responsibility of AGSEC, serving as APC's
analytical arm. This arrangement has functioned well over the last six years.
A program for strengthening of AGSEC capacity in this field has been financed
by IDA since 1985 and is continuing up to 1992 with PAO administering the
technical assistance program. PASP would complement by strengthening project
planning and monitoring, and sector programming and budgeting in the central
and subsector ministries thus reducing AGSEC's involvement in these areas.
Simultaneously, the links and collaborative mechanisms between AGSEC and
ministerial planning units would be strengthened, through staff exchange
programs, seminars and workshops.  The Government may consider at some time to
merge AGSEC's policy analysis functions with the ministerial planning
apparatus. However, any decision to do so will depend on the one hand on
progress accomplished under PASP in building ministerial planning units, and
on the other hand on the Government's future proposals for streamlining of the
civil service.
Cost Estimates and Financing
17.     To help implement the above program the project would Frovide
international and local consultant services in specific areas of sectoral
planning and management, organize and implement staff training programs,
procure vehicles and office equipment, and finance incremental recurrent costs
including staff allowances. The total cost of this intervention is estimated
at US$ 3.6 M, including all contingencies (details in Attachment 2). US$3.5 M
of ASAC funds provided by IDA would finance all foreign exchange costs (USS
3.4 M) and 50 percent of local expenditures. The balance of local
expenditures, or US$.l M, would be met by Government.
Implementation Arrangements
18.     Program implementation would involve the planning units of the four
agricultural ministries, the Agricultural Section of the Sectoral Planning
Department of MPED, and AGSEC. It would complement efforts to strengthen
economic planning, budgeting, and project monitoring and evaluation that are
ongoing and supported by technical assistance under ERC II, the Public
Enterprise Development Project, the IDA Technical Assistance Credits, and
other donor financed projects. The Agricultural Section of MPED's Sectoral
Planning Department would serve as the Project Implementation Unit for PASP.
PIU would be lead by the Head of the Agricultural Section, with Section staff
serving as counterparts to individual planning specialists to be recruited
internationally. All financial administration and procurement related to PASP
would be handled by the ASAC Project Coordination Unit.
19.     Technical Assistance and Training.  The PIU would be supported by a
technical assistance team (expatriate and local consultants) to undertake the
detailed development and introduction of improved planning and management
procedures. Specialist services, about 120 person-months (Attachment 4) would
be attached to PIU, but would be placed for short periods in the planning
units of the agricultural line ministries. The services would cover the



- 88 -
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 10
fields of project planning (team leader), programming and budgeting.
monitoring and evaluation, and public enterprise analysis (Draft TORe in
Attachment 6). Small inter-ministerial working groups would assist in
preparing planning manuals and foster cooperation around improved planning
procedures. The training program (summary in Attachment 5) would involve post
graduate training to selectively upgrade capabilities of senior economists and
statisticians, supplemented by training in specific planning skills through
short term courses, workshops and seminars would be held locally and abroad.
In-service training would ensure that improved methodologies and techniques,
to be documented in planning manuals, are effectively included in the working
procedures of ministerial planning units.
C.  Land Policy Research Program
Background
20.      Complex land tenure systems and the 1975 nationalization of freehold
land constrain agricultural developments well as effective protection of
forests and wildlife reserves and management of common property resources.
Poorly functioning land markets prevent progressive farmers accessir", land.
Tenure uncertainty restricts investments on land. Access to land -. the
vicinity of forests and game reserves needs to be clearly defined to control
encroachment and maximize cooperation with protection efforts. Land access
policies need to be established to promote sustainable use of communal grazing
areas. The Government is engaged in a program of land reform addressing the
above issues. Implementation of the program depends on an improved
understanding of how changes in tenure or land transaction systems affect
commercial and subsistence opportunities. An expanded research program in
these areas is being developed at the Makerere Institute for Soc.sl Research
(MISR) under a USAID financed collaborative agreement with the Land Tenure
Center (LTC) of the University of Wisconsin.
Objectives and Main Features
21.     ASAC support for a Land Policy Research Program over a four year
period, aims at:
(a)   strengthening MISR's capacity for sustained applied research in
land access and policy development; and
(b)   reinforcing the link between such researth and policy
formulation and implementation.
22.     The first of these objectives would be addressed through the following
project activities. First, MISR's existing offices would be rehabilitated and
new offices constructed for MISR staff and visitling researchers. Second, four
university flats at MISR's disposal would be rehabilitated for housing of
visiting faculty. Third, data processing and office equipment, and transport
would be procured, and MISR's library upgraded.  Fourth,  MISR research staff



- 89 -
ANNEX 6
Page 8 of 10
would be sent for training overseas under the collaborative agreement with
LTC.
23.     The second objective would involve strengthening of AGSEC's
participation in research planning and organization, and dissemination of
research findings to Government ministries, policy making authorities, and the
private sector. Such dissemination would take place through annual workshops
and seminars promoting interaction between researchers and policy makers, and
regional study tours. The above activities would complement the USAID
sponsored program under which LTC research staff work with MISR staff in
developing, implementing and evaluating a research program relevant to land
reform and land policy development in Uganda.
Costs and Financing
24.     The total cost of LPRP activities is estimated to be US$1.4 M,
inclusive of contingencies but exclusive of any taxes and duties (details in
Attachment 2). IDA would finance the foreign exchange costs of vehicles,
equipment, training (US$.7 M), and about 50 percent, or US$.5 M equivalent, of
local expenditures for civil works, and incremental operating costs. The
Government would finance the balance of local costs (US$ .2 M equivalent).
Implementation Arrangements
25.     The responsibility for LPRP implementation would be shared between a
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in MISR and AGSEC. The existing Land Reform
Committee, comprising representatives from MISR, AGSEC, the Ministry of Lands
and Surveys, and the Attorney General's Office would serve as the LPRP
Coordination Committee. A PIU has been established, headed by the Director of
MISR and including a Senior Research Advisor (financed by USAID), an
adminictrative officer and a representative from the Engineering Faculty from
MU. A draft four-year land policy research program has ben prepared.
26.     The PIU, together with AGSEC, would prepare annual research programs
and work plans, organize the training program for MISR research staff,
initiate procurement of civil works and equipment, and supervise project
engineering works and all other aspects of project implementation. AGSEC
through its LPRP Unit, Lsaded by a senior officer, would participate in annual
research programming, participate as appropriate in field research, organize
annual policy workshops, disseminate reports and research findings, and plan
and organize study tours.
27.     A mid-term review, involving representation from the Government and
the donors (USAID and IDA) would take place at the beginning of the third
project year, i.e. during the spring of 1993. The review would focus on
results, future program and its funding. Financial administration and
procurement would be managed by ASAC's Project Coordination Unit. The Land
Reform Committee serving as LPRP Coordination Coimittee, would review
MISR/AGSEC proposals for land policy research program and associated LPRP work



- 90 -
ANNEX 6
Page 9 of 10
programs and budgets, and submit the same to APC for approval. Draft Terms of
Reference for LPRP/PIU, AGSEC's LPRP Unit and the LRC are in Attachment 6.
D. Strengthening Coffee Sub-Sector Management
Institutional Support to Coffee Marketing Board
28.     The Government's Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program includes
organizational, financial and institutional restructuring of the Coffee
Marketing Board (CMB). The organizational restructuring program has already
been initiated by CMB management *1ith the help of consultants financed under
IDA Third Technical Assistance Credit. The principles for financial and
institutional restructuring have been approved by the Government, i.e. CMB is
to be converted to a commercial marketing organization (details in Annex 4).
The detailed financial and institutional restructuring is now being finalized
by APC Working Group 2.
29.     To complement present technical assistance arrangements and help CMB
implement its financial and institutional restructuring programs, the project
would provide for management advisory services, training, the design and
installation of a comprehensive management information system, and the
installation of improved communication facilities, at an estimated total cost
of US$1.4 M. These costs would be fully met by IDA funds, that would be
p'assed on by the Government as a grant to CMB. The advisory services would
involve a Chief Operations Advisor for a period of two years and a Chief
Financial Advisor for a period of 18 months, i.e. an extension of present TA
III arrangements. The training component would involve short term overseas
training of senior technical staff in the areas of marketing, traffic
management, processing and warehousing management, and quality control.
Technical Assistance for Coffee Subsector Reform
30.     The Government has transferred CMI's regulatory functions to the
Marketing Department of the Ministry of Cooperatives and Marketing (MCM). It
proposes, however, to set up an autonomous body with responsibility for
regulatory functions throughout the coffee sector and for overall development
of the coffee industry.  ASAC would provide financing (US$ 217,000) for a
study to prepare detailed recommendations for establishing such an
institution. The study would be initiated in April 1991, following the
completion of the coffee export taxation study (to be financed under ERC II).
The APCIMCM will administer the study which would be carried out by
consultants, to be recruited from a qualified international firm, and a local
working group. The planning, review and follow-up actions to the study would
be undertaken in consultation with IDA.
31.     The project would also provide short term consultant services (ten
person-months) in cooperative financial planning and management. The purpose
would be to assist the Government in formulating and evaluating appropriate
policies through which the Government can support the cooperative unions'



- 91 -
ANNEX 6
Page 10 of 10
program of financial and managerial restructuring. This work would be based
on the models for such restructuring that have been developed by APC's Working
Group 3 and adopted by APC. The consultant would be attached to MCM's
Cooperative Department and would work very closely with the Uganda Cooperative
Alliance.
S. Prolect Coordination and Monitoring
32.     The APC would oversee progress in the implementation of the
Government's Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (the Program) as well as
activities under ASAC's investment component referred to in sections (A) to
(D) above.
33.     Program Implementation.  A Program Coordinator (secondment of senior
Government officer) and a Financial Advisor (internationally recruited) would
be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the various elements of
the Program, as shown in the Government's Letter of Agricultural Policy
(Annex 6), and as agreed under the ASAC implementation schedule (Annex 8).
They would report to APC through the Agricultural Secretariat to which they
would be administratively attached. Both positions (TORs in Annex 6) would be
for a period of 16 months. ASAC would fund the full costs for the Financial
Advisor, and incentive allowances for the Program Coordinator.
34.     Investment Component Activities.  A Project Coordination Unit (PCU),
attached to AGSEC and reporting to APC. would be responsible for overall
implementation planning, procurement and financial control, and coordination
of activities carried out by the HARE, LPRP, PASP and CSH project
implementation units and agencies. The senior staff of PCU would include a
Project Coordinator and a Financial Controller, both of which would be
internationally recruited (TORs in Attachment 6), and include a limited number
of local support staff. The project would fund the international staff of
PCU, provide office and transport facilities, and cover incremental operating
costs, including meeting allowances for APC, all at an estimated cost over the
Project's four year period of US$1.0 M (details in Attachment 2).
Attachments
1. Synopsis of HARE Subprojects
2. Cost Estimates
Table 1 - Cost Summary
Table 2 - Summary Accounts Cost
Table 3 - Summary Account by Project Component
Table 4 - Financing Plan by Components
Table 5 - Inflation and Foreign Exchange Rates used for Project
Cost Estimates
3. List of Envisaged Procurement Contracts
4. Summary of Technical Assistance Services
5. Summary of Training Program
6. TORs for Project Implementing agencies and Technical Assistance Personnel.



- 92 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 4
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Head-Start Program for Agricultural Research and Extension
Synopsis of Sub-Projects
Sub-Project 1. TechnologZ Dissemination Through Improved Extension
1.    This sub-project which will be based at the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), will start the revitalization of the moribund extension service by
activating four District Farm Institutes (DFIs) to serve as focal points for
the delivery of relevant off-the-shelf technology which have not been brought
to the attention of Uganda's small farmers. These *packages of improved
production technologies" will be demonstrated in the DFIs and in selected
farmers' fields close to the DFIs and later on to a wider area as these
"packages' are verified and fine-tuned for the unique agro-climatic and socio-
economic situations prevailing in the areas. These technology packages will
not be limited to crops but will include livestock husbandry, fisheries and
agro-forestry practices which would significantly improve existing
crops/livestock/fisheries/forestry production systems existing in the mandate
areas. The design and demonstration of the technology packages will take into
account the particular needs of women farmers. Funds for rehabilitation of
four DFIs, recurrent operating expenses of extension staff, including travel
and incentive allowances, training of farmers and extension agents and for the
purchase of vehicles and equipments will be provided under this sub-project.
The District Productivity Committee (DPC) which are comprised of District
Officers of the Ministries of Agriculture (MOA), Animal Industry and Fisheries
MAIF), Cooperatives and Marketing (MCM) and Environmental Protection (MEP)
will provide overall supervision and direction in the operations of the DFIs.
The DPC will also provide subject matter specialist support to the DFIs as
necessary.
Sub-Project 2. Improving Production and Utilization of Plantation Forests
2.    Over the years, the natural forests have been providing most of the
timber requirements of Uganda and as a result these have now been seriously
depleted. On the other hand, Uganda's coniferous plantation forests are now
mature but unfortunately, these are not yet being harvested. It is estimated
that there are about 12,000 hectares of coniferous forest which will be ready
for harvesting within the next five years. The sub-project will be
implemented by the Forestry Department of MEP to demonstrate proper harvesting
techniques and equipment, and timber production and utilization for the
housing and furniture industries. It will also include a component to
demonstrate proper nursery establishment and seedling production for
replanting and reforestation of harvested stands. Funds will be provided to
the sub-project for recurrent operating costs, staff incentives and training



- 93 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 4
and some vehicles and equipment. To the extent possible, the sub-project will
utilize equipment and facilities being made available through the on-going IDA
financed Forestry Rehabilitation Project, thereby minimizing on capital
expenditures.
Sub-Project 3. Optimizing Smallholder Dairy Productivity
3.    Total production of milk and other dairy products have sharply declined
due to dwindling dairy herds, lack of proper management, inadequate nutrition
and high incidence of diseases. To respond to the increasing demand for milk
and dairy products and to provide the vitamin and protein requirements of the
population, the declining trend in production needs to be reversed. This sub-
project intends to accomplish this by improving management practices and
providing better and adequate feeds, to selected indigenous cattle and their
crosses, which are more tolerant to diseases and immediately make an impact on
increasing dairy productivity per unit of land. The sub-project will be
implemented by MAIF through the Animal Health Research Center in collaboration
with the Makerere University (MU) which will have primary responsibility for
the research component which will be conducted at the Makerere University
Agricultural Research Institute -Kabanyolo (MUARIK). On farm trials will be
undertaken in the same DFIs involved in Sub-project 1. Sub-project support
will consist of provision of funds for recurrent operating costs, staff
incentives, in-service training of staff and vehicles and equipment.
Sub-Project 4. Strengthening the Cotton Research and Production Program
4.    Cotton is an important crop in about half of the 34 districts in the
country. The 400,000 bales of cotton marketed in 1972/73 accounted for 252 of
foreign exchange earnings, but the 11,000 bales marketed in 1987/88 accounted
for only 3Z. Domestic mill demand is estimated at 25,000 bales. The Sub-
Project will develop and test existing cotton varieties, generate new ones and
distribute them through the extension service and to increase productivity and
incomes of small holder cotton farmers. Arrangements for seed multiplication
will also be made. The sub-project will fund recurrent operating costs, staff
incentives and training, and vehicles and equipment. MOA is responsible for
the execution of this Sub-Project on cotton which will be centered at
Namulonge Research Center. The Sub-Project Leader appointed by MOA will be
based at Namulonge and coordinate activities at the Variety Testing Centers
(VTCs) and the DFIs. He will also work closely with the Unit Head of Sub-
Project 1 on technology dissemination in the implementation of the cotton
extension component. On-station trials will be conducted at the VTCs and
DFIs. On-farm trials and result demonstrations will be conducted with co-
operating farmers beginning in Year 2.
Sub-Project 5. Fish Culture Research and Development
5.    Uganda, in recent years, has mostly depended on its lakes to supply fish
for the population. Presently annual fish production is estimated at 200,000
metric tonnes and less than 12 is obtained from aquaculture. During the
period 1950-1965 there was much enthusiasm for aquaculture and thousands of



- 94-
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 4
ponds were constructed in various parts of Uganda, including those districts
adjacent to lakes. Unfortunately there was a loss of momentum during recent
troubled times resulting in the decline of the aquaculture program. The sub-
project which will be implemented by the Fisheries Department of the Ministry
of Animal Industry and Fisheries, intends to revive the interest of farmers in
aquaculture by pixviding and demonstrating to farmers the appropriate
technologies for the construction and proper maintenance of ponds, feeding
techniques and pond fertilization and supplying farmers with adequate supply
of fish fry. The sub-project will be provided funds for the rehabilitation of
the main breeding center at Rajansi and fry production centers at Mbale,
Kabale and Gulu, recurrent expenditures, staff incentives and training,
training of farmers, -d for the purchase of vehicles and equipment.
Sub-Proiect 6. Groundnut and Simsim Research and Development
6.    Groundnut and simsim constitute an important part of the Ugandan diet as
food, additives in the confectionery industry and snacks. By-products are
very important to the livestock industry. In the past, these two crops
contributed significantly to export volume and foreign exchange earnings.
Farmers yields average 800 and 300 kgs. per hectare for groundnut and simsim,
respectively while research trials have achieved 2500 kgs. and 600 kgs. per
hectare Higher yielding varieties of both crops are about ready for release to
farmers. The sub-project will be implemented by MOA through the Namulonge
Research Center. On-farm trials and results demonstration will be conducted
at the Ikulwe and Ngetta DFIs which will be rehabilitated under Sub-Project 1.
The sub-project wills (i) rapidly multiply and make available improved
varieties of groundnut and simsim to interested farmers, (ii) select early
maturing lines resistant to rosette virus disease and Cercospora leaf spot,
(iii) screen prospective pesticides for potency, optimum application levels
and regimes in the context of an Integrated Pest Management (IPM) approach,
and (iv) train extension staff and farmers on appropriate technology packages.
The sub-project will be provided funds for recurrent operating costs, staff
training and incentives, farmer training, and for the purchase of supplies,
vehicles and equipment.
Sub-Project 7. Agro-Forestry Research and Extension.
7.    The Ugandan farmer is typically a subsistence small-holder practicing
mixed farming on farms averaging 0.4 hectares in densely populated areas to
just over 6 hectares in sparsely populated regions. Trends indicate that the
country will be unable to meet its basic food and wood requirements in the
future if appropriate measures are not taken immediately. Traditional agro-
forestry systems have been practiced in Uganda for years, but their
productivity has not been studied and modern agro-forestry technologies are
relatively unknown. In the traditional agro-forestry systems, little emphasis
is placed on the positive interaction between trees and crops such as
improvement of soil fertility, provision of fodder for livestock, fuelwood and
poles, and control of soil erosion. The sub-project, to be implemented by the
Forestry Department of MEP, in close collaboration with the MWARIK and the
Namulonge Research Center, will identify relevant agro-forestry technologies,



- 95 -
ANNEX 6
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 4
test their adaptability under local conditions and introduce the proven ones
for farmer adoption. Some of these technologies might be adopted straight
away and others tried and adapted to Ugandan conditions by selecting the most
suitable practices. Such technologies might provide farmers with a viable
alternative to traditional shifting cultivation which is depleting the natural
forest resources and degrading the environment. The sub-project will be
provided funds for recurrent operating costs, staff training and incentives,
farmer training, and for the purchase of supplies, vehicles and equipment.
Sub-Project 8. Impact of Fishing Practices on Fish Stocks and Fish Production
in Lake Victoria
8.    The collapse of the multi-species fishery in Lake Victoria was largely
due to over fishing. In Lake Kyoga, increased fishing pressure also resulted
in a decline in fish catches from about 167,000 metric tonnes in 1977 to
86,700 metric tonnes four years later. Fish stocks and compositions in these
lakes have further declined over recent years. Unfortunately, the impact of
over fishing on the Ugandan lakes, and Lake Victoria in particular,is not
known. Over exploitation of fish stock in these lakes continues to increase.
The sub-project, which will be implemented by the Fisheries Department of MAIF
will undertake studies to assess the fish stock and fish composition in Lake
Victoria so the mechanism for their exploitation can be properly managed and
regulated. The dynamics of the fish species can be studied in relation to
fishing gear and methods for optimum yields to assure long-term viability of
the fishing industry. For Lake Victoria, the question of control has become
crucial as the new fisheries regime appears to be reaching a stage of peak
production. To be useful in terms of sustainability of production,
profitability and consumer nutritional benefits, regulation measures will have
to be designed on the basis of the results obtained from this project. The
sub-project will be provided funds for recurrent operating costs, staff
training and incentives, farmer training, and for the purchase of supplies,
vehicles and equipment.
Sub-Project 9. On-Farm Grains Storage
9.    Uganda has made significant advances in the production of food grains
and is now faced by serious second generation problems of handling and storage
of this increased production. Inadequate storage capacity has resulted in
losses of harvested food grain estimated at 20 to 40 percent of production.
The sub-project, to be implemented by MOA, will promote on-farm storage of
grains using low cost technology similar to those being utilized in Western
Kenya and other developing countries. Such technologies have been able to
reduce storage losses in Kenya from 25 percent to 10-15 percent. The sub-
project will be provided funds for a study tour by MAH subject matter
specialist to observe on-going on-farm storage activities being utilized in
Western Kenya, training of farmers, production of information materials and
kits for the training of farmers and promotion of the technology, recurrent
operating costs, staff incentives and the purchase of supplies, equipment and
vehicles.



AGRICULTURAL SECTIO AI#  lNT CREDIT
FRO.WECT COST SUIAbRY
WANDASNILIIt6    Nillion)                         lust 00OOI
___,------------ __ -  -- -_ ------- ............ ------  --------. _,_.._......    - --__ -..... ------------............___
Z Total                                    I Total
I Foeign) bsei.                            Z Fortign low
Local Foreign  Total  Exchae   Costs   Local Foeui   Total  Exchans.  Costs
4. NEADSTART PROM FOP AGRICUIRAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
1. SLtP - PRWECT 1.0 TECNNOL.OY DISSEMINATION                                       395.8  .99.4   695'2         43      to   776.0   587.1  1*3631.        43      .o
2. SUP - FROJECT 2.0 IIINRITIG PROTUCTION ANI UTILIZATION OF FOEST PFt4ATIONS        N0.8   94.6   155.3         61       2   It9.2   195.4   344.6          61      2
3. SU8 - MOJECT 3.0 INOING SUIALLNILDER DAIRY MRODUCTltO                             44.7   95.4   140.1         69       2    87.7   187.0   274.7         68       2
1. SUP - PROJECT 4.0 STRENGTHENING COTTON RESEARCIH NID PRODUCTION                  229.4  105.6   333.9         32       5   447.8   207.0   654.6         32       5
SU - MOJECT 5.0 FISH CULTUFE RESEARCH AND DEVELOFENT                              54.8   59.2   113.9         52       2    107.4   116.0   223.4         52      2
S. SUP - fOECT 6.0 G101UT AD SIuISIl RESEARCN AND  E PWLWNt                          58.4   97.4   M55.9         63       2   114.6   191.0   305.6          63      2
7. SU? - PROJECT 7.0 AMEO - FORESTRY RESEARCK AND EXTENSION                          54.5   69.8   124.3         56       2   106.9   136.8   243.7         56       2
8. SUs -FRJECT 8.0 INMACT OF FISHINIG PRATICES WI FISH STOCK AIID fISH PRODUCTION    46.3  102.7   149.0         69       2    S0.8   201.4   292.2        6d        2
9. POJECT CoMINATION tOT                                                            140.7   M.7   913.3          85      13   275.8 1.s55.0  1790.8         es      13
10. ON - FARM GAINS STORAE (tIlER PREPARATION                                        64.2  192.9   277.2         70       4   165.2   379.3   543.5          70      4
_ - -  - -   _ - - - --w-- - - - -- --- - -- - --  -- -- --- - -- -- --- - -- - --- - -- - -- . ....... 
S.h-TotaI EASTART PROtRAU FOR ARICI.TtRL RESAH AID EXTENSION                         I 168.6 2,889.6  3,058.2      62      42 2291.4  3M705.1 5s96.4           62     42
P. INSTITI10A  STRENGtEXIIING OF LAND POLICY RESEARCH
t. SUPORT FOR tISf RESEARC  PROOM1                                                  169.6  267.5   437.2         61       6   332.5   524.5   957.0         62       6
2. SUPPORI FOR ASSEC AND PRJECT NW3EIIEt                                             95.2   61.3   256.5          39      2   296.6   120.3   306.9          39      2                              1
Sub-total INSTITUTIONAL SIREWCTINEIS OF LA  POLICt RESEARCH                            264.7  329.8   593.6         55       a   519.2   644.8  It63.9         55 s        a
C. STREHIIENING SECTOd MANNING
1. IVISRY OF PLr NNNo AND EtNIC KDYOPEUT: SECTORAL  tIMNG &PARTNT                     6.9  700.5   707.4         9       20    13.5  1.373.4  1W387-0        W      10
'- NINIST  OF AGRICtULTURE - PLANNING UIT                                          26.0  294.0   320.0         92       4    51.0   576.4   627.4          92      4
3. MINISTRY OF COOERATIVES AO r      NETING - PLANNS UNIIT                           -3.5  107.9   121.4         89       2    26.4   211.6   238.0         89       2
4. IIINISTRY OF ENVIRONEN1TAL MROTECTION - KLAING UNIT                               13.5   37.5    52.0          74      1    26.4    73.6    00.0          74      1
5. IIINISTRY OF ANINAL IMNSTRIES AU FIERIES - FLANIING MiT                           19.2  182.1   201.4         90       3    37.7   357.1   394.9                  3
- ^- -- --- -- - - - -- - -- -- - -- - -- - -- -  ------ -- 1._  -- -- - -- - - - - -.. .- -  -- - ----
Sub-Total STRENSTIENING SECIORAL PLAING                                                 79.2 lo322.0  1*40l.2       94      19   155.0  2,592.2 2,747.2        94      19
D. STRENGTNENtIN  COFFEE SUPSECTDR   MEIEI
1. SUPFOT fOR COFFEE   lUTIN  BOARD RESTRUTURItN                                        -  614.6   614.6        loo       8        -  1W2WI)0 2,205.0       1oo      S
2. SMUORT FOR COFFEE SUBSEtCYR REFOer  IPELEHATION                                    5.1  168.3   173.4         97       2    10.0   330.0   340.0          97      2
Sub-Total SPRfThINING COFFEE SUSECtOR INAGEMET                                           5.1  782.9   786.0         9       1t    10.0 12535.0  1*545.0        W       11
C. PROJECT AfAGENENT StIORT
^     ...........  ..............-
1. PROJECT IA"iEGEIT OuPT                                                           228.8  642.4   761.2         94      10   232.9 12259.6  1*492.5         84     20
2. PROJECT PREPARtION FACILITY                                                       132.2  52S.        .0       80       9   259,2  2,031.0  1290.2         s0      9
__ .____....._-_- ....... --.-_-- -  -......... ---- --- - - --  ---- - - ------ -'---- -;e
Sub-lotal PRECT INAIEMT SUPPORT                                                        251.0 1.168.2  2,429-2       82      20   492.1  2.290.6  2,782.7        82     20                        f-t
_______.___-_ _. __-- ---- --^----- -------- -.  ....- -------- -------                                 Z  
To1al BASELINE COSTS                                                                   1*768.5 S.491.5 7t2d0.6        76    100 3,467.? *0.767.6 14#235.3        76    100
Ptho.Cal ContingnKItes                                                                163.6  496.6   660.2          75      9   320.8   973.7  10294,5         75      9                     -
f rice Contngsektus                                                                    710.9 1*913.9  2:624.8       73     36   268.9   794.6  t MM3.5         73      B
Total PROJECT COStS                                                                    2,643.1 7o90.9 20545.0         75    145  4,077.4 122535.8 164613.3        75   1H7
.,,:.. __ ...         .     ...........   .... .. ....... ........ __._     ____
Iowabet 10t 10  10:28



IsCILURMK SECMt AIST    CaIRE
mm ACM- CoST -_r
lom1 SIIULINSS  lhllimn)                        (Vs5 '000)
2 total                                  7 Totel
Z Foaish Ib,                             I  oeio  ais
Lacsl VulWs  Total  Eb          Costs   Local famh     Total  Ezcaio  Costs
1, IllNIMI CIITI
Al 111                                  -512.4   512A4         100      7       - 1,004.7   004.7                7
is EOPIIUT                           38*3  532,6   570.8       93       8    75.0 13044.3  1,1193        93      S
Co CVL VMS                            7.6  309.    397A4        7S      5   171.9   607.4   779.3        7S      5
D. CUILIIt URICES                    75,4 2,710.0 2,754         97     38   147.8 5,313,7 5461.          97     39
FE TOMil                            3M5e8  "644  126.2          69     17   "got  .6s940  ,470.9         69     17
Toutl 1N N1   CSTS 5M7.1 4129.1  552.2                                    76 1.170.99,65.0 0l3.S3S         9      76
PhFislc Cw amt in                    57.l  440.3   47A.4        9       7    11*.9   663.4   9.3          9      7
Price Ccolltiimffs                  214,3 1,652,5 lS66.         9      26    37.2   679.    7670         69      5
Total IICLUDINS CUTIN8EIICS           l3.5 7,022.0 7310.4         99    109 1369*9 11.23,2 12t57861         89     8e
Ic-    m.               mm _m                       mm
U1. tlURit Cl 5T5
A. 5111 giauLM ES      INCENIMS  1.030,3      - t.030.1         -     94 2,021.2       - 2.021.2         -     14
BP 01  I  REPAS                     70.3  281.1   351,4        s0      5   IJ3.8   551,2   689.0        30      5
C. WILES                            490  199,3   249.2         00      3    977   3M0.t   493.6         B0      3
D. RUio  a  NONSTMTIGNS             20,.   81.9   102.4        80      1    404    160,6   200,7        30      1
Total 3112R3D9   COBIS               1,171.4  562.3 1M733.3        32     24 2,296.9  1102.6 3r399.5        32     24
Eatical Cmntirntcli                 106.6   56.2   IU           35      2   20069   11D.3   319.2        35      2
Price CastamcUis                    496.7  261.4   79*0         34     10   203.7   114.8   31464        36      2
TOWtal   II CTINCIES                 1.774,6  879.9 2,654.         33    3V  2,7075  1,327.7 4.035,2        33     20
Total mEL   cSm                       1,748.5 3.4915  7.26t0       76    100 3.467? 10767.6 14235.3          76    100
Pilcal CoUrmcin                      163.   4966    660.2        75      I   320.8  M97  13294.5          75      t
Price Cmmicbn                        730.9 1#913.9 2,424.3       73     36   216.9   79446  3063.         73      8
Toutl FUJECT COSS                     2,643.1 7,901.9 1t055.0      75    145 4,077.4 12,535.3 16,613,3       75    I1
MIer 10N.1910 10:11
I0 Ut
f' E D
tD J 
1s.30%
I.,
S.



MRIOLUE*L SECWT ALUBUNt CEBIT
Uunr keot b. Prjct Cuaeot
(OUSM  10111   Huh..l)
IEAOSTART "1M       FOR t1CILIlMl ussmI AIID EXUISIM
sue - rESCT
SOE-                                                        33CECT          SUt -     8.0 l1tT Of
2.01 IN INI"  StI -  TAf    SU - FR T  SUB - M CT SD - MJC    R T 7.4 flmi
TIOI   I T I    1.0 FI RlE lO     4.      0         FISH    6*. OW NT       M    -       jTIS 0                    O - fM
SMIW - PCT   UtlL12^TIN OF  SLM              STEST411N         CtTIK        m  SIHSIN      OSBTR    FISH 57=          MECT       SINS STt
I1so TECHID6Y     FORlEST         DAIRY      OTTO RSESCI  REEF        C AN   RESfiRa RESEX AN              40fISH    CMlkgSTAllO   l  O Ili
D16FIlltONAII   "MAMAPW        UCtlal    AsI  MUIIDJtll   DEAWtN  ISVMlP#l    EXTSIMIII                P"tD             WTll      tvlll
1. IlHEIt  cuS
A. VBIC1IS                                 101.5            7.7          10.2             27.5          11.0          19.9         10.2           7.7          52.0
3. EOiUlmfT                                  25,5           40.3          23.0             18.9           4*3          10.2         10.2          22,3         1u.'
C. CIVIL 0811(5                              53,6            7.7          15.3             23.0          12.8          15.3          7.7          23.0         t27.S
1. C_LT*NT SERVICES                                                           -                      -             -                   -             -         4947
El TMIUINS                                   53.0           16,4          17.3            1804.          30.4          23.5         24*0          26,3          76h5
Total IIJESTIINT COSTS                         233.6           74.5          65.8           2535           s8es           68.9         52.0          n.2         76.6            1
it. RECW"D1 costs
...............
A. STF ALOIMCES AO ICElTIVES              310.2           38.6          33.5             42.2          30M0          39.6         33.6          25.1         107.5
S. ON AN IEPAIRS                            61.2           12.9           10.2            15.3          10.7          17.9          8.2          2.4           J5.3                    '.
C. SUIUES                                    0.8           25.5          15.3             15.3          10.2          15.3         10.2          21.9          23.0                     o
0. TRIALS I IEIINSRTIItIS                   29.4            4.1           15.3             7.7           4.6          15.I         15.3           2.4             -
Iotal REClt casts                              461.6           S0.           74.3            80.5           55.5          87.0         72.3          6.9          345.8
Total BASELTIE CSTS                             69.2           155S3         140t1           333.9          113.9         155.9        124.3         149.0         913.3
Itiical C nriuncmes                           69.5           15.5           14.0            33.4          11.4          15,6         12.4          14.9          93.3
Price Cmt inicis                             237.1           62.*4         47.             137.6          44.2          61.1         48.6          53.7         354.9
TOtl "A       COSTS                           1,051.9          233.3         201.9            505.0         169.5         232.5        185.3         217.6       1.359.5
Ferela  E                                    4V.8           137.          132.5            147*5          84.3         141,5        100,3         146.7       t.lSI.6
byseer 10. 1990 1t1O
4F3 0' 
o0 
Fr  t



-K
mia&muW ucMM USwl mKOaT
so"" kcemt b. twsJKct Cawasmt
tUIIW    s5LI     Milli")
STREISIINI  SECTOR. rime
STYIUSIENIU    F UlAN   NINISTMI O                                                             STISTENS CINFEE  UISECIOR
POISCY RES Et UflUsND am                                                       MIMIIT OF              lW?UW PROT   tMW
----- ---------     ECINIC                                                    ANIINS     ---------       -------                 StUlt
am' FOR  SWRT FOR KammEL         T:                  MINISTRY O      MISTRY OF   INDSTRIES      SI T FOR         SUPPT FOR    ----------------                    Ptbsical
RisR      ASSEC g      SECtu       MINIStRY OF   CWO TE    S   ENVIROltNTAI. AG FISERIES CFEE METIN  CCFFEE M       SMNECTOR  FRECt       F*OJCI              CoFtinffein
RESEANC      PRIJECT     KANG m       ICj L Tt01    - INID AItETINS - PRTECTION -   - PLANSING     OM               WMU 1       EIENT PREPlATION                   -
PFM       PAMEI        DEPARrIM I ES oP  u      LANlNI U1  to IIIB UN1t  PIIIGT    UlltT      RESTRC1URIN    IIUETATION   SMMRT    FACILITY    Total            I     _t
25.5        Rol3         ts3           26.1            10.2           4.1          17.9               -                -       25.5        15.1    S12.4   6.S   43.7
115.5           -           .0          62.2            15.3         5Sl           21.4             25.5                -                  14 224.2    570.3   7.6   44.7
64.2                        -             -              -                                                                                         397.4   0.*0   39.7
-           -        5S7.5             -               -             -             -            482.0           1.3        652.6       353.   2M.S4   9.7  243.2
195.1        11.7         63.5         m71.0            59.2         25.3         1Il,7            107,1                        23.0           -1260.2  50.0  126.0
4202         4.9         679.3         261.2            64.7          24.5         151.0           614.6            166.3      706.4       552.2  s5s26.2   9.0  497.4
-        92.3          0.1           9.4             3.3          10.2           5.7                -             5.1        44.9       505*0  1#0300   9.0   92.5
6.7           -         17.7          3.2             23.6          163          33.6               -                -        9.9           -    351.4  50.0   35.1
10.2        14.3         10.2          50.2             4.1             -           6.1               -                -          -           -    24.2  10.0   24.9
-           -            -             -               -             -             -               -                -          -           -    10e.4   c..e   10.2
16.9       106.6         23.0          56.6            36,7          26.5          50.4               -              5.5       54.8       1054  1s,33,    9-4  162.6
437.1       156.5        707.4         320.0           122.4          51.0         201.4            614.6           n73.4      761.2        6.0  7.260.0   9.2   6-2
43.7        15.7         70.7          32.0            12.1           5.1          20.1            61.5             17.3       76.1           -    6I0.2   0.0    0-0
550.2        74.1         94,9         132.6            U9.E          22.3          36.6            211.6            37.e0     34.6         44.6  2*624.0   8.9  234.6
630.9       24.1.3      1073.0         484.6          1I3.3           73.4         3O.I             a7.6            227.7    10152.1       702.6 t0.545.0   6.5  694.3
3tS.3        ?4.6       1.062.2        443.4           162.2          o7.0         277.6            007.6           221.5      97.4        570.4  790.9   6.4  66.5
0 it :
cr C, 
t 8o
. ,
C
C.s



AIRICa.Tm  sir  ALINSTNEJt  ClNIT
Finawltg Pla by ProJctt Ceca  ts
(US* '0001
IDELIFIEIEt    owME iir or
AsIOCIATIoN     2316           Tota                   LWoca
tEcl.  bAtiz I
_ot   2    Aaomt  I    Aamt   I    Fot. Excb. Tam)   TIs
A. NEAISTART PlRAl FOR AGRICULUA  fESEMIC  M  EMEIUION
I. SIt - MOMECT 1.0 TECIIOLTY DISSENINATION                                    1.230.7 75.9       .1 24.2  1.623.8  9.9        67.9      .          -
2, SOl ' PROJECT 2.0 IIRINS FSIINUCtUNMN UTILIZATION OF FOREST  MATIONfl           301.5 13.3     60.3 16.7    361.8  2.2       218.2   143.7         -
3. SO1 - PRCT 3.0 111IN6 SN UIJNDLIRER  MIR  PR    ION                            279,2 96,3      44.2 13.7    322.5  1.9       217.2   105.3         -
4. SUIR - PR8tECT 4.0 STRE3TIU COTTON RESEACN MS        TION                       553.5 71.4    226.5 29.0    780.0  4.7       240.1   539.2        -
5. SO3 - PROJECT 5.0 FISH CMUM  RESEARCH AN  DNELOPIENT                           210.7 79.6      54.1 20.4    264.9  1.6       136.0   128.          -
6. SUB - PRECI 60 GRUIIT ND SIIISIII RESEARC AMS LEVELOPIEW                        304.5 94.0     57.9 16.0    362.3  2.2       224*5   137.9         -
7. SUI - MROJECT 7,0 A6M1 - FORESTRY RESEURCH MhN EXTENSION                       234.9 91,3      54.0 18.7    283.9  1.7       160.4   128.5         -
8. SU0 - PRJECT 8.0 IMPACT OF FISHINB PRACTICES ON FMSH STMICK M  FISH PMO IOUCTlN  299.7 86.8    45,6 13.2    344.3  2.1       235.7   108.6        -
9. PRUECT COOR8O1TIOI tilt                                                       1994,8  93,5    136.9 6.5  2121,7  12,8   I.78   325.9              -
10. ON - FAN GRAINS STA   (UER PEAION 1                                           561.1 87.2      82.5 12.9     43.7  3.9       447.1    96.5        -
Sub-total RDSTARt PROGRAN FOR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MS EXTENSION                   5958.7 83.8  1,155.1 16.2  7,113.8 42,8    4,363,6 20750.2
P. INSTRITUTIOL 6TRENGTHENINi OF L    POLICT RESAC
1. UPPORT FOR IISR RESEA      FRC 3                                               842.6 83.8   1I3.4 16.2  1#006.0  6.1         616.9   39.1         -
2. SlPPRT FOR AISEC AM  MROJECT IWA T                                             275.2 74.4       4.9 25.6    370.1  2.2       t44.t   226.0        -
Sub-Total INSTITUTIOlAL STRENOTINIS OF LID POLICY RESEARCH                          1tI7.9 81.2    258.3 ;9.9  1.376.1  893        761.0   615.1        -
C. STREN61 NS11 SECTOR.RALNIN
1. HINISTIR OF f1M11NG1MS AN EIC OEVELNPIENIIT SEClIRMI KllUIIINIB IMRTIENT      1644,9 99.6       6.9 0.4  1.651.8  9.9    19635.4    16.3           -
2. HINISTRY OF A1RICUtTIRE - PWIINO UNIT                                           721.4 96.5     25,7 3.5    747.3  4.5        685.7    61*6         -
3. NINISRY OF COOERTIUS  SD MIRETINI  -   FIA       UINIT                         269.1  95.3     13.4 4,7    293.3  1.t        251.5    31.8        -
4. KINISTRY OF EIIRJINENTAL MITECTION - PLAN ING MIT                               10613 88.8      13.4 11.2    1t9.7  0.7       87.7    32.0        -
5. lIIIISTRT OF ANnUL INRIIDSES MS FISHERIES - PIWIIN  MIIIT                      452.8  95.9    1t.2 4,1    472n0  2.8         426.3    45.6        -
Sub-Total STRENOITEN1NG SECTORAL PLAt INO                                           3P195.3 97,6     78.7 2.4  34274.0  19.7    3#086.7   187.4         -
Do STRENOTININS COfFEE SUSECTOR IVISENT
1. SOMFUl FOR COFFEE NETIII  OM    RESTRUCTURING                                 1,412.7 100.0       -   -  1,412.7  86.5    1412.7         -        -
2. SUPPORT FOR CCfFEE SSECTOR REFORN IlT AnAON                                     383.8 "I8       4.7  1.2    398.5  2.3       377.2    11*2         -
Sub-Total STRENGTHENING COFFEE SUIECTOR HWAMT                                       1079645 9.7       4.7 0*3  11801.2 10,8    1,789.9    11.2
E. PRWECt wMM         sU  T
1. PRECT IWMIET SUIPORT                                                          1.662.9 93.5    115.3 6.5   P.778,1  10.7    1,503.7   274.5        -
2. PECT   10TION FACILITY                                                       1.270.0 100.0       -   -  1.270.0  7.6    1.031.0   239.0          -                               > >
D) rt :
Sub-Total PRJECT IIEWRT SPRT                                                       2932.8  9.2    115.3 3.8  3.049.1  18.3    2,534.7   513,4                                     -A 5  X
Total Disursnewt                                                                     15t001.1 90.3  1,612.1 9.7  16613.3 200.0   12,535,B 4,077.4         -                        >   8
-C-C  c:8:  22882  82    GtCCC: ~:cg          28C    B:22228   C:CCC: 2
r            ---  ----- --              --       -----------------------          ----
Noineber 10, 199 10118



- 101 -
Annox .
Attchment 2
T&bla 5
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Inlatiton and Foreign Exchongs Rates Used for Project
Cost Estimateo
Inflation Rates (M)            Official
_________ --_-- ------          Exehange Rate
Projoet Year                    Local 1/     Foreign 2/         USh per US2
1990/91                            12.01           2.4X          665.2
1991/92                            1.0X1            8.0X         610.1
1992/93                            1O.OX           3.61          661.4
1998/94                            10.OX           3.61          702.8
1994/96                            10.OX            1.8X         734.4
1/ Based on inflation rates (1) per -al-ndar year of 87.6,
16.5, 12.6, 10.0, 10.0, 10.0.
2/ Based on OMS Bank Operational Directive 650 dated
June 10, 1990.
8/ Constant Purchasing Parity Exchange Rates. This ref loet
a minimum expectation regrding devaluation of the domestic
currency.
Filename: ASACFE.UK1



- 102 _
Annexl 6
Attachment 3
UGMA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
List of Envisaged Procurement Contracts
He. of  Estimated Procurot*n          Prior
Category           DOeriptien                           Contracts        Cost Procedure 1/      Review
(USS '000)
Vehicles 4/         4 W                                      Lot 1       680.9
Sedans                                   Lot 2        67.8
Motorcycles                              Lot 3        69.9
Bicycles                                 Lot 4        29.1
Mlirobuus.                               Lot 5       102.5
Subtotal                                     1      1139.7         IC8          Yes
EquipmTt C/         Computers                                Lot 1        94.0
Other standard offico equipment          Lot 2       879.6
Subtotal                                     1       973.6        ICe           Yos
Special equipmnt                          5-10       499.3    ICD/LC8   Yos.partly
sepplies 2/                                          004.2  LCD/Other            No
Subtoa..1                                           110386
Civtl Works         HARE Sub-Project 1                           1       293.7         LCD          Yet
HARE Sub-Proiect 2                           1       120.6         LCD          Yes
HARE Sub-ProJect 3                           1        16.6         LC8           No
HARE Sub-Project 4                           1        33.9         LC8           No
HARE Sub-ProJect 5                           1        51.2         LC8           No
MARE Sub-Project 6                           3        28.1         LCD           No
IARE Sub-Project 7                           1        38.7         LCD           No
HARE Sub-Project 8                           1        16.8         LCD           No
HARE Sub-Project 9                           1    -  50.5          LCB           No
PCU                                          1        68.9         LCD           No
Land Policy Rsrch - MISR                     1       165.8         LCB          Yes
Subtotal                                             894.5
Consultants         Alrady procured under PPF                    1       685.0       Other          Yes
Additional (Annex 6, Attachment 4)                  S66S.9       Other          Yet
Subtotal                                            63s0.9
Trainitn            (See Annex 6, Attachmnt 5)                          2981.9       Other  Yos,partly
Recurrent Cotta J/                                                      3217.1
TOTAL                                                           1661383
1/ In conformity with IDA guidelines. Other' Includes competitive shopping basod on at loest three
quetatio..
2/ Includes   large numbr of small contracts.
3/ Include  stff allowances and operating and maintenance costa.
4/ Include  procuremet ov vehicles (lWS 10,000) *lready finalized under PPF on the basis of
competitive shopping.
t/ Includes procur_mt of various cate ories of equipmnt (USS260,000) already completed
on the basti of competitive shopping
ASACCONT.UC1
11117190



- 103 -
AMEX 6
Attachment 4
AORZIULURAL E1TJSM6cRZ
Sumury of Ttehnil Assleteece Seve
Ebtle         ProesurmmSt
Sre iA                                  CoAmt            D             Pocks"       b low)
Financinl Advisor, ASAP                 APC/ASAP            16 
Project Coordinator                     PCU                48                   I
Financial Controllor                    PCU                46                   I
Agr Services Spocialist                 PIU/HARE           48                   I
f?nneil Controllor                      PIU/HARE            48                  I
Short term Specialist                   PIU/IURE             6                  I
Project Preparation Study               PIU/HARE          contract              O
Project Planning Specialist             MPED/PASP           36                  A
Programing and Budgeting Specialist   MPED/PASP             12                  A
Monitoring and Evoluation Specialist    MPED/PASP           24                  A
Enterprise/Financial Analyst            MPED/PASP           12                  A
Short term Specialst                    MPED/PASP           86                  A
Chief Operations Advisor                CMB/CSM             24                  I
Chief Financial Officer                 CMB/CSM             18                  I
Short term Specialist 4/                CUD/CSU             21                  0
Cooperative Financial Advisor           CQi/CSM             10                  I
Consultant Services to Prepare
Institutional Arrangements for
Coffeo Industry regulation             UCU/CSM             12                  C
Procurement                                                          Contracting     Estiated
P        _ckage  Content                                             Asency          Cost 21
A             Technical Services for Strengthening of Agricultural
Sector Planning                                      MPED            1,370,000
I:            Technical Serviae  to prepare an Agricultural
Technology and Training Project                      MPED              290,000
C:            Technical Services to prepare proposals for
strengthoning of institutional arrangeamt, for
regulation of tho coffee Industry                    UCU               200,000
0:            Design and Installation of Improved Management
Information Systom                                   ueD               370,000
I:            Remaining services to bh procured through Individual
direct contracting                                                   3,416,000
4/ Including design and installation of management control and
information system.
V   Includes 1OX physical contingency plus price contingencie.



- 104 -
AM=E 6
Attachmnt S
UGAA
AgRICULTURAL SECTO  ADJUSUMEM  CREDIT
Sumary Of Training Pogram
Project Activity 1/
categry of
Training                        HARE    LPRP      PSAP      CSm      PCi   TOTAL
_ -US  '000 -
Oversee Training
(forml education, study tours,
short-term course)              86.1    437.6   990.4   241.7               2085.8
Local Training
(short-term course)            110.6              88.6                      144.1
Ssminar*/Workshop (local)       244.6    14.2                        64.0   813.0
Farew Training                  489.0                                  ..   489.0
TOTAL                   1210.4   461.6  1024.0   241.?    54.0  2981.9
1/ HURE * Head-Start Progrm for Agricultural Research and Extension
LWP * Land Policy Renarch Program
PSW a Progra for Strengthening Agrlcultural Sector Planning
CSI a Coffee Subector Manageomnt
PCU a Project Coordination Unit
Filename: ASACTRO.UC1



- 105 -
Annex 6
Attachment 6
Page i of 11
UGANDA
AGUCULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Terms of Reference for Project Implementation Units
and Technical Assistance Personnel
UGANDA
A. Agricultural Policy Conmittee
1.    The Agricultural Policy Committee (APC) has been assigned by the
Government to implement the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (ASAP) as
described in the Government's Letter of Agricultural Policy (Annex 4).
Likewise, the APC is responsible for overseeing and coordinating the
implementation of the ASAC Investment Component. The APC will undertake these
responsibilities in the following manner.
2.    ASAP and ASAC Adjustment Component: APC will meet quarterly to review
progress. It will appoint a Program Coordinator (senior Government civil
servant, seconded initially for a period of 16 months) and a Financial Advisor
(internationally recruited for an initial period of 16 months) with
responsibilities to ensure that implementation of ASAP and the ASAC Adjustment
Component proceeds as per Letter of Agricultural Policy (Annex 4) and the ASAC
Implementation Schedule (Annex 8). Both positions will be administratively
attached to the Agricultural Secretariat, and the Program Coordinator will
report to APC through the Director of the Agricultural Secretariat.
3.   The Program Coordinator's specific duties are as follows.
(a)   Maintain a continuous dialogue with Government agencies
responsible for taking action in respect of the policy initiatives
contained in ASAP to ensure that such actions are proceeding on
schedule.
(b)   Ensure that preparatory studies paving the way for implementation
of policy initiatives are completed in a satisfactory and timely manner;
(c)   Through quarterly progress reports inform APC of progress made and
problems experienced in implementing ASAP, recommend appropriate
remedial actions, and arrange for the implementation of such actions as
agreed by the APC.
(e)   Implement a system for monitoring the impact of policy measures in
the areas of crop finance reform, coffee marketing reform including
restructuring of market intermediaries, marketing liberalization and
parastatal reform in the non-coffee sector, reorganization of
agricultural research institutions, rationalization of the public
expenditure program, and other areas covered by ASAP.
(d)   Draft APC's bi-annual report to the Government and IDA on the
implementation of ASAP following format to be agreed.



- 106 -
Annex 6
Attachment 6
Page 2 of 11
(e)   Liaise with the Bank of Uganda on progress in the utilization of
quick-disbursing ASAC funds, and appraise APC of any problems requiring
APC's attention and action.
4.    The Financial Advisor will report to the Program Coordinator and assist
in above tasks as required. In particular, he will provide technical input
into evaluating progress in the implementation of crop finance reform and
restructuring of the coffee sector.
5.    ASAC Investment Component.  The direct responsibility for implementing
the various programs of the ASAC Investment Component will be assigned to a
Project Coordination Unit and individual Project Implementation Units. These
Project Implementation Units will as required be advised by Subcodmittee's of
APC in their respective specialized fields. The responsibilities for these
agencies and committees are set out below.
S. Pro3ect Coordination Unit
Proiect Coordinator
6.   As Head of the ASAC Project Coordination Unit (PCU), the Project
Coordinator will be responsible to the Agricultural Policy Committee (APC) for
the following tasks:
(a)   Oversee, guide, and coordinate the implementation by the
individual Project Implementation Units (PIUs) of the programs under
ASAC's investment component according to the agreed ASAC Implementation
Schedule (Annex 8). The individual PIUs include
*i)   the PIU for the Head-Start Program for Agricultural Research
and Extension (HARE);
(ii) the PIU established within the Makerere Institute of Social
Research and the Agricultural Secretariat's Support Unit for the
Land Policy Research Program (LPRP);
(iii) the Agricultural Section of the Sectoral Planning Department
of the Ministry of Planning and Economic development for the
Program of Strengthening of Agricultural Planning (PASP); and
(iv)   the Management Support Unit (MSU) of the Coffee Marketing
Board (CMB) for the program of technical assistance to implement
CMB restructuring.
(b)   Review proposed annual work programs and budgets prepared by
individual implementing agencies for ASAC's investment component to
ensure consistency with overall project objectives, implementation
schedules and funding limits; present such programs and budgets to APC
for approval.



- 107 -
Annex 6
Attachment 6
Page 3 of 11
(c)   On an ongoing basis facilitate the work of ASAC PIU's by advising
PIU heads on implementation problems, and as necessary bring constraints
and bottlenecks to APC's attention for appropriate and timely action.
(d) Oversee the work of PCU's financial controller (see para. 2
below).
(e)   Review quarterly progress reports from individual ASAC
implemenqing agencies and synthesize the same for submission as
quarterly progress reports on overall ASAC/Investment Component
implementation to APC and onward submission to IDA.
Financial Controller
7.    The Financial Controller, reporting to the Project Coordinator, will be
responsible for financial management and procurement. Specifically his/her
tasks will be to:
(a)   Maintain the accounts of all programs under the ASAC investment
component, including those for Statement of Expenditures and the Special
Account B (for HARE) and Special Account C (for investment component
programs other than HARE).
(b)   In implementing task (a) delegate work in respect to the accounts
of HARE to the Financial Officer of the HARE/PIU.
Cc)   Administer replenishments and withdrawals of funds on the ASAC
Project Account and the ASAC Special Account C and oversee the HARE/PIU
administration of Special Account B through instituting necessary
guidelines and reporting procedures; all with the view to ensuring
timely accessibility by PIUs to project funds to meet local and foreign
expenditures.
(d)   Prepare applications for withdrawal of funds under the IDA Credit
based on appropriate delegation of responsibility for initiating such
work to the individual PlUs.
(e)   Prepare accounts and facilitate audit of ASAC Investment Component
Accounts on a timely basis.
(f)   Ensure that all procurement under ASAC's investment component
follows procedures as laid down under the Development Credit Agreement
and the CMB Project Agreement by
(i) directly administering all procurement of works, vehicles,
equipment, training and consultant services under ASAC's
investment component (except cases handled by the HARE/PIU as
specified in para.(ii) below), based on actions to be initiated by
the individual PlUs following procedures to be established by the
Financial Controller; and



- 108 -
Annex 6
Attachment 6
Page 4 of 11
(ii) overseeing HAREIPIU procurement of civil works, equipment
and supplies which are not to be procured through International
Competitive Bidding (as per Annex 6, Attachment 3) as well as
training and consultant services
(g)   Manage supplies and stores with appropriate delegation of
responsibilities to PIUs - supervise compliance with all import
regulations. shipment transportation, inventory control, materials
management, record keeping and reporting.
C. Head-Start Program for Agricultural Research and Extension
Sub-Committee on Research and Extension (SCORE)
8.    SCORE will act as a management and technical arm of APC to: (a) provide
guidance to the HARE Project Implementation Unit (PIU), (b) oversee the use
and management of program facilities, (c) monitor and evaluate progress of
planned activities, and (d) assess the impact of projects on agricultural
growth and development in Uganda.
9.    The SCORE will as its members have senior technical officers with the
rank of Commissioner or equivalent of the MOA, MAIF, MEP, MC., MOF, MPED, MU
and the Agricultural Secretariat. They shall elect a chairman from among
themselves who shall serve for a period of one year. The PIU Head shall serve
as ex-officio member and secretary of the SCORE. SCORE's responsibilities
will be to:
(a)   facilitate the timely establishment of PIU with the required staff
complement;
(b) in consultation with the concerned agencies, assign personnel for
sub-project implementation;
(c)   approve project management and operational guidelines and norms
for the PMU Head and sub-project managers;
(d)   approve criteria and procedures for monitoring, evaluation and
impact analyses;
(e)   approve budgeting and financial systems and resource allocation
procedures, and guidelines for procurement and bids and awards
procedures;
(f)   examine and approve consolidated annual work plans and budgets as
submitted by the PIU;
(g)   monitor progress of implementation and utilization of resources
allocated to each project, identify technical and management
(administrative and financial) constraints and provide solutions
where possible;



- 109 -
Annex 6
Attachment 6
Page 5 of 11
(h)   ensure proper coordination and linkages between research and
extension services;
(i) arrange mid-term evaluation of project activities including
management and utilization of funds; and ensure preparation of a
report on each project for submission to the APC and IDA;
(j)   bring to the attention of the APC the problems that cannot be
solved at the Sub-Committee level and obtain decisions for proper
and timely implementation of the project;
(k)   present to the APC recommendations that address systematic
implementation problems; and
(1)   review new project proposals presented by the PIU and endorse them
to APC for approval.
Project Implementation Unit - Head
10.   The PIU Head will be responsible for the management of HARE,
coordination of Sub-project implementation and ensuring that all sub-projects
are being implemented properly in a timely manner as approved. Specifically,
his responsibilities will be to:
(a)   review and consolidate annual work plans and budgets, proposed by
the project leaders, for approval by the APC Sub-Committee on
Research and Extension (SCORE);
(b)   ensure timely release of funds for each sub-project;
(c)   expedite procurement of equipment and supplies and see that the
sub-projects get them on time;
(d)   in collaboration with line Ministries, develop overseas training
plan for the project personnel in consultation with the Sub-
project leaders and implement the training in a timely manner;
provide guidance to the project leaders in organizing in-country
training;
(e)   ensure that project management and operational guidelines, as
approved by SCORE, are followed in implementing the Sub-projects;
(f)   organize regular project leaders' meetings, for progress reviews,
and the identification of implementation constraints and suggest
solutions;
(g)   establish procedures and criteria for monitoring and evaluation of
progress, and analysis of the impact of Sub-projects;
(h) assist SCORE in arranging mid-term review of project activities;



- 110 -
Annex 6
Attachment 6
Page 6 of 11
(i)   scrutinize new sub-project proposals and process those through the
SCORE for consideration and approval by the APC;
(j) prepare annual progress reports including expenditure statements
for submission to the APC through SCORE; and
(k)   arrange annual audits of expenditures of each sub-project and also
of the PIU for submission to the APC.
11.   The position should be held preferably by an Ugandan national with the
following qualifications:
(a)   M.Sc in Agriculture, Veterinary Science, Forestry, Fisheries, Food
Sciences or Agricultural Economics. A Ph.D will be an advantage.
(b)   Ten years experience as an administrator of research or extension
system related to agriculture, veterinary, forestry or fisheries.
(c)   Wide experience in implementation of development programs and in
dealing with donor agencies.
(d) Experience in collaborating with international organizations.
Ce)   Ability to coordinate inter-ministerial programs.
Aaricultural Services Advisor
12.   The Agricultural Services Advisor will assist and advise the PIU Read on
management, coordination and timely implementation of HARE. Specifically he
will advise on:
(a)   setting up office of PIU and recruitment of staff;
(b)   developing administrative, management and operational guidelines
for PIU and sub-projects;
(c)   reviewing and consolidating annual work plans and budgets of PIU
and sub-projects;
(d)   following up and ensuring timely delivery of supplies and support
services to sub-projects;
(e)   ensuring coordination and linkage between research and extension
components of sub-projects;
(f)   arranging periodic reviews of project activities with sub-project
leaders to improve performance and ensure progress;
(g)   appraising new project proposals for possible funding;



- 111 -
Annex 6
Attachment 6
Page 7 of 11
(h)   ensuring effective use of project resources and implementation of
component activities as per schedule;
(i)   arranging mid-term review of progress of project implementation
and resource utilization by SCORE;
(j)   preparing periodic progress reports;
(k)   developing procedures and criteria for monitoring and evaluation
of project implementation progress; and
(1)   preparing for and organizing the recruitment of a consultant
firmlinstitution to prepare proposals for an Agricultural
Technology and Training Project, and subsequently supervising the
implementation of the preparation work.
Financial Officer
13.   The Financial Officer (OF), reporting to the PIU Head, will be
responsible for financial administration and procurement under HARE. The OF
in undertaking this responsibility will work following procedures and
guidelines established and agreed by the Financial Controller, PCU. The
specific tasks of the OF will be to:
(a)   Maintain all HARE accounts, including those for Statement of
Expenditures and the Special Account B, and submit statements on such
accounts as the Financial Controller of PCU shall periodically require.
(b)   Establish and supervise detailed accounting procedures and
financial reporting requirements to be followed by HARE Sub-project
Leaders.
(c)   Administer funds originating from the ASAC Project Account
(providing for Government's contribution to financing of ASAC's
investment component), and the ASAC Special Account B (funds borrowed by
the Government from IDA) to ensure timely accessibility by HARE Sub-
project Leaders to project funds to meet local and foreign expenditures.
(d)   Prepare applications for withdrawal of funds under the IDA Credit
and submit same to the Financial Controller, PCU for further processing.
(e)   Initiate requests for HARE procurement of vehicles and equipment
which are to be handled through ICB packages to be administered directly
by PCU. Under the supervision and guidance of the Financial Controller,
PCU, administer all other procurement related to HARE and in connection
therewith manage supplies and stores, supervise compliance with all
import regulations, shipment transportation, inventory control,
materials management, record keeping and reporting.



- 112 -
Annex 6
Attachment 6
Page 8 of 11
D. Land Policy Research Program
The MISR Proiect Implementation Unit
14.   The unit would be headed by the Director of MISR, and would include a
senior research advisor (USAID funded), an administrative officer, and a
representative from the Makerere University Engineering Faculty. Its
responsibilities would be as to:
(a)   together with AGSEC prepare annual land policy research programs
and associated LPRP work programs and submit by May 1 every year
to LRC for review; annual work programs to be approved by ASAC
Project Coordination Unit;
(b)   plan and organize the overseas training program for MISR research
staff through the collaborative agreement with the land Tenure
Center of the University of Wisconsin;
(c)   organize and supervise the implementation of project civil works
(hence the participation of the representative of the englneering
faculty on PIU);
(d)   in liaison with the Financial Controller of ASAC Coordination Unit
procure vehicles and equipment, the bulk of such procurement
(notably vehicles and computing equipment) to be coordinated with
procurement of similar type of goods under other parts of the ASAC
investment component; initiate such by proposing detailed
requirements and submitting draft specifications;
(e)   review implementation of the research program and annual LPRP work
programs and submit brief quarterly reports following agreed
format to LRC and ASAC PIU a quarterly basis; such reports to be
submitted two weeks after the end of each quarter; and
(f)   certify invoices for work proposed/carried out and goods ordered
and instruct ASAC/PCU to expedite payments for items eligible for
financing.
The AGSEC LPRP Support Unit
15.   The Unit will consist of a senior AGSEC staff member with appropriate
support staff and will report directly to the Director, AGSEC who is a member
of the LRC. Input from other AGSEC technical staff will be obtained on a
secondment basis as and when required. The Unit Head would serve as the
secretary on LRC. The responsibilities of the Unit will be to:
(a)   participate in annual research programming with MISR's PIU;
(b)   at the request of MISRIPIU and as allowed within the allowances
budgeted for AGSEC/ministry staff travel, participate in actual



- 113 -
Annex 6
Attachment 6
Page 9 of 11
field research; as appropriate help organize participation in such
travel by suitable ministerial technical staff;
(c)   organize annual policy workshops, involving representatives from
the academic community, Government ministries and agencies, the
private sector, and local representatives of the donor coxmunity
to review progress in the implementation of the Government's land
reform agenda and the contribution made by land policy research to
the implementation of such agenda;
(d)   disseminate reports and research findings;
(e)   plan and organize study tours to countries in the region for
researchers and policy makers to familiarize themselves with land
policy issues and research efforts relevant to the Ugandan land
reform agenda; and
(f)   submit quarterly progress report to be integrated with that of
MISRIPIU to the Land Reform Committee; such reports to be
submitted to LRC three weeks after each quarter.
The Land Reform Committee (LRC)
16.   The committee, consisting of the Director of MISR, the Director AGSEC,
Permanent Secretary Ministry of Lands and Survey, and a representative of the
Attorney General's Office [who is chair] will serve as the coordinating
committee for LPRP implementation and as such undertake to:
(a)   review MISR/AGSEC draft proposals for annual land policy research
programs and associated LPRP work programs and submit the same
through ASAC PCU to APC for approval; and
(b)   on a quarterly basis review progress reports from MISRIAGSEC on
LPRP implementation and take appropriate action to resolve
bottlenecks and ensure smooth coordination and implementation.
E. Program for Strengthening Aricultural Sector Planni
Agricultural Planning Advisor/Team Leader
17.   The Agricultural Planning Advisor will be the leader for a team of
advisors attached to MPED to work with the planning units in the agricultural
sub-sector ministries. The Planning Advisor will work in close coordination
with the Read of the Agricultural Section of MPED's Planning Department, be
responsible to the [Chief Development Economist] with main responsibilities
to:
(a)   help formulate development strategies for key agricultural
subsectors in conjunction with the line ministry staff;
(b)   help translate the sector planning process into a formalized
process;



- 114 -
Annex 6
Attachment 6
Page 10 of 11
(c)   devise a coherent system for identification, preparation and
internal appraisal of agricultural projects5
(d)   assist in the introduction of sector and project planning
procedures through workshops, seminars, and work supervision; and
(e)   coordinate the work of other members of the advisory team, prepare
required work program and progress reports.
Programmins and Budget Specialist
18.  The Programming and Budgeting Advisor wills
(a)   help devise procedures for systematic programming of the ongoing
projects and service programs in the four line ministries;
Cb)   advise on measures for harmonizing the development and recurrent
budgets;
(c)   assist in the introduction of programming and budgeting procedures
through design of training programs and materials and inservice
training through workshops and seminars;
(d)   together with the Monitoring and Evaluation Advisor, help devise
techniques and procedures for the continuous monitoring of
projects and service activities in the ministries; and
Ce)   take part, as required by the Team Leader, in all aspects of
training organized by the support program.
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
19.  The Monitoring and Evaluation Advisor wills
(a)   together with the Project Monitoring Unit in MPED, help devise
procedures for systematic monitoring of agricultural projects;
(b)   together with the Project Monitoring Unit in MPED, help devise a
system for effective evaluation of the impact of agricultural
projects;
(c)   assist in the introduction of the monitoring and evaluation system
through design of training programs and materials and inservice
training through workshops and seminars. The training will be
performed in cooperation with the Project Monitoring Unit;
(d)   together with the Programming and Budgeting Advisor, help devise
techniques and procedures for the programming and budgeting of
projects and service activities in the ministries; and
(e)   take part, as required by the Team Leader, in all aspects of
training organized by the support program.



- 115 -
Annex 6
Attachment 6
Page 11 of 11
Enterprise/Financial AnalEst
20.   The Enterprise Analysis Advisor villi
(a)   help devise a system for analyzing and interpreting the
performance of the agricultural parastatals;
(b)   help top design procedures for recurrent monitoring of the impact
of the planned restructuring program for the parastatal
organizations;
(c)   assist in the introduction of the analysis and monitoring
procedures in the ministerial planning units through inservice
training;
(d)   supervise the application of the procedures; and
Ce)   take part, as required by the Team Leader, in all aspects of
training organized by the support program.



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Estimated Schedulo of Disbursements (USSI)
Adjustentt  Component    Invevtent Componont        Total IDA Cred;t
So*)-Annual Disburemnts  ----------------------    --------------------         -----------___
IDA Fiscal Year   Halt yer  Wnding            Period       Cumulative   Period    Cumulative      Period  Cumulative
1991              June 1091                     3C.0          3S.0         2.0         2.0         87.0       37.0
192               December 1l01                 18.0          53.0         2.1         4.1         20.1       67.1
June 1002                    18.0           71.0        2.8         6.9          20.8      77.9
1993              December 19M                  14.0          86.0         2.2         9.1        16.2        94.1
June 1993                       -           86.0        1.6         10.7         1.0       95.7
1904              December 1993                   -           8C.0         1.4        12.1         1.4        97.1
June 1994                       -           85.0        1.1         13.2         1.1       99.2
1996              December 194                    -           85.0         1.2        14.4         1.2        99.4
June 199                        -           86.0         .8         16.0          .6      100.0
Expected Date of Signing:         Januory 2, 1991
Expected Date of Etfectiveness: February 4, 1991
Expected Date of Completion:     Decemobr 1994
Expected Date ot Closlng:         June 1995
Fl*l:ASAC.WK1
ID |



- 117 -
ANNEX 7
Table 2
UGANDA
UGANDA SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Projected Disbursements under Adjustment Component
as Percentage of Usanda's Proiected External Financing Gap
FY91      FY92      FY93
External Residual Financing Gap I/            87.0       75.0      48.0
Projected ASAC Disbursements 2/               35.0       36.0      14.0
Percent of Financing Gap (Z)                  40.2       48.0      29.2
11 See Annex 1, Table 2 (includes US$40M in FY91 for oil price
increases)                                                      -
VJ See Annex 7, Table 1.



- 118 -
ANNEX 7
Table 3
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
AOICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTIIN? GRIT
Allocation of Credit and Percentage of Expenditures Financed
by Disbursement Catesory
Amount of the          Percentage of
Credit Allocated      Expenditures to
Category/Proiect ActivitW  1/                US$              be Financed
1.  Civil Works                                      725,000          1002 (foreign)
5OZ (local)
a. HARE                         575,000                           90?
b. LPRP (MISR)                  150,000
2.  Equipment and Supplies                         1,490,000          100?
a. HARE                         950,000
b. LPRP (MISR)                  235,000
c. PASP                         250,000
d. CSM (CMB)                     50,000
e. PCU                            5,000
3.  Vehicles                                         865,000           100?
a. HARE                         536,000
b. LPRP (MISR)                   52,000
c. LPRP (AGSEC)                  78,000
d. PASP                         147,000
e. PCU                           52,000
4.  Consultant Services                            4,935,000           100?
a. HARE                       1,225,000
b. PASP                       1,470,000
c. CSM (CMI)                    950,000
d. CSM (NPED)                   390,000
e. PCU                          900,000
5.  Training and Workshops                         2,375,000           1002 (foreign)
60Z (local)
a. HARE                         870,000
b. LPRP (MISR)                  270,000
c. LPRP (AGSEC)                  20,000
d. PASP                         965,000
e. CSM (CMB)                    220,000
f. PCU                           30,000



- 119 -
ANNEX 7
Table 3
Page 2 of 2
6. Incremental Operating Costs (Staff
Allowances and 0 & M}                          1,840,000          1002 (foreign)
602 (local)
a. HARE                       1.430.000
b. LPRP (AGSEC)                 130.000
c. PASP                         260,000
d. PCU                           20,000
7. Goods Imported during the
Execution of the Program 21                  85,000,000           1002 (foreign)
8.  Refinancing of PPF                             1,270,000           1002
9.  Unallocated                                    1,500,000
100,000,000
't Project Activity Abbreviations
HARE    Headstart Program for Agricultural Research and Extension
LPRP    Land Policy Research Program
PASP    Program for Strengthening of Agricultural Sector Planning
CSM     Coffee Subsector Management
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
21  Of which US$50 M would be released upon credit effectiveness and US$35M
as second tranche. Petroleum and petroleum products would be limited
to a total of US$17 M.



- 120 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 7
TJGAjWA
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTENT CREDIT
Implementation Schedule
Key Actions Prior to Credit Effectiveness
1.        Execution by the Government of a subsidiary grant agreement with
the CMB.
2.        Adiustment Component.  Program actions are as per Table 1, pages
35 and 36 in main text. Upon credit effectiveness, Government would
request IDA deposit into Special Account A. Key staff appointments involve:
(a) secondment of a qualified senior Government civil servant
to serve as Program Coordinator, attached to the
Agricultural Secretariat; and
(b) appointment of a Financial Advisor, internationally
recruited and reporting to the Program Coordinator, also
attached to the Agricultural Secretariat.
3.        Investment Component.  The following actions are expected to be
completed prior to IDA disbursements (conditions of disbursement marked by
asterisk).
(a) PCU:
*    (i)  Establish a Project Coordination Unit, including the
appointment of a Project Coordinator, and a Financial
Controller.
*    (ii)  Deposit into a Project Account with BOU the sum of
USh37 M, equivalent to the part of average quarterly local
expenditures for parts of the investment component other
than HARE to be met by the Government.
(iii) Upon credit effectivness, Government would request
IDA deposits into Special Accounts B and C.
(iv) Prepare draft ICB procurement documents for
procurement of vehicles and standard equipment.
(b) HARE:
*    (i)   Establish the APC Sub-Committee on Agricultural
Research and Extension (SCORE), based on agreed TORs, and
appoint members to SCORE.



- 121 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 7
*    (ii)  Establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
including the appointment of a Head PIU and and
Agricultural Services Advisor, based on agreed TORs.
*    (iii) Deposit into a Project Account with BOU the sum of
USh28 M. equivalent to the part of average quarterly local
expenditures for the HARE program of the investment
component to be met by the Government.
(iv) Appoint a locally recruited financial controller to
PIU.
(v) Establish administrative procedures for the flow of
funds from the HARE Project Account to individual
subprojects.
(vi) Provide office space and interim transport to PIU.
(c) PASP:
(i) Finalize Terms of Reference for TA Team and issue
invitation to submit proposals.
(ii) Organize office space and facilities for TA Team;
appoint counterparts.
(d) LPRP:
'i) Establish a Project Implementation Unit in HISR, headed
by the Director MISR and including a Research Advisor, an
administrative officer and a representative of the
Engineering Faculty of the Makerere University.
(ii) Establish a Land Policy Research Program Unit in
AGSEC, headed by a senior officer.
*    (iii) Execute a subsidiary grant agreement between the
Government and MISR.
(iv) Complete draft of the LPRP annual work program.
(e) CSM:
(i) Finalize TORs for Coffee Export Taxation Study (to be
financed under the ERC II).
(ii) Finalize TORs for the Cooperative Financial Specialist
and CMB Chief Operations Advisor.
(iii) Finalize TORs for Study on Institutional
Arrangements for Regulation of the Coffee Industry.



- 122 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 7
Proiect Isolemantation
4.        Following credit effectiveness (espected February 1991) the
actions to be taken are as indicated in the table below.
cs\vp5l\doc\Uganda\asac\anx.8
(11,19190)



uwm
AOIOLRIEM  8EOUA.RISMInT go01
IWlmtatlon Schedul,
Ctepltiot Oat* (moethe after
Ce_monat/Tash                                                              credit effective_mme  date I/                A tw Res.onsible
1.  Adlusteett Comonnt 3,
1.1 Coffee Cro  Flna
1.1.1 Quarterly review of the C f       Sub"etor 11_t
(CSU) tmlementstion   ere r)
* .2  (4/91), +6  (7/91), tc.                CM/APC
1.1.2 Adoption of annual CSB for the coftee Year  srting                   *  +7  (9/91)                                APC/MO
October 1991 (CY92) (pars 77)
1.1.8 Establishment by co_mwciol bank consortlum of Cot"  c*o7 t   (0/91)                                               Coneortium of
finnce limits for the Coffee Marketing Board (       or  92                                                       Comercial Baniks/N
(pars 76)
1.2 CUB Restructuring
1.2.1 Coopletion of Audit of CUB' Balance Sheet as of September               -1  (1/91)
80. 1990
1.2.2 Cmpletion of Institutional r       istrIcturina of CUB. ).e. foral   o  .4  (6/91)                                3CM
establishment of C        nS wii n e/modified lea  framework and
creation of now coffee subsector regulatory agency pore 80)
1.2.3 Forml capital zation of the Oovern  nt' initial                      e +4  (8/91)                                 VOW
contr1buti on towrd CM* working cana  tal (pare 90)
1.2.4 Injection of *dItlon  l salty c pttl                                 *  .7  (9/91)                                MOF
to CmB for CY92 (P ra 7W
1.3 Coo.erativt Union Restructurlno
1.8.1 Financlal reetructurng of at lost four
cooprative unlowg.
(a) adopt rotrseeturing plan  for individual                            +4  (6/91)                                3CM
"atonal
(b) ceepletton of plan implementation                                  +4  (9/91)                                 MCm
Assumes credit ffectiveness in February 1991.
A ction, to   tify conditions for second tranche reloeas
are marked by an *oterk.                                                                                                                 ct



C__   _t_/T_ nk                                                            credit effectivene    date                   hem  Js"eoiblp
1.4 Coffee Markotl!n and Pricina                                                                                        iCm
1.4.1 Issue oofi   t reort lice_n  to at leaot two private Sector          *  .7  (9/91)
parties o*tr then cooperative (pare *4)
1.4.2 Introduce an W-valorm coftfe oport taxation 
Ssytem (paer 56)3
* o) pplet pr.eein stedy (m  eleo Item 2.4.2(a))                       .2  (4/01)                                MOFP/MC
(b) introdew   eSstei                                                   +4  (6/91)                                MOP
1.5 agfculjt  Prtcinss Review ot producr pries                                -1  (1/01                                 wPC
far Otrdaiional export crop (pore 67)                                     +4  (6/91)
.10  (12/91)
.16 (/02)
*                                                     Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ec.
1.6 NnCoffe Marketion Libetalizstion and Persttal
1.6.1 PiB and 1A RestrucIurl"a
(b) reiet of *tuy propos t    and r _co   dtions (pore 80)             -1   l/91)                                 APC/PEC
(h) start Toplo ontntion (W&n 89)                                      *3  (4'/91) 
1.6.2 UTaC Rastructurtno
(a) transfer ownershtp of OTGC function to private sector              .7  (9/91)                                 UTOC/AMD
(pare 89)
(b) adoptlon of restructuring plea for UTOC (pare 90)                  +7  (9/91)                                 APC/MOA
1.t Aartculturt  Research and Uxtenaton
1.7.1 Adoption of a national agricultura I1  (/91)PC
resarch plan
1.7.2 Etablishment of a tomt-sutonomous National Ag!icultural
Ros       cros ltton to ma*nag  the baplhmenItiiT; 7i  se
r c rch pion;
(a) adoption of detailed proposals                                   a .   (/1)                                   APCJPEC
(b) formal establishment                                                +7  (9/91)                                wicffN
1.7.3 Finalization of proposals for  oprganization of extenslon               +4 (6/01)                                 APC
Wm
1.7.4 Proeotation to donor comwnity of proposals for funding the              .7 (9/91)
;mplomontateon of th  research plan and the etablishmet and
operation of the reserch organization
0



Coepletton Dat. (months fter
crecdt ffctlvnew  date                      Asne, Re     ibl
1.8 Public E,wxndltu.
Adopt an agricltural sctor RDP for FYI9-94 with as*ocieted              .4  (6/91)                               lPID/ow
recurren budgt allocation. In FY02 (per. ....)
1.9 Audit of Goick Dlsuraiso Acount.
submisslon to IDA of auited account                                     +10  (12/91)                              U/tter
an  sudit report covring AC quick disbursing                            +22  (12/92a
* mad..                                               .~~~~~~~~~~~~~24  (12/93)
2  Iavtmnt Comonent
2.1 Itb-Sr PrWre  for  arlcmtuVrl Restereb
an  Vs Usti"a MNAWI
2.1.1 Aetlat SCORE ebern                                                    -1  (1/91)                                PC
2.1.2 Aont or second PITU and Sub-roet stff                                 *1  (3/91,                               APCJSCRE
ndlong-toro consultantc                                             *2  (4/91?                               SCORE_
ru Direcut                                                        *6  (7/91)                               SCORE                  N
b) Sub-projct leaders                                                *2  (4/91)                               APC/SCORE              IA
Prof)onl  & Support Staff                                         .3  (6/91)                               APC/SCORE.
(' Agricultural Services Advisor
(  Finaniol Cotrollor (local)
2.1.8 Su Gadget .l_ttion
to)  ,       1pr  ,*mm  Wrk z PIG a ds "
- for PIU                                                         .8  (5/91                                PIU/SCORE
_ for su-projects                                                 .4  (6/91)                               PIN/SCORE
(b) develop sad*rd operatin  proedune
wnd guideline otf "bprojoct                                       *6  (7/01)                               PIU/SCORE
(c) prepre detile  desIgn of proect
llonitorlaensd Evaluation (I) Sy ste                              4   (/91)                                PIN
rt tpl_mateton of IOE System                                .9 (11/91)                               PiU
r   re docm_t for repair/renovation
PIll office end DFIc                                              .6  (8/91)                               PIW
(f) carry out  rId-Te Review of Proljct                              *26  (3/93)                               PIuISCOE
(g) formltoe TOR tor the prepratlon of AMTECH
Project Proposal                                                  .7  (7/91)                               PIU/$CORE
b) prepre ACTCH Project Proposl                                     .12  (2/92)                               PIl/SCORE
I) propre Project Completion Report.                                +40  (2/92)                               PIU
2.1.4 Pcurem    of         nd Servic
(a) prePre procr ent o                                                +2  (4/91)                               PiU
(b) expeadlt proturemnt A distribution to user                        4   (8/91)                               PIU
(c) prparo TORO nd procurement of abort-term
consultants                                                    Awnally                                     PJU                  0o
Go 
0



Completion Date (month. after
Component/Took                                                               credit effectivenese data                     Aasacv R.nu>nsibil
2.1.6 tn ttttionnl Dbrloeu nt
(a) prep rond  Pr"rp or carry out local                               Annually                                      PIU
tra ning ot project "toff                                         Annually                                      PIU
(b) arran  tranlang and study tours abroad
2.2 Land Policy Re_erch Program (LPRP)
2.2.1 teh bilitatien of UIIR officen and flats
Ca) award Of cont"ac                                                                                                 RIM/PmU
(b) c_I  tion ot work*                                                    *2  (4/91)
.10   12/91)
2.2.2 Procurmet of vhicles and office equpment                                  .5  W/9U)                                   MISR/MPU
2.2.8 Research Pt"oram I_i gmeOAttion
(a) approval of saamal lad policy roeereb                                 .4  (0/91)  *10  (8/92)                   ULC
prosne  tncl. training or reberch statf                              *28  (0/9) *28  (0/94)
(b) Mid-Term Reviw (Govt, USAID  tOA)                                    .26  (4/98)                                 APC
2.3. Strenathenlao of Agricultaral Sector Planning (PASP)
2.8.1 Procurem_t of transport and off ie  qu_ipmet                              .6  (7/91)                                 PCU
2.3.2 Recruitest of technical  tssistan"c personnel                             .6  (7/91)                                 WPED
2.B.3 Finalizaotion of a 4-year training program and                            .6  (10/91),  .5  (C/92)                   WEu
detailed annual progrm                                                   *27   (6/93), .39  (6/94)
2.8.4 Introduction of imprwovd planning proceduren
() dsegn of procedure sand training proorse                              .14  (4/92)                                 WPED/TA Tem
(b  In-service training program  (first round)                          .16  (0/92)                                  WED/TA Tea
(c completion of operationteal Mnuel*                                   *23  (1/93)                                  WED/TA T*.
2.3.6 Evaluation and Vid-term Review                                           .25  (3/98)
2.4 Coftf Sub-sector Mans_sment
2.4.1 COB Tochnical Assistance Program
(a) recrutment of Chief Operation  Advisor                              .2   (4/91)                                  Cd
(b) recruitm_t of Chief Finoncial Advlisr (extension of
current position)                                                         ( /91)                                 CB
(c) tnst llotion of cOepr hnsive MIS                                    .12  (2/92)                                  cm
(d) tfnalizatoln of training rpogram for enior technical                .6  (7/01)                                  CSe
2.4.2 Tuehnicel Assistace for Coffee Subsctor Roeorm
(a) *xport taxation study
- recruitmunt of consultant.                                        -1  (1/91                                    MOF
- ceepletton of stdy                                                .2  (4/91)                                   MOP/TA Teom
(b) rectuitment of Cooerative Financial Advisr                          *1  (8/91)                                   APC
(c) recruitment of Coffee Marketing Advisor                             *1  (8/91)                                   APC
-4



- 127 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 4
UGAND
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTNENT CREDIT
Supervision Plan
Bank Supervision Input
1.          Staff (including consultant) input indicated in the table
below is additional to regular supervision needs for the review of
periodic progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, donor
discussions, etc. These routine activities are estimated to require
five staff weeks during the first two years when the fast disbursing
(the adjustment) component of the credit is disbursed, and thereafter
four staff weeks in years three and four of project implementation
(given project effectiveness at February 1, 1991 the four year project
will be implemented over five fiscal years). Total supervision would
amount to about 22 sw per year on average over the life of the project.
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
2.          Progress reporting.  The Agricultural Policy Committee (APC)
on behalf of the Ministry of Finance will submit semi-annual progress
reports on the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program on August 1 and
February 1 every year, up to February 1, 1993. These reports will cover
the following areas as laid out in the Government's Letter of
Agricultural Policy: (a) implementation of coffee crop finance reform,
(b) restructuring of CMB and cooperative unions, (c) coffee export
marketing liberalization, including coffe pricing and export tax reform,
'd) pricing of export commodities other than coffee, (e) restructuring
of LMB, PMB and UTGC, (f) reorganization of agricultural research and
extension, and (g) agricultural sector public expenditure programming.
The detailed format for this report will be determined during the
project start-up mission.
3.          The Project Coordination Unit would prepare for APC review
quarterly progress reports on the investment component to be submitted
to IDA within one month of the quarter's completion, i.e. on May 1,
August 1, November 1 and February 1 throughout the project period.
These reports will cover project activities under HARE, LPRP, PASP and
CSM and follow a format which will be agreed during the project start-up
mission.
4.          Mission coordination.  APC's Management Committee (assisted
by the Program Coordinator and the Financial Advisor), will be
responsible for coordinating arrangements for IDA review missions and
for providing information required by missions. It will undertake these
tasks in close consultation with the heads of ASAC Project
Implementation Units including the Bank of Uganda.



- 128 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 4
5.          Mission briefing meetings on arrival and wrap-up meetings
will be organized by the Management Committee and chaired by the APC
Chairman, and will inter -lia include the heads of the Project
Implementation Units for HIRE. LPRP and PASP and the Bank of Uganda.
Local representatives of the donor community supporting the Government's
agricultural development agenda will be invited to attend the wrap-up
meetings.
Organization of Review Missions
6.          Throughout the duration of the adjustment component, IDA
missions will be staffed to review implementation of adjustment as well
as investment components. Review missions will be led by the ASAC Task
Manager (Financial Analyst), and as indicated in the table below include
staff/consultants in the areas of agricultural research and extension,
agricultural eco.nomics and planning, land use policy, coffee marketing
and other specialized areas.
7.          Because of the Program's close links to the stabilization
objective, a macro-economist from the Bank's Country Operations Division
will participate during the review missions through the review of the
conditions for second tranche release. The same applies to the
Economist of the Resident Mission in Kampala. The timing of the
supervision missions during the first two years will take into account
the need to involve  Wf staff in the review of the Program elements
relating to crop finance reform and coffee marketing. Close
coordination will be maintained with the Bank's disbursement unit in
Nairobi to ensure fast disbursements.
C :wpSl\doc\uganda\asac\anx.9
(11119190)



IDA Suporvision Input into Key Activities
Approximato                                                                                                                                  Staff
Date. 1/                                                                                                      Expectud Skill                 Inputs
(eonthTy  r)           Activity V                                                                            Reuir ement                     Staff Weeks
FY91
1-2/91                 Adustn   t Cocn  nt: Review Implementation TaskX  (ITs) 1.1.1, 1.2.1-1.2.8,           Took Manager
(start-up              1.8.1  1.4E 21.61,  1.7.1-1.7., aend 1.8.  Focus on initioting action                 /Financial Analysis             2.0
mission)               towerds meeting *econd trench. conditions, i.e. recruitmnt of consultants              Agricultural Research          1.0
for coffoe  tax study, CMB audit completion, adoption of agr. research plan           Procurement                     1.0
and preparation of proposal s.o- organizational frameork for Its                      Disbursement                    1.0
7upiJe mtation.  Also, review format for *nt-.nnual progress reports.                                                      (6.0)
Intv nntsnt Co yonont: Review progress of IT. 2.12-2.1.8(o), 2.2.1(o),
i4.1(o), 2.4.2Y. Focus on appointment of key staff In project
agenes, work pregre  ing  procuremet planning and format for progress
reporttng.
64/91                  Adl wstbt Cc o^wt:  Review ITS  11.11-1.1.8  1.2.2-1.2.4. 1.8.1,                       Tok Mnaogr                     8.0
1.4.2(b)# 1.S  1.1(b), 1   2, 1.7.2(b), 1.7.8, 1.7.4.  Focus on                       /finanesl Analysis
completion of actione tor      second tranche  conditions,  Ie.preparatlon            macro economice                 1.0
of coffee, ubeector budgh t ~or CY92, crop financing for CMB for CY92,                Agricultural economies         2.0
Institutional restructuring of CMB, revisions to coffee export taxation and           Coffee Marketing               2.6
reorganization of agricultural research.  Also, review producer pricing               Agricultural Research          1
proposals and preparstions for donors'  eeting on agricultural reserch and            Land Policy                    2
extension, and review of proposed revised agricultural RDP and recurrent              IMF participation
budget for FY92.                                                                      desirable
(0t 6)
Investment Ca    nts Review ITS 2.1.3(b)&(c), 2.1.5, 2.2.83(), 2.8.2.
FocsF on nnuIVWNoFk Program (FY92) and establishment of HAWE monitoring
system, HARE training program, LPRP reserch and tralning program, PASP
recruitment of TA ism, a rrngementa for CUB MIS installation.
9-10/91                Adiustont Co  e>  tt Review ITS 1.1.1, 1.1.2, 1.1.8, 1.2.4, 1.8.1(b),                  Task Manager
1.4.1  X 4.2  I C.2  1.7.2(b), 1.7.4. Focus on review of second tronch.               /Financial Analysis            2.5
condition., propoaeo for reetructurinj9-R-1TOC, donors nmerting on agr.               Macro ecemonist                1.0
reosarch and extension, disbursements and arrnge ts for audit of Special              Agricultural reserch           2.0
Acount operated by BOU.                                                               Smallholder teo
orontan tion                   2.0
InY  it     tt Co :orants Review ITS 2.1.(g9), 2.1.5, 2.4.1(d), 2.8.8 and             Agricultural economics
2.3.4        p Focus on prearation of TOR  for preparation of Agricultural            /planning                       1.0
Technology -nd Training Projeet, lmplementation of HARE training progrm,              Disburnement                    1.0
finalization of PASP training program and detailed scheduloe/rrangements                                                    (9.5)
for Introduction of Impropvd planning procedureo.
J Project supervision missIons will be combined with other taoxk in Uganda.
!/ Supervision oct;vity identified with reference to Implementation Task so shown in Annex 8.



Staff
Approximateo                                                                                                Expcted Sill                   sapvte
ats I/                                                                                                      Reoui.mt                       Staff W"ee
5W/02                 Ad3ut4 nt Comeuos nt Review ITO 1.1.1 and 1.6. Focu  on producer pticing              Task Managr
propoie n a*   q"i    rly coffee subeector review.                                  /Finanrci I Analy;si            2.0
Agri'ultural economice
Iz ddx  t C"Mmnt: Revie ITS 2.1.8, 2.1.6, 2.2.8(a), 2.8.4 and                       /plonning                      2.0
2.4 l(c)y 7      o E  Annual Work Progeam (FYP8) review HARE sub-project,            Agricultural rooerch           2.0
result  of fJIiI year  LPRP roserch program and proposed second yer                 Lond Use Policy                1.6
prora_m, prpare introduction of improved pl.nnlng procedures under PASP.                                                  (7.5)
FY08                   AdIuat;-Mnt C.dcnont: Review disburse".nts and audit of specirl account.             Ts  Manoager
/Financial Analysis           2.0
11-12/02               Inven   Cewaon ntt Review  TSm 2.1.8(f), 2.2.3 and 2.3.4 with focus on               Agricultural research          2.6
MTd-Tlom r Rcfl oJRE.                                                                Agricultural extenson          2.5
Agricultural econeoist         2.0
Forestry                      2.0
(U1.0)
6.4/03                 AdJustment Coue_Cont:  Review IT 1.6, producer pricing proposals.                    Took Manager
/Finnecial Analystu           2.6
lnv  _         t    onts  Review ITo, 2.1.8, 2.1.5, 2.2.3(b) and 2.3.6 with          Land Ue Poliey                 2.0
toc  0n Anau lWo7rk Progrm (FY94) and Mid-Term Review of LPRP * d PASP               Agric. sector planning         8.0
Implementation.                                                                     Agricultwral roomrch           1.0
Agrigcutural econmmIst         1.C
(10.0)
F94                    Two supervision missions, one to coincide with the prepration by PCU of              Tsk Manae  and                       (6.0)
Annual Work Program for FY(96).                                                      speciallsts In other
fields es rqtired
fY96                   Two supervision *ionso, one to assist In finlltaing PCR preparation, oe              Toak Manager and                     (0.0)
to review AHRE sub-project  valuation rperts.                                        specialist. in other
fields so requir d



UMDA
AIRIOLUMAL hECVTEbJUSmT CREDtT
PMRECT MANAGEMENT STRUCTtME
(APC)
I
AW  COMDIITWI                                                               PROJECT COMDINATION Om  (CPU)
Ptoot  C*olotu                                                               Proect Coordineu
FtiFl lsor                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Flnclult Cotrollor
PMNM~~ ~ ~   ~ .ALMfAM     I OF AM   .M    I
NM-START PROW"                   LA  POLICY RESECH         POM FIR          TA FOR PE-
FOR  S RESEACH AND                  PRO       (LPR)     ST     HENNO  SUC
ETENSIN (HARE)                                           AGRICMURAL         at" Ca
SECTOR
PLAWM  (PASP)
APC SUR-COMMrTTEE       PROJECT       LAND RFOM    PU AT   ASEC   . ECTION    C    A-
AG. RESEARH  AND     I     rEN ATIO    COTTEE    I           SUPPOT    SECTORAL         ET
EXTIESION           UNIT (Ply)                             UNIT      PUDI     UNS  SUT
DIVISION       UNIT



- 132 -
ANNEX 11
UGAUD
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ADJUSTHENT CREDIT
List of Documents In Proiect File
1.    Proposed Action Plan for Implementation of the Agricultural
Policy Agenda. Working Document, IDA Mission, June 1989.
2.    Reinstatement of the Commercial Banks as Lenders of Crop
Finance. Government of Uganda, Agricultural Policy
Committee Memorandum to Presidential Economic Council,
Kampala, August 1990.
3.   Memorandum of Understanding, dated October 23, 1990, between
Bank of Uganda and Commercial Banks (concerning
reinstatement of commercial banks as direct lenders of crop
finance for coffee).
4.   CGffee Marketing Strategy and Organization.  Action Plan for
Agricultural Policy Agenda. Government of Uganda,
Agricultural Policy Committee, Report of Working Group 2,
Kampala, August, 1990.
5.    Working Papers for Staff Appraisal Report (Technical Support
Volume) July, 1990.
6.    Detailed Project Cost Tables



