Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
3ILE COPY
Report No. 4779-7R
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAIRE
SECOND SNCZ RAILWAY PROJECT
April 12, 1984
Transportation Division I
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit        =   Zaire (Z)
September 12, 1983 - February 24, 11984
Z 1.00 = US$0.04 (0.03)
US$1.00 = Z 26.93 (29.93)
February 24, 1984
Z 1.00 = US$0.03
US$1.00 = Z 33.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)          =   3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)    =   0.62 mile
1 sq kilometer (kim2)=   0.386 square miles
1 metric ton (ton)  =   2,204 pounds (lbs)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB   =   African Development Bank
CCCE   =   Caisse Centrale de Coop6ration Economique (France)
CFMK   =   Chemin de Fer de Matadi a Kinshasa
CMZ    =   Compagnie Maritime Zairoise
Gecaryines= La G8n6rale des Carrieres et des Mines
GEEP        Groupe d'Etudes, Economnie et Planification
KfW    =   Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
(Federal Republic of Germany)
MP      =   Ministry of Planning
MPF         Ministry of Portefeuille
MPW    =   Ministry of Public Works
MTC    =   Ministry of Transport and Communications
OR     =   Office des Routes
ONATRA =   Office National des Transports
PDG    =   PrEsident Del6gue General
PIP    =   Public Investment Program
RVA    =   Regie des Voies Aeriennes
RVF    =   Regie des Voies Fluviales
RVM    =   Regie des Voles Maritimes
SAR    =   South African Railways
SNCZ   =   Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
VN     =   Voie Nationale
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Szr-t  p b2r 12. 19838  Zaire introduced a trarsitional dual exchange
- 1re-rme  comprising an official rate and a free market rate shn-n tn
a     abes Thcve.  The two rates were unified on February 24  1984;
% ea4 ter, th2 rate will float on a weekly basis.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
SECOND SNCZ RAILWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ........ ................... . , .o. .               1
A. Background ....--... .o..*.o..  , , o   ...........                    I
B. The Transport System                        ,                          1
C. Organization of the Transport Sector           ........... --....      3
D. Planning, Sector Strategy, Needs and Main Issues........               4
E. Bank Experience in the Transport Sector             ......             7
II. SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER ZAIROIS (SNCZ) .                     9
Ao Introduction  -...-o..  ..  ..  ....-...                               9
B. Facilities o ..  00.  .  0.....0 ..000-.                               9
C. Organization, Management and Staff ....-................              11
D. Training ......  -...  -............. .....*..o........ ........ ..................... 13
E. Operations ........o ... oo....... e       .o.o.o.oz**    .... o*o    13
F. Investment Planning .. .....                 n ........ -...............    15
G. Financial Management, Accounts, Budgets,
Audit, Insurance, Tariffs . ..... .... o ...o................        15
H . Past and Present Traffic .. ......... .            *...........    19
III. THE PROJECT    - ...........- .......                                    21
A. Background and Objectives  ....................21
B. Project Description ....................... . .. ..........    22
C. Cost Estimates    ...         .. - .        .      . ..-   .o..*.     26
D. Financing Plan . ... . ......... ... ........      . .*-...0.   28
E. Project Execution and Implementation ...-...............    29
F. Procurement .... .  .........                              ....       30
G. Disbursements .................. . ....... *. . .* ..... ..           31
H. Operational Targets and Reporting Requirements ........               32
I. Environmental Impact ..... . .... o........ ..... . .........    33
This report was prepared by J-C Crochet (Economist), C. Reynolds (Railway
Engineer), F. Chapman and J. Padilla (Financial Analysts, Consultants),
following an appraisal mission in June 1983. The report was edited by C.
Applegate (Technical Editor). C. Delvoie (Financial Analyst) participated
in the Appraisal Mission. S. Capoluongo (Financial Analyst) updated the
financial evaluation.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ................   33
A*  General                      .... D@@@X@ve * .* ... **  ...  0.0....* .O..¢   33
B. Project Benefits and Beneficiaries-.-o......                   34
C. Traffic Forecasts                         ...............   34
D. Economic Analysis                                              35
E. Sensitivity Analysis and Risks .................37
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION ................       ..... ........        39
A. Operating Performance                             ........    39
B. Financial Condition *                                          41
C. Financial Forecasts . .......... ............   . .... ....    43
VI. A6REEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .....................   47
ANNEXES
I.   Description of SNCZ's Four Operating Regions
II.  SNCZ Management Reorganization - Outline of Action Plan
III. SNCZ Actual and Projected Financial Statements
IV.  Financial Forecasts Assumptions
V.   Discussion of the Main Factors Affecting Traffic
VI.  Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
VII. Wagon and Locomotive Rehabilitation and Maintenance: Justification of
Cost Estimates
CHARTS
1. SNCZ Age of Rail
2. SNCZ Rail Weight
3. SNCZ Organization Chart
4. SNCZ Traffic Density
5. Project Implementation Schedule
MAPS
1. Republic of Zaire - Transportation Network - IBRD 16564R
2. Republic of Zaire - International Export/Import Routes - IBRD 17537



1. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Background
1.01      Zaire, the third largest country in Africa, covers an area of 2.4
million km2.  Nearly the entire country lies within the watershed of the
Zaire River, the many tributaries of which affect practically the entire
country. The population of about 28 million is unevenly distributed; some
regions, such as the tropical forest which covers the center of the country
are almost deserted while others mostly in the periphery are densely popu-
lated. Overall population growth is about 2.7% annually. However, the ur-
ban population is growing at 7% due to rural migration with the result that
about one-third of the people live in cities.  The main economic activi-
ties, agriculture and mining, are situated in peripheral areas of the coun-
try, sometimes as much as 2,000 km from the capital or the nearest sea-
port. All these factors explain the critical role of transport in the eco-
nomy.
1.02      For various reasons, both internal and external, the Zairian eco-
nomy has declined since 1975.   Between 1975 and 1979   GDP contracted by
3.5% p.a.; inflation, fueled by deficit financing, ran high, and arrears on
repayment of external debt mounted.   As foreign exchange became scarcer,
imports had to be curtailed resulting in acute shortages of materials and
spare parts.  This, in turn, has led to deterioration of mining, manufac-
turing and transport facilities.   Moreover, as the Government's revenues
shrank, its ability to fund investments also diminished. This unfavorable
economic environment has severely hampered the transport sector, further
constraining a possible economic recovery.
B. The Transport System
1.03       Zaire's transport system is an interconnected network of rivers,
railways and roads linked at strategic points. One of its major character-
istics is that the transport modes are highly complementary to each other
with only limited competition among them. The dominant element in the sys-
tem is the Zaire River and its tributaries which provide some 15,000 km of
navigable waterways. This network of rivers has been complemented by about
5,000 km of railways in several separate lines to form a rail/river system
for interregional transport and external access.   Most of the 145,000 km
road network, of which only 2,400 km are paved, was constructed to provide
local access and links to the river/rail arteries.   Because of Zaire's
size, air transport plays an important role in the long-distance movement
of passengers and high-value freight. The country has about 150 airfields
and airstrips of which 30 are served by the national airline and three can
handle wide-bodied aircraft.   Two pipelines, one four-inch and the other



-2-
six-inch diameter, transport refined petroleum products from Matadi to Fin-
shasa. River ports have been established along the river network, the most
important of which are at Kinshasa and Ilebo.  Matadi is Zaire's principal
seaport, while a port at Boma handles mainly locally produced exports.
1.04       The main transport corridor is the Voie Nationale (VN) linking
the mineral-rich Shaba region to the seaport of Matadi.  Traffic, chiefly
copper, is shipped from Shaba by rail about 1,500 km to the port of Ilebo
on the Kasai River and transshipped to barges for the 800 km trip on the
Kasai and Zaire rivers to Kinshasa, where it is transferred back to rail
for the remaining 365 km to Matadi for loading onto ocean-going vessels.
At present the trip requires about 50 days.
1.05       The VN is crucially important to Zaire because it is the only
evacuation route for its mineral exports entirely within the country. Mine-
rals account for 60% of its foreign exchange earnings.   While Zaire has
used the VN for about 50% of its mining-related external transport over the
past seven years, it has been using two other routes via foreign countries
for the remainder: (i) the southern route via Sakania through Zambia, ZiLm-
babwe and Botswana to South African ports (40-45%) and (ii) the Kalemie-
Kigoma route via the Tanzanian railway to Dar es Salaam (5-10%). Until its
closure in 1975 the Benguela railway through Angola to the Port of Lobfto
was the main foreign route for Zaire and accounted for 20 to 30% of total
mineral exports.
1.06      A primary aim of the Government is to maximize the use of the VN
because it is the cheapest available route and is free from possible re-
strictions or interruptions arising from capacity constraints on the for-
eign routes or external political and security conditions.   This can be
done at least cost by rehabilitating VN's facilities, a policy that has
been pursued in the Government's public investment programs since 1979 and
supported by several Bank Group projects.
1.07       The Shaba to Ilebo railway section of the VN and its branches
towards Kivu and the Tanganika lake are also of key importance to Zaire's
entire southeast (one third of the country's size) because they ensure
movement of locally manufactured and imported goods to and between urban
centers, and long distance movements of food, raw materials and agriculture
exports, thereby fostering agriculture recovery. Large quantities of maize
are moved for example over distances of 800km and more from Kasai and north
Shaba to south Shaba, a substitute to food imports.   The railway is also
essential to mineral production since it supplies most inputs to Geca-
mines, Zaire's major mineral producer, and moves large volumes of semi-
products between processing facilities.
1.08       While the basic transport infrastructure and equipment exist iLn
Zaire to meet current transport demand, there are severe limitations on its
effectiveness.  Shortages of materials and spare parts have critically ir-
paired the use of equipment. Insufficient maintenance and investment over
many years have resulted in an accumulation of outmoded, worn-out, and un-
reliable equipment and facilities that translate into poor service and high
transport costs.  Ongoing Bank Group projects are assisting the Government
to redress this situation. The proposed project continues these efforts.



- 3 -
C. Organization of the Transport Sector
1.09       The organization of the sector, largely the result of extensive
studies prepared about a decade ago, is basically sound and for the time
being does not require major reforms.   The sector is dominated by three
large parastatal agencies: (i) the Socigt6 Nationale des Chemins de Fer
Zairois (SNCZ) described more fully in Chapter II; (ii) the Office National
des Transports (ONATRA) which mainly provides transport services on the
Zaire River and its tributaries, the railway services between Matadi and
Kinshasa, and the port operations at Matadi, Kinshasa and most inland
ports; and (iii) the Office des Routes (OR) which builds and maintains the
40,900 km of main roads.  Operations of ONATRA and OR have improved over
the past few years: ONATRA is in a position to meet efficiently future de-
mand for its services and OR, recently decentralized, has now become capa-
ble to address maintenance needs on most of its network.
1.10       In addition to the three principal transport organizations, the
following agencies also have key roles in the transport system:  (i)  Regie
des Voies Fluviales (RVF), which maintains and operates navigation aids and
services on navigable waterways;  (ii)   Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM),
which maintains and operates the navigational markings and pilotage ser-
vices on the Zaire estuary from the port of Matadi to the sea; (iii) Regie
des Voies Aeriennes (RVA), which builds, maintains and operates airports;
(iv) Air Zaire, the state-owned airline with scheduled domestic and inter-
national services using a fleet of two DC10s, three DC8s, three Boeings
737s and five F27s; and (v) Compagnie Maritime Zairoise (CMZ), the national
shipping company which operates five general cargo ships.  The three Regies
have had difficulties recently to assume their role.   Air Zaire and CMZ
have lost much ground to international and local competition.
1.11      In spite of the predominance of the above agencies, the number of
private operators in the transport sector is increasing. Encouraged by the
absence of regulations, professional truckers, private river and air carri-
ers, and large companies transporting on their own account have recently
been competing actively with the large public agencies for almost any kind
of traffic (besides minerals and containers).   On the river system and in
the Matadi-Kinshasa corridor, ONATRA's share of total freight traffic has
declined to about 70%.  In addition, about one-third of total air cargo is
now handled by private carriers.
1.12        Four ministries have administrative responsibilities over the
transport sector: the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), which is responsible
for the roads infrastructure and controls OR; the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC), which is responsible for the infrastructure of the
other transport subsectors and for transport operations, and controls all
other transport parastatals; the Ministry of Planning (MP) which coordi-
nates transport investments with the needs in other sectors; the Ministry
of Portefeuille (MPF) which oversees the accounts of all parastatals.  In
general, the transport parastatals enjoy a relatively high degree of auto-
nomy.



- 4 -
D. Planning, Sector Strategy, Needs and Main Issues
Planning and Sector Strategy
1.13      Planning and policy analysis in the transportation sector are the
responsibility of the Groupe d'Etudes, Economie et Planification (GEEP), a
study unit in the Ministry of Transport.   GEEP receives support from the
planning units of both ONATRA and OR and coordinates its analyses with the
Ministry of Planning.  Given the difficult context and the lack of statis-
tics in Zaire, GEEP has performed satisfactorily. It requires assistance,
however, to set up a medium-term work program and to monitor its
implementation. This will be provided under the proposed project.
1.14      The Government's main objectives in the transport sector over the
last few years have been (i) to strengthen the management of the main
transport agencies, (ii) to focus limited financial resources on mainte-
nance and rehabilitation of the existing network, and (iii) to increase the
effective capacity of the major internal transport routes, especially the
VN. These objectives, which the Bank Group agrees with, have been incor-
porated in Zaire's new interim 1983-85 public investment program (PIP).
1.15      This new version allocates 42% of total investments to the trans-
port sector making it the most important before Mining (22%) and Energy and
Water (18%). The share of transport is, however, overstated because all of
OR's operating costs (and not only its investment costs) have been included
and because the implementation schedule for transport projects does not
sufficiently take into account capacity and financial constraints.   Under
more realistic assumptions, the transport sector's share would come down to
about 25-30%, the same level as mining, which still reflects the importance
of the sector for the country and also the larger part of its activities
under public ownership.  Except for the above, the transport part of the
PIP is basically sound and usefully clarifies medium-term investment prior-
ities. It includes, however, a few projects, the most important of which
is the electrification of Matadi-Kinshasa Railway, which Government agrees
require more in-depth evaluation.  GEEP and the Ministry of Planning have
the capability to carry out the supplementary work needed; this will be
done during the preparation of the 1986-90 economic development plan. The
proposed project will finance the most urgent components of the Planr's
railway section.
Main Sector Needs, Issues and Government's Strategy/Actions
1.16      Dialogue with the Government on the major issues in the transport
sector has intensified during the last few years and is being pursued
through different channels:  (i) Zaire's sector strategy was the object of
a special presentation and discussions during the June 1981 Consultative
Group Meeting in Paris and the last Country Implementation Review in Kin-
shasa (May 1983); (ii) a transport sector report will be prepared for dis-
cussion with Government at the beginning of 1985; and (iii) specific is-
sues are being addressed within the context of specific projects.   The
major needs and issues relating to the transport sector and Government's
strategy and actions to address them are the following:



-5-
Management and Operations
1.17       The management of main transport agencies has generally improved
over the past years.   Both ONATRA and OR, for example, have developed
modern management tools within the context of past IDA projects, and their
productivity has increased. However, there is still scope for more effi-
cient use of equipment and facilities in all sector public agencies.
Studies have started under IDA financing at RVF and RVM to improve their
operations and financial management, and at OR to review its specific role
within Zaire's road sector and adapt its organization accordingly.   The
proposed project will help implement a major reform of SNCZ management
which, for reasons detailed in Chapter II, has deteriorated seriously over
the past three years.  Operations of RVA, Air Zaire and CMZ have not been
reviewed by Bank staff in the past; Government has recently taken measures
in Air-Zaire and CMZ to streamline management.
1.18        While technical assistance will continue to be needed in both
advisory and managerial positions, training of Zairian staff should be in-
tensified to ensure eventual take-over by national staff.   To this end
large training programs have been included in recent Bank Group supported
projects in the sector and positive results are being registered at OR,
ONATRA and SNCZ. Furthermore, to attract and retain skilled Zairian staff
the above agencies have introduced measures going beyond pure salary
increases (such as food and housing allowances) as part of their staff
compensation.
1.19      An important need which will require attention in the near future
is the proper coordination of policy on the entire VN including particular-
ly investment policy and tariffs. The mechanism for this should be located
within the Ministry of Transport.   The Bank's transport sector work in
Zaire over the next two years will review this subject in detail.  In the
meantime, the short-term focus should be on ensuring that the individual
links, especially the SNCZ, attain adequate strength.
Financial Resources
1.20      The financial situation and financial needs of the various trans-
port agencies vary widely according to whether or not they generate revenue
and whether or not they earn foreign exchange.   In general, tariff in-
creases to keep up with inflation have been adequate although delays have
at times caused severe cashflow problems to the main transport agencies.
In addition, for several years the tariff structure for both ONATRA  and
SNCZ has been seriously distorted (as mineral transport was cross-
subsidized). The Government of Zaire has recently corrected this situation
(see para. 2.38). Government allocations to non-revenue earning agencies,
mainly OR, have been irregular in the past, hampering orderly operations
and forward planning.  A large increase in the fuel tax earmarked for road
works adopted in December 1982 should alleviate this problem if regularly
adjusted to take inflation into account.  There is also a particular need
for Government to ensure that the main agencies obtain sufficient amounts
of foreign exchange so that normal operating requirements are met -- a
critical problem at SNCZ in the past (see para 5.10 and 5.11).  As part of
the recent economic reforms, the Government has liberalized the foreign
exchange regime.  These measures give free access to foreign exchange to



the transport sector public agencies.  Nevertheless, MTC should also moni-
tor closely the sector's total needs and use.
Investment Priorities
1.21       The lack of maintenance of the transport infrastructure over a
period of two decades has resulted in dilapidated infrastructure and urLre-
liable equipment  and facilities.   Large  rehabilitation  investments  are
therefore required. Replacement and modernization should be considered on-
ly when, as in the case of container traffic, existing facilities have be-
come totally inadequate.  Given the scarcity of resources, it is important
that in-depth technical and economic evaluation of all projects be under-
taken and that the transport capacity of the different sub-sectors be coor-
dinated so that costly imbalances or bottlenecks do not occur.   The pro-
posed project will provide for an extensive review of the air-transport
sub-sector in order to improve its efficiency and determine the needs for
rehabilitation of its infrastructure in coordination with the investment
needs of the other sub-sectors. Each public agency should have the capabi-
lity to analyze its investment needs in economic as well as technical terms
by strengthening or, if necessary, establishing planning units.  The pro-
posed project will assist the creation of such a unit at SNCZ (para 2.24).
A constant review of priorities by GEEP and monitoring of achievements is
also required.  Projects which do not have clear economic returns, such as
the electrification of the Matadi-Kinshasa railway line or the construction
of a new deep sea port at Banana, should be postponed. Under Credit 1335--ZR
(Matadi-Kinshasa Port Project), the Government has agreed to consult with
the Association prior to undertaking any project exceeding US$10 million
equivalent in the port and railway sectors.
The Development of the Private Sector
1.22       The spontaneous and rapid development of the private sector must
be encouraged. This includes improving its access to foreign exchange for
investment and operating purposes, developing adequate support services;
defining a policy framework conducive to coherent development; and develop-
ing a simple information system on private sector activity.  GEEP is pre-
sently undertaking under IDA financing a broad review of private sector 2LC-
tivities to provide a base for a coherent Government policy to promote the
numerous entrepreneurs.  This review is expected to be completed by early
1985.
1.23       In addition, it is important that a system of incentives permit
an efficient allocation of resources.   In this regard,  the adjustment of
tariffs for mineral exports has eliminated the major distortion that exist-
ed in ONATRA's and SNCZ's tariff structures.  A policy must still be de-
fined concerning the level of fuel prices.  Because of the recent adjust-
ments, which included an increase of 225% for gas-oil, all fuel prices are
above economic cost.  There is still, however, a large discrepancy between
the prices of gasoline and diesel oil, and prices are uniform over the en-
tire  country.   A study is presently being carried out by OR with IDA
financing to (i) provide a system of calculating in a systematic way the
economic costs of petroleum products used in the transport sector, and (ii)
analyse the consequences for Zaire of alternative policies concerning fuel



prices.   Under Credit 1290-ZR (Fifth Highway Project),  the Government of
Zaire  has  agreed  to  exchange  views  with  the  Association  on  the
recommendations and conclusions of this study and to adjust fuel prices in
light of the Association's comments so as to recover at least the real cost
of such fuels.
1.24      Over the past years, Government has taken measures that have done
much to meet the sector's needs and resolve the above issues. This strate-
gy must be pursued and measures implemented systematically in all areas.
This implies in particular that procedures and processes such as the coor-
dination of investments or the continuous monitoring of sector development
be set up and kept at work. MTC will need to be strengthened in the future
to assume fully this role.
E. Bank Experience in the Transport Sector
1.25        The Association agrees with the Government's strategy in the
transport sector and has designed its assistance to support it. More spe-
cifically, the Association's assistance has been mainly directed at (i) re-
storing the transport capacity of the basic network, improving its opera-
tional efficiency and strengthening the institutions responsible for main-
taining and operating it; and (ii) keeping the main roads network in good
condition through the establishment of an effective road-maintenance orga-
nization and providing for feeder roads within specific IDA-financed agri-
cultural projects. Since Zaire's independence in 1960, the Bank has helped
finance five highway projects (Credits 152-CK, US$6 million, 1969; Credit
292-CK, US$19 million, 1972; Credit 536-ZR, US$26 million, 1975; Credit
916-ZR, US$26 million, 1979; Credit 1290-ZR, US$43.5 million, 1982), one
river transport project (Credit 255-ZR, US$7 million, 1971), one railway
project (Credit 902-ZR, US$20 million, 1979), two rail/river projects
(Credits 571-ZR, US$26 million, 1975 and 1180-ZR, US$26 million, 1982) and
one port project (Credit 1335-ZR, US$ 25 million, 1983).
1.26       Two Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued, one for
the First Highway Project (1978), and the second jointly for the Second and
Third Highway Projects and for the River Transport and First Rail/River
Projects (October 7, 1983). The main conclusions of the latter report are
the following:
(i) The projects under review were probably too ambitious.   Because
of the difficult environment in which they were implemented and
of some deficiencies in project design and supervision, only part
of the projects' objectives were met;
(ii) The projects aided in bringing about major institutional develop-
ment. New agencies were launched (OR, RVF and RVM) and an exist-
ing one, ONATRA was substantially reorganized. Large numbers of
Zairian employees were trained.  There remained however, in the
Audit's opinion, serious problems concerning the size, responsi-
bilities and strategies of ONATRA and OR;
(iii) Technical assistance still plays a role in the management of
ONATRA and OR. The process of replacement by Zairian staff must
be pursued while ensuring the availability of adequate technical
resources for management;



- 8 -
(iv) The institutions responsible for policy making and control should
be strengthened in parallel with the main transport agencies;
(v) Investment priorities should be analyzed within the context of
the entire transport system, rather than in relation to one major
transport corridor such as the VN.
All these questions are being addressed either through ongoing projects -
for example by continuation of large training programs and institutional
development efforts in ONATRA, OR and SNCZ, a broad review of the
organization of the road sector (Fifth Highway Project), analysis of RVF
and RVM operations and financial management (Ports Project), and studies
designed to help Government address key policy issues such as the price of
petroleum products (Fifth Highways Project) and the development of the pri-
vate sector (Ports Project) - or through a sector dialogue that has been
intensified in recent years (para 1.16).  Recent projects (ONATRA Moderni-
zation and Port Projects) have also focused on key priorities of the sector
as a whole and have not been limited to the VN's requirements.   The pro-
posed project pursues this strategy; whenever practical, its design also
incorporates the suggestions made by the audit report.
1.27      Experience with the First Railway Project, under implementation,
is discussed in paragraphs 3.01 and 3.02.



- 9 -
II. SOCIETE NATIONALE DES CHEMINS DE FER ZAIROIS (SNCZ)
A. Introduction
2.01        SNCZ, an autonomous government agency, was formed in 1974 by
merging five existing railway companies.  The heart of the SNCZ system is
the 3,600 km of line in the southern and eastern areas of the country which
has historically catered to the transport requirements of mining companies
in the Shaba region and to transit traffic between Zambia and the port of
Lobito in Angola.   A separate, unconnected northern line (1,021 km) con-
nects the agricultural region of the northeast to the Zaire river. Another
line (121 km) upstream from Kisangani was created to bypass a non-navigable
section of the Zaire river.  Two additional lines in the extreme western
part of the country (the Matadi-Kinshasa and Tshela-Boma lines) are oper-
ated by ONATRA under a 10-year lease between ONATRA and SNCZ which runs un-
til 1991.  Service on the Tshela-Boma line is scheduled to be discontinued
soon.  SNCZ's railway operations are organized into four operating regions
(see Annex I).   In addition to its main railway service,  SNCZ operates
several ports (including the main transhipment ports of Ilebo and Kalemie)
and water transport services on the Kivu and Tanganika lakes. SNCZ's head-
quarters is in Lubumbashi with a liaison office in Kinshasa.
B. Facilities
2.02        SNCZ has sufficient facilities to carry out its economic role.
These facilities, however, are on the whole in poor condition due to the
lack of adequate maintenance over many years.
Track
2.03      SNCZ is responsible for 4,627 km of main-line single track rail-
way and about 100 km of industrial sidings.   Some 851 km of track in the
southern mining region is electrified.   The gauge is 1,067 mm except the
Ubundu-Kisangani section (1,000 mm) and the northern region (600 mm).
Rails are generally old and in poor condition (see Charts 1 and 2 for rail
age and weight).   Steel sleepers, also in poor condition, are used on the
entire network except for 200 km with wooden sleepers.
2.04      Rails on more than 1,100 km of track between Tenke and Ilebo, an
important section of the VN, are badly worn; in addition, this section has
numerous curves with radii of 200 m or less. As a result, more than 80 sec-
tions (totalling 200 km) have speed restrictions and derailments currently
average 10 a month with serious consequences on the VN's capacity. Only 70
km of track have been renewed in the past 10 years on the entire network;
this was in 1983 under the IDA-assisted First Railways Project. Additional
sections of about 128 km in total must be renewed urgently. Ballasting and
maintenance have also been carried out only irregularly in the recent past
mainly because SNCZ is critically short of equipment, tools, spare parts
and material.
Signalling and Telecommunications
2.05      While the signalling system over much of the network is workable
and adequate for present traffic levels, it is old and will eventually have
to be replaced since much of the existing equipment is no longer manufac-



- 10 -
tured.   Communications between train control offices and stations in the
central and eastern regions are by standard telephone connected by lines
along the right of way, a system which presents numerous problems.  tJnder
the proposed project modern radio communications will be installed as soon
as studies, also financed under the proposed project, set the specifica-
tions. Communications in the southern region are by telephone connected by
cable, a reliable but expensive system.   Between Likasi and Tenke where
traffic is heavy, Belgian aid is financing a centralized traffic control
(CTC) system; this is the first phase of a CTC system for the electrified
sections to be expanded as traffic warrants.
Motive Power
2.06      SNCZ's main line motive power fleet comprises mainly 55 electric
and 64 diesel locomotives. The electric main line locomotives, 35 of which
are less than 20 years old are in fair condition.  Availability was a high
(85%) in 1976 but has declined to its currrent level of 70% because of lack
of foreign exchange for maintenance parts. There is also a severe shortage
of spare parts for the diesel main line locomotives which are all less than
15 years old. As a result, availability has decreased from 56% in 1976 to
45% now, reliability is poor and SNCZ must currently rent 6 diesel main
line locomotives from South African Railways (SAR). The 59 diesel shunting
locomotives, 46 of which are less than 15 years old, are also affecteid by
lack of spare parts. Availability has decreased from 64% in 1976 to 52% in
1983. Essentially what the locomotive fleet requires is a planned mainte-
nance program and sufficient spare parts to carry it out.   This is being
provided under the proposed project.
Rolling Stock
2.07         SNCZ has 338 passenger and service coaches and 30 motor self
propelled coaches and trailers. Of the passenger coaches 250 are more than
25 years old but most are in acceptable condition.  The 30 self propelled
all less than 15 years old, are in good condition.
2.08        SNCZ operates 4,834 wagons in its own fleet plus a number of
privately owned petroleum tank wagons.   More than 800 wagons are over 50
years old and will have to be retired within the next five years. Because
of lack of materials for maintenance and major repairs, approximately 700
more wagons are out of service and without an immediate repair program,
this number will increase.   Availability has fallen to an unacceptable
level of 65%.  To meet its needs, SNCZ uses wagons belonging to SAR over
and above the amount agreed to and beyond Lubumbashi, the geographical
limit for these wagons. Rental charges are high and must be met in foreign
exchange.   A recent analysis of the fleet by SNCZ with the assistance of
consultants recommends that, in the next two years, 841 wagons undergo
major  repairs.    The  rest  of  the fleet  requires  proper maintenance  to
achieve acceptable availability rates.  An analysis of fleet requirements
also demonstrates the need for approximately 200 new wagons.
Workshos
2.09      Workshops for maintenance of diesel locomotives and rolling stock
are located at Lubumbashi, Kalemie, Aketi and Isiro. Electric locomotives



are maintained at the workshop at Likasi.  In addition there are 20 depots
for service and minor repairs of locomotives and wagons. The workshops al-
so maintain track maintenance equipment, signalling and telecommunications
equipment, and port equipment belonging to SNCZ. The workshops are gener-
ally in fair condition and relatively well-equipped. The wagon workshops,
however, need additional equipment to undertake sufficient rehabilitation
work.
Port Facilities
2.10      SNCZ operates two major ports -- one at Kalemie on Lake Tanganyi-
ka and the other at Ilebo on the Kasai River.  Kalemie port links SNCZ to
Dar es Salaam via the Tanzania railway system.   Ilebo port is a major
transshipment point on the Voie Nationale for imports and exports passing
through the seaport of Matadi and for agricultural products destined for
Kinshasa.
2.11      Kalemie has a capacity of 500 tons a day; this will be increased
as a result of improvements to be financed by the EEC.  The port at Ilebo
has a capacity of about 2,000 tons of non-containerized cargo a day. Faci-
lities are old but generally in acceptable condition except for rails.
SNCZ is extending a portion of the quay to increase the handling capacity
of a new container crane and intends to improve the rail circulation sys-
tem. When this work is completed, Ilebo port should have enough capacity
for the next five years. A study, included in the project, is however re-
quired to determine investment needs for the longer term. At negotiations,
SNCZ agreed to have this study completed and discussed with IDA by Septem-
ber 30, 1985.
C. Organization, Management and Staff
2.12        SNCZ's chief executive officer is a President DU1egu& G6nfral
(PDG) nominated by the President of the Republic; the PDG also serves as
chairman of the Board of Directors.   SNCZ's management reports to the MTC
on operational matters and the MPF on its financial affairs. SNCZ statutes
were modified in 1978, following a general reorganization of parastatals in
Zaire, giving it considerable autonomy over operations and finances.
2.13      SNCZ is one of the largest organizations in Zaire with a staff of
about 22,500, of whom about 1,900 are in middle or senior management posi-
tions; about 500 hold a university degree.  While Zairians head most de-
partments and a majority of sub-departments, many key management and tech-
nical positions are filled by expatriates, though their number has declined
from about 400 in 1974 to about 140 in 1983 (of which about 35 are provided
by Belgian, French and German bilateral Aid and the rest directly hired by
SNCZ). Due mainly to retirement and a Government policy of reserving mid-
dle management position for Zairians, about 60 expatriates are scheduled to
leave in the next three years. Because it has recruited and trained a sub-
stantial number of young engineers in recent years, SNCZ will be able to
replace most of the departing staff by promotion.   However,  there are a
number of higher management and specialized positions that are or will soon
become vacant and must be filled rapidly by qualified staff.  As a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed Credit, SNCZ will prepare a staffing



- 12 -
plan for higher level positions acceptable to IDA.   This plan would (i)
list new positions to be created, vacant positions and those which will be-
come vacant during the project implementation period, and (ii) show which
positions can be taken over by nationals.    SNCZ would thereby establish
the net additional needs for technical assistance.   At negotiations, SNCZ
agreed not to make any modification to this plan without prior consultation
with the Association.
2.14          SNCZ was a well-managed company during most of the 1970s.
However, it has recently had serious management problems, one of the prin-
cipal factors for its generally poor performance. The main problems, iden-
tified by an IDA-financed study, are outlined below:
(i) Poor general organization: the company's top management is highly
centralized and there is little delegation of authority (see SNCZ
organizational chart,  Chart  3).   Eleven departments  and five
sub-departments report directly to the PDG, who intervenes con-
stantly in even routine decisions.   As a consequence, critiLcal
problems are never fully addressed.   Information does not i-low
between units and there is no real coordination.
(ii) Deterioration of the control systems: the management control and
internal audit departments function very poorly.  Accounting is
overly decentralized and budgets are not used as management tools
(see paras 2.26 and 2.27).   The reporting system on operations
and finances is poor and delays are long.
(iii) Personnel 2roblems: the  motivation and spirit of initiative of
most staf  are Iow; there is a lack of expertise at some levels
and a number of positions have been vacant for a considerable
period; and there is serious in-fighting between different groups
of management staff.
External difficulties, such as the scarcity of foreign exchange for recur-
rent expenditures and investment, and the poor telecommunications in Zaire
have compounded the management problems.
2.15      The Government agrees that basic changes in management are a pre-
requisite to restoring SNCZ's transport capacity and obtained IDA's assist-
ance in searching for a new PDG to lead SNCZ's recovery.   An experienced
manager appointed in December 1983 took over in January 1984.  As a key
step in reorganizing SNCZ, he has produced a draft action plan, acceptable
to IDA, listing the measures necessary for recovery; a preliminary outline
of this plan is presented in Annex II. Its formal adoption by the Board of
SNCZ and its approval by MTC will be a condition of effectiveness.  At
negotiations, the Government and SNCZ also agreed that the action plan will
not be modified without prior consultation with the Association. In addi-
tion, SNCZ agreed to continue to employ individuals whose qualifications
and experience are satisfactory to the Association in the following posi-
tions: (i) general manager, (ii) deputy general manager, (iii) director of
the Kinshasa office; (iv) operations director, (v) technical director, (vi)
commercial director,  (vi) financial director (vii) head of the internal



- 13 -
audit department and (viii) head of the planning unit.   Appointment to
positions (iv) to (vii) will be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed  Credit.    Consultants'  support  to  the  new  PDG  in  the  early
implementation of the action plan would be financed under the First Railway
Project.
D. Training
2.16       SNCZ operates three specialized training centers for workers up
to foreman level:  two at Lubumbashi and another at Likasi.   One of the
Lubumbashi centers provides training in administration, traffic management,
locomotive driving and security.  The courses last from two to six months.
The track maintenance center at Lubumbashi provides training in all aspects
of track work; its courses last from two to eleven months.  The technical
training center at Likasi provides training in mechanical, electrical and
machine tool maintenance and operations; courses last from nine to eighteen
months. SNCZ also operates a small maritime center at Kalemie for training
in all aspects of river transport operations.   About 1,500 trainees have
been enrolled yearly in the above programs for a total of 5,000 to 6,000
man-months. The centers are well run, produce competent personnel and en-
joy a good reputation in Zaire. Their only need is for replacement of some
equipment.
2.17       The critical area in SNCZ's training requirements is in senior
and middle management where there is need to improve the competence of SNCZ
staff. Training for these positions is mainly on the job. SNCZ is however
beginning to conduct management-level courses at headquarters especially
with Belgian aid and practices extensive job rotation between the field and
headquarters and between functions.   Bilateral aid also provides substan-
tial opportunities for higher level training outside Zaire, and an exten-
sive training program has been implemented under the First Railway Pro-
ject.   These efforts must  be pursued.   SNCZ has established a list of
priority actions for staff development for the next two years and begun to
draft a comprehensive training program for higher level staff.  This plan
will list and provide justification for the selected individuals, the
training they require, its duration, the institutions to provide it, and
the positions to be occupied upon return. The proposed project will assist
in its financing.   SNCZ's preliminary work on this plan was recently re-
viewed by an IDA consultant and found satisfactory.
E. Operations
2.18       Efficiency indicators, as indicated in Table 2.1, show a steady
deterioration since the original assessment of the First Railway Project in
1976 except for increases in productivity per available locomotive and
wagon.



- 14 -
Table 2.1 - SNCZ 1976-82 Efficiency indicators _/
1976       1980        1982
1. Average locomotive availability (%)
a) Main line electric                         85          72          70
b) Main line diesel                           56          52          45
c) Shunting diesel                            64         63           52
2. Productivity per available loco-
motive per year ('000 locomotive-km)
a) Main line electric                         68          77          83
b) Main line diesel                           85          73          97
3. Average wagon availability (%)                82          66           65
4. Average turnaround time (in days)
Ore Wagon                                 3.7          4            4
5. Average wagon load (ton)                      25          24           24
6. Productivity per available wagon
per year ('000 ton-km)                       345         361         380
7. Staff productivity ('000 traffic
units per employee) 2/                       104          91          84
I/ Estimates for 1980-82.
2/ 1 traffic unit = 1 ton-km or 2 passenger-km.
2.19       As a single track railway hauling general cargo and passengers,
plus a specific requirement to supply the Gecamines' smelters with ore,
SNCZ has no unique operating problems.   Trains are generally run with a
single locomotive and are limited in length and speed.   However, under
existing conditions, availability of locomotives and wagons is unacceptably
low and reliability of both is poor.   There are far too many breakdowns
which impede effective train operations.   Since motive power is in short
supply, passenger trains have been routinely cancelled.   Because of the
poor track structure and insufficient maintenance, derailments are also a
continuing problem.
2.20       Lack of communications seriously hampers train control.  Between
Kamina and Ilebo centralized dispatching and train reporting has not been
practiced for two years.   Trains move on a station to station basis with
control exercised by local stationmasters using the key token systems. Ad-
vanced planning of movements and train priority cannot be carried out until
communications  are restored.   Operational  efficiency  is higher  in  the
southern region where communications are better.



- 15 -
2.21      Productivity per available locomotive is relatively high: because
of the shortage, available locomotives are constantly in use. Productivity
per available wagon has also increased although less than expected in
1976.   Because of high utilization, however, these wagons cannot undergo
regular maintenance and this will have adverse effects in the longer term.
Shortages have been filled by using excessive numbers of SAR wagons, which
is expedient but costly.
F. Investment Planning
2.22      In 1981, SNCZ prepared a five-year investment plan which included
substantial rehabilitation and replacement of equipment and some capacity
expansion. The plan called for investments totalling US$503.0 million (ex-
pressed in 1981 terms), US$374.0 million of which was in foreign exchange.
This plan is in fact an indicative list of SNCZ's long-term needs.  It is
not based on traffic projections nor on any analysis of economic returns,
external or local financing constraints and implementation capacity.   Al-
though SNCZ intends to update the plan with a more realistic focus, it has
not yet done so mainly because of its critical operational difficulties.
2.23       To address these, SNCZ shifted its attention at the end of 1982
to a short-term "emergency program to cover its most urgent foreign ex-
change needs for the 1984-85 period.   This program, the foreign exchange
cost of which is about US$36.8 million, covers part of SNCZ recurrent needs
for two years as well as the high priority rehabilitation that can reason-
ably be carried out over two years.  The sections concerning motive power
and rolling-stock were finalized with the assistance of consultants. This
document gives a satisfactory picture of SNCZ's investment needs in the
short to medium term.
2.24      The main reason for the inadequacy of SNCZ's investment planning
is that there is no well-organized process at work, and no unit responsible
for it on a continuous basis.   SNCZ should, therefore, create a planning
unit, on the model of ONATRA's, to analyze the feasibility of projects and
draft an investment plan and monitor its implementation. At negotiations,
SNCZ agreed to create such unit no later than December 31, 1984, and pro-
duce the first version of a five-year rolling investment plan and exchange
views with IDA on its adequacy no later than September 30, 1985. Technical
assistance to staff this unit is included in the project.
G. Financial Managenent, Accounts, Budgets, Audit, Insurance, Tariffs
Organization and Management
2.25        The management of SNCZ's finances is unsatisfactory.   Several
major weaknesses prevent the financial management system from operating
satisfactorily.    They  are:  (i)  poor  accounting  procedures;  (ii)  poor



- 16 -
poor operating and capital budgeting policies; (iii) a nearly total lack of
internal audit function; (iv) unreliable output of the data processing sys-
tem; and (v) a poorly motivated staff and lack of technical competence at
executive levels, which results in the head of the finance department get-
ting involved in day-to-day operations leaving him little time for long-
term financial planning. The weaknesses listed above are discussed in more
details below:
2.26           Accounting  procedures:  SNCZ's accounting  plan follows  the
national accounting plan of Zaire.  At present, accounting procedures are
over decentralized.  Several departments such as Procurement and Personnel
carry on their own accounting without control from the accounts department,
and sometimes without proper documentation.  As a result, errors remain in
the accounts for long periods before being corrected and accounting infor-
mation is produced with long delays.   By mid-June 1983, financial state-
ments for 1982 were, for example, not yet ready.  SNCZ agrees that it must
review its accounting procedures and especially centralize accounting prac-
tices in the accounts department. An expert's mission to help SNCZ identi-
fy possible solutions has been included in the Project.
2.27       Operating and capital budgeting policies: the operational budget
for the following calendar year is prepared during August and September mnd
approved by the Ministers of Transport and of Finance not later than Oclto-
ber 1. This budget is nothing more than a detailed list of expected reve-
nues and expenses.   The operating departments, which participate in its
preparation, are considered neither cost nor profit centers.  As a result,
they are not responsible for successes or failures, since they are not as-
signed specific financial targets.   Since the accounting data used f-or
budgeting purposes is not kept to date, control mechanisms are meaning-
less.  The capital budget, is a detailed shopping list, with general lack
of financial and economic justification.   In addition, no financial plan-
ning is performed to assess the likelihood of whether funds will be avail-
able for these investments (see paras. 2.22 to 2.24).   SNCZ is aware of
these difficulties, which are to a large extent due to the shortage of
qualified staff.  The use of operating and investment budgets as a manage-
ment tool should be an objective of the new PDG.   An analysis of annual
budgeting procedures will be carried out for that purpose by consultants.
2.28       Internal audit: An international consulting firm set up internal
auditing procedures for SNCZ in 1976; by mid-1983 these procedures were no
longer followed.   A detailed program describing tasks and means to carry
out internal auditing is supposed to be ready each November for the follow-
ing year.   The execution of the 1982 program was still not completed in
June 1983 and there was as yet no program for 1983. The lack of commitment
of previous SNCZ top management is mainly responsible for this deteriora-
tion of the internal audit function. Adequate solutions should be found as
part of the new PDG's action plan.  To prepare these, the assistance of an
expert to review and adapt present procedures is included in the Project.
At negotiations, SNCZ agreed to reorganize its internal audit department in
a manner satisfactory to the Association and commence training the staff,
no later than December 31, 1984.
2.29        Data processing system: In the recent past, SNCZ's staff have
altered the original software by sometimes unnecessary or contradictory



- 17 -
modifications. As a result, accounting and financial outputs are often un-
reliable.  SNCZ has agreed to overhaul the software system, and introduce
clear control procedures for making only properly justified program modifi-
cations.  A specialist's mission is included in the Project for that pur-
pose.
2.30        Staff: Personnel problems in the Finance Department are similar
to those of the whole company.   The lack of staff motivation is a major
factor of the present difficulties.  It should be one of the main priori-
ties of the new PDG to restore it. Major improvements also require train-
ing and additional technical expertise.  This is included in the Project.
The actual definition of the positions to be provided, will be discussed in
the draft staffing plan that SNCZ is required to submit to IDA as a condi-
tion of effectiveness (see para 2.13).
2.31       Draft terms of reference for the assistance of experts proposed
in the above paragraphs have already been prepared or are under prepara-
tion. Consulting services will be financed under the First Railway Project
or through Belgian assistance and are expected to start soon. A timetable
for implementation is included in the action plan for management reorgani-
zation.
External Audit
2.32      The external audit reports of the previous five fiscal years
(1978-1982) show the continuous deterioration of SNCZ's financial situa-
tion.  The 1978 report delivered a "clear certificate Audit Report", sub-
ject to reservations regarding the treatment of some balance sheet items
(in particular the need for revaluation of fixed assets, the setting up of
certain provisions and inventory valuations).    In 1981 the auditors were
unable to express an opinion concerning the extent to which the company's
financial statements reflected its actual financial situation, largely for
the same reasons. The reservations of 1981 were repeated in 1982. Under
its new management, SNCZ should be able to implement the measures that are
outlined in paras. 2.25 to 2.30 above and clear its past accounts in two
years.   At negotiations, the Government and SNCZ agreed that independent
auditors acceptable to the Association will continue to be employed in ac-
cordance with generally accepted principles of auditing and that audit re-
ports will be presented to the Association no later than six months after
the end of the fiscal year.
Fixed Assets
2.33      Despite an average inflation rate of about 50% per annum, SNCZ's
fixed assets have not been revalued since 1976.   A study has, however,
started to complete a detailed inventory of SNCZ's fixed assets, and deter-
mine their useful remaining life and their present value at replacement
cost. This study, which is expected to be completed by mid-1984, is being
carried out by an international consulting firm under the First Railway
Project. During negotiations, SNCZ agreed to revalue its fixed assets an-
nually, starting in 1984, on a replacement cost basis, using a methodology
acceptable to the Association.



- 18 -
Insurance
2.34      With the exception of the truck and automobile fleets and of some
buildings, SNCZ is self insured for all activities. Adequate coverage is
not available in Zaire and the cost, if acquired from insurance companies
outside Zaire, is excessive. In consideration of these factors and the
large size of SNCZ, no change is recommended at this stage.
Tariffs
2.35      SNCZ's tariff system is complex and obsolete.  Traffic is divided
in four main categories - mineral exports, mineral ore (semi-finished pro-
ducts moved between processing facilities), general cargo and passengers.
Freight tariffication is based on distance, weight and product type. Tar-
iffs for general cargo and passengers have to be approved by Government.
Tariffs for ore are and for mineral export were until recently set by
direct negotiations at irregular intervals between SNCZ, Gecamines and,
concerning the VN, ONATRA. For mineral export, tariffs are based, in
principle, on the cost of alternative international transport routes. For
ore, tariffs have recently been based on preliminary estimates of the cost
of service.
2.36      Except for this last case, railway tariffs are not well related
to costs. Support from a consultant was provided to SNCZ in 1981-82, and a
traffic costing system elaborated that takes into account SNCZ's accounting
and operational data. This system has,-however, to be developed and imple-
mented which requires additional assistance. At negotiations, SNCZ agreed
to complete the establishment of, no later than December 31, 1984, and
thereafter operate in a manner satisfactory to the Association, a traffic
costing system for the proper determination and monitoring of the costs re-
lating to specific freight and passenger services.
2.37      The evolution of SNCZ tariff structure between 1978 and 1983 is
shown in the following table:
Table 2.2 - Evolution of SNZ tariff strxture (1978-83)
(Zaire/traffic unit)
Items        1978 1/      1983 2/          Annml average      1983 3/
_______________            _ ____________   Rate  of   Increase_(%)  _
Mineral Exports   0.052      0.387                56.2           2.08
Mineral Ore     0.024        0.550               100.6           2.09
General Cargo    0.043       0.685                85.0           1.61
Passengers      0.048        0.613                76.1           0.95
1/ Tariffs are are expressed in anxnl average terms.
2/ Tariffs based on first quarter resuts and an Agreaeent of June 1983
between 5NCZ and Gecamines.
31 Tariffs resultiig fraa the late 1983 increases (a consequenoe of the Sept. 1983
devaluation)
Note: Tariffs are expressed in anrrent tenrs. The annal average rate of inflation
betwen 1978 and 1982 was about 54%.



- 19 -
Tariffs have been increased at least yearly.,  Two increases took place in
March and September 1979: 80% and 40%, respectively, for mineral exports,
80% and 100%, respectively, for the other main commodities.  Increases of
184% for mineral ore and 51% for general cargo and passengers took place in
January 1980.   Tariffs for mineral exports were increased about 46% in
March 1980. Following increases took place in January 1981, 18% for ore,
July 1981, 40% for mineral exports and 23% for ore, and in November 1981,
51% for general cargo and passengers.   A general  increase  occurred  in
September and November 1982: 32% for ore, 68% for general cargo, 38% for
agricultural products and about 30% for passengers.   Tariffs for mineral
exports on the VN in addition were increased by 36% in two steps in March
and June 1983.   The last increase occurred in the last quarter of 1983:
116% for general cargo, 50% for agriculture products and passengers, about
525% for mineral exports and 280% for ore.
2.38       As shown in Table 2.2, SNCZ's tariff structure presented until
recently   a major distortion in favor of mineral exports, mainly because
tariff increases for mineral exports had not been adequate over the last
years. Between 1976 and 1982, for example, the share of mineral exports in
SNCZ's total revenues decreased from 26% to 15% although the share of total
traffic remained around 25%.   The problem was the same with ONATRA which
operates jointly with SNCZ, the VN.   For several years, mineral exports
have been transported below variable cost.  This has had far-reaching con-
sequences as SNCZ and especially ONATRA have had to compensate for the
losses on mineral export traffic by higher tariffs for general cargo, in-
cluding agriculture products, giving non-economic signals to producers and
private transporters.   To address this situation, the Government of Zaire
has recently set up an interdepartemental committee, at ministerial level,
to decide on the structure and adjustment rates of tariffs for mineral ex-
ports. This committee will act on the basis of technical submissions pre-
pared by SNCZ, ONATRA and Gecamines. Tariffs for mineral exports were also
increased on average about 525% in late 1983.
H. Past and Present Traffic
2.39       Traffic on the SNCZ network grew substantially during the early
1970s but fell by about 30% between 1974 and 1978 after the closing of the
Lobito route and the resulting loss of Zairian manganese exports and Zambi-
an transit traffic.  Current traffic is at about the same level it was 15
years ago, having stagnated over the past five years, as indicated in the
following table:



- 20 -
Table 2.3 - Past Traffic on SNCZ (1978-82)
1978     1979      1980      1981      1982
Freight ('000 tons)
Minerals
Exports                   539      506       584       653       614
Local                   1,627    1,592    1,825    1,786    1,699
General cargo
Imports-exports           646      623       691       550       545
Domestic                1,180    1,159    1,120    1,241    1,124
Service                     164       181      157        26        49
Total        4,156    4,061    4,377    4,256    4,031
(million ton-km)
Minerals
Exports                   473      391       460       569       531
Local                     283      291       339       335       331
General cargo
Imports-exports           364      375       421       365       303
Domestic                  501      461       483       538       489
Service                      60        70       69         9        23
Total        1,681    1,588    1,772    1,816    1,669
Passengers ('000)          1,198    1,348        963    1,372       965
(million passenger-km)
476      555       430       613       405
Three main reasons account for this:  (i)  the uneven pattern of mineral
production, (ii) the slowdown of economic activity, and (iii) the lack of
transport capacity offered by SNCZ.
2.40      The demand for rail transport is largely dependent on SNCZ's main
client, Gecamines.  Not only does Gecamines account for nearly all mineral
traffic (except about 16 million ton-km from a small mining company
SODIMIZA), but it also generates a substantial share of domestic traffic
and about 80% of the imports.  In total Gecamines accounts for  about 70%
of all SNCZ freight traffic (ton-km) and therefore SNCZ's traffic fluctu-
ates with increases or decreases in Gecamines production and sales.   The
recent decline in SNCZ's import traffic, for example, is due to Gecamines'
decrease in the import of spare parts and equipment and a strong reduction
in maize imports.
2.41         Traffic demand from outside the mining sector has stagnated
because of Zaire's economic difficulties, especially the long-term level-
ling off of agriculture production.   Domestic general cargo traffic is at
about the same level as in the early 1970s.  Due to the low level of track
maintenance work, service traffic has also decreased substantially.



- 21 -
2.42      On the supply side, the loss of capacity due to the poor condi-
tion of SNCZ's facilities, locomotives and rolling stock has also been a
factor in the stagnation of the traffic, most notably in the past two
years. SNCZ has not been able to handle the small recent increase in
agriculture production. Waiting time for cotton bales has reached six
months and, despite the very poor condition of the roads, substantial
quantities of food are transported by trucks to southern Shaba at a
financial cost per ton-km sometimes five times higher than by rail.
2.43      A salient feature of SNCZ's traffic is also its concentration
(Chart 4). The southern region from Sakania to Dilolo and from Tenke to
Kamina accounts for about 60% of all traffic, the central region from
Kamina to Ilebo for about 32%, the eastern region from Kamina to Kalemie
and Kindu for about 6% and the northern region for only 2%. About 90% of
the traffic travels on less than 50% of the network. Given their negative
impact on SNCZ's finances, a study of low density lines is required
(paras. 3.12 and 5.09).
2.44      Passenger traffic has been heavily influenced by fare increases
and the availability of motive power. The current traffic level is about
one half of the peak levels of the mid-1970s. Given the absence of long
distance bus transport, there is no alternative to SNCZ service for most
passengers.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background and Objectives
3.01    The objective of the First Railway Project (CR.902-ZR, US$20.0
million - 1979) was to restore SNCZ to an acceptable level of operational
efficiency. The project included materials and equipment for track renew-
al, spare parts for rehabilitation and maintenance of locomotives and rol-
ling stock, workshops and service equipment, port equipment and civil
works, staff housing and medical facilities, training and consultant ser-
vices.
3.02    The first project has not fulfilled its objective, and although
some important project components have been implemented (for example renew-
al of 70 km of track, improvement of the workshops and track maintenance
plant, creation of a main computer center, training), SNCZ's situation has
generally deteriorated. The main reasons for this are the following:
(i) Management deficiencies, as detailed in para 2.14 and 2.15, result-
ed in slow procurement and implementation, and a general inability
of the company to face its specific difficulties and set priori-
ties;
(ii) Some of the major co-financiers suspended disbursement on about
US$ 35 million of the project's foreign exchange costs for non-
project related reasons. This was especially critical because of
the complementary nature of the equipment and material to be pro-
cured through the various financing sources; and prevented much re-
habilitation from being completed; and



- 22 -
(iii) SNCZ's shortage of foreign exchange interrupted the flow of spare
parts for regular maintenance, created acute shortages of equip-
ment, and resulted in a situation of permanent crisis management;
the financial situation also remained poor because of delays in
tariff adjustments and inadequate tariff structure.
3.03      The proposed project is an emergency rescue operation to address
the above situation and restore SNCZ's transport capacity. Its main objec-
tives are to:
(i) strengthen SNCZ's organization, management and competence of staff;
(ii) improve the conditions under which the company operates and rein-
state planned maintenance procedures by ensuring a regular flow of
spare parts and material including financing part of the recurrent
funds for these; and
(iii) continue the process of rehabilitation started under the First
Railway Project.
The project will cover about a two and a half year period and should lay
the groundwork for SNCZ to undertake a more extensive investment program in
about three years.  It would ensure that Zaire's economic recovery is not
threatened by a lack of transport capacity.   Since the project would con-
tribute to retaining traffic on the main transport network, it should also
help other IDA-assisted projects (the ONATRA Modernization and Matadi/
Kinshasa Ports Rehabilitation Projects)  to achieve their full benefits.
All these objectives are in line with Bank country goals.
3.04    The project was identified jointly by SNCZ and IDA in late 1982 aLnd
early 1983 during the course of supervision of the First Railway Project.
Extensive discussions centered around SNCZ's "emergency program" (para.
2.23). Consultants were also engaged by SNCZ to study its motive power and
wagon rehabilitation and maintenance needs. The study's findings constitu-
ted part of the basis for the design of the proposed project.  Appraisal
took place in June 1983.
B. Project Description
3.05    The proposed project consists of the following elements:
(a) Renewal of about 128 km of track and improvement of SNCZ's ability
to carry out regular track maintenance;
(b) Increase in SNCZ's wagon fleet capacity by ensuring regular mainte-
nance of the entire fleet, rehabilitation of about 850 wagons and
putting into service of 200 new wagons;
(c) Increase in SNCZ's locomotive availability by ensuring regular
maintenance of the entire fleet and rehabilitation of about 66 main
line and 20 shunting locomotives;



- 23 -
(d) Consulting services to SNCZ: about 70 man-years of technical as-
sistance to help strengthen and reinforce higher-management eche-
lons, and about 55 man-months for studies;
(e) Training: equipment and materials for SNCZ training centers, and
fellowships for study abroad, and
(f) Other: improvement in telecommunications; continuation of computer
system maintenance; and replacement of obsolete medical equipment.
(g) Consulting services to Government:   about 15 man-months for a re-
view of the air transport sub-sector and for strengthening GEEP.
(i) Track Renewal and Maintenance
3.06      About 128 km of track,  the worst sections of the Central and
Southern section of SNCZ's network, must urgently be renewed. The proposed
project includes rail and fittings necessary for this work.  Sleepers in
sufficient quantity are being supplied under the First Railway Project.
Ballast will be supplied by SNCZ quarries.   Spare parts required to main-
tain quarry equipment are included in the project.
3.07     SNCZ does not have enough tools and lacks material for regular
track maintenance.  The project includes manual tools, spare parts to re-
condition mechanized tools and equipment, and material, mainly for recondi-
tioning rail and sleepers.   There is also a serious lack of track motor
cars to move personnel to work sites, including derailments, and of machi-
nery to place heavy track material and load used material on wagon for
shipment to Lubumbashi (the site of the track reconditioning plant). The
project includes 2 tractor-cranes and 32 motor cars for this purpose.
(ii) Wagon Fleet Capacity Increase
3.08     Few spare parts and material have been available to repair wagons
for many years. As a result the fleet has deteriorated to the point where
no wagons can be accepted in interchange with neighboring countries, relia-
bility is poor and 700 wagons are out of service awaiting repairs. Mainte-
nance and rehabilitation requirements are therefore urgent.   Sufficient
spare parts and material are included to rehabilitate approximately 850
wagons and to provide for intermediate repairs, regular maintenance and un-
scheduled maintenance for the entire fleet for about two years.  Carrying
out this volume of work will require re-organizing the wagon workshops by
adding three production lines; the acquisition of necessary tools is in-
cluded. The needs for spare parts and material are justified in Annex VII.
3.09    The average age of the wagon fleet is increasing because there has
been little renewal for many years. Over 800 wagons are beyond their nor-
mal service life and will have to be retired from commercial service. To
replace a portion of the most urgent of these, the project includes 200 new
low-side gondola wagons; these would be used for movement of merchandise
that does not require protection from the elements (for example containers,
machinery,  steel).   An analysis of wagon needs, is in the project file,
based on the expected traffic to be carried and a detailed inspection of
a portion of the current SNCZ wagon fleet, carried out by consultants.



- 24 -
(iii) Locomotive Rehabilitation and Maintenance
3.10     Because of a lack of spare parts, the availability of the locomo-
tive fleet has declined to unacceptable levels (para. 2.06).  The reliabi-
lity of locomotives is also extremely low and numerous instances of line
failures demonstrate the need for a program of scheduled maintenance which
has not been instituted because of the lack of foreign exchange. The pro-
ject includes spare parts to return locomotives to service that are now
idle.  It also includes necessary parts for normal maintenance of most of
the locomotive fleet for two years and for major scheduled maintenance on
36 main-line electric, 30 main line diesel and 20 shunting diesel locomo-
tives.  A detailed list of spare parts for SNCZ's locomotives including
costs is being prepared by SNCZ.   The needs as currently estimated are
based on the size of fleet needed to carry current and projected traffic,
the types of locomotives and their age and standard annual maintenance re-
quirements in Zaire for such equipment (Annex VII).
(iv) Consulting Services to SNCZ
Technical Assistance
3.11     The reorganization of SNCZ's management and the implementation of
the project require that new positions be created and vacant ones be filled
at senior management as well as technical levels.  These include the posi-
tions of Operations Director, Technical Director, heads of the planning and
cost-accounting units and, according to a preliminary estimate by SNCZ,
about 20 technical positions of which 7 would be in the workshops, 4 in the
the transport department, 3 in the track department and 6 in other depart-
ments including Finance and Accounting.   The need and exact  content of
these positions will be discussed in a staffing plan for higher level posi-
tions that SNCZ will submit to the Association as a condition of effective-
ness (para 2.13).  This plan will also ensure coordination with the ongoing
technical assistance programs under bilateral  financing.   In accordance
with the above estimates, 70 man-years of technical assistance have been
included in the proposed Project to cover the 24 above positions until 1.987
and ensure a smooth transition for the following years' programs.
Studies
3.12     The proposed project will provide a total of 55 man-months of con-
sulting services for short-term missions and studies to assist SNCZ in the
reorganization of management and the improvement of its operations. These
include the following:
(a) Reorganization of the procurement system: The present system does
not meet SNCZ's needs and has resulted in orders being unrelated to
actual priorities and in slow procurement.  The main problems have
already been identified by a short-term consultancy mission. About
20 man-months of consulting work is now needed to set up a new sys-
tem and train SNCZ personnel;
(b) Rehabilitation of Ilebo Port: Originally designed for transshipment
from barges to rail cars, the Port of Ilebo will approach its maxi-



- 25 -
mum capcity by the end of the 1980s.  It also needs to be adapted
to modern cargo handling methods. A feasibility study is needed to
determine priority investment (about 5 man-months);
(c) Communications: Short-term assistance is required to help SNCZ de-
fine the specifications for equipment to improve the Central Region
communication system (about one man-month). This equipment is in-
cluded in the proposed project (para 3.16)
(d) Accounting, budgeting and internal audit procedures: Three short-
term missions are required to assist SNCZ in adjusting present pro-
cedures to ensure better management control (about four man-
months);
(e) Setting up of a cost-accounting unit: The approach that was fol-
lowed under the First Railway Project did not produce satisfactory
results (para 2.36). SNCZ needs full consultant assistance to set
up such unit (about ten man-months);
(f) Review of data processing software: Programs have been considerably
modified after installation of the new computer system, but the re-
sults are unreliable. A specialist is needed to help SNCZ's compu-
ter department adjust its software (about ten man-month);
(g) Economic viability of low density lines: The northern region and
the Ubundu-Kisangani section of the eastern region carry little
traffic, yet they perform a useful role in regional development. A
study is needed to (a) analyze alternatives such as road transport,
(b)  determine possible operational improvements,  (c) assess the
economic costs and benefits of keeping these lines opened, and (d)
set up a system by which SNCZ would be compensated for its losses
if Government decides to keep the lines open (para 5.09) (about 5
man-months).
(v) Training
3.13     The project includes the replacement of some tools, machines and
equipment at SNCZ's training centers.  It also includes the training out-
side Zaire of about 95 higher level employees in all disciplines for peri-
ods of about 6 months in accordance with a list of priority actions that
was submitted to IDA during appraisal.  The content of this training will
be further detailed in a training program for higher level staff that SNCZ
is presently preparing (para 2.17).   An IDA consultant has recently re-
viewed SNCZ's work on staff training and found it satisfactory.
(vi) Other
Medical equipment and supplies
3.14     Medical services for staff are supplied by SNCZ as there are few
other medical facilities available. X-ray machines and operating-room sup-
plies are limited, and insufficient foreign exchange has been available to
obtain such supplies or to replace out of service equipment.  As the rail-
way attaches high priority to this requirement, the most urgently needed
items have been included in the project.



- 26 -
Computer Maintenance
3.15    Maintenance of the equipment is essential to SNCZ operational effi-
ciency and requires expertise which is not available in the local market.
The present maintenance contract is with the original supplier of the
equipment and runs out by mid-1985.  The project provides for a new con-
tract until the end of 1986.
Telecommunication Equipment
3.16     Most of the communications in the Central region are carried by
telephone lines.   The equipment is old and the railway is experiencing
problems maintaining both lines and equipment. A radio system is more ap-
propriate and will be procured under the proposed project to be installed
between Kamina and Ilebo.   Specifications will be defined by experts who
will also define the type of power supply as no electrical distribution
system exists in this area and the present method of generating electricity
by thermo generators has not been satisfactory.   The project will also
finance the electrical generating and distributing equipment necessary for
the radio system.
(vii) Consulting Services to Government
3.17      The proposed project will provide about 15 man-months of consult-
ing services to assist Government in the analysis and management of the
transport sector:
(a)  Review of the air transport sub-sector:   Despite its importance
for Zaire and its rapid development in recent yars, very little
is known about this sub-sector. A study is required to providLe a
basis for setting up a rational policy and determining a medium
term investment program (about 10 man-months);
(b)  Strengthening of GEEP:  In the past years, GEEP has mostly per-
formed on an ad hoc basis without clearly defined objectives. It
needs assistance from a specialist to establish and carry out a
work program and to monitor its execution (about 5 man-months).
C. Cost Estimates
3.18     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 73.3 millLon
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of US$62.6 million, or 85%.
Cost estimates are given in January 1984 prices.  Project costs are net of
taxes and duties. During negotiations Government confirmed its willingness
to exempt the project from these costs, as has been the case with the re-
cent ONATRA Modernization and Ports Projects.   No physical contingencies
have been included because for some project items (for example rails, tools
and equipment), the quantities are known accurately and for others (for ex-
ample spare parts and materials) SNCZ will eventually need much more, to be
included, in particular, in a more extensive program, which is expected to
follow this interim operation (para. 3.03). Price contingencies, based on
Bank Group inflation estimates at annual rates of 7.5% for 1984 and 7% for
1985 and beyond, have been applied. The same percentage rate has been used
for both local and foreign costs under the assumption that a progressive



- 27 -
devaluation of the Zaire would compensate for differential increases in
local costs.  Costs of the various components of the project are given in
Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1 - Cost Estimates - January 1984 Prices
US$ Million
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total    as % of
I. SNCZ - Investments                                                Total
1. Track
(a) Relaying 128.5 Km of Track       2.93      7.03     9.96        71
(b) Motor Cars and Tractor Cranes  0.13        4.69     4.82        97
(c) Tools                            0.02      0.49     0.51        96
2. Wagons
(a) Rehabilitation of 850 Wagons   2.80        6.59     9.39        70
(b) Workshop Tools & Equipment       0.03      0.77     0.80        96
(c) New Wagons                       0.80      8.69     9.49        92
3. Studies                            0.05      0.52     0.57        91
4. Training                           0.24      2.08      2.32       90
5. Other
(a) Medical Equipment & Supplies   0.09        1.44      1.53       94
(b) Telecommunications               0.04      0.52     0.56        93
Sub-total              7.13    32.82    39.95         83
II.SNCZ - Recurrent Expenses
1. Track
(a) Spare Parts & Supplies for
Quarry Equipment                 0.02      0.55     0.57        96
(b) Spare Parts for Maintenance
Equipment                        0.02      0.45     0.47        96
(c) Material for Current
Maintenance                      0.02      0.60     0.62        97
(d) Reconditioning Parts &
Supplies                         0.05      1.55     1.60        97
2. Wagons
(a) Spare Parts and Materials
for maintenance of
wagon fleet                      0.18      4.58     4.76        96
3. Locomotives
(a) Rehabilitation & Maintenance   0.94        9.40    10.34        91
4. Technical Assistance               0.72      6.61      7.33       90
5. Computer Maintenance                -        0.62      0.62       93
Sub-total              1.95    24.36    26.31         93
III. Consulting Services to Government
Sub-total              0.03      0.15     0.18        80
Base Cost                          9.11    57.33    66.44         86
Price Contingencies                1.61      5.25     6.86        76
Total Project Cost                10.72    62.58    73.30         85



- 28 -
3.19     Cost estimates are based on data provided by SNCZ, which have been
reviewed and found acceptable. They have been derived as follows:
(i) Track Renewal and Maintenance: Estimates for rail, tools, material
and supplies are based on unit costs and quantities developed by
SNCZ taking into consideration recent actual costs.  Estimates for
spare parts for quarry and track maintenance equipment are based on
known consumption figures for existing equipment and manufacturers'
list prices.  Estimates for motorcars and tractor-cranes are based
on manufacturers' list prices for similar equipment.
(ii) Wagon Rehabilitation and Maintenance: Costs have been estimated by
SNCZ and consultants by using workshop units of production costs
and estimating the number of units of repairs by class of wagons.
Estimates for tools and machinery are based on lists of require-
ments and manufacturers' list prices.
(iii) New Wagons: Estimates are based on representative costs for similar
equipment.
(iv) Locomotive Rehabilitation and Maintenance: Costs have been esti-
mated by SNCZ and consultants by using general averages of annual
repair costs as a function of total value of a locomotive. Actual
workshop costs were not available as most of the repairs have not
been done fully by SNCZ in recent years. A detailed rehabilitation
program is being prepared and costed by SNCZ's new management.
(v) Consulting Services: Estimates for technical assistance and studies
are based on actual costs for similar services in Zaire and average
US$8,750 and US$12,000 per man-month, respectively, which includes
US$7,900 and US$9,500, respectively, for salary, social costs,
overseas allowance, international travel and firms' overheads and
profits, and US$850 and US$ 2,500, respectively, for accommodation
and local compensation, and subsistence.
(vi) Training: The estimate for tools and equipment is based on quanti-
ties and unit costs determined by SNCZ and for training outside
Zaire on average actual costs for similar services.
(vii) Medical Equipment and Supplies and Telecommunications Equipment:
Estimates are based on unit costs and quantities developed by SNCZ
taking into consideration recent manufacturers' price quotations.
(viii) Computer: The estimate is based on the ongoing contract.
D. Financing Plan
3.20     The US$62.6 million foreign exchange cost of the project will be
financed by external donors and the US$10.7 million local cost by SNCZ.
US$10.4 million foreign exchange is to be provided by reallocation of the
remaining balances under the existing AfDB, IDA and KfW loans/credits;
these are amounts that have remained undisbursed under the First Project
pending review of SNCZ's emergency program". The remaining foreign costs



- 29 -
will be financed by a proposed new IDA credit of US$26.0 million equivalent
and by the following agencies which are considering co-financing the pro-
ject in the amounts (tentative) shown: AfDB, US$14.1 million equivalent;
CCCE, US$ 6.25 million equivalent; and Belgian Aid, US$5.85 million equiva-
lent.  A preliminary financing plan is shown in Table 3.2.  The formaliza-
tion of the financing agreements with ADB, Belgian Aid and CCCE will be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Credit.
Table 3.2 - Project Foregn Exchange Financing Plan (US$ million)
Current loans/Credits          New Financing      Total
IDA  ADB  KfW        IDA  ADB Belgium CCE
I. Track Renewal and Mbintenance
1. Rais, spare parts,tools, supplies    1.55            0.75 9.00                 11.30
and material
2. M*torcars and tractor-cranes                         5.10                       5.10
II. Wagon Fleet Capacity Increase
1. Rehabilitation and mintenance  1.85 1.70             5.00 3.15       1.15      12.85
2. New wagons                                                     5.10  5.10      10.20
III.Locomotives Rehabilitation and
Mintenance                        0.70       2.80       4.00 1.95 0.55            10.00
IV. Consulting Services               1.60                 6.40       0.20            8.20
V. 2MLIM                              0.20                 2.05                        2.25
VI. Other                                                  2.70                        2.70
Total Cost           4.35 3.25 2.80       26.00 14.10 5.85  6.25     62.60
3.21          Should  the above financing plan not fully materialise, the
highest priority items would be locomotive and wagon rehabilitation and
maintenance, consulting services (including technical assistance), training
and track maintenance and some renewal.   These items are being covered
principally by the proposed IDA, and AfDB financing.
E. Project Execution and Implementation
3.22     SNCZ will be responsible for implementing the project except for
the review of the air transport subsector and the strengthening of GEEP
which will be carried out by the Government.  The track improvement opera-
tion will be carried out by SNCZ's Track and Civil Engineering Department.
Three separate teams will be involved in relaying the track. Recent expe-
rience has shown that each can renew 30 km of track per year. Rehabilita-
tion and maintenance of wagons and locomotives and asssembly of the new
wagons will be carried out in SNCZ's central workshop in Lubumbashi and
electric locomotive workshop in Likasi which are competent to do so.  The
technical assistance experts will help strengthen SNCZ's management and as-
sist in the execution of all programs. Specific targets for the rehabili-
tation of wagons and locomotives, as indicated in para. 3.28, were dis-
cussed and agreed at negotiations.



- 30 -
3.23    All maintenance activities under the project will be a continuation
of ongoing activities. Relaying of track will start in 1985 and be imple-
mented continuously until mid-1986.   Rehabilitation of wagons and locomo-
tives will start by mid-1984 and take about 30 and 24 months, respective-
ly. Procurement will start early since some project items will be financed
under a reallocation of existing loans/credits. SNCZ is already preparing
lists and specifications for spare parts, supplies and materials. At Nego-
tiations, SNCZ agreed that procurement action for spare parts for locomo-
tives and wagons will be initiated only on the basis of detailed lists ap-
proved by the Association. An implementation schedule shown in Chart 5 was
prepared in accordance with SNCZ's expected capability, and after review by
the new management, was agreed with SNCZ during negotiations.
F. Procurement
3.24       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the Table 3.3 below:
Table 3.3 - Pocuxrent Arranlments (US$ million)
Procurement Method          Total
Project Elewent            ICB         LCB     Other  N.A.
Spare parts, tools, supplies and
materials for:
Track                                                 9.75         9.75
(0.75)      (0.75)
Wagons                            3.50                5.80         9.30
(3.50)              (1.50)       (5.00)
LoDo3tives                                            6.50         6.50
(4.00)      (4.00)
Equipment:
Mbtorcars and tractor-cranes      5.10                             5.10
(5.10)                           (5.10)
New wagons                                           10.20        10.20
Otherl/                           2.55                             2.55
(2.55)                           (2.55)
Ser,ices2/                                              8.80         8.80
(8.60)       (8.60)
TOUAL          11.15               41.05         52.20
(11.15)             (14.85)      (26.00)
1/ Includes equipment for training centers.
2/ Includes onWpter maintenance contract.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective anxmnts proposed for financing by
the new IDA Credit.



- 31 -
3.25    Equipment, spare parts, material and supplies financed by the Asso-
ciation will be grouped whenever possible into contracts valued at
US$50,000 or more and will be procured through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines except for the fol-
lowing:
(i) Proprietary spare parts for existing machinery or equipment which
may be procured through negotiations with original suppliers of
such parts, and;
(ii) Small orders costing less than US$ 50,000 each and totalling not
more than US$ 500,000 which may be procured on the basis of limited
international bidding.
Where ICB procedures are used, domestic manufacturers will be accorded a
preference of 15%, or the existing applicable rate of import duties, which-
ever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign suppliers.
Equipment, spare parts, material and supplies financed by AfDB, Belgian Aid
and CCCE will be procured in accordance with their own guidelines. Techni-
cal Assistance experts financed under the proposed IDA Credit will be re-
cruited either individually or through specialized agencies.   Terms and
conditions of their contracts shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Consulting firms or individual consultants for the studies and short-term
missions will be engaged in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants" published by the World Bank in August 1981. Training outside
Zaire  of  SNCZ  staff  will  be  provided  by  specialized  institutions  in
accordance with a program and under terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.   Computer maintenance will be procured through limited
international bidding from a shortlist of qualified firms. Contracts below
US$50,000 for small orders of spare parts, material and supplies will be
subject to selective post-award review.  All other IDA-financed contracts
(98% of total contract value) will be subject to prior review.
G. Disbursements
3.26    IDA Credit funds will be disbursed on the following basis:
(a) Equipment, spare parts, material, supplies: 100% of foreign expen-
ditures; 80% of local expenditures for ex-factory cost; and 75% of
local expenditures for other items purchased domestically;
(b) Consulting services: 100% of foreign expenditures or 80% of local
expenditures;
(c) Training: 100% of foreign expenditures;
(d) Computer maintenance: 100% of foreign expenditures.
3.27     An estimated disbursement schedule is set out below (Table 3.4).
The disbursement estimates are based on the project implementation schedule
(Chart 5) and do not follow the typical sectoral disbursement profile for
the region.   IDA financed items are mostly spare parts, equipment, sup-
plies, materials, technical assistance and training which are expected to
be procured quickly.



- 32 -
Table 3.4 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA fiscal year          Disbursements         Cumulative disbursements
and Quarter              during Quarter        at end of Quarter
(US$ '000)                  (US$ '000)
1985
Dec. 31, 1984                  500                         500
Mar. 31, 1985                2,000                       2,500
June 30, 1985                2,500                       5,000
1986
Sept. 30, 1985               3,000                       8,000
Dec. 31, 1985                4,000                      12,000
Mar. 31, 1986                4,000                      16,000
June 30, 1986                3,000                      19,000
1987
Sept.30, 1986                2,000                      21,000
Dec. 31, 1986                2,000                      23,000
March 31, 1987               1,500                      24,500
June 30, 1987                1,500                      26,000
Closing date: December 31, 1987
H. Operational Targets and Reporting Requirements
3.28    The project is based on the following operational targets discussed
during field appraisal:
Table 3.5 Operational Targets (1985-87)
Actual         Objectives
1982      1985      1986   1987
1. Average locomotive availability (%)
(a) Main line electric                    70         75       80      85
(b) Main line diesel                      45         55        65     70
(c) Switching diesel                      52         60       65      70
2. Productivity per available locomotive
per year ('000 locomotive-km)
(a) Main line electric                    83         90        95     95
(b) Main line diesel                      97        105       110    110
3. Average wagon availability (%)
(a) ore wagon                             64         80        80     85
(b) general cargo wagon                   66         70        75     80
4. Average turn-around time (in days)
ore wagon                              4       3.8       3.6    3.5
5. Average wagon load (tons)                 24         27        27      27
6. Productivity per wagon per year
('000 ton-km)
(a) ore wagons                           805        825      865    885
(b) general cargo wagons                 350        360      380    390
7. Staff Productivity ('000 traffic
units/employee) at                        84        100       106    112
B. No. of locomotive repaired (end of year)
(a) Main line diesel                                 15        30     45
(b) Switching diesel                                 15        30     38
9. No. of wagons rehabilitated (end of year)           385       695    850



- 33 -
3.29    During negotiations, agreement was reached with SNCZ that it would
(i) take such steps as would be necessary to improve the efficiency of its
railway in order to achieve the foregoing operational targets and (ii)
evaluate, in accordance with a statistical system satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, the progress being made to achieve such targets.
3.30      Operational improvements have been set up by reference to past
achievements, the present condition of SNCZ facilities and the expected re-
sults from project implementation. Improvements will mainly come from: (i)
the renewal of the worst sections of the track on the VN, (ii) improved
track maintenance on the entire network; (iii) rehabilitation of part of
the wagon and locomotive fleets; (iv) restoration of planned maintenance
for wagons and locomotives; (v) more efficient operations due to improved
telecommunications, and (vi) a strengthening of management because key va-
cant positions will be filled by qualified experts.
3.31     Targets are, however, generally lower than in the First Railway
Project because the condition of the track and of the wagon and locomotive
fleets has deteriorated.   Actuals for 1983 are substantially lower than
those for 1976 except for wagon and locomotive productivity for which low
availability has forced an increased use sometimes at the expense of track
maintenance.
3.32      SNCZ will prepare quarterly reports,  which will include data
showing progress in achieving operational targets, to be submitted to the
Association not later than one month after the end of each quarter.  Their
form and content was agreed upon at negotiations. SNCZ will also prepare a
project completion report in a form acceptable to the Association not later
than six months after the closing date of the project.
I.KEnvironmental Im.act
3.33    The proposed projet will make no material changes in the environ-
ment.   The only civil works comprises renewal of existing track and will
not involve any change in the alignment.
IV. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. General
4.01     Since the first PIP (1979), one of Zaire's top priorities has been
to improve the performance of its basic transport system which is of key
importance to agriculture and mining, the two sectors which are expected to
lead a recovery of the economy. With much needed assistance in the form of
both foreign exchange and technical assistance from the international aid
community, significant progress has been achieved in many areas, especially
at ONATRA and OR.  However, because the different transport modes in Zaire
are highly complementary, good overall results require that improvements
also take place at SNCZ, currently the weakest link in the basic transport
network.   SNCZ is of key importance to the functioning of Gecamines, and
the economy of the entire southeast of Zaire (paras. 1.03 to 1.07).   To



- 34 -
restore SNCZ's transport capacity is the objective of the proposed project,
which includes the key components of the railway section of the PIP.
B. Project Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.02      The proposed project is expected to stop the rapid deterioration
of SNCZ's operations and increase the railway's efficiency by reorganizing
and strengthening its management and restoring adequate maintenance proce-
dures through a regular flow of spare parts and materials which external
financing will ensure.  The project will also enable the overdue rehabili-
tation of SNCZ facilities and equipment started under the First Railway
Project to be continued.   Staff would be trained and adequate procedures
concerning investment planning, cost-accounting, financial maangement and
procurement introduced. As a result, SNCZ is expected to increase the use
of its available capacity and to meet the demand for its services, espe-
cially from the agricultural and mining sectors, which has not been the
case for the past two years.
4.03      The project will benefit greatly SNCZ's major client, Gecamines,
by ensuring reliability, efficiency and low cost in the supply of inputs
(equipment, spare parts and raw materials), the movement of semi-products
between processing facilities and the export of finished products.   The
project will also directly benefit rural areas by providing additional
capacity to move at lower cost the increasing volume of agriculture goods
with a higher profit margin for the producer. The project is, in addition,
expected to have a substantial direct impact on urban areas in the Shaba
Province and the two Kasai provinces by helping to move goods such as fuel
and construction materials that have no other alternative means of trans-
port. Through these beneficiaries, especially Gecamines, which account for
about 20% of the country's GNP and over 60% of its foreign exchange earn-
ings, the project will indirectly benefit Zaire's entire economy.
C. Traffic Forecasts
Factors affecting traffic
4.04       Future traffic on the SNCZ network will depend on four main
factors: (i) the economic performance of Zaire, (ii) Gecamines' mineral
production, (iii) availability and use of the southern routes, and (iv)
competition with other transport modes.  For the traffic forecast the fol-
lowing have been assumed: (i) that Zaire's economy would at best experience
a slow growth from 1984 on, with an increase in agriculture production of
about 4% a year as the only major development; (ii) Gecamines' mineral pro-
duction would remain at 550,000 tons, the record 1981 level; (iii) that im-
provements in the VN's capacity, through the proposed project and several
others with ONATRA, would continue in the future (para 1.06) and exports of
minerals as well as imports on the VN would increase by about 30% even if
the shorter Lobito route were reopened; and (iv) that road and air trans-
port would not take a substantial share of SNCZ traffic since most goods
shipped by SNCZ are of a high bulk/value ratio and move over long dis-
tances. The factors affecting future traffic are discussed in more detail
in Annex V.



- 35 -
Traffic Projections
4.05      Based on the above assumptions, traffic is expected to regain the
1981 level, which was the highest in the past five years, in 1985. Traffic
would then increase yearly by about 2% (in ton-kilometers) until 1990.
This is mainly due to a larger use of the VN for imports and mineral ex-
ports and a substantial increase in agriculture production.  Although the
tonnage of imports and exports is expected to remain almost constant, a
larger amount would be transported over SNCZ's network from and to Ilebo,
which would substantially increase the traffic in ton-kilometers. Similar-
ly, locally grown food products are moved over longer spans of SNCZ network
than the imports for which they substitute.   On the whole, imports would
remain constant as the increase in imports of spare parts and materials
would compensate for the decrease in food imports.   Service traffic would
recover its late 1970s level as SNCZ reopens two main quarries on the VN.
Passenger taffic, which has been very sensitive in the past to fare in-
creases, is expected to remain at its 1981 level, when there was no motive
power constraint. Forecasts are shown below:
Table 4.1 - Projected Traffic on SNCZ (1983-90)
1983  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990
Freight
('000 tons)
Minerals
Exports              650   650   650   650   650   650   650   650
Local (ore)         1750  1750  1750  1750  1750  1750  1750  1750
General cargo
Imports-Exports      545   535   525   522   520   517   525   532
Domestic            1120  1175  1230  1265  1300  1335  1370  1405
Service                 40   150   200   200   200   200   200   200
Total     4105  4260  4355  4387  4420  4452  4495  4537
(million ton-km)
Minerals
Exports              563   563   590   616   643   643   643   643
Local (ore)          350   350   350   350   350   350   350   350
General cargo
Import-Export        340   341   346   356   361   366   375   384
Domestic             470   493   516   531   546   561   576   590
Service                  14    37    50    50    50    50    50    50
Total      1737  1784  1852  1904  1950  1970  1994  2017
Passengers
('000)          800  1000  1375  1375  1375  1375  1375  1375
(million)
(passenger-km) 336   420   577   577   577   577   577   577
D. Econouic Analysis
4.06      The "with project" case.  The implementation of the project will
result in significant improvement in total wagon fleet capacity and opera-



- 36 -
tional efficiency.   With the rehabilitation of about 850 wagons and the
purchase of 200 new ones, the number of available hopper wagons (used for
the transport of mineral ore) and general cargo wagons will reach on aver-
age about 530 and 3,250 units respectively in 1987 (a total increase of 18%
over 1983).  The average yearly productivity of the railway will also in-
crease because renewal of the worst sections of SNCZ's network, improved
track maintenance and better communications will result in fewer derail-
ments and shorter turnaround time.  The productivity of hopper and general
cargo wagons will increase about 10% to 885,000 and 390,000 ton-kilometers,
respectively in 1987.  With the restoration of a planned maintenance pro-
gram under the proposed project, locomotive availability rates will in-
crease and the existing locomotive fleet will be sufficient to haul the
forecast traffic.
4.07      The "without project" case.  If the investments that are included
in the project were not made, the inadequacy of wagons and the deteriorat-
ing condition of the track would create severe problems.   Even if suffi-
cient maintenance were carried out on the wagons that remained in accept-
able condition, only about 390 hopper wagons and 2,680 general cargo wagons
would be available on average in 1987.  The track would continue to be in-
adequately maintained because tools and equipment would be lacking.   The
average productivity of hopper and general cargo wagons would therefore de-
crease to about 705,000 and 320,000 ton-kilometers, respectively, in 1990,
even if enough maintenance were carried out on the existing locomotives to
provide sufficient motive power; the latter could not be guaranteed without
the project.  SNCZ would then not be able to provide for transport demand.
By 1990, 25% of the forecast freight traffic (about 500 million ton-
kilometers) would be lost either to more costly road transport (local traf-
fic) or to the less economical southern export/import routes as increasing-
ly high transit time would deter Gecamines and importers from using the
VN.
4.08     Main assumptions.  The following are considered as investments for
the economic analysis: track renewal, track maintenance machinery, wagon
rehabilitation, new wagons, locomotive rehabilitation (25% of total item
cost), technical assistance (33% of total item cost), and tools and tele-
communications equipment; the total resulting cost is US$42.3. The remain-
ing project items are for operating expenditures.   The economic cost dif-
ferential of road transport over rail transport has been taken on average
at about 0.8 Z/ton-km for transport of mineral ore and 1.3 Z/ton-km for the
transport of general cargo. The economic cost differential of transport on
the southern routes over the VN has been estimated at about Z900 per ton.
All costs and benefits are expressed in January 1984 terms. No conversion
factors have been used for foreign exchange and labor given the recent de-
valuation of Zaire's currency and the very low wages of lower level staff
in Zaire.  Residual values have been calculated on the basis of straight
line depreciation with the following economic-life for project items: new
wagons, 50 years, rehabilitated wagons, 20 years, tracto-cranes and motor-
cars, 25 years, tools and other equipment, 15 years. The analysis has been
carried over fifteen years, during which time SNCZ would need very limited
additional investment in its locomotive fleet for project benefits to
materialize.
4.09      The project cost and benefit streams would be as follows:



- 37 -
Table 4.2 - Project costs and benefits (Z millionl/)
Costs                           B e n e f i t s                                  Net
Avoided use of            Avoided use   Savings on                 Benefits
road transport for          of southern      wagons
routes for   interchange    Total
mineral ore general cargo exports/imports
1984       -228                       13              18                           31       -215
1985       -571                       38              51              8            97       -474
1986       -444         13            91             121             18           243       -201
1987       - 25        45            132             174             24           375        350
1988          -        63            197             182             25           467        467
1989          _        78            209             187             25           499        499
1990 to       -        87            225             187             25           524        524
2000
2001         351       87            225             187             25           524        875
1/ In January 1984 terms.
The resulting economic rate of return (ERR) is estimated at about 37%; the
first  year  return -(1987)  is 30%.   The  project  achieves  such high ERR
because through an improvement in SNCZ's maintenance capability and limited
rehabilitation and equipment replacement, it enables the very important
sunk investment in the railway to be better used.   A separate economic
analysis has been carried out for the marginal effect of the track renewal
and maintenance part of the Project.   The resulting ERR is estimated at
about 30%, which shows that this component is justified economically even
if considered as addition to the locomotive and wagon capacity fleet
increases and the management improvement.
E. Sensitivity Analysis and Risks
Sensitivity Analysis
4.10      The two main quantifiable risks to the estimated rate of return
are that (i) project execution would not be as rapid as expected, and (ii)
traffic forecasts would not materialize as anticipated.   The project was,
however,   designed   after   a  careful   review  of  SNCZ   implementation
capability.  Track renewal targets, for example, are conservative and have
been exceeded in 1982/83. Wagon rehabilitation, on the other hand, has not
been done to such an extent by SNCZ in the recent past and will need the
creation of  three new work  lines.   Procurement may also lag somewhat.
Nevertheless,   because   the   project   will   help   implement   a   major
reorganization and strengthening of SNCZ's management, it is expected that
targets will be achieved.   If project execution  took  three and a half
instead of two and a half years, the ERR would still be 31%.



- 38 -
4.11      Traffic forecasts may not materialize as anticipated for a number
of reasons including a further deterioration of economic conditions in the
country and stagnation of traffic on the VN.  This has, however, a rela-
tively low probability from the economic point of view since (i) Zaire's
economy has stabilized in the past three years despite a very difficult en-
vironment, (ii) the rehabilitation of Gecamines production capacity is a
major country objective, and (iii) the VN enjoys much support from the
Government and foreign donors.  Under conservative assumptions -- traffic
to remain at the 1985 level which is about the same as in 1977 and 1981 --
the project's ERR would still be 27%.
4.12      Sensitivity analysis was also carried out under the assumptions
that (i) investment costs would be 10% higher and (ii) railway transport
costs would be 20% higher and therefore the savings over the next available
transport alternative much reduced. The results of the sensitivity analy-
sis are summarized below; even under conservative assumptions, the project
achieves relatively high rates of return. It is also clear from the analy-
sis that very adverse costs and benefits variations from the "best" esti-
mates have to materialize to bring the rate of return down to 12%, esti-
mated opportunity cost of capital in Zaire:
ERR
Base Case                                                   37%
If investment costs are 10% higher                          33%
If railway transport costs are 20% higher                   21%
If project execution takes one more year                    31%
If traffic remains at the 1985 projected level              27%
Switching value
Costs                                                    +l8Uz
Benefits                                                   -65%
Other risks
4.13     Other less quantifiable but very crucial factors that could affect
the success of the project are (i) delays in management improvements (ii)
insufficient or delayed tariff increases, and (iii) inadequate amount of
foreign exchange to SNCZ.   The project's design takes these factors into
account to the extent possible.  The adoption of the new PDG's action plan
by SNCZ Board and its approval by MTC are a condition of Credit
effectiveness.   In addition, the project will provide support to SNCZ in
the implementation of the action plan through technical assistance at
management  level,  consulting  services  and  training.          Salaries  are
relatively satisfactory at SNCZ compared to other public agencies in Zaire;
staff morale should improve when better leadership is provided.  The risks
concerning tariffs are also limited since the Zairian Government has
demonstrated in the past five years its willingness to substantially
increase tariffs when necessary. Concerning foreign exchange, the project
provides a substantial amount of spare parts and materials to cover the
most important and urgent needs of SNCZ, in particular those of its
locomotive and wagon fleets. Additional foreign exchange allocations wil1,
however, be required to enable the SNCZ to cover all its recurrent costs.
Under the current policy on foreign exchange allocation, this is not



- 39 -
expected to be a problem.  However, should more restriction be introduced
in the future, SNCZ's ability to attain the projected availability rates
for locomotives and wagons would be reduced with a decrease in its traffic
carrying capacity.
4.14     In summary, there are several risks associated with the project,
but the chances of their significantly jeopardizing the attainment of the
project's objectives have been reduced by the project's design.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Operating Performance
5.01      SNCZ's overall operating performance has been poor since 1978 as
shown by its income statements (Annex III, Table 1) and as summarized below
in Table 5.1. Except for 1980 and 1982, SNCZ has consistently shown nega-
tive net results.   The reasons for the poor performance are discussed
below. If fixed assets had been revalued each of these years, net results
would have been even worse.  As a result, SNCZ has not been able to comply
with the requirement of Credit 902-ZR that it earn a rate of return of no
less than 3% annually, on its revalued fixed assets.  A fixed asset re-
valuation was done in 1976, with the results entered in the 1977 accounts.
Since then, no further revaluation has been done, but one is now under way
(para 2.33)1/.
Table 5.1 - Summary Operating Statements (Z million)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
--audited --                          estimated
Operating Revenues            92.7   192.7   509.8   565.7   881.4   1,756
Working Expenses              93.5   175.6   380.8   604.7   799.4   1,519
Depreciation                  26.1    25.7    24.1    25.4    64.8       270
Net Operating Result (Loss) (26.9)   (8.6)  104.9   (64.4)   17.2        (33)
Interest Charges               2.5     4.1      4.4     4.6      5.1      35
Other Expenses (Income) net   3.3       6.3   105.6   (14.9)   10.4       17
Net Income (Loss)       (32.7)  (19.0)   (5.1)  (54.1)    1.7       (85)
5.02       The picture is not bleak in all areas.  Although total traffic
has been stagnant, total revenues have increased yearly on average 76%
p.a. between 1978 and 1982 compared to an average increase of 71% p.a. for
working expenses.  Between 1978 and 1982, as a result, SNCZ's working ratio
improved from 101% to 91%, while the operating ratio improved from 129% to
98% (Annex III, Table 5).  Preliminary figures on the study of SNCZ's fixed
1/ Under Credit 902-ZR, SNCZ had agreed that it would revalue its assets
annually on a replacement cost basis.



- 40 -
assets valuation are available as of December 31, 1983.   These figures,
which are given in Table 5.3 below, show that net fixed assets should be
revalued  from  Z 705 million to about  Z  13.4 billion.   The resulting
increase in depreciation charges would reduce SNCZ's net result from Z 17
million in 1982 to an estimated loss of Z 33 million in 1983.
5.03       SNCZ has been under heavy cost push inflationary pressure in the
past few years.  As shown in Table 5.2 below, there has also been a sub-
stantial change in the structure of working expenses:
Table 5.2 - Evolution of SNCZ working expenses (1978-82)
Cost item       1978     %         1982      %       Annual average
(Z million)       (Z million)         Rate of increase(x)
Materials 1/       18.2    19.5      246.4    32.3            91.8
Personnel          53.7    57.4      310.6    40.6            55.1
Services           20.7    22.1       92.7    12.1            45.5
Others              0.9      1.0     114.8    15.0           236.1
TOTAL           93.5   100.0      764.5   100.0            69.1
1/ Includes locomotive gas oil and electricity.
Personnel the most important cost item, has increased slightly more than
inflation)/, This is due mainly to an increase in total staff from 20,074
to 22,612 3/ which was not probably justified and has been controlled in
the past year with a resulting small decrease. The 92% average annual in-
crease in material costs has been due mainly to the increases in fuel costs
and to a higher -though still insufficient- consumption of spare parts and
material as, in 1978, SNCZ's level of maintenance was extremely low because
of a total lack of foreign exchange.   Increases in the cost of materials
have been limited to 53% yearly on average in the past two years.
5.04       Although tariffs have generally been substantially increased in
real terms between 1978 and 1982 (para 2.37), this has still not been
enough to produce positive results. One reason is the low level of tariffs
for mineral exports (para. 2.38). A second reason is that tariff increases
on general cargo and passenger traffic have sometimes been granted with
long delays, despite the creation of a tariff commission in 1980, a condi-
2! 54% yearly on average between 1978 and 1982.
3/ Total compensation has also increased slightly in real terms as food and
social allowances have offset declines in salaries.



- 41 -
tion of effectiveness for Credit 902-ZR, to reduce the time needed for re-
view at the working level. At negotiations the Government agreed that de-
cisions regarding tariff adjustments requested by SNCZ for general cargo
and passenger traffic will be made within 30 day-period, after which the
request will be deemed approved if no action has been taken.
B. Financial Condition
5.05        SNCZ's balance sheets for the years 1978-83 are presented in
Annexes III, Tables 2 and 3, and summarized in Table 5.3 below:
Table 5.3 - Condensed Balance Sheets (Z million)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
--------------audited--------------- estimated
Current Assets                101.0   190.1   356.7   520.6   769.2   1,483
Fixed Assets (net)            428.6   435.0   420.0   935.3   704.6  13,370
Other Assets                    8.9    16.1    30.3    48.1    43.6         73
Total Assets             538.5   641.2   807.0  1504.0  1517.4  14,926
Current Liabilities            49.7   139.5   197.1   279.1   410.8        957
Long-term Debt                  33.3    44.6    74.6   605.9   348.6       582
Other Liabilities              81.0   121.3   147.2   179.2   339.8        567
Equity (net)                  374.5   335.8   388.1   439.8   418.2  12,819
Total Liabilities        538.5   641.2   807.0  1504.0  1517.4  14,926
Current Ratio                   2.0      1.3      1.8     1.8      1.8     1.5
Quick Ratio                      1.1     0.8      1.2     1.1      1.0     1.0
Debt to Equity Ratio              8%     12%      16%     58%      45%      4%
5.06      SNCZ's current liquidity situation is adequate.  SNCZ has a poli-
cy that requires its customers to pay in advance the equivalent of two
months' transport services for having a current account with SNCZ. The ac-
counts receivable represent approximately one-third of SNCZ's operating in-
come, which is high, but still acceptable.
5.07      Despite its poor operational performance, SNCZ's financial condi-
tion is satisfactory.   Over the period,  the  current  ratio has  varied
between 1.4 and 2.0. The debt to equity ratio, while rising from 8/92 in
1978 to 45/55 in 1982, is still acceptable.  If fixed assets are revalued
SNCZ's debt/equity ratio becomes very good, indicating a strong position
regarding long-term borrowings, provided earnings are sufficient to service
debt, after working expenses are paid.
5.08       The figures presented by SNCZ's balance sheets must, however, be
regarded with caution. The auditors have, in addition to providing the es-
timated revaluation of fixed assets, suggested to SNCZ that, in its 1982
accounts, various adjustments be made to the balance sheet values of re-
ceivables and inventories, and that in view of the under-utilization of ma-
terials for maintenance and repair over recent years due to financial



- 42 -
stringency, additional provisions be made to cover the estimated need for
deferred maintenance, to be carried out over the proposed project period,
using the materials to be financed by the proposed Credit and other exter-
nal finance.  These adjustments have been entered in the 1982 balance sheet
(Annexes III, Tables 2 and 3).
5.09      A thorough analysis of SNCZ's financial performance would require
an analysis by region, which is not currently adequately done. The traffic
densities on the Northern Region and the Kisangani-Ubundu section of the
Eastern Region are so low that substantial losses are probably incurred
there.   Even if SNCZ were to discard its current policy of having one
single tariff structure for all regions, the tariff increases required
might well exceed what is socially acceptable since there is little alter-
native to rail transportation on most of the routes.  SNCZ should be given
specific compensation for losses incurred on these sections by Governnment.
The proposed project includes a study of low density lines (para 3.12),
which will, inter alia, estimate the appropriate levels of compensation to
SNCZ.  Agreement was reached at negotiations with SNCZ to have this study
completed and its results discussed with IDA no later than December 31,
1985 and the jointly agreed measures promptly implemented thereafter.
5.10      An additional difficulty for SNCZ has recently been a severe lack
of foreign exchange.  SNCZ needs about US$1.3 million per month in foreign
exchange for recurrent expenses, including about $250,000 per month payment
to Zambia Railways for the interchange of wagons (1982 estimates). In 1980
and 1981, Zaire's Central Bank regularly made available to SNCZ about
US$1.0 million foreign exchange per month.   However this was more than
halved in 1982 and less than US$1.5 million were made available to SNCZ
during the first six months of 1983, mainly for wagon interchange with
Zambia.   This has had drastic consequences on SNCZ.   The lack of spare
parts, has disrupted maintenance procedures and prevented emergency re-
pairs. SNCZ's expatriate staff salaries were paid with long delays.
5.11          This situation changed, however,  first in June  1983 when
Gecamines agreed temporarily to pay part of the tariff for mineral exports
in foreign exchange and secondly, in September 1983 when the Government
liberalized the foreign exchange regime, which allowed SNCZ to obtain for-
eign exchange directly from commercial banks.   To guarantee a long term
availability of foreign exchange to SNCZ, the Government agreed at negotia-
tions to take steps so that at all times SNCZ will obtain regularly suffi-
cient amounts of foreign exchange to cover its recurrent needs.   Since
these are expected to change in the future (for example, because of de-
creases in expatriate staff and in use of SAR wagons),  the Government
agreed to exchange views with IDA each year, no later than October 1, on
the foreign exchange estimated by the company to be necessary to cover its
requirements for the coming year and on the arrangements proposed to ensure
the availability of the amount required.  In no case should this amount be
less than US$1.0 million per month in 1983 terms.   If shortages lead to
some restrictions on the access to foreign exchange in the future, the June
1983 agreement between Gecamines and SNCZ should also be revived.



- 43 -
C. Financial Forecasts
5.12       A major difficulty in preparing meaningful financial forecasts
for the Project, lies in Zaire's history of inflation and of currency de-
valuation.   The recent massive devaluation, from a rate of about Z 6.0/
US$1.0 to about Z 30.0/US$1.0, with its implications for further infla-
tionary increases in costs, only compounds the problem.  Nevertheless, an
attempt has been made, using various assumptions, to prepare financial
forecasts.
Assumptions
5.13       The assumptions and methodology for the forecast operating ac-
counts, balance sheets and funds statements, are given in Annex IV.
Briefly, labor costs are expected to rise sharply, with an effective rise
of 103.5% in 1984. For fuel and electric power cost, account is taken, in
1983, of the increase in fuel prices imposed immediately after the currency
devaluation, with the full effect expected to be felt in 1984.  Different
inflationary effects are applied to the local and foreign proportions of
materials, for 1984.   The costs of services, and other operating  costs,
have had inflationary increases applied, for 1984, representing an average
of those used for labor, fuel and materials.  After 1984, average annual
inflation rates of 30% (1985), 27% (1986-88) and 25% (1989) have been
used. These rates are the current best estimates of the Bank.
5.14       The labor force is adequate4/ and is expected, as a result of
improved efficiency, to reduce in numbers.  However, total compensation has
been retained, increased only by inflation, thus effectively allowing for a
real increase in pay. Fuel cost is expected to rise with traffic. The use
of materials is expected to rise in the future, over the current low level
due to (a) applying more adequate maintenance practices; and (b) catching
up on deferred maintenance - all with the help of spare parts and materials
being financed by the proposed project, and by improved earnings. For the
operating account, it is assumed that, in 1984, additional materials to the
tune of US$4.0 million equivalent will be used, with a further addition of
US$2.0 million equivalent in 1985. Thereafter, materials cost is expected
to increase with traffic.
5.15       The 1983 estimated revalued fixed assets figures have been ad-
justed to reflect the 1983 currency devaluation, with consequent increases
in annual, and accumulated depreciation.  Effect is then given to assumed
annual revaluations, using similar inflation indices to those used for
operating costs.   The annual estimated depreciation provisions take this
into account, together with the additional depreciation due to new assets.
4/ Apart from training and recruiting of some specialists and senior staff.



- 44 -
5.16       The long term borrowing expected to be available is as stated in
para. 3.20.   The on-lending terms of assumed AfDB, Belgian Aid and CCCE
loans include repayment periods from 10 to 30 years with grace periods of 4
to 10 years and interest rates of 12%, 10% and 1%. The proposed IDA credit
(except the amount due to finance consulting services to Government) is
assumed to be made available on repayment terms of 15 years and 4 years
grace at 15% interest.   The proposed interest rate is about that which
SOFIDE, Zaire's development bank and only alternative source of loans,
would be charging its borrowers.   No loan repayments on new debt are due
during the project period, and the weighted average interest rate on new
borrowing is 12.2%.   As SNCZ assumes  the foreign exchange  risk on its
long-term borrowing, the outstanding balances of long-term debt, and the
annual movements, have been increased to reflect devaluation after 1983, by
using the estimated inflation rates used for other financial projections,
on the assumption that currency devaluation will compensate for country
inflation.  Thus the real interest rate assumed for new borrowing is, in
fact, positive, despite inflation.   Signature between Government and SNCZ
of a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to IDA will be a condition of
Credit effectiveness.
Resulting Financial Forecasts
5.17       The results of this exercise indicate the need for a consider-
able, early, increase in the railway tariffs, with continuing increases in
the following years, in order to compensate for the effect of the devalua-
tion and of further inflation, and to ensure that adequate maintenance is
carried out, SNCZ's working capital improves, debt service requirements are
covered and SNCZ is provided with the funds to efficiently carry out the
project.
5.18       During negotiations, the Government informed IDA that it had re-
cently decided to increase SNCZ tariffs by 50% for passengers and agricul-
ture products, 116% for general cargo, 280% for mineral ore and about 525%
for mineral exports.  A further increase is planned for passengers, agri-
culture products and general cargo for the second quarter of 1984.  These
increases should be sufficient for SNCZ to achieve a 100% operating ratio
in 1984.  It was agreed at negotiations that (a) SNCZ will maintain at all
times tariffs at such a level that, (i) as a minimum, the railways revenues
will be sufficient to meet its working expenses (labor and fuel costs, an
adequate supply of spare and other materials, services and general costs),
together with adequate depreciation calculated on revalued fixed assets and
(ii) starting in 1987, a 3% rate of return on net fixed assets will be
achieved each year; and (b) no traffic be carried by SNCZ where revenues do
not cover at least its long-term variable costs.
5.19        The forecast operating accounts, given in detail in Annex III,
Table 1, are summarized below:



- 45 -
Table 5.4 - Summary Operating Statements
1984     1985      1986    1987    1988
--------      (Z   million)--------------
Operating revenues                3,678    5,119    6,535    9,003  11,048
Working expenses                  2,757    3,826    4,915    6,207   7,792
Operating Result                    921    1,293    1,621    2,796   3,256
Depreciation                        921    1,293    1,621    1,978   2,349
Net Operating Result (loss)           0         0         0       818     907
Interest                             58        86       111       141     177
Non-operational expense (net)         26       33        42        53      66
Net Income (loss)                    (84)    (119)    (153)       624     665
Working ratio  %                      75       75        75        69       71
Operating ratio %                   100       100       100        91      92
The analysis shows that, in order to improve the operating ratio
to 100% from 1984 through 1986, the average tariff of 1983 has to increase
100% in 1984 and that further increases of 30% and 25% should take place in
1985 and 1986 respectively.   This requires that in addition to the recent
tariff increases (para. 5.18), the increase for passengers, agriculture
products and general cargo tariffs which is planned for the second quarter
of 1984 be about 40%.  The operating ratio would further improve to 91% in
1987 and 92% in 1988 as SNCZ would earn the agreed rate of return of 3% on
net fixed assets.
5.20        Annex III, Table 4, presents the forecast cash flows for the
years 1983-1987.   SNCZ's cash generation should be adequate to carry out
the project, and to provide funds for a possible follow up project, which
is likely to commence in about 1987.  At negotiations, SNCZ agreed that,
unless otherwise agreed with IDA, it will not incur any additional debt if
its operating surplus for the year or the twelve consecutive months before
the date of occurence, whichever is greater, is less than 1.5 times the
debt service requirements of any succeeding fiscal year.
Table 5.5 - Summary Funds Statement
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
-----         (Z million)------------
Funds required                       1,378   1,681   2,061   1,521   1,740
Less: Cash Generation                  838   1,174   1,467   2,602   3,013
Funds Need (Surplus)                   540     507      593  (1,081) (1,274)
5.21       Forecast Balance Sheets for the years ending December 31, 1984-
1988, are given in Tables 2 and 3 of Annex III, and summarized below:



- 46 -
Table 5.6 - Summary Balance Sheets
1984     1985      1986      1987      1988
--------------(Z million)---------------
Current Assets                     2,936    4,082    5,223    6,970    8,624
Net Fixed Assets                  18,029   21,974   25,835   28,701   31,734
Other Assets                          107      139       177       221      276
Total Assets                  21,072   26,195   31,235   35,892   40,634
Current liabilities                1,346    1,844    1,907    2,535    2,875
Long-term Debt                        856    1,113    1,413    1,766    2,208
Other Liabilities                    834    1,084    1,377    1,722    2,152
Equity                            18,036   22,154   26,538   31,649   37,324
Total Liabilities and Equity    21,072   26,195   31,235   35,892   40,634
The current ratios are expected to rise gradually from 2.2 in
1984 to 3.0 in 1988; the quick ratio from 1.4 to 1.9; and the debt to equi-
ty ratio to stabilize at about 5/95. These ratios are satisfactory.
5.22        For the financial rate of return on the project two sources of
benefits were examined:
(a) the net operating revenues that would be lost, due to declining
traffic, were the project not carried out, and
(b) the savings in wagon rentals due to the purchase of new wagons,
and to the wagon rehabilitation carried out under the project.
The resulting internal financial rate of return is 19% which is satisfacto-
ry. The financial rate of return is lower than the economic rate of return
(37%) because the economic benefits come from the avoided use of more
costly alternative modes of transport and are higher than the loss of reve-
nues for SNCZ, were the project not done.
5.23       The major financial risk to the project is that railway tariff
increases may be delayed, so that revenue increases each year fail to fully
catch up with inflation.  The past record shows that in general, SNCZ has
been able to raise its tariffs sufficiently to generate the revenues needed
to cover working expenses plus interest charges and provide some cash for
investment. However, the impact of delays irn implementing tariff increases
of three months and of six months was examined with the following results:
Table 5.7 - Cash Generation with Tariff Adjustment Delays
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988   Cumulative
-(Z million)-----
Funds Need (Surplus)
Base Case                   540     507      593   (1,081) (1,274)       (715)
Three-month Delay         1,021     867      947      (465)   (762)    1,608
Six-Month Delay           1,501   1,227   1,301        152    (251)    3,930



- 47 -
5.24      The above table shows that delays in granting adequate tariff in-
creases would result in large cash deficits through the next five years.
Without corrective action - either higher tariff increases, or more fre-
quent upward revisions, the cumulative effect on SNCZ's working capital
would be serious, and SNCZ would have difficulty in carrying out the local
part of the project.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01        The following items were discussed and agreed upon during nego-
tiations and included as covenants in the development credit and project
agreements:
(a) The study of Ilebo Port (para 2.11) will be completed by Septem-
ber 30, 1985;
(b) SNCZ will not modify its staffing plan for higher level positions
without IDA's approval (para 2.13);
(c) The Government and SNCZ will not modify the action plan for man-
agement reorganization without IDA's approval (para 2.15);
(d) SNCZ will continue to employ in key positions individuals whose
qualifications and experience are satisfactory to the Bank (para
2.15);
(e) SNCZ will create a Planning Unit no later than December 31, 1984
and will produce the first version of a five year rolling invest-
ment plan amd exchange views with IDA on its adequacy no later
than September 30, 1985 (para 2.24);
(f) SNCZ will reorganize its Internal Audit Department not later than
December 31, 1984 (para 2.28);
(g) SNCZ will continue to use independent auditors acceptable to IDA
and audit reports will be presented to IDA no later than six
months after the end of each fiscal year (para 2.32);
(h) SNCZ will revalue its fixed assets on a replacement cost basis
annually, starting with its 1984 financial statements (para
2.33);
(i) SNCZ will complete the establishment of a traffic costing system
no later than December 31, 1984, and thereafter operate it in a
manner satisfactory to IDA (para 2.36);
(j) SNCZ will take all steps to achieve the agreed upon operational
targets (para 3.29);



- 48 -
(k) The Government will act in less than 30 days upon any request for
tariff increase by SNCZ (para 5.04);
(1) SNCZ will carry out a study of low density lines and discuss its
results with the Association no later than December 31, 1985 and
implement the jointly agreed measures promptly thereafter (para
5.09);
(m) The Government and SNCZ will exchange views with IDA by October 1
each year on the foreign exchange estimated by the company to be
necessary to cover its requirements for the coming year and on
the arrangements proposed to ensure the availability of the
amounts required.  The Government will take steps so that at all
times SNCZ will obtain regularly sufficient foreign exchange to
cover its entire foreign exchange needs for recurrent expenses;
in no case should this amount be less than US$1.0 million per
month in 1983 terms (para 5.11);
(n) SNCZ will maintain at all times tariffs at a level such that (i)
until 1986, total revenues will cover working expenses and ade-
quate depreciation allowances and (ii) starting in 1987, a 3%
rate of return on net fixed assets will be achieved each year; no
tariff will be lower than long-term variable cost of the service
(para 5.18);
(o) SNCZ will not incur debt if its operating surplus for the year or
the twelve consecutive months immediately before the date of oc-
currence, whichever is greater, is less than 1.5 times the maxi-
mum debt service requirements of any succeeding fiscal year (para
5.20);
(p) SNCZ will prepare quarterly reports to be submitted to IDA no
later than one month after the end of each quarter; it will also
prepare a project completion report in a form acceptable to IDA
no later than six months after the closing date of the project
(para 3.29);
(q) SNCZ will place orders for spare parts and materials for
locomotives and wagons only on the basis of detailed lists
approved by the Association (para 3.23).
6.02      The conditions of Credit Effectiveness will be the following:
(a) A staffing plan for higher level positions satisfactory to IDA
will be finalized (para 2.13);
(b) The final action plan for management reorganization will be
approved by SNCZ Board of Directors and MTC (para 2.15);
(c) Key personnel will be appointed (para 2.15);
(d) The financing agreements with ADB, Belgian Aid and CCCE will be
formalized (para. 3.20);



- 49 -
(e) A subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Association will
be signed between the Government and SNCZ (para 5.17).
6.03      Agreement having been reached on the items in paras 6.01 and 6.02
above, the proposed project is suitable for a Credit of SDRs 25,200,000
(US$ 26.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms.



- 50 -
Annex I
ZAIRE
Second SNCZ Railway Project
Description of SNCZ's four operating regions
Southern Region
Sakania-Tenke-Kamina                            855 km
Tenke-Dilolo                                    522 km
1,377 km
Central Region
Kamina-Ilebo                                    978 km
Eastern Region
Kamina-Kabalo-Kalemie                           720 km
Kabalo-Kindu                                    406 km
Ubundu-Kisangani                                 125 km
1,251 km
Northern Region
Mungbere-Bumba                                  868 km
Komba-Bondo                                      121 km
Andoma-Titule                                    32 km
1,021 km



- 51 -
Annex II
ZAIRE
Second SNCZ Railway Project
SNCZ Management Reorganization: Outline of Action Plan
A. Organization
1.        Implementation of a new organizational chart (by June 30, 1984)
This organizational chart would mainly concern higher management
the main objectives would be:
(a) to create senior positions between the departments and the PDG,
including:
(i) a Technical Director with control over the technical, track
and civil engineering, electricity and signalling and pro-
curement departments;
(ii) an Operations Director with control over the traffic and
commercial departments and the four operating regions;
(b) to upgrade the position of Financial Manager to a senior level
and solve existing conflicts of responsibilities between high
level positions.
2.        Improvement of coordination procedures (by Sept. 30, 1984)
The objective would be to create channels for discussions of is-
sues and problems between departments and dissemination of information.
Among the main actions are:
(a) reorganization of the Management Council to clarify its reponsi-
bilities and open its membership to all B level directors;
(b) creation of working groups for specific issues including:
(i) priorities for allocation of foreign exchange within the
company;
(ii) coordination between operations and maintenance activities;
(iii) analysis and negotiation of tariff adjustments.
(c) routine coordination to be handled by department heads.



- 52 -
B. Control systems
1.        Reorganization of the Internal Audit Department:
(a)  completion of an assessment of present procedures and discussion
of recommendations with IDA (by Sept. 30, 1984);
(b)  implementation of main recommendations (by Dec. 31, 1984).
2.         Streamlining of Management Information System:
(a) definition of key reporting documents on operations and finance
including a quarterly report on budget execution (by Sept. 30,,
1984);
(b)  completion of a diagnosis of the data processing software,
including a strategy to implement recommendations (by Sept. 30,
1984).
C. Personnel
1.        Improvement of staff qualifications (short term):
(a)  drafting of a staffing plan for higher-level staff (June 30,
1984);
(b)  nomination of SNCZ staff to vacant or new positions they can take
over (Sept. 30, 1984);
(c)  recruitment of Technical Assistance for positions that cannot be
taken over by SNCZ staff (key positions: June 30, 1984; all
positions Dec. 31, 1984).
2.        Training:
drafting of a training program for higher-level staff (June 30,
1984).
3.        Other actions:
(a)  review of salary structure and first step to implement
recommendations (Sept. 30, 1984);
(b)  evaluation of total staff needs and schedule to attain the
required level (Dec. 31, 1984);



- 53 -
D. Problem areas
1.        Finance and Accounting Department:
(a) completion of a review of accounting and annual budgeting proce-
dures (Sept. 30, 1984) and implementation of recommendations
(Dec. 31, 1984);
(b) establishment of a traffic costing system (Dec. 31, 1984);
(c) implementation of the recommendations of the fixed assets revalu-
ation study (Dec. 31, 1984).
2.        Procurement Department:
(a) completion of a study to reorganize the system and discussion of
recommendations with IDA (Dec. 31, 1984);
(b) implementation of main recommendations (March 31, 1985).
3.        Investment planning:
creation of a planning unit (Dec. 31, 1984) and production of a
five-year investment plan (Sept. 30, 1985);
4.        Telecommunications with outside Lubumbashi:
drafting of a brief study by SNCZ staff on the main difficulties
and means to solve them (Sept. 30, 1984).
5.        Kinshasa office:
strengthening of the office, clarification of its responsibili-
ties, and appointment of a high level manager as its head.
E. Operational Targets
As stated in Staff Appraisal Report (para. 3.28).



ZAIRE
Second SNCZ Railway ProJect                                                                                 Table I
SNCZ Actual and Projected Financial Statements
operating Statements
--leillion  l's) ---
1978      1979       1980      1981       1992       1983      1994       1985       1996      1997       1989      1989       1990       1991       1992      1993       1994       1995       199%
-------------------actual--------------------  estimated   ---------------------------------------------------------pro1ected
Operating  Revenue            Y2.7      192.7     509.8      565.7      881.4     1,756      3,679     5,119      6,535      9,003    11,049    13,579    16,704    18,195    19,070    20,017    21,030    22,!14    23,275
Less:   Personnol          53.7       96.9     173.2      247.1     310.6        492      1,001      1,302     1,653      2,067     2,584      3,229      4,031      4,319     4,622      4,945      5,291      5,662     6,058
Naterials          19.2      36.9      105.2     170.4      246.4        793     1,395      2,022      2,617     3,329      4,189     5,281      6,653      7,119      7,618     9,151      89,721     9,332      9,985
Services          20.7       40.2       63.7      92.6       92.7        156       232        311        398       502        630        791       992      1,062      1,136     1,216      1,301      1,392      1,489
Taxes                                             26.2       34.9         66       120        167        214       270        339        426       535        573        613       656        701        750        803
Other              0.9        1.6       38.7      68.4      114.9         12        19         25         32        40         50         63        79         95         90        97        104        III        119
Working Expenses              93.5      175.6     380.9      604.7      799.4     1,519      2,757      3,826     4,915      6,207      7,792     9,790    12,297    13,157    14,078    15,064    16,118    17,247    18,454
Operating   Resiul             10.89     17.1     129.0      (39.0)      02.0       237        921      1,293     1,621      2,796     3,256      3,780      4,407     5,027      4,991      4,953      4,911      4,867     4,821
Depreciation                  26.1       25.7      24.1       25.4       64.8       270        921      1,293     1,621      1,978     2,349      2,789      3,312     3,933      3,999      4,064      4,131      4,199     4,269
Met Operating Reult          (26.91      (8.61    104.9      164.4)      17.2        (33)        0         10)        (0)      919        907       999      1,095      1,094       993        e99        790        669       552
Mn  Operating Itess:
Interest                     2.5        4.1       4.4        4.6       5.1         35         58        86        III        141       177        221       276        345        369        395       423        452        484
Other                       3.3        4.3     105.6      114.9)      10.4        17         26        33         42         53        66         82        103       110        118        126        135        144       154
Met Income (Loss)            (32.7)    (19.0)       (5.1)    (54.1)       1.7        185)      (94S) 19)            1153)      624        665       696        716        639       506        368        223         72        (961
iS-==    ......    -...                   =          ==i====    S====    S:===r                           nazi:    su=-        .... ===     s r===    A...     ar. .    a...s.  t..r..         t.ar..



ZAIRE
Second  SNCZ Railway  Project                                                                   Annex  III
SNCZ Actual and  Projected  Financial Statements                                                                Table  2
Balance Sheets
lmillion 2's)
1978      1979      1990      1981      1982      1993       1994      1985      1966      1987       1989      1989      1990       1991      1992     I3        1994       1995      1996
-------------------actual---------          --  estimated   -------- -                   -------------projected-----------------------
ASSETS
Cash                          3.7      12.1      52.9       50.9     5.3        140       294        410       523       720       894      1,096     1,336     1,455     1,526      1,601     1,682      1,769     1,862
Accounts receivable          53.2    106.4       104.3     249.0     345.2       735     1,540      2,144     2,737     3,770     4,626      5,686     6,994     7,614     7,985      8,382     8,806     9,260      9,746
Inventories                  44.1      71.6     119.5     219.9      365.7       607     1,102     1,529      1,964     2,480     3,114     3,912      4,914     5,258     5,626      6,020     6,441     6,892      7,374
Current Assets           101.0     190.1     356.7      520.6     769.2     1,493     2,936     4,082      5,223     6,970     9,624    10,684    13,244    14,327    15,136    16,003    16,929    17,921    19,992
Fixed Assets              1,052.9   1,080.0   1,062.0   1,599.1   1,390.6    38,790    54,449    68,246    83,284    98,899   117,443   139,463   165,613   168,345   171,123   173,947   176,917   179,734   192,700
Less:
Accumulated Depreciation    624.3    645.0      642.0      663.8     686.0    25,420    36,420    46,272    57,448    70,198    85,709   104,560   127,4B7   133,524   139,725   146,095   152,637   159,355   166,253
Net Fixed Assets         428.6    435.0      420.0    935.3       704.6    13,370    18,029    21,974    25,835    28,701    31,734    34,995    36,125    34,921    31,399    27,651    24,180    20,379    16,447
Other Assets                  8.9      16.1      30.3       48.1      43.6        73        107       139       177       221       276        345       431       462        494       529       566        605       647
Total Assets                538.5    641.2    807.0   1,504.0   1,517.4    14,926    21,072    26,195    31,235    35,892    40,634    45,924    51,901    49,610    47,028    44,383    41,674    39,905    36,076
SS= t* ±t S:5t±  flfltt:2 5S==   5==S==S5-=SlZn  :===55   :CZ,:5==   Str==  : 5=:=555== ==S=-  ::==5SrSSSS,:2= at=S55=s= Sfl5at==  ==S====: =5SS5555   ±SSSSus5 t555lS*S 3253*tS2t SSS== t



ZAIRE                                                                               Annex III
Second  SNCZ Railway  ProLect                                                                     Table  3
SNCZ Actual and Projected Financial Statements
Balance Sheets
(million l s)
197B      1979      1980      1981      1982       1983      1984      1985      1986      1987       1988      1989      1990       1991      1992      1993       1994      1995      IS96
-------------------- actual --------------------  estimated   ---------------------------------------------- --projeEted ------------------- ----------------------------------------
LIABILITIES
Current lijbilities          49.7      139.5     191.1     279.1     410.8       957     1,346      1,844     1,901     2,535     2,875      3,053     3,311     3,582     3,784      4,001     4,232      4,480     4,745
Long ter debt                33.3       44.6      74.6     605.9     348.6       592       956      1,113     1,413     1,766     2,208     2,760      3,449     3,b91      3,949     4,226     4,522     4,838      5,177
Other Liabilities            81.0     121.3    W47.2       179.2     339.8       567       834      1,084     1,377     1,722     2,152     2,690      3,362     3,598      3,850     4,119     4,407     4,716      5,046
Funds lleed (Surplus)                                                              0         0          0        (01   (1,779)   (3,925)   (6,1081   (8,597)  (12,173)  Q16,484)  120,711)  (24,851)  (28,895)  (32,839)
0E
Paid in Capitkl             149.5     149.5    149.5       149.5     149.5     149.5     14.        149.5     149.5     149.5     149.5     149.5      149.5     149.5      149.5     149.5     149.5      149.5     149.5
Reserves                    275.3     237.4    294.8       400.6     377.3       377       377        377       377       377       377       377        377       377        377       377       377       377        377
Asset Revaluation                                                             12,485    17,787    22,023    26,561    31,048    36,059    41,568    47,598    47,594    48,106    48,558    48,950    49,281    49,548
Retained Earnings           (50.31    (ISI.)    (56.2)   (110.3)   (108.6)      (194)      (277)     (396)     (550)       74       739      1,435     2,151     2,790     3,296      3,66U     3,987     3,958      3,872
 _          _-_-_-_- _-        __-     __-_-_-__           ____-_-_-_               __-__  _-_-_-_-_-_-___-_-____-_-_-_-_-_-_-____                              _-_-_-_-    _____- _- _-___
Total Equity             374.5     335.E    388.1       439.8     418.2    12,81S    18,036    22,154    26,538    31,649    37,324    03,530    50,266    50,913    51,929    52,749    53,364    53,766    53,947
 _   _   _- __-    _   ___-    _  _-_-   ____-_-_-_-_-__-_-_-_____-_-                     ,.-_I_-_-_-_-_-_-____-_                   _-_-_        _-__-_ __-_-_-_-            ___- ___- __- _-_
Liabilities and Equity      538.5     641.2     807.0   1,504.0   1,517.4    14,726    21,072    26,195    31,235    35,892    40,634    45,924    51,801    49,610    47,028    44,383    41,674    38,905    36,076



ZAIRE                                                                                Annex  III
Second  SNCZ Railway  Project                                                                       Table  4
SNCZ Actual and Projected Financial Statements
Funds Statnents
(million l's)
1979      1990      1981      1982      1983      1984       1985      1986      1987      1988       1989      1990       9I9      1992       1993      1994       1995      1996
----------------actual----------------  estimated   ---------------------------------------------------------projected---------------------------------------------------------
SOURCES OF FUNS
Net inrowe                             19.0)      (5.1)    (54.1)      1.7       195)       (84)     (119)     1153)      624       665       696        716       639       506        369       223         72       (86)
Depreciation                           25.7      24.1       25.4      64.8       270       921      1,293     1,621     1,979     2,349     2,789      3,312     3,933     3,998      4,06      4,131     4,199      4,269
Funds from Operations                   6.7       19.0     128.7)     66.5       185       838      1,174     1,467     2,602     3,013     3,485      4,028     4,572     4,504      4,432     4,354      4,271     4,182
Net Borrowings                         51.6      55.9      563.3     (96.7)      462       540        507       593    (1,081)   (1,274)   (1,093)   (1,117)   (3,109)   (3,800)   (3,682)   (3,555)   (3,419)   (3,275)
Equity Capital                         (19.7)    57.4      105.8     (23.3)       (0)        (0)        0         0        (0)        0          0        (0)        0         (0)        0        (0)        (0)       (0)
Financing                              31.9      113.3     669.1    (120.0)      462       540        507       593    (1,081)   11,274)   (1,093)   (1,117)   (3,109)   (3,800)   (3,682)   (3,555)   (3,419)   (3,275)
Total Sources                        38.6      132.3     640.4     (53.5)      647     1,378      1,691     2,061     1,521     1,740     2,392      2,911     1,463       704        750       799        852       908
USES OF FUNDS
Norking Capital                         (0.7)    109.0      81.Y     116.9       167     1,064        648     1,078     1,119     1,314      1,883     2,302       812        607       650       695        744       796
Nkt Plant and Equipment                32.1       9.1      540.7    (165.9)      450       279      1,001       945       357       371       440        523       621         65        66        67         68        69
Investments                             7.2      14.2       17.8      (4.5)       29        34        32         38        44        55        69         86        30        32         35        37        40         42
Total Uses                           38.6      132.3     640.4     (53.5)      647     1,378      1,6821    2,061     1,521     1,740     2,392      2,911     1,463        704       750       799        852       908



ZAIRE
Second  SNCZ Railway  Project                                                                      Annex  III
Ta~ble 5
SNCZ Actual  and  Projected  Financial  Statements                                                                 T l
Selected Financial Indicatwrs
1978      1979      1990       191      1982       19S3      1994     I195        1996      1991       191       1m         1990      1991       1992      1993       1994      I9S5       1996
-----------------actuala--------------------  stitated   ----------------------------------------------------- projected---------------- ----------------------------------------
Profitability:
Morking Ratio                  101       911       751       ion        911        S61       752        751       751       691        711       722        741       721        741       751        771       782        79S
operating Ratio                1291      1041       792      tIII        992       1021      1001       1001      1001       911        921       93?        93l       942        951       961        962       S71        98?
Liquidity:
lorking Capital               51.3      50.6      159.6     241.5     358.4        526     1,590     2,238      3,316     4,436      5,749     7,632      9,933    10,745    11,352    12,002    12,697    13,441    14,236
Current Ratio                 2.03      1.36       2.81      1.97      1.87       1.55      2.19      2.21       2.74      2.75       3.00      3.50       4.00      4.00       4.00      4.00       4.00      4.00       4.00
Quick Ratio                   1.14      0.95       1.20      1.09      0.99       0.92      1.36       1.39      1.71      1.77       1.92      2.22       2.52      2.53       2.51      2.50       2.48      2.46       2.45
Capitalization:
Debt to Equity                   ex       121       161        5il       451         41        52        52         5?        5?         61        61         61        72         72        71         92        ex        9n
Debt Service Coverage        (1.49)     1.00      2.16      (0.721     2.60       2.68      7.72      7.78       7.55     1o.61       9.83      9.10       9.41      R.13      7.49       6.99       6.32      5.80       5.31



- 59 -
Annex IV
ZAIRE
Second SNCZ Railway Project
FINANCIAL FORECASTS
Assumptions
1. Traffic. Traffic forecasts are set-out in para 4.05.
2. Inflation. International inflation rates have been projected as follows:
1984                   1985-96
7.5%                      7%
Local inflation rates have been projected as follows:
1984     1985      1986     1987-90      1991-96
47%      30%       27%       25%           7%
3. Foreign Exchange. The value of the Zaire will decrease to reflect the
projected differential between local and international inflation.
4. Labor Cost. No increase in labor force will take place. In 1984,
approved and planned compensation increases will cause labor costs to
increase by 103.5% over 1983. SNCZ has budgeted a 160% increase, but this
estimate was reduced to reflect the likely delay in the timing of expected
compensation adjustments during 1984. In 1985 and onwards, labor costs
will increase at the projected rate of inflation.
5. Fuel. Fuel costs were projected taking into account projected real
international prices, inflation, exchange rates, transportation costs, and
traffic.
6. Material Cost. 1983 cost used as base, plus increases generally in line
with traffic increases, except that: for 1984, with use of loan funds, an
additional US$4 million equivalent would be used, and for 1985 a further
US$2 million worth of spares would be used, in order to bring the use of
materials up to a more acceptable level for good maintenance practices and
maintained thereafter. In addition, inflationary increases were added in
1984 and thereafter.
7. Services. 1983 cost was used as a base, increased annually by
inflation and 50% of annual traffic increases if any.
8. Depreciation charges have been provided on a straight line method for
an estimated average life of SNCZ's fixed assets of 40 years.
9. Interest expense has been calculated at an average rate of 10% p.a.,
on outstanding long term debt.
10. Other Expense includes foreign exchange losses on the current
amortization of revalued foreign exchange denominated debt.



- 60 -
11. Revenues. In 1984 through 1986 tariffs will be raised in order to
maintain SNCZ's operating ratio to 100%.  In 1987 and onwards, tariffs will
be raised at a rate sufficient to allow SNCZ to report a net operating
result representing an average return of 3% on revalued net assets.
12. Working Capital has been projected taking into account SNCZ's
collection and payment experience and estimated requirements for prudent
liquidity management.
13. Fixed Assets include project investments and were revalued annually on
a replacement cost basis after retiring an estimated 5% p.a. of gross fixed
assets. No capital investments have been projected beyond the project
period, except routine maintenance and repairs.
14. Long Term Debt and long term provisions have been revalued according
to projected inflation and currency depreciation rates.



- 61 -
Annex V
ZAIRR
SECOND SNCZ RAILWAY PROJECT
Discussion of the Main Factors Affecting Traffic
Zaire economic performance
On the whole, the economy of Zaire has been stagnant in the past
few years. Medium-term prospects for the prices of Zaire's main export
commodities are not good and even with reasonable assumptions concerning
debt rescheduling and capital inflow, the country will continue to face a
severe shortage of foreign exchange as well as a low level of investment
(especially from private sources). It has therefore been assumed that
Zaire's economy will at best experience a slow growth from 1984 on. Import
volumes are particularly dependent on Zairets economic performance and
would remain below their pre-crisis level.   Fuel imports, which are
important for SNCZ traffic, will rise slowly. The only expected major
development is an increase in agriculture production by 3 to 4% per year
and a continued decrease in maize import to Shaba. Mineral production, as
explained below, would remain stagnant.
Gecamines' production
It is assumed that all measures will be taken to enable Gecamines
to maintain its mineral production at 550,000 tons per year, which is about
the record 1981 level. The volume of semi-products to be moved between
processing facilities will consequently remain at 1,750,000 tons. This
requires considerable investments. As a result, Gecamines imports are
expected to regain their 1979/80 level.
Availability and use of alternative international transport links
It is expected that the improvement in VN's capacity, as reflected
by a 40% increase in mineral exports on the VN between 1979 and 1981, will
continue in the future and that mineral exports on the VN will increase
from about 270,000 tons in 1983 to 350,000 tons in 1987. These
improvements, which are a main Government objective, result from the major
rehabilitation efforts undertaken in ONATRA and SNCZ and supported by
current IDA assisted projects. A similar rate of increase is assumed for
import traffic on the VN, especially since increased containerization of
cargo reduces transit time. Only the reopening of the Lobito route could
somewhat affect this development, its impact on the VN trafic is, however,
likely to be limited. Actual reopening of this route is highly dependent
upon an improved political situation in the region and would in any case
require heavy investments for rehabilitation. More importantly, only part
of its transport capacity would be available to Zairian traffic; this would
be completely utilized in transporting Zairian manganese exports and
traffic diverted fom the more costly southern route.



- 62 -
Competition with other transport modes
It is not expected that road or air transport could take a
substantial share of SNCZ traffic. The main reason is that goods shiplped
by SNCZ are generally of a high bulk/value ratio and move over long
distances (about 600 km on average if mineral ore is excluded). In fact,
most high value cargo is already carried by air or road. In addition, the
cost of road transport is likely to remain substantially higher than
SNCZ's, since the price of diesel oil, which was below economic cost, has
just increased 200%. Moreover, the condition of the road system will
continue to be mediocre through the 1980s especially in the two Kasai
provinces where good quality gravel is not available for road
construction. In addition, a paved road between Kinshasa and the two Kasai
will not be completed before the 1990s. Road transport is therefore likely
to remain complementary to railway transport in the coming years.
Substitution on a large scale would take place only if SNCZ could not offer
adequate capacity.
Traffic projections
The results are summarized in the following table:



Annex V
ZAIRE
Second SNCZ Railway Project
Detailed traffic projections for freight (1983-90)
1983       1984       1985       1986        1987       1988       1989        1990
T1/ Tkm2/ T   Tkm   T   Tkm   T   Tkm   T   Tkm   T   Tkm   T   Tkm   T   Tkm
1. EXPORTS
Gecamines: via Matadi            275  401  275  401  300  438  325  474  350  511  350  511  350  511  350  511
Kelemie          40   52   40   52   40   52   40   52   40   52   40   52   40   52   40   52
Sakania         235   94  235   94  210   84  185   74  160   64  160   64  160   64  160   64
Sodiniza:  via Sakania           100   16  100   16  100   16  100   16  100   16  100   16  100   16  100   16
2. IMPORTS
Fuel:           via Matadi       145  130  145  130  145  130  147  132  150  135  152  137  155  139  157  141
General cargo: via Matadi         75   98   80  104   90  117  100  130  105  137  110  143  115  150  120  156
Kalemie       5    2    5    2    5    2    5    2    5    2    5    2    5    2    5    2
Sakania    100   40   95   38   85   34   80   32   80   32   80   32   80   32   80   32
Maize:          via Sakania       80   28   70   25   60   20   50   18   40   14   30   10   30   10   30   10
Coke and Coal: via Sakania    140   42  140   42  140   42  140   42  140   42  140   42  140   42  140   42
3. LOCAL
Mineral ore                     1750  350 1750  350 1750  35  1750  350 1750  350 1750  350 1750  350 1750  350
General cargo: agri products  230   97  240  101  250  105  270  113  290  .122  310  130  330  139  350  147
other           890  373  935  393  980  412  995  418 1010  424 1025  431 1040  438 1055  444
Service                           40   14  150   37  200   50  200   50  200   50  200   50  200   50  200   50
Total         4105 1737 4260 1784 4355 1852 4387 1904 4420 1950 4452 1970 4495 1994 4537 2017
1/ '000 tons
2/ million ton-km



- 64 -
Annex VI
ZAIRE
Second SNCZ Railway Project
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.  "Rehabilitation de la Voie Nationale - Programme d'Urgence 1983-1984",
April 1983, SNCZ;
2. "Rehabilitation de la Voie Nationale - Programme 1984-1985",
August 1983, SNCZ;
3.   Consultants' report on SNCZ's motive power and wagon rehabilitation
and maintenance needs;
4.   Economic Analysis, notes;
5.   Financial Projections, notes;
6. "Plan de Formation 1984-85: Besoin de formation d'agents cadres",
June 1983, SNCZ.



- 65 -
Annex VII
ZAIRE
Second SNCZ Railway Project
Wagons and Locomotives Rehabilitation and Maintenance:
Justification of Cost Estimates
A. Wagon Fleet
1.      During project preparation, the condition of SNCZ wagons and the
needs for rehabilitation and maintenance have been analyzed by SNCZ with
the help of consultants (OFERMAT from France). In general, the condition
of the wagon fleet is as follows:
number of wagons
1.  to be retired immediately                  107
2.  to be rehabilitated                        9021/
3.  normal maintenance                        38257/
Total           _gn7/
2.      Two types of operations are included under normal maintenance:
(i) intermediate repairs (MR: "moyenne reparation") which are done on
average every 105 months and remove each unit for about a week
each;
(ii) normal servicing (VGL: "visite graissage levage") which is done on
average every 30 months and remove each unit for about two days.
The analysis showed that durign the two years project implementation period
(SNCZ recovery phase) 987 wagons would require intermediate repairs and
2275 others normal servicing.
3.      In addition, assuming that all import/export traffic with Zambia is
done with South Africa wagons and fuel transported by private wagons, there
is a need for about 3650 available commercial wagons in 1987 to satisfy
traffic demand. This requires full rehabilitation of the 841 wagons of
SNCZ fleet that are still in need of such operation.
1/ includes 61 wagons under rehabilitaton by Gecamines.
2/ includes about 700 wagons which will have to be retired in the next
three to five years.
3/ includes 471 service wagons not used for commercial traffic of which 319
must be retired.



- 66 -
4.      Costs have been estimated by using workshops units of production
costs and estimating the number of units of repairs by class of wagons.
Total costs are as follows:
Summarized Cost Table - Wagons
(January 1984 - US$ million)
Wagons presently     Wagons                   Comments
immobilized      in service    Total      Av.Cost/wagons
(a) Major Rehabilitation
Number               303              538         841
Foreign Cost        2.37             4.22        6.59          $ 7,800
Local Cost          1.01             1.79        2.80          $ 3,300
(b) Medium Repairs
Number               190              797         987
Foreign Cost        0.56             2.83        3.39          $ 3,400
Local Cost          0.02             0.11        0.13          $   130
(c) Servicing
Number                122            2153         2275
Foreign Cost        0.06             1.13        1.19          $   500
Local Cost          0.01             0.04        0.05          $    20
Total Medium Repairs and Servicing
Foreign  Cost ............ ............ .4.58
Local Cost ... ........ . ,            018



- 67 -
B. Locomotive Fleet
Main line diesel locomotives
5.      The composition of SNCZ fleet is as follows:
Type of locomotive               Year             Number
General Electric 1300        1968 to 1973           44
Hitachi 1260                     1968               12
Krupp 1500                   1968 to 1973            8
6.      By 1987, the needs of SNCZ operations for this type of traction
will be about 4.4 million train x km, based on past achievements and
projected traffic. Main line locomotives are also required for operations
in Gecamines' Likasi complex. Given the need to remotorize in the future
the Hitachi 1260 and Krupp 1500 locomotives and the existing stock of spare
parts for these, only the needs of the General Electric fleet have been
considered. Since it was not possible to estimate costs of the basis of
workshop work program and detailed lists of spare parts, costs were
estimated by SNCZ and consultants by using general averages of annual
repair costs as a function of total value of a locomotive. A provision for
emergency repair was added on the basis of the situation at appraisal.
Shunting diesel locomotives
7.      The composition of SNCZ fleet is as follows:
Type of locomotive                Year              Number
Hitachi 1200                 1968 to 1972             38
Cokerill 160/70              1965 to 1968             13
Henschel 500                1973 to 1980               8
8.      Until 1987, the needs for SNCZ operations should be essentially
ensured by the Hitachi 1200 (Central and Southern regions) and part of the
Henschel 500 (Eastern region). Since the existing stock of spare parts for
the Henschel 500 is sufficient for the next two years, only the needs of
the Hitachi 1200 have been considered. Costs were estimated on the same
basis as for the main line diesel locomotives. A provision for emergency
repairs was also added.
Main line electric locomotives
9.      The composition of SNCZ fleet is as follows:
Type of locomotives               Year               Number
ACEC 2200                         1956                  9
ACEC 2300                    1958 to 1960              11
ACEC 2400                    1963 to 1970              11
Hitachi 2500                 1969 to 1972              14
Hitachi 2600                      1976                 10



- 68 -
10.     By 1987, the needs of SNCZ operations for this type of traction
will be about 3.5 million train x km. In addition, the oldest locomotives,
which are in relative poor shape, are essentially used within Gecamines
processing complexes. Cost of maintenance (including major scheduled
repairs) was conservatively estimated on the basis of workshop work
programs and the experience of the past years. A provision for emergency
repairs was also added.
Cost summary
11.     The cost of the two-year program is summarized below:
Summarized Cost Table - Locomotives
(January 1984 - US$ million)
Maintenance
(including major      Emergency          Total
scheduled repairs)    repairs         Foreign Cost
Type of Locomotive
General Electric 1300      4.27                 0.19             4.46
Hitachi 1260                                    0.24             0.24
Krupp 1500                                      0.11             0.11
Henschell 500                                   0.09             0.09
Hitachi 1200                1.55                0.20             1.75
Cockerill 160/70                                0.08             0.08
Electrics                   2.57                0.10             2.67
Total          8.39                1.01             9.40



-69-                                                 CHART 1
ZAIRE
SNCZ - AGE OF RAIL
BONDO          TITULE
21~~~2
121                      -.
KMBA                                 mUNGBERE
SUMBA
KISANGANI
125
UBUNDU
Age of Rail
~TIW>4 Years
I _ . . 45-15 Years 4Yerl
KINDU                           ,< 1Years
\             1 ~~~~~~~F,gure5 in kml
ILEBo
406
422
556~~~~~~~~5
AMINANS N
'' L                                    ALAL
X     /KABONGO~~~AKNI



CHART 2
-70-
ZAIRE
SNCZ - RAIL WEIGHT
TITULE
BONDO          32
1|21          68
c       KO%1MBA                              MUNGBERE
SUMBA
KISANGANI
'\125
UBUNDU
40 kg/m
-__ -29 kg/m
,- ~ ~    24 kg/m
KINDU                           Various kinds 9 kg/m: ;8 kg/m. 29 kg/m
Figures in km
406
ILEBO
+422
(AALO
KANANGA                                       3        KALEMI
/ 46
556
KABONGO
201
KAMINA
522                 TELKE
DItLO LO 
UB MBASH I
255
ktSAKANIA



CHART 3
71
ZAIRE
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
SNCZ
Organization Chart
|   rock & CMIvil
IEngineeni |
Finance &
Accounting
Procufement
& Stoaes
East                          raion
Central     lt_i{
PrFesIdent -Delegue General  Lo ,nera lcIi
Maeticalnaemn
SOuth ~      ~~       ~~~ C interolA,a
Genera, Se, ie
VVeor-ld k  25.518



-  72 -                                   CHART 4
ZAIRE
SNCZ -TRAFFIC DENSITY
BUMBA                           AKETI              3 3          ISIRO               MUNGBERE
165
25030Kmh
Q KISANGANI
) 2       160
2      200
ILEBO                                                     O UBUNDU
0(2) .... KINDU
650 D
KANANGA                                       3      5Kmh
45Kmh   \1
02
650                            4            KABALO        350          KALEMI
7FO\500 470
\  560
KAMIN   Xo
LUENA 
QILOLO ~ ~     ~     ~    KOWFZ
52Km     LIKASI
Legend                                                                6
(i&   Passenger Trains Par Week                                  LUBUMBASH I
2    Freight Trains Per Day
45Krnh = Maximum Speed
725   Average Train Load, Gross Ton                                 65
8DO   Maximum Train Load, Gross Ton                                 850
Diesel Traction 45Kmh                                           45Km
Electric Traction 25Kv  52Krnh
World Bank -18551



CHART 5
- 73
ZAIRE
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1983                         1984                         1985                        1986                         1987
1  2      3      4         1    2      3        |4      l     2     3        4       1    2|3  |4                 1   2  |3            |4
A TRACK IMPROVEMENT
1 RELAY 128.5 KM OF TRACK
a) Prepare Specifications & Bid Documents
b) Advertise. Receive Bids, Evol-ate. Awrrd
C) Deliverv of MaterlaJ
d) Install                                                                                            -      -      -              -      -
2 TRACK MAINTENANCE SPARE PARTS & MATERIAL
a) Prepare Lists & Order
b) Delvey ot Materiol                                            _                                                                                  I
c) install or Commisson
3 PROCURE MOTOR CARS & TRACTOR CRANES                                                                        1
a) Prepare Rpectications & Bid Documrents
b) Advertise. Receve Bids Evaluate, Awacrd
c) Delivery of Material
d) Commission
B. WAGONS
1. MATERAL FOR REHABILITATION & MAJNTENANCE
a) Prepare Specicortions & Bid Documents
b) Advertise. Receive Bids, Evoluate. Award                                                             l
c) Delivery of Materlal                                                             I m       -      m       - 1         . -
a) Install                                                                                    -       -   m         - i    -      -             -   I  -            I -
2. NEW WAGONS
a) Prepare Specfications & Bid Documents
b) AOvertise. Receive Bids. Evaluate. Award
c) Develry
d) Commission
C. LOCOMOTE5S
I MATERIAL FOR REHABiLITATION & MASNTENANCE
a) Prepare Lists oa Materials
b) Order
c) Delivery of Material                                                         -             -
d) Install                                                                             -      -              -      -      -
D. CONSULTING SEIMCES                                                              |
1. Technical Assistance                                                     -                    - ,                                 -       -      -             - *
2. Studes                                                                                 -       -      -      -
B. TRAINING                                                                                                                                         UiEI8
F. MEDICAL & TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQ'JIPMENT
a) Prepare Specificatlons & Call for Bids                                           I
b) Advertise, Recesse Bids, Evaluate. Award
c) Delivery of Materlal
d) Commission or Install
G. COMPUTER
World Bank-25519






______________________________                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD  16564R
,  N_ Il  AsE< I                bstt>peTFz                                                                                             CTOESH  19RR
3. ; NhERAD(\ 3.<  53 TAN  o      ,f.S/*+-/CENTRAL _ RICAN REPUBLC           .   _                                S U C
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  2vJt Cr ANC   <
V                                                   iv2R uus    tt-Lft> ike A1 Ns   
VtIA    'i/  5§/      iaN SA/              90.02   3ElN              ~       .        +        TqUe cbs 
11RIC- .M-lg@         X         /   \\            Enn- mt                                       - .
"V~~~~~~~~~~a/                                        fEJTER>  LC NTY1Ki'E  4 <    IN                  ±J -                     K/i:m
,NAMBIAI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AU-A
'(5/  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ah~~~~~. 
0    REPUBLIC  OF  CONGO   t(              EGUATEUR
GABON  'AU~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JJAD
I  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KV
/  e1t  (9AOAK i J _ \ 1 T\ -g  /   V                                          I>,T sa :
_  _-~k .J1                                                S                          V X _  A, \ X,    s  X, \   _/ sK  KIVU IWJNDA D
A'             i-n                                                  SAlAASA
9 9  LT +A                O*    X         i KASAf   ORIENT3'Lp                                2 v CDEA)
BANDU~~~~~~~~~~~~~
\ \ | t ^^ tt 8, f + r nnas ~~~.                                                                 Ns L   (N9Lk   ........... 1 ,
NANA          J      NAB 1;   105   ZO0   3 -O         {T    I Kf         KAIr P4A      SHABA-
:                          ~~~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE            L      >1tUm                                      ,
:    '         ~~TRANSPORTATION  NETWORK                            5ado             
*      '     ,,,             jflV/$f !   =  aved  Rouds  s  TG  8  g  tr     A M B                                                     I A
4 "~,fv~-    N-- l ReR.n Budole                                                                     AMa>
R                                                                                           r~~> 
-! P., t,AN O3                                                .
i3        333                                                                      Z        AN






Ci)
LI-
S~~~~ ' X                                X'.N'
5,                                       O
!itr-{g' ;                                                                                       5 :K7     __



