Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KE COPY 
Repcirt No. P-3787-ZR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 25.2 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
April 23, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autherization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit           =      Zaire (Z)
September 12, 1983 - February 24, 1984
Zaire 1.00              =      US$0.04 (0.03)
US$1.00                         Z 26.93 (29.93)
February 24, 1984
Zaire 1.00              =      US$0.03
US$1.00                         Z 33.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)             =      3.28  feet
i kilometer (km)        =      0.62  mile
1 sq kilometer (km2)   =       0.386 square miles
1 metric ton (ton)      =      2,204 pounds (lbs)
1/ On September 12, 1983, Zaire introduced a transitional
dual exchange rate regime, comprising an official rate
and a free market rate shown between brackets above.
The two rates were unified on February 24, 1984;
thereafter the rate will float on a weekly basis.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ACRONYMS AND ABREVIATIONS
AfDB      =   African Development Bank
CCCE      =   Caisse Centrale de Coopgration Economique (France)
(Economic Cooperation Fund)
CFMK      =   Chemin de Fer de Matadi a Kinshasa
(Matadi to Kinshasa Railway)
CMZ       =   Compagnie Maritime Zairoise
(National Shipping Company)
Gecamines =   La Ggngrale des Carriares et des Mint:s
(General Mines and Quarries Company)
GEEP      =   Groupe d'Etudes, Economie et Planification
(The Economic Studies and Planning _ection of MTC)
KfW       =   Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
(The Development Credit Organization of
the Federal Republic of Germany)
MP        =   Ministry of Planning
MPF           Ministry of Portfolio
(State Holdings)
MPW       =   Ministry of Public Works
MTC       =   Ministry' of Transport and Communications
OR            Office dLes Routes
(National Highways Bureau)
ONATRA    =   Office National des Transports
(National lransport Bureau)
PDG       =   President D616gug General
(Chairman and Managing Director)
PIP       =   Public Investment Program
RVA       =   Regie des Voies Aeriennes
(National Airways Authority)
RVF       =   R6gie des Voies Fluviales
(National River Authority)
RVM       =   Regie des Voies Maritimes
(National Maritime Authority)
SNCZ      =   Societ6 Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
(National Railway Company)
VN        =   Voie Nationale
(The Rail/River Transport System)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






ZAIRE
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AN'D PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:             Socigtg nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois
(SNCZ)
Amount:                  SDR 25.2 million, equivalent to US$26.0 million.
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms
Relending Terms:         SDR 25.05 million of the IDA Credit would be
on-lent to SNCZ for 15 years, including 4 years
of grace, at an annual interest rate of 15
percent per annum.
Co-lenders:             Parallel cofinancing is being considered as
follows: African Development Bank (AfDB)
US$14.10 million equivalent, for 19 years,
including 4 years of grace, at an annual interest
rate of 12 percent; Caisse Centrale de Coopgra-
tion Economique (CCCE-France) US$6.25 million, 15
years, including 5 years of grace, at 10 percent
per annum; Kingdom of Belgium US$5.65 milliorn
equivalent, 30 years, including 10 years of grace
at 1 percent per annum and US$0.2 million
equiva:Lent as a grant.
Project Description:   The project is based on an emergency rehbilita-
tion program prepared by SNCZ and includes track
renewal (about 128 km.); rehabilitation of about
850 wagons and purchase of another 200; equip-
ment, materials and spare parts for improved
maintenance of track, locomotives and wagons;
consull:ing services to help strengthen higher
management and for studies; equipment and
materials for training; staff training abroad;
equipment and materials for telecommunications,
maintenance of a computer system and replacement
oE medical equipment.  rhe project also includes
technical assistance to the Government for a
review of air transport and to help strengthen
the studies and planning unit of the Ministry of
Transport.
Project Benefits:        The project will help Zaire's processing and
export of minerals; transportation of agri-
cultural produce to urban areas and of inputs for
agriculture, and facilitate commerce between
Zaire's regions. Risks associated with the



- ii -
Project Benefits:       project are that the rehabilitation of SNCZ may
(Continued)           take longer than envisaged; that traffic
forecasts may not mat:erialize as projected, and
that insufficient foreign exchange will be
available for SNCZ's recurrent costs. The risks
have been taken into account in the design of the
project.
Estimated Costs                                 Local      Foreign      Total
(Net of taxes) 1/                             ----------US$ Million---
Track renewal and maintenance                  3.19       15.36       18.55
Wagon fleet capacity increases                 3.81       20.63       24.44
Locomotive rehabilitation & maintenance        0.94        9.40       10.34
Consulting Services                            0.77        7.13        7.90
Training                                       0.24        2.08        2.32
Medical Equipment and supplies,                0.13        2.58        2.71
computer maintenance,
telecommunications equipment.
Consulting Services to Government              0.03        0.15        0.18
Total baseline costs                  9.11       57.33       66.44
Price Contingencies                            1.61        5.25        6.86
Total project costs                  10.72       62.58       73.30
Financing Plan                                  Local      Foreign      Total
---------…US$ Million--------
Reallocations under existing credits
African Development Bank                                 3.25        3.25
Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau               -           2.80        2.80
IDA - Credit 902-ZR                                      4.35        4.35
Sub-total, Existing Credits                      10.40       10.40
SNCZ                                          10.70                   10.70
Proposed Loans and Credits
Belgium                                                  5.85        5.85
CCCE (France)                                            6.25        6.25
AfDB                                                    14.10       14.10
IDA                                                     26.00       26.00
Sub-total, New Loans and Credits                      52.20      52.20
Grand Total                               10.70       62.60       73.30
1/  The Government of Zaire has expressed its intention to exempt the
project from customs duties and from the local turnover tax.



- iii -
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Years                              1985        1986        1987
…US$ Million----
Annual                                       5.0        14.0         7.0
Cumulative                                   5.0        19.0        26.0
Economic Rate of Return:           37 percent on the investment component
of the project, representing 58 percent
of total costs
Appraisal Report:                  No. 4779-ZR, dated April 12, 1984
Maps:                              IBRD  16564R, IBRD 17537






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
FOR A SECOND RAILWAY (SNCZ) PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a
proposed development creeLit to the Republic of Zaire in the amount of
SDR 25.2 million equivalent (US$26.0 million) on standard IDA terms to
help finance a Second Railway project. The proceeds of the credit
(except for tae equivalent of SDR 150,000 to be used by the Government
for consulting services), would be onlent by the Republic of Zaire to
the Socift6 Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ) for a period of
15 years, including 4 years of grace, at an interest rate of 15 percent
per annum. Co-financing for the project is being considered by the
African Develcnment Bank (AfDB) for the equivalent of US$14.10 million,
by the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), France, for
the equivalent of US$6.25 million and by the Kingdom of Belgium, for
US$5.85 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Zaire in March 1982; its report
was distributed in January 1983 (Report No. 4077-ZR). Its major
findings and those of a Follow-up visit in February-March 1983 are
summarized below.
Background
3.        Zaire is the third largest country in Africa in terms of area
and the fifth largest in terms of population, but its GNP per capita,
estimated at about US$210 in 1981, ranks among the lowest in the
continent. Approximately one-third of its population of about 30
million live in urban areas, and the population density is 12 persons
per sq. km. Urbanization has been proceeding at a rate of about 7
percent per annum, or more than twice the rate of population growth.
Although agriculture (commercialized and subsistence) normally accounts
for 30 percent of GDP, it provides employment and income for more than
three-quarters of the population.  Mining and mineral-processing
normally account for about 18 percent of GDP; this sector has
traditionally been the largest source of public revenue and provides
more than two-thirds of the country's export earnings.
4.        When Zaire gained independence in 1960, it was ill-prepared
for the change, both technically and institutionally. The first Six to
seven years following independence were marked by violent political
strife and a severe disruption of the economy. But after the



- 2 -
restoration of political order and stability in 1967, GDP grew by about
7 percent in real terms annually until 1974. Since then, however,
Zaire has been experiencing serious economic difficulties which are
attributable to both external and internal factors. The weakness of
world copper prices through most of this period was a major contributor
to both the severity and the duration of the crisis.
Evolution of Current Difficulties
5.        Until the late 1970s, Zaire's attempts to cope with the
crisis were uneven and uncoordinated. As a result. by 1978,
commercialized GDP contracted to about 10 percent below the pre-crisis
(1972-74) level; the overall budgetary deficit attained a record level;
and deficit financing, together with the worsening shortage of basic
consumer goods, fuel and intermediate products, pushed the annual
inflation rate to about 50 percent. Although the decline of GDP was
arrested in 1979, the economy continued to face serious difficulties
that year. The expansion of credit to the Government (to finance the
budgetary deficit) and to the rest of the economy continued to exert
pressure on prices, which rose by more than 100 percent in the capital
city during the year. The balance of paymenlts also remained under
strong pressure, as evidenced by the continued accumulation of external
payment arrears -- a trend which had started in 1975. Although two
stabilization programs, supported by the IMF, were adopted and three
debt rescheduling agreements under the Paris Club were concluded during
the 1975-79 period, these could not be implemented and therefore
brought limited relief.
6.        The year 1979 saw the beginning of more systematic efforts by
Zaire and its major donors to deal with the crisis.  These included a
new stabilization program supported by the IMF; debt rescheduling
agreements with the Paris Club (December 1979) and the syndicated
private banks (April 1980); the preparation of a public investment
program (PIP) for 1979-81 with the help of the World Bank; the
installation of external advisers at the Central Bank and the Ministry
of Finance; the revamping of some institutions (the Customs Office, the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Investment Commission), and the creation
of others (a Central Pay Directorate at the F[inistry of Finance).
These and other efforts produced considerable. improvements in 1980.
GDP expanded by 2.4 percent in real terms, aided by a strong recovery
in copper production.  The budgetary deficit was reduced substantially,
and the inflation rate was cut by more than half -- to about 44 percent
-- despite the devaluation of the zaire by about 30 percent vis-a-vis
the SDR early in the year. At the same time, Zaire observed all the
performance criteria under the new IMF-supported stabilization program
and complied with the debt rescheduling agreements with the Paris Club
and the syndicated private banks.



- 3 -
7.        Largely on the strength of this improved performance, in
mid-1981 Zaire adopted a three-year program of economic and financial
adjustment supported by an "Extended Fund Facility" (EFF) from the IMF
in an amount equivalent to SDR 912 million. Zaire also concluded (in
July 1981) a new debt rescheduling agreement with the Paris Club.
However, economic performance during the year fell below expectations
because of external and internal factors.  The weakening of the copper
and cobalt markets caused Zaire's merchandise exports to fall by about
US$540 million (or 26 percent) in nominal terms   Real imports were
lower than at any year during the crisis and amounted to 40-50 percent
of the pre-crisis level. As a result of these developments as well as
a weakening of fiscal discipline, the budgetary deficit expanded
four-fold in nominal terms -- to the equivalent of 7 percent of GDP.
Zaire could not comply wilh either the criteria under the EFF or the
July 1981 debt rescheduling agreement; it began accumulating external
debt arrears in the third quarter of 1981; and the EFF ,gas formally
cancelled effective June 21, 1982.
8.        World copper prices fell sharply in 1982 -- to the lowest
level (in real terms) in more than 30 years -- thus accentuating
Zaire's economic difficulties. By year end, external debt arrears
totaled about US$940 million, of which US$690 million were on public
debt and US$250 million on commercial debt and invisibles.  The
budgetary deficit expanded, too, to about twice the level of 1981 (in
nominal terms), and was equiva:Lent to about 10 percent of GDP. After
recovering by 2.4 percent a year in 1980 and 1981, GDP contracted
marginally (by about 1 percent) in 1982; the inflation rate edged
upward, averaging 37 percent; and the exchange rate came under strong
pressure, the spread between the parallel market rate and the official
exchange rate of the zaire rising to 3.5 to 1.
Government Action
9.        In mid-1981, in conjunction with the medium-term program
supported by the EFF (paragraph 7), the Zairian authorities took a
number of interrelated steps toward stimulating supply, keeping the
growth of demand within appropriate limits, and improving foreign
exchange management: the zaire was devalued by a further 40 percent
vis-a-vis the SDR; interest rates were adjusted upward; and the
existing price controls on most goods were removed in order to
stimulate the private sector. In addition to completing a revised PIP
for 1981-83, Zaire began preparing an Agricultural Action Plan designed
to bring about improvements in the following areas: (i) strengthening
of institutions; (ii) policies for pricing, marketing, credit, and
foreign exchange allocation; (iii) implementation of on-going projects;
(iv) investment programming for the sector; and (v) research, extension
and training. The Action Plan was discussed at a meeting of the
Consultative Group.for Zaire held in June 1982. The Zairian
authorities cooperated with the IMF and the Bank in the preparation of
a fiscal study which comprised the budgetary process, (with emphasis on



-4-
the control over expenditures), tax reform and the tax regime of
Gecamines (the state-owned company producingi most of Zaire's copper and
all of its cobalt).  This study was completed in May 1982, and since
then, a number of reforms recommended by the study have been adopted by
the Government.
10.       In 1982, Zaire made additional att:empts to improve economic
management and institutional performance. T'he Ministry of Agriculture
was significantly reorganized as part of a broad program of
institutional reforms for the sector. The Government appointed new,
more broadly-based Executive Boards for Gecamines and SOZACOM (the
state-owned company marketing the bulk of G6camines' output); important
changes were made in the top management of GCcamines; and a new
marketing arrangement between the two firms was approved. Furthermore,
the Government announced the decision to "privatize" the ownership
and/or management of 37 public enterprises, and it further relaxed the
remaining price controls. The Government proceeded at the same time to
implement a policy of "decentralization" whose apparent objective is to
give Zaire's regions more autonomy.
11.       The year 1983 witnessed more systematic efforts to
reestablish the conditions for recovery. First, in order to facilitate
the negotiation of a new agreement with the IMF, Zaire implemented a
"shadow" program for six months, focused on reducing the budgetary
deficit and improving financial management. Second, as part of a
program of major changes affecting the mining sector, the tax regime
applying to Gecamines was substantially revamped in line with the
recommendations of the IMF/Bank study referred to above (paragraph 9).
Third, in September 1983, Zaire started implementing a series of
economic and financial measures as a prelude to a formal agreement with
the IMF and a debt rescheduling linked to it.  In support of these
measures, in December 1983, the IMF approved a 15-month Stand-by
Arrangement in an amount of SDR 228 million (US$246 million),
equivalent to 100 percent of quota. The IMF approved concurrently the
purchase of SDR 114.5 million (US$124 million) under the Compensatory
Financing Facility. This was immediately followed by a meeting of the
Paris Club at which the creditors agreed to reschedule outstanding
arrears and maturities falling due in 1984 at terms compatible with the
IMF agreement.  In the meantime, the authorities prepared an Interim
Economic Recovery Program which brought together under the same
framework the program of economic and financial adjustment and an
updated three-year public investment program. The Interim Program was
presented to a meeting of the Consultative Group which was held on
December 21-22, 1983. The participants concurred with the
appropriateness of the measures taken by Zaire as well as with the
priorities of the public investment program, and they indicated their
willingness to increase their support to Zaire in the medium term.
12.       The adjustment measures announced in September 1983 and
incorporated in the IMF program comprise the following: (i) the
immediate devaluation of the zaire by about 80 percent vis-a-vis the US



- 5 -
dollar; (ii) the introduction of a transitional dual exchange rate
regime consisting of an official rate and a free market rate, leading
to the unification of the two rates (i.e., a total "float") in February
1984; 1/ (ii:) a substant:ial liberalization and simplification of the
exchange and trade system as a whole; (iv) a comprehensive revision of
customs duties involving significant reductions in tariffs on essential
foodstuffs, raw materials and intermediate goods and major increases on
luxury goods; (v) a considerable adjustment and liberalization of the
interest rate structure, including the lifting of all administrative
controls on lending rates of commercial banks (except for those
applicable to the non-coffee agriculture sector, for which they are 15
percent); (vi) the further decontrol of prices, including producer
prices of all agricultural commodities; (vii) the adjustment of
petroleum prioes to take full account of the change in the exchange
rate; and (viii) the decision to limit wage increases in the public
sector to abou'i 40 percent through 1984, well below the estimated rate
of inflation. The objective of the program is to improve Zaire's
balance of payments posit:ion and to begin reviving the economy. On the
fiscal side, the program aims at eliminating the budgetary deficit (not
counting external debt payments) in 1984, thus bringing down
substantially net government borrowing from the domestic banking
system.
13.       Zaire's latest public investment program covers the years
1983-85. The thrust of the program continues to be rehabilitation of
existing capacity and infrastructure. The new program represents a
step forward in several respects. In particular, it is the product of
an attempt for the first time to tailor the program to resource
availabilities using a mtcroeconomic scenario. It is 13 percent
smaller (in real terms) than its predecessor for that reason and the
projects have been selected with a view to minimizing foreign exchange
requirements. As a result, the new program's external financing gap
(US$290 million over 1983-85) is much smaller than that of the last one
in both absolute and relative terms. Furthermore, the program is
consistent with both the stabilization program and the investment
budget for 1984. The program has benefitted from a continued effort by
the Zairian authorities since 1979 to identify and either improve or
eliminate "problem projects". The monitoring effort was strengthened
in 1982 and 1983 and is to be intensified with the on-going
introduction of a new project control and supervision system and
strengthened inter-ministerial coordination. At the Consultative Group
meeting held in December 1983, the participants took two important
steps relevant to the execution of the Public Investment Program. They
agreed on the appropriateness of convening co-lender meetings on
transport (highways) and G6camines around May/June 1984, and they
endorsed Zaire's decision to reactivate the External Resources
Coordination Committee (which had not met for about two years) partly
in order to review progress in providing Zaire with assistance,
financial and technical, required in the crucial and difficult years
ahead.
1/ The two rates were unified on February 24, 1984 at US$1 = Z 33.0



- 6-
Current Situation and Direction
14.        The difficulties experienced by Zaire since 1975 have had a
heavy economic and social cost. Much of the country's productive
capacity and infrastructure has deteriorated, and real wages and
salaries have declined by more than half. In the last two years, with
the cooperation of the international community, significant progress
has been made in defining the policies and actions necessary for
recovery, and a number of important decisions have already been taken
by Zaire. The developments of 1983 in particular represent a net
gain. This can be demonstrated by taking stock of the cumulative
changes achieved with respect to the liberalization of the economy.
Three years ago, all commodities (industrial and agricultural) were
subject to controls at the producer, wholesale and retail levels.
Today controls apply only to petroleum products, public utilities and
domestic transport. Virtually all commercia:L bank lending rates have
been liberalized. The exchange rate has been brought to its most
realistic level in recent years, and a phased program toward a total
float has been implemented.
15.        Overall, Zaire seems in a better position to make progress
than two years ago for several reasons. First, the measures taken
recently are more comprehensive, more coherent and better prepared than
before. A case in point is the adoption of t:he new fiscal regime for
Gecamines, which enables both the Government and the company to improve
resource planning, and the revision of the Customs Code to complement
changes in the exchange rate regime. Second, some of the improvement
which has taken place, especially in the budgetary sphere in 1983, is
structural in nature: some expenditures have been curtailed for good
(e.g., through efforts to rationalize the government payroll); and some
categories of revenues (e.g., customs, tax contributions by Gfcamines)
have received a permanent boost through the exchange rate adjustment.
16.       Although Zaire's exports are expect:ed to improve in the next
three years largely because of the anticipated recovery of copper
prices, Zaire's resource constraints will remain severe. This is
partly due to the external public debt burden. The latest Paris Club
agreement affects only arrears and 1984 maturities; although as a
result of the agreement the debt service ratio in 1984 has been reduced
to 18 percent, the contractual debt service due in 1985-89 is
equivalent to nearly 35 percent of projected exports of goods and
nonfactor services -- a ratio which would see!m incompatible with even a
modest economic recovery. Moreover, as a result of the sharp drop in
commitments over the last few years, the undisbursed project pipeline
-- the source of future disbursements -- has been reduced to US$670
million, compared to US$1.2 billion in 1975. While the donors have
indicated their disposition to increase their aid to Zaire
progressively, this will take time and depend on the improvement of
external confidence.



- 7 -
17.       The Zairian authorities are aware that in tnese circumstances
they will need to make a ,determined and sustained effort to execute the
new stabilization program, implement the debt rescheduling agreement,
continue to improve economic management and stimulate the private
sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAIRE
18.       From 1969 to date, the Association has approved 34 credits
totalling about US$498.0 million for agriculture, transport, develop-
ment finance company operations, water supply, power, petroleum techni-
cal assistance and education projects. The Bank Group has also extend-
ed grants totaling US$400,000 as contributions toward ehe cost of two
planning assistance projects in Zaire. In 1975, the B-nk made a loanl
of US$100 million for the Gecamines Mining Expansion Project, which was
cofinanced by the European Investment Bank and by the Libyan Arab
Foreign Bank, and which provided for special repayment arrangements
linked to the project's export earnings. A Technical Assistance Credit
was recently approved to assist Gecamines with its efforts to restruct-
ure its organization, improve its manpower and prepare a long-term
rehabilitation and expansion program. The IFC, which has a US$760,000
equity participation in the Societe Financiere de Developpement Econo-
mique (SOFIDE), approved a US$4.1 million loan in 1978 for an offshore
oil production project and a US$230,000 loan in 1982 for studies
related to the development of an aluminium complex at Banana.   Annex
II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1984.
19.       A main objective of Bank Group operations in Zaire has been
institution building. The development finance company (SOFIDE) was
established in 1970 with assistance from IFC and IDA. The major
transport agencies, ONATIA, Societe Nationale des Chemins de Fer
Zairois (SNCZ), Regie dess Voies Fluviales (RVF), Regie des Voies
Maritimes (RVM) and Office des Routes (OR), have received technical and
financial assistance from the Association, which also helped
establish the National L:Lvestock Development Authority (ONDE). In the
case of Gecamines, the Bank loan originated a dialogue, still ongoing
and now supported by a technical assistance credit, intended to define
ways and means to strengthen the management, financial position and
planning of the company.
20.       In general, project implementation has been difficult due to
the country's inadequate manpower and management capability and, in
recent years, because of the economic crisis. In the last two or three
years, release of the required budgetary funds has been difficult
periodically because of budgetary constraints. Lack of foreign
exchange to finance spare parts and fuel, and the deterioration of lhe
transport network and marketing system have resulted in severe supp:Ly



- 8 -
problems for most projects.  Recruiting and retaining adequate staff
has also been difficult. In January 1980 the Bank undertook with
Zairian officials an overall review of Bank Group projects which, for
the first time, provided an integrated view of implementation problems;
this resulted in an acceleration and improvement in the utilization of
Bank Group assistance, particularly in the agricultural sector. A
second overall review, focussing on macro-economic and sectoral issues
and on their impact on project implementation, took place in May 1983
and assisted the Government in formulating l:he important economic
measures of September 1983 (para. 12).
21.       Fourteen credits and one loan have been totally disbursed:
Credits 152, 292, 536 and 916-ZR (First, Second, Third and Fourth
Highway Projects); Credit 255-CK (River Transport Project); Credits
272-CK and 264-ZR (First and Second Education Projects); Credit 398 and
697-ZR (Livestock Development and Ituri Livestock Projects); Credits
190, 271, 463 and 710-ZR (First, Second, Third and Fourth SOFIDE
Projects); Credit 625-ZR (Wiater Supply) and Loan 1090-ZR (Gecamines).
Completion reports have been issued for all projects except Gecamines.
Performance Audit Reports have been issued for the First SOFIDE, the
First, Second and Third Highway Projects, the River Transport Project,
the Rail/River Project and the First Education Project. The conclusion
of the audit and completion reports was that the Bank Group's impact on
institution building had been mixed. SOFIDE was evolving as an
effective and competent institution, and the Office des Routes, the
highway agency, had been able to establish an effective administra-
tion. On the other hand, ONATRA's performance had not improved as a
result of the first River Transport Project but did improve under the
Rail/River project; implementation by RVF and RVM had disappointing
results. As for education, more attention to institution building
activities would have been beneficial; administrative weaknesses in the
Department of Education were cited as partly responsible for poor
performance under the First Project and the inability to implement
investment components under the Second Project which resulted in
cancellation of US$18.8 million in February 1983. All entities had
encountered operating difficulties beyond their control as the economy
deteriorated, financial resources grew scarcer and the problems
besetting the investment environment were exacerbated by Government's
zairianization/radicalization measures. Bankc Group support to SOFIDE
and the OR is continuing under the Fourth and Fifth SOFIDE projects
(Crs. 710 and 998-ZR) and Fourth and Fifth Highway Projects (Cr. 916-ZR
and Cr. 1290-ZR). ONATRA will benefit from the ongoing Modernization
(Cr. 1180-ZR) and Matadi/Kinshasa Ports Rehabilitation (Cr. 1335-ZR)
projects. A proposed Education Technical Assistance and Training
Project would strengthen administrative, financial and planning
practices in the Department of Primary and Secondary Education.
22.     The rate of disbursement to Zaire is average for the Eastern
Africa Region. For fiscal years 1981-83, disbursements totalled US$92
million compared with new commitments of US$218.6 million. The



- 9 -
disparity between disbursements and commitments is a result of a
significant increase in commitments in FY82 and FY83. In this same
period, the average annual disbursement rate was 20 percent, only
slightly low&r than the rate for other countries of the region. Whille
disbursement performance in general is satisfactory, difficulties have
arisen in several projects. In the case of early credits for
transport, education and livestock (Credits 255-ZR, 272-ZR and 398-ZR),
the lack of a strong project entity caused implementation delays.
Economic concitions were also a factor in slowing project programs in
instances where government counterpart funds were not available (Third
Highway, CrecJLt 660-ZR; Second Education, Credit 624-ZR) and where the
investment erl;ironment experienced slow recovery from the aftermath of
abrupt natiorilization (Fourth SOFIDE, Credit 710-ZR). Future project
implementation should be less affected by the above influences given
the strengtherlng of institutions under subsequent projects and efforts
by the Government to improve budgetary support of IDA-financed
projects. At the end of 1982, the Bank Group's share of Zaire's totaLl
debt disbursed and outstanding was about 10 percent.
23.     In the past three years, the Bank Group's main efforts have
been directed towards assisting in the rehabilitation and developmen1:
of the agriculture and transport sectors, in part through the design
and implementation of appropriate new policies. Investments in
industry were also emphasized through assistance to SOFIDE. Initial
efforts in support of the energy sector include the Shaba Power System
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1224-ZR) and the Ruzizi II Regional
Hydroelectric Power Project.  Our lending will continue to support the
transport sector (in particular the Voie Nationale); to assist the
development of the agriculture sector within the framework of the new
Agricultural Action Plan (see para. 9 above); and to promote the
development of the industrial and mining sectors. In addition, further
support will be considered for the energy sector to develop power and
petroleum resources.
Part III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
24.       The transport sector is critical to the development of Zaire
given the country's size (about 2.3 million km2) and the uneven
distribution of population centers and important economic activities
such as agriculture and mining which in some cases are more than 2,000
km from the Atlantic Ocean. The most significant element in Zaire's
transport network is the river/rail system which provides 15,000 km of
navigable waterways and about 5,000 km of rail track in several
disconnected networks. Roads were built to provide local access and to
feed into the rail and river network. The country has one main
seaport, Matadi, and two major inland ports, Kinshasa and Ilebo which



- 10 -
connect rail and river transport.  There are about 150 airfields and
airstrips in Zaire of which 30 are served by local airlines. Three
airfields can accommodate wide-bodied aircraft. Two pipelines
transport refined petroleum products from Matadi to Kinshasa.
25.       Zaire's principal traffic corridor is the Voie Nationale
(VN), a transport chain (rail-river-rail) stretching nearly 2,700 km
from the mineral-rich Shaba Region to the Atlantic Ocean on the estuary
of the Zaire River. The VN is strategically important to Zaire because
it is the only transport corridor to the ocean entirely within Zaire.
Minerals from Shaba are the main traffic item on the VN; since 1976,
the VN has carried on average about 233,000 tons of minerals per year,
or about 50 percent of Zaire's mineral exports. The remaining 50
percent of mining output was exported by (i) the southern route, via
the Zambia/Zimbabwe Railway to ports in the Republic of South Africa
(40-45 percent) and (ii) the Kalemie-Kigoma route, via the Tanzanian
Railway to Dar es Salaam. Until its closure in 1975, the Benguela
railway through Angola to the port of Lobito was the external route
most heavily used by Zaire. At one time or another most foreign routes
have proved unreliable (owing to military or civil strife, interna-
tional disputes, railway or port congestion) and their foreLgn exchange
cost is high. Zaire has, therefore, correctly decided that a major
priority should be to improve the capacity of the VN.
26.       The national railway company, SNCZ, administers a 4,700 km
network, including the 1,500 km railway link from the mining region to
the river port of Ilebo; this link is the weakest in the VN chain. In
addition to mineral exports, SNCZ also transports agriculture products
and inputs and intermediate products to and between the processing
facilities of Gecamines, Zaire's major mining company. For these
reasons, SNCZ is of vital importance to the economy of Zaire.
27.       While the basic transport infrastructure and equipment large-
ly exist to meet current transport demand, there are severe limitations
on their effectiveness. Shortages of spare parts have critically im-
paired the use of equipment. Insufficient investment and maintenance
over many years have generally resulted in an accumulation of worn out,
unreliable and outmoded equipment and facilities that translate into
poor service and high transport costs.
Sector Organization
28.       The organization of the sector, largely the result of
extensive studies prepared about a decade ago, is basically sound and
for the time being does not require major reform. Three large
parastatal agencies dominate the transport sector: (i) the Societe
Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois (SNCZ), which operates the
country's railways (except for the Matadi-Kinshasa line); (ii) the
Office National des Transports (ONATRA), which provides transport
services on inland waterways, rail services between Matadi and Kinshasa



- 11 -
and which operates all but one of the principal ports; and (iii) the
Office des Routes (OR), which maintains the 40,900 km of main roads.
In addition, five transport agencies or public companies have the
following responsibilities: (i) Regie des Voies Fluviales (RVF) is
charged with maintaining and operating navigation aids and services on
navigable waterways; (ii) Regie des Voies Maritimes (RVM) is respon-
sible for maintaining and operating the navigational markings and
pilotage services on the Zaire estuary from the port of Matadi to the
ocean; (iii) Regie des Voles Aeriennes (RVA) builds, maintains and
operates airports; (iv) Air Zaire, the state-owned airline; and (v)
Compagnie Maritime Zairoise (CMZ), the national shipping company.
Except for OR, which is under the Ministry of Public Works, these
agencies are under the technical control of the Miniscry of Transport
and Communications (MTC) and the financial control of the Ministry of
Portfolio. In addition to these public agencies, private carriers play
an increasingly important role: in river and air transport, as well as
in the Matadi-Kinshasa corridor, they now handle about 30 percent of
traffic.
Sector Strategy and Issues
29.       The Government's main objectives in the sector over the past
few years have been: (i) to focus the limited available resources on
rehabilitation and maintenance of the main transport network; (ii) to
improve operations through strengthening of management and training;
and (iii) to improve the capacity of major routes, essentially the VN.
The Association agrees with this strategy and has designed its assis--
tance to the sector along these lines, which are also supported by
other major aid agencies.
30.       The latest version (1983-85) of Zaire's Public Investment
Program (PIP) allocates 42% of total investments to the Transport
Sector making it the most important ahead of Mining (22%) and Energy
and Water (18%). The share of transport is, however, overstated
because all of OR's operating costs (and not only its investment costs)
have been included and because the implementation schedule for trans-
port projects is overly optimistic. Under more realistic assumptions,
the transport sector's share would come down to about 25-30%, the same
level as mining, which still reflects the importance of the sector for
the country and also the larger part of its activities under public
ownership. Except for the above, the transport part of the PIP is
basically sound and correctly identifies medium-term investment
priorities. It includes, however, a few projects, the most important
of which is the electrification of Matadi-Kinshasa Railway, which, in
our view, require more indepth evaluation. The Ministry of Planning
and GEEP' the planning unit of MTC, which would be provided with
technical assistance under the proposed Credit, have the capability to
carry out the supplementary work needed; this will be done during thie
preparation of the 1986-90 economic development plan. The proposed
project will finance the most urgent components of the Plan's railway
section.



- 12 -
31.       Although management of the main transport agencies has
generally improved (especially at ONATRA and OR), much remains to be
done.  Studies will soon start under IDA financing at RVF and RVM to
improve their operations and financial management and, at OR to review
its specific role within Zaire's road sector and adapt its organization
accordingly. The proposed project will help implement a major reform
of SNCZ's management, which, for reasons detailed in para. 40, has
deteriorated seriously over the past two years.
32.       Given Zaire's financial constraints, the resources available
to the main transport agencies have sometimes been inadequate. The
recent expansion of the Road Fund to channel taxes to OR should
alleviate this problem for roads. Following the recent devaluation of
Zaire's currency, overall tariff levels were substantially increased at
ONATRA and SNCZ. In addition, the distortion in tariff structures in
favor of mineral exports has been corrected (see para. 73). As part of
the recent economic reforms, the Government has liberalized access to
foreign exchange. Nevertheless, such access needs to be monitored
closely in relation to the sector's needs.
33.       Investment priorities must also be carefully weighed.  Given
the scarcity of resources, it is important that in-depth technical and
economic evaluation of all projects be undertaken and that the trans-
port capacity of the different sub-sectors be coordinated so that cost-
ly imbalances or bottlenecks do not occur. Each public agency should
have the capability to analyze its investment needs in economic as well
as technical terms by strengthening or, if necessary, establishing
planning units. At negotiations, SNCZ agreed to create such unit no
later than December 31, 1984 and prepare the first version of a
five-year rolling investment plan no later than September 30, 1985
(Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Project Agreement). A continual review
of priorities by GEEP and monitoring of achievements is also required.
Projects which do not have clear economic returns should be postponed.
Under Credit 1335-ZR (Matadi-Kinshasa Ports Project), the Government
has agreed to consult with the Association prior to undertaking any
project exceeding US$10 million equivalent in the port and railway
sectors.
34.       GEEP is presently undertaking under IDA financing a broad
review of rapidly growing private sector activity in the transport
sector. The study will provide a base for a coherent government
policy and, in particular, in correcting existing distortions in the
incentive structure.
Bank Group Experience in the Transport Sector
35.       The Bank Group has supported the Government's maintenance and
rehabilitation/renewal objectives for the sector through ten credits
since independence, five in support of Highways Projects, and five
others in support of projects in railways, river transport and ports.



- 13 -
36.       Two Project Performance Audit Reports have been issued, one
for the First Highway Project (1976), and the second jointly for the
Second and Third Highway Projects and for the River Transport and First
Rail/River Projects (October 7, 1983). The main conclusions of the
latter report are the following:
(i) The projects under review were probably too ambitious.
Because of the difficult environment in which they were
implemented and of some deficiencies in project design and
supervision, only part of the projects' objectives were met;
(ii)  The projects aided in bringing about major institutional
development. New agencies were launched (OR, RVF and RVII)
and an existing one, ONATRA was substantially reorganized.
Large numbers of Zairian employees were trained. The Audit
concluded, however, that there remained serious problems
concerning the size, responsibilities and strategies of
ONATRA and OR;
(iii)  Technical assistance still plays a role in the management of
ONATRA and OR. The process of replacement by Zairian staff
must be pursued while ensuring the availability of adequate
technical resources for management;
(iv) The institutions responsible for policy making and control
should be strengthened in parallel with the main transport
agencies;
(v) Investment priLorities should be analyzed within the context
of the entire transport system, rather than in relation to
one major transport corridor such as the VN.
All these questions are being addressed either through ongoing projects
- for example by continuation of large training programs and
institutional development efforts in ONATRA, OR and SNCZ; a broad
review of the organizat:Lon of the road sector (Fifth Highways Project),
analysis of RVF and RVM operations and financial management (Ports
Project), and studies designed to help Government address key policy
issues such as the price of petroleum products (Fifth Highways Project)
and the development of the private sector (Ports Project) - or through
*            a sector dialogue that has been intensified in recent years.  Recent
projects (ONATRA Modernization and Ports Rehabilitation Projects) have
also focussed on key priorities of the sector as a whole and have not
been limited to the VN's requirements.  The proposed project pursues
this strategy; whenever possible, its design also incorporates the
suggestions made by the audit report.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
37.       IDA is the major source of external finance for Zaire's
transport sector. Given the size of the country, the needs of the



- 14 -
sector are very substantial. The sector is vital to economic activity
within Zaire, and is its lifeline with regard to the export of
minerals, which are Zaire's principal source of foreign exchange.  As
stated in paras. 31 and 32, progress has been made in strengthening two
of the main institutions in the sector, and the policy dialogue with
the Government is good. The railway company remains a weak link,
however, and being at the head of the intermodal transport chain on the
Voie Nationale, its weakness bears directly on the productive use of
investments made in ports and river transport and constrains the export
of minerals, which are then compelled to use more costly export routes                 4
through other countries. The rationale of IDA's involvement in the
sector is to ensure adequate maintenance and rehabilitation of
transport sector infrastructure as a means of fostering the growth of
economic activity, and is in line with the Government's policy in the
sector. This policy is fully supported by other external aid sources
as well, who look to the Association to maintain the policy dialogue
with the Government; to foster institution building and to take the
lead in financing arrangements. They have provided substantial
assistance and co-financing for the sector.
SNCZ
38.      SNCZ was established in 1974 as an autonomous government
agency to operate what had been five separate railway companies.  It
reports to the Ministry of Transport and Communications on operational
matters and to the Ministry of Portfolio on financial matters. Its
chief executive officer is a managing director (prgsident dgl6gu6
g6neral-PDG) appointed by the President of the Republic; the PDG also
serves as chairman of the board of directors.
39.       SNCZ is one of the largest organizations in Zaire with a
staff of about 22,500. While Zairians head most departments and a
majority of sub-departments, many key management and technical
positions are filled by expatriates. The number of expatriates fell
from 400 in 1974 to 140 in 1983, and another 60 are scheduled to leave
in the next three years. Because SNCZ has recruited and trained a
substantial number of Zairian engineers in recent years, it will be
able to replace most of the departing expatriates. However, there are
a number of higher management and specialized positions that are or
will soon be vacant and must be filled rapidly by qualified staff.
Therefore, as a condition of effectiveness, SNCZ will prepare a
staffing plan, acceptable to IDA, for higher level positions and has
agreed not to change it without the prior approval of IDA (Section 5.01
(e) of the draft Credit Agreement and 3.04 of the draft Project Agree-
ment). Appointment of five key personnel identified during negotia-
tions would be an additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit (Section 5.01 (d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
SNCZ has agreed not to make any modification in the management
structure of the company affecting the key positions without prior
consultation with IDA (Section 3.01 (d) of the draft Project:
Agreement).



- 15 -
40.        Serious management problems have, in recent years,
contributed to SNCZ's poor' performance. The main problems are the
following: (i) Overly centralized decision making and little delegation
of authority. Eleven departmetnts and five divisions report directly to
the PDG who is therefore constantly involved in routine matters and
unable to address criticaL issues.  In addition, information does not
flow between the different unil-s and there is little coordination.
(ii) Ineffective control systems. The management control and internal
audit departments function poorly; accounting is overly decentralized
and budgets are not used as management tools; the operational and
financial reporting systems are poor and delays are long.  (iii)
Personnel problems. Staff motivation and morale are low. There is a
lack of expertise at some levels, and a number of positions have been
vacant for too long. Finally, there is serious in-fighting between
different groups of management staff. External difficulties such as
the scarcity of foreign exchange for recurrent expenditures and
investments, have compounded the management problems.
41.        The Government agrees that fundamental changes in management
are required if SNCZ's transport capacity is to be restored. A newly
appointed PDG, who took office in January 1984, has prepared a
statement of objectives and strategy, listing the principal measures
necessary for reorganization. This statement was discussed at
negotiations and set out in a draft action plan acceptable to IDA.
Formal adoption of this action plan by SNCZ's board and approval by MTC
would be an additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit (Section 5.01 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement),
Deviations from the action plan would require the prior agreement of
IDA (Section 3.04 of the draft Credit Agreement and Section 3.04 of the
draft Project Agreement). SNCZ would continue to employ, in key
positions, individuals whose qualifications and experience are
satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.01 (c) of the draft Project Agreement:).
42.        A key factor of SNCZ's long-term recovery is an improvement
in the competence of its middle and senior level management. While
mainly on-the-job training has been offered at these levels, SNCZ has
begun to conduct management-level courses at headquarters, and prac-
tices extensive job rotation between the field and headquarters and
between functions.  Bilateral aid provides higher-level training out-
side Zaire, and an extensive training program has been implemented
under the First Railway Project. SNCZ has established a list of prior-
ity tasks for the next t:wo years and has begun to draft a comprehensive
training program for high level staff. The proposed project will help
finance this program.
Facilities
Track
43.        SNCZ is responsible for about 4700 km of main-line single
track railway in four operatilng regions. Some 851 km of track in l:he



- 16 -
southern mining region is electrified.  The gauge is 1,067 mm except
for the 1,022 km northern region (600 mm) and the 125 km Kisangani-
Ubundu line (1,000 mm). Rails are generally old and in poor condi-
tion. Steel sleepers, also in poor condition, are used on ithe entire
network except for 200 km with wooden sleepE!rs. Very little track
renewal has taken place in the recent past. Furthermore, ballasting
and maintenance have been carried out irregularly mainly because SNCZ
is critically short of equipment, tools, spare parts and material. As
a result, derailments are numerous and turnaround time is unsatisfac-
tory.
Signalling and Communications
44.       While the signalling system over much of the network is
workable and adequate for present traffic levels, it is old and
obsolete. Since much of the equipment is no longer manufactured, the
system will eventually have to be replaced. Communications between
train control offices and stations In the central and eastern regions
are by standard telephone connected by lines along the right of way,
causing many problems. Under the proposed project, modern radio
communications will be installed. Communications in the southern
region are by telephone connected by cable, a reliable but expensive
system. Between Likasi and Tenke where traffic is heavy, Belgium is
financing a centralized traffic control (CTC) system; this is the first
phase of a CTC system for the electrified sections, to be expanded as
traffic warrants.
Motive Power and Rolling Stock
45.       SNCZ has a fleet of 55 main-line electric and 64 main-line
diesel locomotives; it also has an additional 59 diesel shunting loco-
motives. Although most locomotives are relatively recent, their avail-
ability is low. The locomotive fleet requires a planned maintenance
program and sufficient spare parts to carry it out. This would be
provided under the proposed project. The railway operates a fleet of
4,834 wagons plus a number of privately-owned petroleum tank wagons.
Approximately 700 wagons are out of service because SNCZ lack the spare
parts and equipment to make repairs. More than 800 additional wagons
are over 50 years old and will lhave to be retired within the next five
years. As a result, availability is unacceptably low (65 percent). To
supply its needs, SNCZ has been using wagons belonging to South African
Railways (SAR). This use, however, contravenes agreements with SAR
concerning the number and geographical limits within which they can be
operated. In addition, it is a heavy foreign exchange expense. The
proposed project will help alleviate this problem by providing SNCZ
with tools, equipment and spare parts for wagon maintenance and
rehabilitation and by procuring 200 new wagons.



- 17 -
Ports
46.       SNCZ operates two major ports -- one at Kalemie on Lake
Tanganika and the other at Ilebo on the Kasai River. Kalemie port
links SNCZ to Dar es Salaam via the Tanzania railway system. Ilebo
port is a major transshipment point on the Voie Nationale for exports
passing through the seaport of Matadi and for agricultural products
destined for Kinshasa. Kalemie has a capacity of 500 tons a day; this
will be increased as a result of improvements proposed for financing by
the EEC. The port at Ilebo has a capacity of 2,000 tons a day for
non-containerized cargo. SNCZ is extending a portion of the quay to
increase the handling capacity of a new container crane. When the
container facilities are completed, Ilebo port should have enough
capacity for five years. A study is required, however, to determine
investment needs for the longer term. SNCZ undertook to complete such
a study, and discuss its conclusions with IDA, by September 30, 1985
(Schedule 2 (D) (2) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
47.       Although SNCZ has produced a short to medium-term emergency
rehabilitation program that provides a satisfactory presentation of its
immediate needs, its investment planning process has generally been
weak. Its current five-year plan dates back to 1980/81 and needs to be
updated (see para. 33).
Operations
48.       Efficiency indicators have, in general, steadily deteriorated
since 1976. Availability of both mainline and shunting diesel locomo-
tives have declined to very poor levels: from 56 and 64 percent in
1976 to 45 and 52 percent in 1982, respectively. Wagon availability
has declined drastically from 82% to 65%. The shortage of spare parts
and inadequate maintenance have resulted in frequent breakdowns which
impede effective operations. As the track structure in many sections
is worn beyond acceptable limits, derailments are also a continuing
problem. The poor communications system hampers train control:
advanced planning of movements and train priority cannot be carried out
in the Central and Eastern regions.
Traffic
49.       Traffic on the SNCZ network grew substantially in the early
1970s, but fell 30 percent between 1974 and 1978 after the closure of
the Lobito route and the loss of Zambian transit traffic; since then it
has generally stagnated. The three main reasons for this are: (i) the
overall poor economic situation of the country which has adversely
affected all sectors of the economy; (ii) the uneven pattern of mineral
production between 1975 and 1982.  The main producer of minerals,
Gecamines, accounts for about 70 percent of all SNCZ's freight traffic
(generating a substantial volume of imports and domestic traffic as
well as mineral traffic); and (iii) the serious drop in SNCZ's



- 18 -
capacity, due to the poor condition of SNCZ's facilities, locomotives
and rolling stock, which has driven customers to seek other means of
transport. The project includes a study of low density lines to help
determine their economic costs and benefits; alternatives to their use
and related matters. SNCZ should have this study completed by December
31, 1985, and shall then discuss it with the Association and implement
the agreed recommendations (Schedule 2, (D) (6) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.08 of the draft Project
Agreement).
j
Part IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The proposed project was appraised in June 1983 by a joint
mission of IDA and African Development Bank (AfDB) staff assisted by
consultants. Negotiations were held in Washington from February 27 to
March 2, 1984. The Zairian delegation was led by the State Commis-
sioner for Transport and Communications, Mr. Muamba Nduba. A report
entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Republic of Zaire, Second (SNCZ)
Railway Project," No. 4779-ZR dated April 12, 1984, is being
distributed separately. A supplementary data sheet is attached as
Annex III.
Objectives
51.       As designed, the project is a follow-up to the First Railway
Project (financed in part by IDA Credit 902-ZR), which aimed at
restoring SNCZ to an acceptable level of operating efficiency. The
First Project failed to meet its objectives because of: (a) serious
management deficiencies as described in para. 40; (b) suspension of
disbursements by two of the major co-financiers for non-project related
reasons; and (c) an acute shortage of foreign exchange required for
purchase of spare parts for maintenance and for expatriate salaries.
52.       The proposed project is based on SNCZ's emergency
rehabilitation program (para. 47) and is conceived as a short-term
(two and a half years) interim operation whose main objective is to
restore SNCZ to an acceptable level of operational efficiency and to
assist its recovery by (i) strengthening SNCZ's management and
organization through technical assistance, continuation of training
programs and studies; (ii) pursuing the track renewal program begun
under the ongoing project; (iii) rehabilitating part of the locomotive
and wagon fleet and ensuring normal maintenance of the entire fleet;
and (iv) replacing 200 overaged wagons. The project is consistent with
the Government's overall aim of ensuring that transport deficiencies do
not hamper economic recovery. A major effort in achieving this aim is
to improve utilization of the Voie Nationale of which SNCZ is an
essential link. This objective has been supported by the Bank Group
and the external assistance community.



- 19 -
Project Description
Track Renewal and Maintenance
53.       Nearly the entire track between Ilebo and Lubumbashi is badly
worn and will have to be replaced. Under the proposed project, about
128 km of this track will be renewed. These are the sections of
highest priority, i.e. with sharp curves which pose the greatest danger
of derailments. While a sufficient quantity of sleepers is being
supplied under the First Railway Project, the proposed project will
provide the necessary rail and fittings.  To increase SNCZ's capacity
to maintain track the project will also provide: spare parts and
supplies for quarry equipment; hand tools; material; spare parts for
mechanized maintenance; tools and equipment; and vehicles and tractor
cranes to transport crews and equipment to work sites.
Wagon Fleet Capacity Increase
54.       Wagon availability is low because of the lack of timely
maintenance and because many wagons are old and at or approaching the
end of their service life. The proposed project includes the necessary
material for the rehabilitation of about 850 wagons; spare parts and
materials for the maintenance and unscheduled repairs of the entire
wagon fleet for two years; and tools and equipment for SNCZ workshops
carrying out wagon rehabilitation. In addition, the project will
assist in procuring 200 new wagons to replace part of those removed
from service.
Locomotive Rehabilitation and Maintenance
55.       The reliability of locomotives is extremely low and line
failures are frequent (para. 45). Because of the lack of foreign
exchange, spare parts are not available for regular parts replacement
or for repairs. The proposed project would provide spare parts to
return locomotives to service that are now idle and those spare parts
necessary for normal maintenance on most of the locomotive fleet for
two years and for major overhaul of 36 main line electric, 30 main line
diesel locomotives and 20 shunting locomotives.
Consulting Services to SNCZ
56.       SNCZ is preparing a staffing plan for higher level positions
to help coordinate technical assistance in the near and medium term.
Based on present estimates of SNCZ's technical assistance needs, the
proposed project would provide 70 man-years of technical assistance to
cover the railway's requirements until 1987 and ensure a smooth transi-
tion for the following years' programs. In addition, the project would
provide 55 man-months of consulting services to carry out studies to
assist SNCZ in improving operations and management (including financial
management), defining better its investment needs and analyzing low



- 20 -
density railway lines. Cost estimates for technical assistance and
consulting services are based on data, provided by SNCZ, which has been
reviewed and found acceptable. They average US$8,750 and US$12,000 per
man/month, for technical assistance and consulting services,
respectively, and include salary, social costs, overhead, travel,
subsistence and, where applicable, company profit.
Training
57.       The proposed project would include some tools, machinery and
equipment for SNCZ's training centers. It also includes training
outside Zaire of about 95 railway employees for periods of about six
months.
Medical Equipment and Supplies, Computer Maintenance,
Telecommunications Equipment
58.       Limited funds are included in the proposed project for three
essential items: (i) SNCZ provides its staff with medical services and
the project would provide supplies and equipment which are otherwise
unavailable; (ii) as the present maintenance contract with the original
computer equipment supplier runs out in mid-1985, the project would
finance a new maintenance contract through the end of 1986; (iii) poor
communications hamper railway operations; the project would provide
financing for a radio system on the busy Kamina-Ilebo section together
with electricity generating and distribution equipment.
Consulting Services To Government
59.       At negotiations, The Government requested assistance in
undertaking a study of the air transport sub-sector, with a view to
adopting rational policies for its orderly development and to propose a
medium-term investment program. In addition, consulting assistance
will be provided to the economic studies and planning unit of MTC to
help it carry out and monitor a work program (10 and 5 man-months,
respectively).
Project Cost
60.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$73.30
million equivalent net of taxes and duties with a foreign exchange
component of US$62.6 million or 85 percent. Cost estimates are based
on the latest price estimates updated to January 1984 prices. Price
contingencies, based on Bank Group inflation estimates, are 7.5 percent
for 1984 and 7 percent for 1985 and beyond; the same percentage rate
has been used for both local and foreign costs under the assumption
that the progressive devaluation of the zaire would compensate for
increases in local costs. During negotiations the Government confirmed
its intention of exempting the project from taxes and duties.



- 21 -
Financing Plan
61.       The US$62.6 million foreign exchange cost of the project
would be financed by external donors and the US$10.7 million local cost
by SNCZ. US$10.4 million foreign exchange is to be provided by
reallocation of the remaining balances under the existing AfDB, IDA and
KfW loans/credits: these are amounts that have remained undisbursed.
under the First Project as a result of its interruption.  The remaining
foreign costs would be financed by the proposed IDA credit of US$26.0
million equivalent accounting for 36 percent of total project cost, and
by the following agencies which are considering co-financing the
project in the amounts shown: AfDB, US$14.1 million equivalent; CCCE,
US$ 6.25 million equival(ent; and Belgian Aid, US$5.85 million
equivalent. The signing of co-financing agreements by Zaire and the!
agencies concerned is a condition of effectiveness (Section 5.01 (c) of
the draft Deve2opment Credit Agreement).
Implementation
62.       SNCZ would be responisible for implementing the project,
except for the study on air transport and the technical assistance t:o
MTC, which would be carried out by the Government. The track
improvement works would be carried out by SNCZ's Track and Civil Works
Department. The rehabilitation and maintenance of wagons and locomo-
tives would be carried out in SNCZ's central workshop in Lubumbashi and
its electric locomotive workshop in Likasi. Technical assistance
experts would help to strengthen SNCZ's management and assist in the
execution of the whole program.
63.       Relaying of track would begin in 1985 and be completed by
mid-1986. Rehabilitation of wagons and locomotives would start by
mid-1984 and take 30 and 24 months, respectively. Procurement would
start early since some project items will be financed under a realloca-
tion of existing loans/credits. SNCZ has begun preparing lists and
specifications for spare parts, supplies and materials and, whenever
possible, has begun procedures to place orders or to propose liste of
equipment and supplies for prior review by IDA.
64.       In order to monitor improvements in SNCZ's performance,
operational targets have been agreed with the Railway at negotiations.
These include targets for locomotive and wagon availability,
productivity per available locomotive, turnaround time, average wagons
load and staff productivity. SNCZ agreed to (i) take necessary steps
to achieve these targets and (ii) evaluate its progress in accordance
with a statistical system satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.05
and schedule 2 of the draft Project Agreement).



- 22 -
Procurement
65.        Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below:
Table 1. Procurement Arrangements (US$ Million)
Procurement method           Total
Project Element                        ICB       Other      LCB
3/
Spare parts, tools, sup-
plies and materials for:
Track                                              9.75               9.75
(0.75)            (0.75)
Wagons                                   3.50       5.80              9.30
(3.50)     (1.50)            (5.00)
Locomotives                                         6.50              6.50
(4.75)            (4.75)
Equipment:
Motorcars and tractor-cranes            5.10                          5.10
(5.10)                       (5.10)
New wagons                                        10.20              10.20
Other 1/                                2.55                          2.55
(2.55)                       (2.55)
Services 2/                                           8.80              8.80
(8.60)            (8.60)
TOTAL                          11.15     41.05              52.20
(11.15)   (14.85)            (26.00)
1/ Includes equipment for training centers.
2/ Includes computer maintenance contract.
3/  This includes procurement under the regulations of the co-finan-
cing agencies. For the proposed Credit, it refers to: technical
assistance and consulting services; small contracts under limited
ICB; computer maintenance and procurement through negotiated
contracts with suppliers of original equipment.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts proposed for financing
by the IDA Credit.



- 23 -
Equipment, spare parts, material and supplies financed by the Associa-
tion will be grouped whenever lpossible into contracts valued at
US$50,000 or more and will be procured through international competi-
tive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guidelines except for
the following: (a) proprietary spare parts for existing machinery or
equipment which may be procured through negotiations with original
suppliers of such parts, and (b) small orders costing less than US$
50,000 each and totalling not nore than US$ 500,000 which may be
procured on the basis of limited international bidding. Where ICB
procedures are used, domestic manufacturers will be accorded a
preference of 15 percent, or the existing applicable rate of import
duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price of competing foreign
suppliers. Equipment, spare parts, material and supplies to be
financed by AfDB, Belgian Aid and CCCE would be procured in accordance
with their respective guidelines. Technical assistance experts
financed under the proposed Credit would be recruited either individu-
ally or through specialized agencies. Terms and conditions of their
contracts shall be satisfactory to the Association. Consulting firms
or individual consultants for the studies and short-term missions will
be engaged in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants" published by the World Bank in August 1981. Overseas
training of SNCZ staff will be provided by specialized institutions in
accordance with a program and under terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association. Computer maintenance will be procured through
limited international bidding from a shortlist of qualified firms.
Contracts below US$50,000 for small orders of spare parts, material and
supplies will be subject to selective post-award review. All other
IDA-financed contracts (98% of total contract value) will be subject to
prior review.
Disbursements
66.       The proceeds of the credit will be disbursed as follows: (i)
for equipment, spare parts, materials and supplies, 100 percent of
foreign expenditures; 80 percent of local expenditures for ex-factory
cost and 75 percent of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; (ii) 100 percenit of foreign expenditures or 80 percent of
local expenditures for consulting services; (iii) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for training; and (iv) 100 percent of foreign
*             expenditures for computer mainitenance.  All disbursements will be fully
documented.
Relending Terms
67.       Except for the equivalent of SDR 150,000, the Government of
Zaire would onlend the proceeds of the proposed Credit to SNCZ for a
period of 15 years, including a grace period of 4 years, at an interest
rate of 15 percent per annum, under a subsidiary agreement satisfactory
to the Association. The recoimmended interest rate is substantially in
line with that charged by Zaire' Development Bank for foreign exchange
loans. Signing of the subsidiary agreement would be a condition of



- 24 -
effectiveness of the proposed credit (Section 5.01 (a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The rate of inflation in Zaire is
expected to be higher than 15 percent but because Zaire intends to
adjust Its exchange rate automatically, (as provided in its new foreign
exchange regime), and as SNCZ would bear the foreign exchange risk,
the interest rate is positive.
Financial Performance
68.        Although traffic stagnated between 1978 and 1982, SNCZ's
revenues have generally increased faster than its working expenses. In
fact, operating performance improved every year except 1981, when
revenues were only sufficient to cover working expenses. This was the
combined result of rapidly esca'lating operating costs, particularly
fuel, and of a delay in adjusting tariff lev,sls. In 1982, however,
despite an 8 percent decrease in freight traffic from 1981 and a 34
percent decrease in passenger traffic, revenues increased by 56
percent, while working expenses grew only 32 percent, because of
aggressive tariff adjustments. As a result, working expenses in 1982
were an acceptable 91 percent of revenues.
69.        Because of the moderate improvements in operating performance
discussed above and its ability to generate revenues sufficient to meet
or exceed cash expenditures, SNCZ's financial condition is
satisfactory. Its liquidity has improved from 1978 to 1982 and is
adequate. The capital structure is also adecluate, as long-term debt
stood at less than 10 percent of total capitalization if a revaluation
of asets is considered although this has not been done formally since
1976. SNCZ agreed to revalue its fixed assets annually on a
replacement cost basis, beginning in 1984 (Section 4.01 (b) of the
draft Project Agreement). SNCZ's financial condition is, however,
subject to very rapid deterioration because Zaire's high inf:Lation puts
constant pressure on tariffs.
70.        The management of SNCZ's finances has, in general, been
unsatisfactory. There are several major weaknesses that prevent the
financial management system from operating satisfactorily. l'hey are:
(i) poor accounting procedures; (ii) poor operating and capital
budgeting policies; (iii) a nearly total lack of internal audit
functions; (iv) unreliable output of the data processing system; and
(v) a poorly motivated staff and lack of technical competence at
executive levels. The new PDG's action plan (see para. 41) addresses
these issues in detail with a timetable for implementation of'
measures. SNCZ agreed to reorganize its internal audit department no
later than December 31, 1984 (Schedule 2, D (4) of the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
71.        SNCZ's tariff system is complex and obsolete.  Until
recently, it showed structural deficiencies, such as the subsidy of
mineral exports. Except for the transport of mineral ore between



- 25 -
processing facilities, railway tariffs are not clearly related to
costs. Despite external assistance for this purpose, SNCZ has been
unable to establish an aLdequate traffic costing system. At negotia-
tions, SNCZ agreed to set up a proper traffic cost accounting system
not later than December 31, 1984 (Schedule 2, D (5) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
72.       The government of Zaire has recently set up an Interminis-
terial Tariff Committee to rule on tariff requests for the transport of
minerals for export. The Committee, the members of which are
ministers, considers technical submissions presented by Gecamines, the
principal mining company, SNCZ and ONATRA, the river and ports
transport agency, and decides on the structure of tariffs and on
adjustments that may be needed. Tariffs for non-mineral products, on
the other hand, are approved by the Government following requests by
SNCZ, Approvals have sometimes been delayed for long periods. The
Government agreed to act within 30 days on any request for a tariff
increase by SNCZ, failing which the request will be deemed approved
(Section 3.02 (b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
73.       The most recent increases in SNCZ's tariffs, in late 1983,
were 116 percent for general cargo; 50 percent for agricultural produce
and passengers; about 525 percent for mineral exports and 280 percent
for mineral ore. While tariffs had been increased at least annually in
the past, the most recent increases practically eliminate previous
distortions in the tariff structure which had required both SNCZ and
particularly ONATRA to compensate for losses on mineral export traffic
by higher tariffs for general cargo and agricultural produce. The
recent increases and an additional increase of about 40 percent (for
passengers, agricultural produce and general cargo) that the Government
plans to approve in the second quarter of 1984 should allow SNCZ to
achieve an operating ratio of 100 percent in 1984. At negotiations,
SNCZ agreed that (a) it would maintain tariffs at levels that would
enable it (i) to achieve an operating ratio of 100 percent from 1984
through 1986 and (ii) to earn a 3 percent return on net fixed assets in
operation, and (b) it would not carry traffic for which the tariff is
insufficient to cover long-term variable costs (Section 4.04 of the
draft Project Agreement). The 3 percent rate of return covenant had
been included under the First Project. In addition, SNCZ agreed not to
incur additional debt if debt service coverage were to fall below 1.5
(Section 4.05 of the draft Project Agreement).  The capital structure
of SNCZ and its liquidity are expected to be satisfactory through the
project period; internally generated funds will cover the local cost
component of its Investment plan, its working expenses and its debt
service.
Foreign Exchange Allocation
74.       Lack of foreign exchange has severely hampered SNCZ's
operating efficiency in the past few years. SNCZ needed about US$1.3



- 26 -
million per month to purchase spare parts for maintenance and repairs,
to pay rentals on foreign wagons, and to meet expatriates' payrolls.
In 1982 and 1983, Central Bank allocations of foreign exchange to SNCZ
were largely insufficient to cover this amount. A liberalization of
the foreign exchange regime is included in the economic measures
recently taken by Zaire. Under the new regimre, SNCZ should be able to
purchase the foreign exchange it needs on the open market. However, to
ensure that SNCZ has adequate foreign exchange resources, the
Government shall cause to be obtained by SNCZ foreign exchange
sufficient to cover the company's recurrent expenditures in amounts of
not less than the equivalent of US$1.0 millicn per month in constant
1983 terms. To that end, an exchange of views will be held by October
1 of each year on the foreign exchange needs of the company ifor the
following year and on the arrangements proposed to ensure the
availability of the amount required (Section 3.01 (d) and 3.03 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
75.       The project will significantly improve the transport capacity
and efficiency of SNCZ and will benefit the processing and excport of
minerals; the movement of agricultural produce to markets (with a
higher price for producers) and the return flow of agricultural
inputs and consumer goods to rural areas.   In addition, the project
will have a direct impact on urban areas in the Shaba and the Eastern
and Western Kasai provinces by facilitating the transport of goods
(such as fuel and construction materials) that have no alternative
means of transport.  The internal financial rate of return of the
project is 19 percent, and the economic rate of return (ERR) 37
percent; these rates are different because the avoided alternative
modes of transport (mostly truck transport or' a shift of imports and
exports to the Southern Route) are more costly than the loss of revenue
to SNCZ if the project is not undertaken. The main risks are that the
project could take longer than expected to implement and that: traffic
may not increase as expected. Nevertheless, these risks are acceptable
because the project will help implement a major reorganization and
improvement in SNCZ's management making it likely that targets will be
met. If the project took 42 months, instead of 30 months to
completion, the ERR would be 31 percent. Moreover, even if tWraffic
remained at the 1977-81 level, the ERR would still be 27 percent.
Other risks that could affect the success of the project are (i) delays
in management improvements; (ii) insufficient or delayed tariLff
increases, and (iii) inadequate availability of foreign exchange for
SNCZ's recurrent costs.  The design of the project takes these factors
into account.
Part V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
76.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic
of Zaire and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the



- 27 -
Association and Sociftg Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zairois, and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1
(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
77.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III
of Annex III. Special conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that
(i) the Republic of Zaire shall have made the proceeds of the Credit
available to SNCZ under Subsidiary Agreement satisfactory to the
Association (para. 67); (ii) the co-financing agreements with the
Kingdom of Belgium, the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(France) and the African Development Bank shall have been signed
(para. 61); (iii) a staffing plan for higher level personnel,
satisfactory to the Association, shall have been completed and key
personnel appointed (para. 39), and (iv) the management reorganization
plan shall have been adopted and approved (para. 41).
78.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
Part VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
79.       I recommend that the Excutive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
April 23, 1984



- 28 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                          Page  1  of  5
ZAIRE                       SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                                   tEFLRENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVlERAGES) /a
H1OST                       (HOST RECENT ESTIMATh) lb
RECENT   b           LOW ICOME                MIDDLE INCOME
1960-b      1970-b           lb ESTIHAT  .iHCA S. OF SAHiARA    AFRICA S. OF SAdARA
AREA (TWUSA*ID SQ. KM)
TOTAL                                2345.4       2345.4       2345.4
AGRICULTURAL                           147.7       151.2        155.4
GNPFm  CAPITA (U5$)                        80.U       130.0        210.0                254.6                      1147.9
1ERGY CO3UlOUM FRI CAPITk
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         82.0        117.0        107.0                 79.8                      724.2
POPULATION AMD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MIL-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   17756.0        21638.0      29777.0
URBAN POPULATION (: OF TOTAL)          15.7         21.6         35.8                 19.5                        28.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                 54.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                  169.1
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                 2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KN.                           7.6          9.2         12.3                29.5                         56.5
PER SQ. KH. AGRI. LAND              120.2        143.1        186.0                94.1                       131.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (4)
0-14 YRS                            44.1         44.3         44.8                45.0                        45.9
15-64 YRS                            52.9         52.9         52.5                52.1                        51.2
65 ANU ABOVE                          3.0          2.8          2.8                 2.9                         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                 2.2          2.0          2.9                 2.8                          2.8
URBAN                                  ..          5.2          7.5                 6.2                         5.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TllDUS)          48.0         47.8         46.3                 47.9                        47.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           24.3         20.8         16.3                 19.2                        15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.0         3.0           3.1                 3.2                         3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..           ..           ..
FWOD AND MLFRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                         101.0        101.0         87.0                87.8                        95.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREMENTS)         98.0        101.0         94.0                88.0                        97.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             36.0         37.0         33.0                51.2                        56.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           13.0         13.0         10.0/c              18.1                         17.2-
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            32.7         27.5         21.4                 25.7                        23.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          40.0         43.9         49.8                 47.4                        51.9
INFANT M4ORT. RATE (PER TIOUS)        150.0        132.0        110.1                126.5                       117.6
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                   ..        11.0         16.0/d               24.7                        25.4
URBAN                                   .         33.0         43.071[              56.8                        70.5
RURAL                                   ..         4.0          5.0 d               18.3                        12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    '         5.0         22.0/e              28.1
URBAN                                   ..         5.0         65.07U               65.7
RURAL                                   ..         5.0          6.07-              21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            79620.0      30140.0      14780.0             27420.6                     12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON              3510.0       2290.0       1920.0               3456.2                     2292.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               230.0        320.0        350.0/f            1183.2                      1075.4
URBAN                                60.0        100.0        15io.7r             380.6                        402.3
RURAL                               770.0       1070.0       2670.071            3177.5                      3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..          ..
W5111C
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..          6.1
RURAL                                   ..          ..          6.0
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..          ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..          ..



- 29 -
ANqNEX I
TA BL E  3A                                         Paige  2  of  5
ZAIRE                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ZAIRE                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGE'1i)Fa
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b          lb  RECENT               LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960/-      1970/   ESTIMATE/b       AFRICA S. OF SAHLARA     AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED N6ROLLME!'T RATIOS
PRLIARY:   TOTAL                    60.0         88.0        90.0/f              63.9                        97.2
MALE                     88.0       110.0        104.07?              73.6                      103.1
FErALE                  312.0        66.0         75.07f              51.6                       88.'i
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     3.0          9.0        23.0/f              12.5                        17.2
MALE                      4.0        13.0         33.07               16.7                       23.5
FEMALE                    1.0         4.0         13.0/f               8.1                       14.2
VOCATIONAL (X OF SECONDARY)           26.5          9.6         10.0/c               7.3                        5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             40.0         43.0        30.0                46.4                        42.5
SECONDARY                           20.0         20.0        21.0                25.1                        23.)
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)               31.3/g       13.0         54.5                36.5                       37.1
CONSUKIPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP            2.5          3.0          3.6/h               3.3                       18.E
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             ..         2.9          5.2               45.3                        97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP               ..          0.3          0.3                 2.2                       18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION               1.2          9.2          1.6                 4.7                       18.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA        0.1          0.1          0.1/h               1.0                        0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)           8216.0       9465.0      12177.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    46.4         44.5        42.5                34.5                        36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               83.0         79.0         75.0                76.9                       56.E
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   9.0         11.0        13.0                 9.8                        17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               46.3         43.7        40.9                40.9                        37.C
MALE                                51.9         49.8        47.9                53.0                        47.1
FEMALE                              41.2         38.0        34.2                28.9                        27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.0          1.1          1.2                1.2                         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..           ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..           ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..              165.9                       534.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..         80.0/e             87.4                       255.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (UfS$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         76.0/e            100.8                       491.5
RURAL                                 ..           ..         4  77.             64.6                       188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                  ..          ..           ..               39.5
RURAL                                  ..          ..        80.0/e              69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960D  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 1978; /g 1962; /h 1974.
May 1983



-30-ANNE I
Page 3 of 5
I   V_"d    _V.          ~~~~~l I"'---   id                -yttltflotS  OPf .O.4.  oselChayoefe"
desrIe   ttrscftete te    thltretrte.an  cactttir  e -eh   colo  idlfeeid ee beaeetc .Itotriee_
net)coctory  Oocey  ft   tot Otio' 00  Ooorrye   eru  ecer  fiffe Tch-        _fere  AIca so  ted.  et'C fhes  brao  opd-l           iroea -rarcut.         s
ettriieeŽ    I  ti  rtrrerugruy Ototheatwaee  er ppultie  otghe.Oeretoeicscae   ur  tchirttaor  be  heto delyofe  sjertby       f te   wdaeat  i
atg  t70ueh  ethe                                                                                  yg4tj)fL&             -,ClI  P.... i.dfilded db taby   of~ peete
ttso190dart..                                                                             OOatiegettceepet      eotaeedrddb  wodobep a                                 .r....i
'arcteotC     teootere  grctlttalgri  red  eotoarortto  ereootl  eie  hefealeardaaeerAe,   teteee  ome,  tttetra   datWa.
for ryrp, lewoctet, eageoi ac  OCeubr  eurden  ro to  ie taile.; Iee,  ttt.eeoe aOtlittine
1960.  911, .ed 191a  fet.                                                                            Ly       _ ss   oepyefe daetttsaa   P-odiog roastaPslfy t.aede
-     .±  o  err to-1og.d.eeiietta  he--s, CarCod  maClt  .A
tree-ywery  olarIltt, peria.. ttre   t  end Ory-  rcetaaleo.ort   ddtte  et.I  th oft-o  eope                                                                   -o"ntd tsot ad
god  arc         1-,,eictitiryl Co kClgai        trleooeerprrpl;pawdeget   eg   f tedlct1 f..iettiwe.  Fee naedOta    r-
1960. 1900, Co   0      to                                                                             re    ovei   onueOinpfee.                  aorihe-yttei, Lcd  -tte
iCfoeo   efetit     'lb,tie,res  a  aleu  con-bstutCy ,t deer                           OtofNOt
sto  uttree   Ab.176   r  lAte O_eic.deatOe   ffeattl  gre.rthaactl-eetaboadta
yteoleteoo youltctlroa                                                      -~~~~~~ 0 teteet2edtter  rt a artp di tntodi'la        bp   el.qct
tecal iteoutotlot by oge seC toe ocd theIr worcalt ...s .. eeIlCi                  ehe. hoeibd  o  esineelprpa
tctetaorytaaee,  Ct  oytlir  ace  cspracuthre                            ierat CaePwt srtt    C   er- lCa. -le.tadrarC   eas.  esb.
cpi'. Loocec  iwoel. arC  Canto  1Ilt eaeeac   aehleots   15dot  ee-reae-tl hel dA w .  de  a-rsoea-                                                             stotere 
yer  h.00  pa2 ae-e- e feriiy  aeasoie   hre    eestotp    perre.
estOc    cCoet  trt COO,I1     tcr togr  tIrca  loos  tof p-A  f.teCy                     ttat   CorttyIecw   1fwCte      ss.oae   o   ae
atoeeh   itel  iteIs    -2o  .e h..r..ra,so  ale  he     ltctIt
_hlo   t  h  relteaccol.aro              llfo ot   w   ordceorr,se Iieap  sreo   - eetat n                                           Vean =ecl   1-1ta  ere-date4. gs  teele
Cs  c-tf tie           IIostro   Ccci Yder W00, sn   t   two   elc    frseboo afl-ee  tot ditterg-   let                                       f rrtco    d-stia; lt-
eree  araa  190  1070,o  1090  ed,                                                                 rorlo  toelI  or 71  Ir 17 Yeer. of ee   wr.adwa ors   0
Per ow. Os.             'ztualy l lad - Ceol_te  at aico  fr aatol_a Ct                               ct lly  _wtlo.fsf
oOCy; 1810. 1901 -e  1960 fre                                                                   eeiru.atole_    preti  ss-odgry                     V.i-IOeCea   1iwtftt,st
paalwre  16, 1800, -of 1961  sat.,                                                         yoO-ectraCe-dlnr ntecoe                             T., Lc -taeew    -Icell  La
p-rtoeIoe Orr-e Odos Ireltro)   11- tro-            t grrwwC rates o  t-ie  did-                      peerya             d wohay Isr-la diodd" b, sob.ne  tf t ... W.     te be  e
peer pe-it-  for 1050-60. t 100-1, and 17.-1.                                                        -w-lete  bowl..
Poaahrl.ttttlteeo  -u _ao-oooCgo-h  --ew   ofuebac                                            be.tltr         Foaermtlde.....eafla.   . l wte.  d .Ade-t..)a
pepCaCoe  lee 1950-60, 19i0-70, and tOlft.wrectSgot fwlldltppltttat  15 pse  egeat
et  utltiCo  1860  It). sd Cil fta.OtetottfIo
r.rogow    66.10.adt i 000                                                                   cat e-rt-    I..  oaMeIht  er                   -Ya eeradg  sbolen, set   o
(too  Oerreitctit aat-dreateoooer .o..eo     Ireoeocts   tolld hea-O aICar  rehile
he   coa   arattrrpri  t  h  eprrae    eserg-oeftt                                      nC  erter   l7fgy9~9pgwlg     alea-    tetentta   ei
of   adb-ooeo   Owoce  ofr_    tLprso   wtrs   slypatgotetshtse                                                         ieet
alt- Mattotsr   c  O    t                                trf                                           itowt,e -irlsr   er htaepe,Ctvf-fhattefota
1044 ofrendyrotttoc e, lpte  I lC9- 1-101  . IdertP yt cytt L-ilctic   tote   predar ty ft-rerrIoa  -i-oa  tes.t  fcoatdU arn
coffe te  teeire  uc Iefi..d. oAtgir yrodcId.ttttof eeOCcoocoryte erlee toe,,
bftsf orruweouliatte- rheter pric4e                                                             _Vi..rel1 11961-119716... erf11901
dtew.                                                                          luttOt P01CC~~~~1,  l   1-1      .b,f.,   L     -I,ft - ,  .Lf  
csaro   hersoa0neoc.we  uplssOcld  ee tot.  ns,fV -pt eeee,                                         ta araile;  tOd,  60   be181da
qaaeteio nd O  tod paOrnCo   tt lsse  Orfit.tCulw ddge       rn   --I..albo   rena   .nraea  at-I    sea   aarles
aottstr  nd  eelo  c   -elfe f -  hotyt.rcalteepetoh, bed Letba                                 fclgipterg   of etee -er.,o:                        16,   O   odt       aa
at4-  eeel  loCllfi-I.191en  180dat.se  letrotp,sar  dd ,a 197ftt  0  Cee  tbe  srslitg
ta   api      e   oe   erfy   ta   rplthroeC   eftoet at a. -LCOCrfie  eoS±ecoltd-   tathaI,  ..hs abe teela  - Areftie.aass
teqtreerato  eI  otteoaeaottoachr00C  ruef  Per-I     =0000.                           srtiyeeeecetCea   osO   e,eeAai   ta   we
slonto    0  0  renIttoalootCope   elso  0  eae  1  050  dt           ecelfee    1          prC d,-al   dtdh   pepiaeties 01al eI=         rop0 tfec
fetadrt   iat~ eb dCo Ct      o areas  per70ayId611-0. 1870  od 191
taia                                                                                            080E  ftlSTlOl- Yn  05:l;                         W            -      
mid ses101get lh  lertooaf)-totlg  toispe   hoanfCcFrcnes                             I Pt,tco-    e led a   at   odiad  L.eate  b   tibet
-bf .- I.f-t-t  i- eQ                                                                                   f 1*01)  dj        _        .  00_-01~d                 -
f,                        :t~~~~-dVIhatceptu    sro   ILO rL.oOr                         fttlitd    wsrreppraassoearnafp,otIses   a
er htrtl  19Sf,  910 ewO  990 Ocr                                                         sheod  we oae-eet  wofMrItMsai  ontolda.                                 -0
ItfnttttosOithee ....t..a.    f  -bl   e=or=el  fetpi-oyOcfh tt  tode  ro                     stnddRslt Pr-rloea    ae  05   e   watl-tbt e   o
ytctteye   heaOdIetbrta fOO, 1600 an   p-tI  t.-t  Vtoetpsei   eot    nlCate   wagI dise    so      tld
tieeofey  Otelereeofo lLle    tcl  pi .oitit-                                                         tetewly  fqeeittpl   nsota    weho.Wgaaeet   a
uetfrthe   aerec  ta die, fr            yrCete  lorith  e,ayi,   EteOrleaiwpcryCc                                              C- le.e05-hr  at aota LW            t copies
Crrae Cne  ay  e rreierh    so   - -b        .-ttg  00000creeal    -res  oPte             tte Pit         &hftSet .btltepled    to.ite.  leel ft           esal-  f
heas.Ioyrs  eratrstOehlesteetno4 tpe  thr  he  etesie   r      he  epl -Peeat o  poslwer  lria   af tta> tn  rt   p0lt



- 31 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ZAIRE EOXNMIC INDICATORS
NATKAL ACWNIrS
ambint          Siare of GDP at
(million US$ at:    Market Prices (7.)          Anmual Grxth Rates (%)
current: prices     (at current prices)        (at constant 1970 prices)
1981                 1981               1979        1980       1981
Gross Domestic Product I/       5383.9                 100.0                0.3        2.5         2.4
(GDP Commerrcialized)          (4222.3)                (78.4)              (0.2)      (2.4)       (2.4)
Agriculture                   17Z2.2                  32.0                3.1        2.8         2.7
Industry                      1269.5                  23.6               -6.1        4.4         4.8
Services                      2183.7                  38.7                4.6        0.1        0.4
Cxsinption                      4312.0 2/               80.0                4.3       -0.2         6.1
Gross Investment                1410.3                  26.2               56.8       81.8       -35.2
Exports of GUFS                 1575.4                  29.3              -21.0       23.8       -44.6
Imports of GNFS                 1913.8                  35.5               21.8       95.8       -46.0
Gross National Savings           985.8                  18.3               62.8      -19.6       128.7
PUBLIC FINANCE (Central Government)
(uillion Z)                               % of GDP
A c t u a 1                           (at nmrket prices)
1980         1981          19T82        1980        1981       1932 P
Current revenuies               3738.6        4858.8       6259.1          21.7       20.6        19.5
Carreent expenditures           3948.5        5832.1       8448.1          22.9       24.7        26.3
Oumrent deficit                 -209.9       -973.3       -2189.0         -1.2        -4.1       -6.8
Capital expenditares             246.4         744.9       1084.9           1.4        3.2         3.4
Overall deficit                 -456.3      -1718.2       -3273.9          -2.6       -7.3       -10.2
1LtNEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1980       1981       19132
(million Z outstanding end period)
Mtx)ny and Quasi Money                                                   3367.3     4644.9      8015.9
Banik Credit to Public Sector                                            2329.4     3783.6      7057.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector                                            1014.3     1342.4      1971.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Mmbey and Quasi Money (as X of GDP - market prices)                        19.6       19.7        25.0
Consumar Price Index (1975 = 100)                                        1339.0     1813.1      2487.9
Anmaa1 percentage changes in:                                            46.7       35.4        37.2
Consumer Price Index                                                       13.0       62.4        86.5
Bank Credit to Pablic Sector                                               37.1       32.3        46.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector
NOTE:  All conversions to dbllars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
I/ Zairina national accounts have numeroxs shortcomings and shaxld he
interpreted with caution.
2/ At market prices; comrponents are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to the
emlusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
3/ Estimate.
4/ Based on national accounts data. Balance of payments estimates given in
page 2 are more reliable.



- 32 -
ANEX I
Page 5 of 5
ZAIRE - EC(tfMIC INDICA.T1RS
BALANCE OF PAY?EIS (Mill US$)         1979        1980       1981        1982
Exports of goods and services        1926.3      2185.2     1632.0      1537.9
of which: Merchandise F.O.B.      (1834.6)   (2038.1)   (1499.9)   (1454.0)
Imports of goods and services        2056.9      2523.6     23C0t.6     2085.5
of which: Merchandise F.O.B.      (1213.2)   (1472.0)   (1290.0)   (1128.3)
Private transfers (net)               -63.3       -79.4       -3.5      -15.5
Current Account Balance              -193.9     -417.8      -672.1      -563.1
Official grants (net)                 226.1       266.8      247.6       187.7
Public capital (net)                 -115.0       -22.1     -168.6      -156.8
Private capital (net) and errors and
odissions                          -173.1       -82.0     -147.4      -128.1
SIR Allocation                         20.7        20.8       18.9        -
Other Financing                       267.5       282.4      6C8.4       624.8
CIsge in net international reserves
(- = increase)                      -32.3      -48.1       113.2        35.5
EXCUANM  RATES:                      (ZIUS$)    (US$/Z)    (SDR/Z)
August 24, 1979-February 22, 1980       2.05       0.49        0.375
February 22, 1980-June 19, 1981         3.05       0.33        0.2625
June 19, 1981-September 12, 1983        5.62       0.18        D.1575
September 12, 1983 1/                  26.93       0.04        0.03542
(29.93)     (0.03)
February 24, 1984 1/                   33.0         0.03       D.028
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES:
(Z/YS$)
1978                                    0.836
1979                                    1.729
198D                                    2.800
1981                                    4.384
1982                                    5.750
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
Minerals and Petrolem                1407.5      1626.8     1178.4      1235.2
Others                                427.1      411.3       321.5       218.8
Total                              1834.6      2038.1     1499.9      1454.0
ERIEAL DE1T, (As of Dec. 31, 1982, MiU. US$)
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                                           4C87
Non-Cuaranteed                                                           250
Total outstandirg & Disbursei                                           433
IEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982
Public Debt, incl. guaranteed                                             10.7 3/
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                                                9.7
IBRD/IDA IENDING
(As of March 31, 1984, Mill. TJS$)
Outstanding & Disbursed               279.55
Undisbursed                           216.85
Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed        496.40
1/ on September 12, 1983, Zaire introduoed a transitional dual excharge rate
regime, consisting of an official rate and a free market rate, shown in
parerethesis above. The two rates were unified an February 24, 1984;
henceforth, the rate will float an a wec:Ly basis.
2/ Estimate.
3/ Reflects external public debt servioe actually paid.
EA2
April 20, 1984



-- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
SIA=US OF BANK GRDUP OPERAIICNS IN ZAIRE
A. SIAIMDENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1984)
Loan or
Credit   Year                                            Amount in US$ Mfllion
Number   Sigied   Borrower                          Bank    ITA 1/   Undisbursed
Prior
to June  Congo &    Transport               91.58 2/
1960     Otraco      Infrastructure
One Loan Fully Disbursed                            100.00
Fourteen Credits ?ully Dishbrsed                              167.10
571     1975      ZAIRE     Rail-River II                     26.00         0.47
660     1976      ZAIRE     Cottonl Rehabilitation             8.00         1.17
796     1978      ZAIRE     Oil Palm                           9.00         7.29
902     1979      ZAIRE     Railways                          20.00         6.45
998     1980      ZAIRE     Fifth Dev. Finance                18.50         5.57
1040     198)      ZAIRE     Smallholder Maize                 11.00         8.61
1089     1981      7AIRE     Kwilu Ngongo Sugar                26.40 3/      6.19 4/
1152     1981      ZAIRE     Kwango-Kwilu Techdical Assistance  2.90         1.714/
1180     1982      ZAIPE    COATRA Mdernization                26.00 3/     22.C6 4/
1224     1982      ZAIRE     Shaba Power System Rehabilitation  19.00 3/     15.24 4/
1241     1982      ZAIRE     Water Supply II                   18.00 3/     12.58 4/
1244     1982      ZAIRE     Agriculture T.A.                   5.003/       3.844/
1264     1982      7AIRE     Second Cotton                     11.30 3/      10.138 4/
1273     1982      ZAIRE     Sixth DFC                         21.50 3/      18.45 4/
1290     1982      ZAIRE     Highway V                         43.50 3/     33.37 4/
1325     1983      ZAIE      North East Rural Developmnt       13.00 3/     12.48 4/
1335     1983      ZAIE      Ports Rehabilitation              25.00 3/     24.49 41
1336 5/  1983      ZAIRE     Gecamines T.A.                     7.003/       7.00
1409     1983      ZAIRE     Petroleum Sector T.A.              4.503/       4.50 4/
1421 5/  1984      ZAIRE     Ruzizi II Hydroelectric           15.00 3/     15.00 4/
Total less cancellations),:                191.58   497.70        216.3T5
- of wich has been repaid                  126.63      1.62
Total now outstanding:                      64.95   4%.08         216.85
Ar'unt sold:                    54.47
of which has been repaid      54.47
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1I           64.95    496.08
Total Undisbursed:                           0.0                  216.85
1/ Prior to enchange adjustnint.
2/ Guaranteed by the Kingdaxi of Belgium.
3/ US dollars amounts computed at the rate of approval dates.
4/ US dollars anxuts computed at the March 31, 1984 rate.
5/ Signed by not yet effective.



- 34 -
ANNE II
Page 2 of 2
B. STA  T CO IFC R      SDENTS (As of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                             Type of            Anount in US$ Millions
Year    Obligor                    Business           IDan   Equity  Total
1970    Societe Financiare de     DFC                   -      0.76    0.76
D6veloppnt (SDFIDE)
1979    Zaire Gulf Oil Company    Oil production      2.50             2.50
& expl. omnpany
1979    Zaire Petrolem CGopany   Oil production       1.61              1.61
& expl. Canrry
1983    Nord-Sud Industrie-
1VHSIFF GMBH, for studies
on an aluninium project                    0.23       -      0.23
Total gross commitments                      4.34     0.76     5.10
Less repaynents                              3.70       -      3.70
IHld by IFC                                  0.64    0.76      1.40



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) SNCZ shall set up a traffic costing system (para. 71); and
(h) SNCZ shall maintain tariffs at a level to attain, beginning
in 1984, a 100 percent operating ratio, and after 1986,
1985, achieve a 3 percent rate of return (para. 73).
Special Condition of Effectiveness are:
(a) Onlending of the proceeds of the Credit to SNCZ in connection
with the project: components it is to carry out (para. 67);
(b) signing of the co-financing agreements (para. 61);
(c) completion of a staffing plan for higher level staff and
appointment of key personnel (para. 39); and
(d) adoption and approval of a management reorganization plan (para.
41).



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
ZAIRE
SECOND (SNCZ) RAILWAY PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Identification                : October 1982.
(b)  Project Preparation           : October 1982 - May 1983
(c)  Appraisal Mission             : June 1983
(d)  Negotiations                  : February 27 to March 2, 1984
(e) Planned Date for
Credit Effectiveness         : September/October 1984
Section II: Special Project Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) SNCZ will establish a Planning Unit by the end of 1984 and propose
a draft five-year plan by the end of September 1985 (para. 33);
(b) SNCZ shall adopt an action plan for its reorganization and
continue to employ key personnel with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association (para. 41);
(c) SNCZ shall reorganize its internal auLdit department (para. 70);
(d) tariff requests not acted upon withirn 30 days by the authorities
shall be deemed automatically approved (para. 72);
(e) the Government shall cause to be obtained by SNCZ each month the
equivalent of US$1.0 million in foreign exchange, and shall
discuss with IDA and SNCZ the foreign exchange requirements of
SNCZ for each year (para. 74);
(f) SNCZ shall achieve agreed operational targets and evaluate their
progress (para. 64);



.,    r   E   l    i    G    E   e   I   2   '  s  h  v;  t 18 R D I b b ° 4 il~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBR    l~,61,
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;1rE N;  T k A                                          hocrzS uA+nr CTFl,<!A  R[I' IC Pi p I I D  1
1   <  X  ;    . S'                                             ,   2          ....... .;                (,  :: 2    *  *                        HAUT-ZAIR~Et                                       _-
P EPU-PLIC  COF  I-ONG0   4                               e--u<. -   
C- A B   I             /*< X                                                  P          -9-< Jik                                                                                                   ,^,,  
\   ,   \ I A ' ' - i - - * A r A,                                                                                                                   Kiu             r -        PIRFWr[A 
-  J  -~~~~   J   5      ^ 4 4                        X   J' ~~~~~~~~SI        f  S           S      7             t                      BlJl 8   @           J    t~~~~~~~~~~
9/  rt,  n. nt/A 2A  DnR  EK    A    .,.  ,.SliJlmeA .I
eE~  g f. ;  , .e szu.=U2UrO CD N I;>K  ALI\ ~. ..l/} 
@af;r,   lre   .na   ,slu                                            i         E                   /M;4N-.8;   i ~~~SHABA
\   ,                                  ~~~~~~~~REPUBLIC  OF ZAIREI                                              ,.                             ,7E-m/
\  '                     ~I RANSPOR -lATiON  NETWORKt   ,,d,S,- :                                                                                                                3
9 t;                              -    ~~~~~P-cd R- ds                                               "'        >                                     fr:e%                                      ZAMi
.                        e     Regonsl CZa- I s                                            ANG'':L A                  j<>                                                s 
;  .                              -   -   nle~~~~R,,.-nC B. QJ                                                                                      7 AM B  A                        ;l   



I



0<-d]--| tSHn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Pt
AAAFS'SI X                     I I
I   P  P   L ~ ~ ~ I(-
A  A  A  A  A                   I~~~~~~~~~~~~I A ni     ., A    '"A   ~
-j>  _  A.          <4  1 - :   .E7,tjjjt   jA F 
«'AZAIRE '
T n    A-'"     4           E  ;.- A'A          JE



._ .. r



