CREDIT NUMBER 1475 ZR
OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Second Railways Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL RAILWAYS COMPANY OF ZAIRE
Dated                     k          1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1475 ZR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1984, between
the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and the NATIONAL RAILWAYS COMPANY OF ZAIRE (herein-
after called the Company).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Zaire (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-five million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 25,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the
Company agree to undertake such obligations toward the Associa-
tion as are hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by the subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Company, proceeds of the Credit pro-
vided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to the Company on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS the Company, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE TI
Execution of tho Project
Section 2.01. The Company declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set iEorth in Schedule 2 to the De-
velopment Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out


﻿-2-
Parts A through G of the Project described in said Schedule with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility prac-
tices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Company in its opera-
tions and in carrying out Part D of the Project, the Company
shall  employ  consultants   and  experts  whose   qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association, such consultants and experts to be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfac-
tory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b) Spare parts for locomotives and rolling. stock will be
procured only on the basis of detailed lists approved by the As-
sociation prior to any procurement action by the Company.
Section 2.04. (a) The Company undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrowe: against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a cur-
rency freely usable by the Company to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) The Company shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to
be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) The Company shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for Parts A through G of the Project, and any material modifica-
tions thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Associ-
ation shall reasonably request.


﻿-3-
(b) The Company shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of Parts A through G
of the Project (including their costs and the benefits to be
derived from them), to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) enable the Association's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) fur-
nish to the Association at regular intervals all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning such Parts
of the Project, their cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
to be derived from them, the expenditures of such proceeds and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(2) Upon the award by the Company of any contract for
goode, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Company
and the Association, the Company shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the As-
sociation shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived from
it, the performance by the Company and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(e) The Company shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, build-
ings, property and equipment of the Company and any relevant re-
cords and documents.
Section 2.06. The Company shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Associ-
ation shall otherwise agree, the Company shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogat-
ing, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereofo


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) The Company shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of Parts A through G of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) The Company shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of such Parts of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the Company of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.08. The Company shall, promptly after the comple-
tion of the study on low-density lines included in Part D of the
Project, exchange views with the Association on its findings
and shall thereafter promptly put into effect such measures as
shall be agreed between the Association and the Company pursuant
thereto.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the Company
Section 3.01. (a) The Company shall carry on its operations
and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial, economic and technical practices under the supervision
of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
(b) Pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, the Company
shall, by December 31, 1984, establish a Planning Unit to analyze
the feasibility of proposed investment projects, draft invest-
ment plans and, after exchanging views thereon with the Associa-
tion, monitor their implementation. The first such plan, to cover
five years, shall be produced by September 30, 1985.
(c) The Company shall at all times employ a general man-
ager, a deputy general manager, a director of the Kinshasa
Office, an operations director, a technical director, a commer-
cial director, a financial director, an administrative director,
a head of the internal audit department, and a head of the Plan-
ning Unit, whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-5-
(d) Any change in the management structure of the Company
affecting any position described in paragraph (c) above shall be
made only following an exchange of views thereon with the Asso-
ciation.
Section 3.02. The Company shall at all times operate and
maintain its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and
from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering
and financial practices.
Section 3.03. The Company shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. 'The Company shall not deviate from or modify
the staffing plan or the action plan for management reorganiza-
tion approved by the Association pursuant to Section 5.01 (b)
and (e) of the Development Credit Agreement without the prior
approval of the Association.
Section 3.05. The Company shall take all such steps as
shall be necessary to achieve the operational targets set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Company shall maintain records ade-
quate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition.
(b) Beginning in respect of fiscal year 1984, the Company
shall revalue its fixed assets each year on the basis of replace-
ment costs.
Section 4.02. The Company shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any


﻿-6-
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts, financial statements,
records and expenditures, as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Company shall participate each year in the
exchange of views concerning its requirements for foreign ex-
change provided for in Section 3.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of
this Section or as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Company shall take promptly as needed all such action (including
without limitation adjustments of its tariffs or other charges)
as shall be required to provide in any year an annual return on
the average of the current net value of its fixed assets in ser-
vice at the beginning and end of such year at a rate of not less
than three percent (3%).
(b) As an exception to paragraph (a) of this Section, the
Company shall produce, for each of its fiscal years to and in-
cluding the year ending in 1986, gross revenue from all sources
equivalent to not less than the total operating expenses.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the annual return specified in paragraph (a) of
this Section shall be calculated in respect of
each year by using as the denominator one-half of
the sum of the current net values of the fixed
assets of the Company in service at the beginning
and at the end of such year, and as numerator, the
net operating income of the Company for the same
year;
(ii) the term "current net value of the fixed assets of
the Company in service" means the gross value of
its fixed assets in service less the amount of
accumulated depreciation, both as valued annually
on the basis of replacement costs;


﻿- 7 -
(iii) the   term   "net  operating  income" means   gross
operating revenue from all sources less all
operating expenditures;
(iv) the   term   "gross  operating   revenue  from  all
sources" means total revenue from all sources re-
lated to operations; and
(v) the term "operating expenses" means the sum of all
expenses related to the Company's operations, in-
cluding maintenance and administration (including
depreciation calculated on revalued fixed assets
and other non-cash operating charges) and all
taxes or payments in lieu of taxes.
(d) The Company shall not adopt or maintain any tariff for
any service which is insufficient to cover the long-term variable
cost of such service. For the purposes of this paragraph "vari-
able cost" means the cost of all operations required to furnish
such service, including provisions for depreciation of the fixed
assets related thereto.
(e) Before October 1 in each of its fiscal years, the Com-
pany shall, taking into account forecasts prepared by the Company
on a basis satisfactory to the Association, review the adequacy
of its tariffs to meet the requirements set forth in this Section
for the current and next following fiscal year, and shall furnish
to the Association the results of such review upon its comple-
tion.
(f) The foregoing provisions of this Section supersede the
provisions concerning the Company's tariffs set forth in the
Project Agreement between the Association and the Company dated
June 14, 1979.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Company shall not incur any debt unless the amount of
its net cash revenue for its fiscal year next preceding the date
of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior
to the date of such incurrence, whichever amount is the greater,
shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt-service re-
quirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all its debt includ-
ing the debt to be incurred. For the purposes of this Section:


﻿-8-
(a) "debt" means all debt, except debt incurred in the
ordinary course of business and maturing by its terms on demand
or less than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan
contract or agreement, on the date and to the extent it is drawn
down and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement;
and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into;
(c) the term "net cash revenue" means gross operating reve-
nue from all sources, adjusted to take account of the Company's
tariffs in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even
though they were not in effect during the entire fiscal year or
twelve-month period to which such revenue relates, less all oper-
ating expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes, if any,
and administrative expenses, but before provision for deprecia-
tion and debt service requirements;
(d) the term "debt-service requirement" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any),
interest and other charges on debt;
(e) whenever in connection with this Section it shall be
necessary to value in the currency of the Borrower debt payable
in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of
the rate of exchange at which such other currency is obtainable
by the Company, at the time such valuation is made, for the pur-
poses of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not
so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of the Company thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:


﻿-9-
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms, or
(ii) a date 16 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
the Company of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancella-
tion or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
89650 (WUT) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
For the Company:
Socigtf Nationale des Chemins
de Fer Zairois
Lubumbashi
Zaire
Cable address:                    Telex:
SNCZ                            41056 ZR
Lubumbashi
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of the Company or by the Company on
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement may
be taken or executed by its Pr4sident or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing, and the Company shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
NATIONAL RAILWAYS COMPANY OF ZAIRE
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procuremat
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be pro-
cured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures con-
sistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cre-
dits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Company shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for     the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notifica-
tion to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the
goods in question. The Company shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Goods shall be grouped whenever practicable in lots of a
value of at least $50,000 equivalent for the purposes of inviting
bids.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) btdders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,pursuant
to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in the


﻿- 13 -
evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Zaire may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.-  All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Zaire
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Company and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Zaire equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 14 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Proprietary spare parts for existing equipment may be
procured through negotiated contracts with the suppliers of such
parts.
2.   Orders for goods which are not valued, and which cann%t
be grouped in lots which are valued, at $50,000 equivalent or
more may be procured through limited international bidding proce-
dures on the basis of evaluations and comparisons of bids invited
from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines and in accordance with procedures set forth in paragraph
A.4 of this Schedule and in Part A of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 1.2 and 3.9 thereof); provided, however, that the
total value of goods procured under this paragraph shall not,
without the prior approval of the Association, exceed $500,000
equivalent.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Company shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 15 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Com-
pany shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Company and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph 1, the Company shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the res-
pective bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Company and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issu-
ing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, the Company shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Company and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Dperational Targets (1985-87)
Objectives
1985     1986    1987
1.               Average      locomotive     availability     (%)
(a) Main line electric                  75       80      85
(b) Main line diesel                    55       65      70
(c) Switching diesel                    60       65      70
2.   Productivity per available
locomotive per year ('000 locomo-
tive-km)
(a) Main line electric                  90       95      95
(b) Main line diesel                   105       110    110
3.   Average wagon availability (%)
(a) ore wagon                           80       80      85
(b) general cargo wagon                 70       75      80
4.   Average turn-around time (in days)
ore wagon                             3.8      3.6     3.5
5.   Average wagon load (tons)               27        27      27
6.   Productivity per wagon per year
('000 ton-km)
(a) ore wagons                         825      865     885
(b) general cargo wagons               360      380     390
7.   Staff Productivity ('000 traffic
units/employee) at                      100      106     112
8.   No. of locomotive repaired (end
of year)
(a) Main line diesel                    15       30      45
(b) Switching diesel                    15       30      38
9.   No. of wagons rehabilitated (end
of year)                               385       695     850


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198E.
FOR SECRETARY


