Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB5169 
Operation Name 
Vietnam: Higher Education Development Policy program 
–
Second Operation (HEDPO2) 
Region 
EAST ASIA AND PACIFIC 
Sector 
Tertiary education (100%) 
Project ID 
P116353 
Borrower(s) 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING 
Ministry of Education and Training 
49 Dai Co Viet 
Vietnam 
Tel: (84-4) 869 4795  Fax: (84-4) 869 4085 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
Vietnam 
Date PID Prepared 
October 22, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 2010 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 27, 2010 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Vietnam has been one of the best performing economies in the world over the last decade
.
Real GDP 
growth has averaged over 7.5% over ten years until 2007 with per capita income rising from $260 in 
1995 to $400 in 2000 to a current level of $1,000 in 2008.  At this pace Vietnam would enter the ranks 
of middle-income countries in a very short time.  The poverty rate has declined from 58.1 percent in 
1993 to 13.0 percent in 2008, and continues to decline.  Vietnam is also on track to achieve most of the 
Millenium Development Goals (MDG).  
Vietnam has become increasingly integrated with the world economy, and joined the WTO in November 
2006
.
In February 2009, Vietnam officially joined the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) as an “associate 
member”.  The integration with the world economy has become one of the cornerstones of its reform 
program.  Exports have been the main drivers for growth, and foreign investment has been buoyant in 
recent years.  The share of agriculture in GDP declined from 27 to 21 percent of GDP over the period 
1995-2008 while that of industry rose from 29 to 41 percent over the same period.  The services sector 
picked up 38 percent share of GDP in 2008.  Tourism-related services have been especially buoyant. 
The role of the state sector in manufacturing activity has declined from 52 percent in 1995 to under 35 
percent in 2008.  The rising share of the private sector is also reflected in non-oil exports and bank 
credit.   
Vietnam’s debt position stays at manageable levels.  
The total public external debt is estimated to stand 
at 25 percent of GDP ((30 percent including the private sector) at the end of 2008.  With nearly two-
thirds of this debt contracted on highly concessional terms, the ratio of debt service to exports is 
projected to remain at or below 5 percent in the coming years.  Total public debt remains manageable, as 
the bulk of domestic debt is issued long-term.  Before the latest announcements on the stimulus package
,
it was expected to increase from its current 47.5% of GDP to 50.7 by 2012.   
Broad-based growth has been accompanied by a continuation of Vietnam’s remarkable record in 
poverty reduction
.
Data collected through the Vietnam Household Living Standard Survey (VHLSS) of 
Page  2
2006 shows that the percentage of the population living in poverty has fallen from 58.1 percent in 1993 
to 16 percent.  The proportion of poor people now is only about a quarter of what it was a decade ago, 
while measures used to track inequality suggest that there has been only a modest increase in inequality 
over that time. However, these impressive achievements sit alongside much slower progress for ethnic 
minorities. The recent trends in poverty in Vietnam demonstrate keenly that growth alone cannot tackle 
all the problems of poverty and social exclusion. Progress has been more rapid for the majority Kinh and 
Chinese population groups, even when they live in remote and mountainous areas.  Ethnic minorities in 
the Northern mountains, Central Highlands and South and North Central Coasts remain extremely poor.  
Having weathered a domestic crisis in early 2008, Vietnam is now looking to navigate the global crisis 
with its characteristic economic resilience and increasing policy skillfulness.
 
This is a critically 
important time for engagement by the international communi
ty.  Vietnam’s ability to withstand the 
global financial crisis so as to resume its growth trajectory and continued fight against poverty may be 
determined during this period.  Active engagement should contribute to improving the content and 
coherence of such reforms. 
Vietnam has been implementing its Socio-Economic Development Plan (SEDP) 2006-10, which was 
presented to the Board in 2006 as Vietnam’s Poverty Reduction Strategy.  In it, Vietnam expresses its 
ambition to become a middle-income country by 2010.  The reform actions to be supported under the 
SEDP fall under four broad heads: (a) the promotion of growth and transition to a middle-income market 
economy, (b) reducing poverty and ensuring social inclusion, (c) managing environmental and natural 
resources in a sustainable manner, and (d) building institutions to support the above actions and promote 
modern governance. 
 
There was a noticeable acceleration, starting around 2001, of the Government’s drive towards relying 
on market mechanisms, building a multi-stakeholder economy and further integrating with the region 
and the world
.
The vision underlying this drive was articulated in several strategic plans and 
documents, including the Ten-Year Socio-Economic Development Strategy 2001-2010, the Five-Year 
Socio-Economic Development Plan 2001-2006 and the Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth 
Strategy (CPRGS).  These strategic plans and documents aimed at building a market economy with a 
socialist orientation.  They were built on the successes of the renovation process initiated in the late 
1980s with Doi Moi, while also preserving the strong poverty focus which has characterized Vietnam’s 
reform process.  
In this impressive economic growth, there is increasingly high demand for tertiary graduates in relevant 
disciplines, the need to improve the match between graduates’ skills and employers’ requirements and 
the need for change of higher education system to be more efficient and responsive to on-going changes 
of economy and society. 
Government of Vietnam
 (GOV) sets clear goals for higher education in its “SEDP 2006-2010,”.
1
The 
SEDP aims for an overall quantitative goal of “increasing enrollment in universities and colleges by 10 
percent annually, to reach a level of 200 students over 10,000 population by 2010” and an overall 
qualitative goal of “approaching the advanced education standards of the region and the world,” 
specifically inter alia by: renovating curricula and teaching methods; developing systems that increase 
study opportunities through transfers; renovating financial mechanisms and policies to make institutions 
more pro-active and responsible for finance, staff and organization;  renovating management with 
stronger decentralization, and clearer responsibilities and authorities for different entities; implementing 
quality assurance and accreditation schemes, gradually applying standards and criteria used by 
developed countries and joining international educational quality accreditation systems; encouraging the 
1
Kê
hoa
ch Pha
t
triê
n
Kinh tê
-
Xa
hô
i
5
n
m
2006
-2010
 (Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010), attachment to 
Government Resolution No. 25/2006/NQ-CP, dated October 9, 2006.  
Page  3
establishment of private institutions, including high-quality, accredited and 100 percent foreign-invested 
institutions in science, technology, and economic management; and encouraging foreign scientific and 
educational experts and Vietnamese expatriates to teach in Vietnam. 
GOV elaborates on its goals for higher education in its “Higher Education Reform Agenda” (HERA)
.
2
HERA develops forward-looking strategy for the development of higher education and research. 
Through HERA, GOV shows its commitment to improving the higher education system in a rapidly 
changing economic and social environment.  It is strategic and comprehensive, with major emphasis on 
key operational reforms that the World Bank supports, namely: (i) improving the quality of teaching and 
research, with a view to integration into the increasingly globalized economy; (ii) extending Higher 
Education Institute (HEI) autonomy, especially in academic and administrative matters, with a view to 
improving responsiveness to the needs of beneficiaries; and (iii) increasing private sector investment 
vital in the fiscal sustainability of an expanding sector.  
GOV’s main challenge is to operationalize these 
strategic goals by addressing broad governance issues (e.g. legal and financial frameworks) while 
promoting local, HEI-level modernization. 
The World Bank’s five-year Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
3
supports the GOV’s “Five-Year 
Socio-Economic Development Plan 2006-2010.” Under CPS Pillar I, which aims to assist GOV in its 
transition to a market economy, the World Bank’s program will help to “develop a higher education 
system that produces graduates better suited to the new economy’s needs,” measured by changes in the 
proportion of students finding employment within six months of graduation by field of study. 
Building a higher education system in Vietnam that is innovative, responsive to the demands of the 
market and of high quality is essential to the economic growth and development of Vietnam.  GOV has 
requested the World Bank to provide continued support for Vietnam’s higher education agenda, 
recognizing the success of past collaboration in the sector.  
The World Bank looks at economic development in a comprehensive way and can therefore work with 
GOV on a higher education strategy that is consistent with, and in support of Vietnam’s overall 
development strategy.  This is all the more critical at a time when Vietnam, having recently acceded to 
membership of the World Trade Organization, is looking to develop a skilled population with a strong 
knowledge base, that will position the country well for expansion and integration with the global 
economy. 
More specifically, the World Bank can bring its international experience in the higher education sector 
to help Vietnam implement its HERA program.  The World Bank has in-depth experience across many 
higher education projects in the design and implementation of competitive funding, institutional 
autonomy and performance-based financing to drive improved standards in research and teaching and 
improvements in the relevance of higher education, all of which are important objectives set out in 
HERA.   
2. Proposed objective 
The proposed program aims to support the government in the implementation of HERA to improve the 
higher education responsiveness and overcoming skill bottlenecks for a rapidly changing economic and 
social environment.  In particular, the proposed program, through a Development Policy Lending 
instrument, will assist the Ministry of Education and Training (MoET) to develop and implement a 
series of policies and regulations defined in HERA which will create a more flexible, responsive and 
2
Nghi
quyê
t
vê
ô
i
m
i
C
ba
n
va
Toa
n
diê
n
Gia
o
du
c
a
i
ho
c
Viê
t
Nam Giai 
oa
n
2006
-2020
 (Government Resolution 
No. 14/2005/NQ-CP, dated November 2, 2005, on substantial and comprehensive renewal of 
Vietnam’s tertiary education in 
the 2006-2020 period).  See Annex 1. 
3
Report No. 38236-VN, dated January 3, 2007. 
Page  4
diverse higher education system, with more private sector participation, supporting governance and 
financing frameworks. 
3. Preliminary 
description 
The program would consist of a series of key policy measures, each financed by a separate credit, linked 
to an indicative program of reform.  The proposed operation is the second in a three-programmatic series 
to su
pport the sustained implementation of selected elements of the GOV’s reform agenda.  In 
particular, the proposed operation aims to continue support for the government efforts in strengthening 
governance, rationalizing the financing system, improving the quality of teaching and research, 
improving accountability for performance, and enhancing transparency in financial management within 
the higher education sector that have been started under the HEDPO1.   Measures implemented by 
Government on the basis of policy analysis and development will be carried out with technical 
assistance under grant-financed component of Second Higher Education Project (HEP2) in the four key 
areas, including governance, financing, quality assurance and public finance management.  The brief 
description is as follows: 
Governance
.
The proposed program aims to improve the governance of the higher education and 
research system at both national, regional and HEIs levels.  This implies, in particular, giving greater 
autonomy to individual institutions, increasing their accountability and introducing measures in order to 
create a climate of competition between and within institutions that promotes improvement. 
Financing.
 The proposed program aims to enhance efficiency and equity of higher education financing 
through promoting greater autonomy of higher education institutions in managing their own finance and 
ensuring equitable opportunities to all students based on ability and aspirations and society’s needs. 
Quality assurance.
 The proposed program aims to improve the quality of teaching and research of 
higher education to meet the market demands by establishment of independent quality assurance system 
using standards –based and credit - based framework for higher education institutions qualifications. 
Public finance management. 
The proposed program aims to improve the efficiency and transparency in 
public resource use by adopting and applying a reliable financial management system, including internal 
and external audit system in accordance with sound financial management practices.  
4. Environment Aspects 
DPL. 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
50 
 Total 
50 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Binh Thanh Vu 
Title: Sr Education Spec. 
Tel: 202-458-8954 
Fax: 202-522-3394 
Email: Tvu@worldbank.org 
Location: Washington DC, (IBRD)
 
