                                                 CONFORMED COPY


                                           CREDIT NUMBER 4834-VN




      Financing Agreement
(Higher Education Development Policy Program – Second Operation)


                            between


             SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM


                              and


      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                    Dated December 16, 2010
                              FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated December 16, 2010 , entered into between SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (“Recipient?) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (“Association?) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement). The Association has decided to
provide this financing on the basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy
framework. The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

              ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) constitute
        an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this Agreement
        have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in the Appendix to
        this Agreement.

                              ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions set
        forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to thirty two
        million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 32,200,000)
        (variously, “Credit? and “Financing?).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance shall
        be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                                            -2-


2.07.   The Payment Currency is Dollar.

                              ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation. To
        this end:

        (a)     the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of
                either party, exchange views on the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
                framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;

        (b)     prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
                Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in
                carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
                request; and

        (c)     without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
                Section, the Recipient shall promptly inform the Association of any
                situation that would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of
                the Program or any action taken under the Program including any action
                specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

                ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that a
        situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant
        part of it, will be carried out.

                 ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that the
        Association is satisfied with the progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out
        the Program and with the adequacy of the Recipient’s macroeconomic policy
        framework.

5.02.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety days (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.

                 ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of State
        Bank of Vietnam.
                                           -3-


6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

               State Bank of Vietnam
               49 Lý Thái Tổ
               Hà Nội
               Socialist Republic of Vietnam

               Cable:                   Telex:         Facsimile:

               VIETBANK                 412248         (84-4) 3825 0612
               Hanoi                    NHTWVT

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

               International Development Association
               1818 H Street, N.W.
               Washington, D.C. 20433
               United States of America

               Cable:                   Telex:         Facsimile:

               INDEVAS                  248423 (MCI)   (1-202) 477-6391
               Washington, D.C.
                                       -4-


       AGREED at Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first
above written.

                             SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM



                             By: /s/ Nguyen Van Giau



                                                   Authorized Representative




                             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                             By: /s/ Victoria Kwakwa



                                                   Authorized Representative
                                            -5-


                                      SCHEDULE 1

                  Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds

Section I.      Actions Taken Under the Program. The actions taken by the Recipient
                under the Program include the following:

A.      Governance.      For the purpose of improving the efficiency, quality and
        responsiveness of higher education and research, the Recipient has issued regulation
        (Prime Minister Decision Number 58/2010/QD-TTg dated September 22, 2010) on:

1.      Generic HEI charters setting out functions of key bodies within HEIs.

2.      Functions and responsibilities of university councils, enhancing HEIs autonomy in
        governance.

B.      Financing. For the purpose of enhancing fiscal transparency, and the sustainability,
        efficiency and equity of the higher education sub-sector, the Recipient has:

1.      Issued regulation (MOET Ministerial Decision No. 795/QD-BGDDT dated
        February 27, 2010) and guidelines on criteria-based formula for setting HEIs’
        maximum enrollment quota.

2.      Issued a regulation (Government Decree Number 49/2010/ND-CP dated May 14,
        2010) on tuition fees for the 2011-2015 time period.

C.      Quality Improvement. For the purpose of improving the efficiency and
        transparency of graduate qualifications, the Recipient has:

1.      Established, on a pilot basis, credit-based qualifications systems in at least thirty
        (30) HEIs.

D.      Quality Assurance. For the purpose of improving the quality of teaching and
        research outputs, the Recipient has:

1.      Issued a comprehensive framework (MOET Ministerial Decision Number 4138/QD-
        BGDDT dated September 20, 2010) on higher education quality assurance and
        accreditation.

E.      Financial Reporting and Audit.

1.      For the purpose of improving financial transparency and efficiency in public
        resource use, the Recipient has prepared annual financial reports for at least forty
        (40) HEIs for the fiscal year 2008 (incorporating all revenues, expenditures and
        funding sources).
                                            -6-



2.      For the purpose of ensuring adequate oversight of public fund through audits, the
        Recipient has completed the audit of the 2008 financial year of at least twenty (20)
        institutions of HEIs under the control of the MOET.

Section II.     Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.      General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance
        with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the
        Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.      Allocation of Financing Amounts. The Financing is allocated in a single
        withdrawal tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the
        Financing. The allocation of the amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in
        the table below:

                   Allocations                    Amount of the Financing Allocated
                                                        (expressed in SDR)
         Single Withdrawal Tranche                           32,200,000
         TOTAL AMOUNT                                        32,200,000

C.      Withdrawal Tranche Release Conditions. No withdrawal shall be made of the
        Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the Association is satisfied: (a) with the Program
        being carried out by the Recipient: and (b) with the appropriateness of the
        Recipient’s macroeconomic policy framework.

D.      Deposits of Financing Amounts. Except as the Association may otherwise agree:

1.      the Recipient shall open, prior to presenting to the Association the first request for
        withdrawal from the Financing Account, and thereafter maintain a deposit account
        in Dollar (“Foreign Currency Deposit Account?) on terms and conditions
        satisfactory to the Association. All withdrawals from the Financing Account shall
        be deposited by the Association into the Foreign Currency Deposit Account; and

2.      the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing into
        the Foreign Currency Deposit Account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the
        Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.

E.      Audit. Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall:

1.      have the Foreign Currency Deposit Account audited by independent auditors
        acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
        standards acceptable to the Association;
                                          -7-


2.   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than four (4)
     months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified copy of
     the report of such audit, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
     reasonably request; and

3.   furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Foreign Currency
     Deposit Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request.

F.   Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
     Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association
     determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a payment
     for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the
     Association, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the
     Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be
     cancelled.

G.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is June 30, 2011.
                                          -8-


                                     SCHEDULE 2

                                  Repayment Schedule

               Date Payment Due                        Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                                  repayable
                                                        (expressed as a percentage)*
On each June 15 and December 15:
commencing December 15, 2020 to and including                       1.25%
June 15, 2030
commencing December 15, 2030 to and including                       2.50%
June 15, 2045

* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of the
General Conditions.
                                           -9-


                                       APPENDIX


Section I. Definitions

1.      “Foreign Currency Deposit Account? means the account referred to in Part D. 1 of
        Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.      “Excluded Expenditure? means any expenditure:

        (a)     for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
                international financing institution or agency other than the Association or
                the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the
                Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan;

        (b)     for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
                International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by
                the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the
                SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the
                SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the Recipient:

                         Group            Sub-group             Description of Item
                         112                                    Alcoholic beverages
                         121                                    Tobacco, un-manufactured,
                                                                tobacco refuse
                         122                                    Tobacco, manufactured
                                                                (whether or not containing
                                                                tobacco substitutes)
                         525                                    Radioactive and associated
                                                                materials
                         667                                    Pearls, precious and
                                                                semiprecious stones,
                                                                unworked or worked
                         718              718.7                 Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                                                thereof; fuel elements
                                                                (cartridges), non-irradiated,
                                                                for nuclear reactors
                         728              728.43                Tobacco processing
                                                                machinery
                         897              897.3                 Jewelry of gold, silver or
                                                                platinum group metals
                                                                (except watches and watch
                                                                cases) and goldsmiths’ or
                                                                silversmiths’ wares
                                                                (including set gems)
                                         - 10 -


                      971                                      Gold, non-monetary
                                                               (excluding gold ores and
                                                               concentrates)

     (c)     for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
             consumption;

     (d)     for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
             which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
             agreements to which the Recipient is a party;

     (e)     on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United Nations
             Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
             Nations; and

     (f)     with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent,
             collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the
             Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the
             Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate
             action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they
             occur.

3.   “General Conditions? means the “International Development Association General
     Conditions for Credits and Grants?, dated July 31, 2010 with the modifications set
     forth in Section II of this Appendix.

4.   “HEI? means a higher education institution, public or private, including a university,
     a college, or an institute awarding doctoral degrees.

5.   “Higher Education Reform Agenda? and the acronym “HERA? mean the
     Recipient’s agenda for the reform of tertiary education, as set forth in Government
     Resolution No. 14/2005/NQ-CP of November 2, 2005 on Substantial and
     Comprehensive Renewal of Vietnam’s Tertiary Education in the 2006-2020 Period.

6.   “MOET? means the Recipient’s Ministry of Education and Training and any
     successor thereto.

7.   “Program? means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to reform
     the higher education sub-sector by strengthening its governance, rationalizing its
     financing, improving the quality of teaching and research and enhancing the
     transparency and accountability in financial management in said sub-sector, as set
     forth or referred to in its “Socio-economic Development Plan for the Period 2006-
     2010? (SEDP 2006-2010) approved by National Assembly Resolution
     No. 56/2006/QH11 of June 29, 2006, and its Higher Education Reform Agenda
     dated November 2, 2005, and further elaborated in the letter dated September 10,
                                           - 11 -


        2010 from the Recipient to the Association whereby the Recipient declares its
        commitment to the execution of the Program, and requests assistance from the
        Association in support of the Program during its execution.

8.      “Single Withdrawal Tranche? means the amount of the Financing allocated to the
        category entitled “Single Withdrawal Tranche? in the table set forth in Part B of
        Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Section II. Modifications to the General Conditions

The modifications to the General Conditions are as follows:

1.      The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for
        Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety.

2.      Sections 2.04 (Designated Accounts) and 2.05 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted in
        their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.

3.      Sections 4.01 (Project Execution Generally), and 4.09 (Financial Management;
        Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
        Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly.

4.      Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above
        and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.

5.      Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is
        modified to read as follows:

                “Section 4.06. Plans; Documents; Records

                …       (c)       The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures under
                the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient shall
                enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.?

6.      Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to
        read as follows:

                “Section 4.07. Program Monitoring and Evaluation

                …        (c)     The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and
                furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date, a
                report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
                request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the Recipient
                                     - 12 -


            and the Association of their respective obligations under the Legal
            Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Financing.?

7.   The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or
     deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in
     alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered
     accordingly:

     (a)    The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure? is modified to read as
            follows:

             “‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in
            support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
            pursuant to the Financing Agreement.?

     (b)    The term “Financial Statements? and its definition as set forth in the
            Appendix are deleted in their entirety.

     (c)    The term “Project? is modified to read “Program? and its definition is
            modified to read as follows:

            “‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in
            support of which the Financing is made.? All references to “Project?
            throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to
            “Program?.
