-BE RE-TURSfED TO RLPORTS QESK
tnDt ~CIRCULATtNG COpy tn_
z=h   RYdRETlRNED TO REPORTS DESK
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1574a-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRES IDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PROGRAM LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
May 6, 1975
This report was prepared for offici use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



UNITS OF VALUATION
The official unit of currency in Kenya is the Kenya
Shilling (Sho). However, in accordance with the practice of
the Kenya Government, most large values in the report are
expressed in Kenya Pounds (i).
L 1        =    Sh. 20
SH 1            100 cents
CURRENCY REQUIREMENTS
From Independence at the end of 1963, except for a
brief period during 1973, the exchange rate between the Kenya
currency and the US dollar has been
US$        =    Sh. 7.143
i          =    $ 2.80
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED PROGRAM LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
program loan for the equivalent of US$30.0 million to the Republic of
Kenya. The loan would have a term of 25 years, including 7 years of
grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMIC BACKGROUND 1/
2.        The discussions between the Bank and the Government over the
proposed program loan represent a continuation of the dialogue over
economic policy which has been progressively built up with the Kenya
Government over recent years. In particular, the program loan has been
appraised against the background of the basic economic report on Kenya
(Report No. 201-KE, dated January 15, 1974) which was distributed to
the Executive Directors on February 20, 1974. This was followed by a
special economic mission which visited Kenya in February 1974 to review
the economy's prospects and aid requirements in the light of the changes
in world commodity prices, including increased oil prices, which had
taken place. The findings of this mission were used as the basis for a
Consultative Group meeting in April 1974, which concluded that additional
external assistance to Kenya -- including some degree of non-project
lending -- would be necessary if the momentum of development were not to
be lost.
3.        The recent basic economic report gave full credit to the
Government and people of Kenya for the remarkable results they have
achieved in the first ten years of independence: in terms of most
economic indicators, Kenya's performance has been of a very high order.
But in looking further ahead, the basic report concluded that Kenya does
not really have the option to continue the past pattern of growth,
however successful it may have been, and that a material change in the
structure of development would be required if Kenya's own development
goals are to be achieved. A number of arguments underlie this conclusion.
ii Basic data on the economy of Kenya are given in Annex I.



-2-
There is some evidence, albeit fragmentary, that the efficiency of
resource use is falling in Kenya -- not only in terms of a disappointing
growth in employment but in rising capital output ratios as well. In
the past this trend could be accommodated without difficulty because
of the acceleration in resource mobilization, since Kenya's domestic
savings rate, about 20 percent, has been one of the highest in the develop-
ing world. But the scope for further improvements in the rate of resource
mobilization is limited by the very success of Kenya's past performance.
The most critical constraint, however, is likely to be the balance of
payments. Although Kenya's export performance including the growth of
tourism, has been very satisfactory, the pattern of past development
has made the economy heavily dependent upon a wide range of imported raw
materials and capital goods, even to maintain production. With increas-
ing production and a very high rate of investment (over 25 percent of
monetary GDP), Kenya's imports grew rapidly, and this increase,
exacerbated by rising import prices, led to the emergence of a resource
gap which capital inflows could not fill.
4.        Thus even before the upsurge in world inflation experienced
during 1974, the Bank had concluded that the Kenya economy would
eventually run into an unmanageable balance of payments problem, unless
the pattern of growth could be restructured towards greater use of
domestic factors of production. The basic economic report advocated
first a restructured pattern of growth in favor of the directly
productive sectors, most immediately to agriculture but also to resource-
based industry. Second, it recommended as a complementary reform a
range of factor price adjustments to move market prices closer to real
scarcity values and thus increase the efficiency of resource use through-
out the economy.
5.        The validity of this analysis was generally accepted by the
Kenya Government, and the development strategy of the third National
Development Plan (1974-78), published at the beginning of 1974, was
broadly consistent with the recommendations of the basic economic report.
Even before the new plan had been published, however, the Kenya economy
was faced with the unprecedented upsurge in world inflation and a sharp
deterioration in the effective terms of trade. These events have
precipitated a balance of payments crisis which, as indicated below,
calls for both an extraordinary level of external assistance
and a more urgent attack on longer term reforms on the part of the
Government.
PART II - THE EMERGING CRISIS
6.        In 1973, the last year before the impact of the oil price
increase was felt, Kenya had a small overall surplus on her balance of



- 3 -
payments and at the end of 1973 her foreign exchange reserves amounted to
some $229 million or the equivalent of 4.3 months' imports at the 1973 level.
During 1974, however, the value of imports increased by $333 million (more
than 70 percent), mainly as a result of a massive 56 percent increase in
unit prices. Actual imports in real terms increased by 9 percent. At the
same time, the volume of exports fell by 8 percent, owing to continuing
drought conditions, which affected major export crops. However, as a
result of high export prices, the total value of exports increased by
abcut 30 percent over 1973, offsetting at least part of the import bill,
but nevertheless leaving an unprecedented trade gap of about $450 million
and a resource gap of nearly $300 million (see Annex 1). 1/
7.        Although the initial impact of world price changes on the economy
was severe, Kenya was able to absorb their effects during 1974 without too
much disruption. Foreign exchange reserves at the beginning of 1974 had
been at a comfortable level; there was no shortage of staple foods; and
the business community was holding ample stocks. Moreover, although the
deficit on current account leaped from $75 million in 1973 to $322 million
in 1974, net capital inflows increased considerably and Kenya was able to
draw on her facilities with the Fund to cushion the loss of foreign exchange.
However, the growth of GDP in 1974 slowed down to about 5 percent in real
terms, which was quite modest compared with past performance, and real income
per capita actually fell by about 5 percent after allowing for the 9 percent
deterioration in the terms of trade.
8.        Kenya's external position is expected to worsen substantially
during 1975, however, owing to an even larger fall in the terms of trade than
was experienced in 1974. According to recent forecasts of world commodity
price changes2/, the terms of trade are expected to move against Kenya as
follows:
1973   1974   1975   1976    1977   1978
Export prices             100     142    140    153    160    169
Import prices              100    156    178    194    209    222
Terms of trade             100     91     79     79     77     76
While any forecasts must necessarily be subject to wide margins of error,
our present estimates suggest that Kenya's deficit on current account may
peak during 1975, at some $360 million, or about $40 million more than the
deficit in 1974. It is expected that private capital inflows will increase
slightly to about $60 million in 1975, while net disbursements of public
capital will increase sharply to some $88 million, mainly as a result of
accelerated disbursements on existing commitments.   This would leave a for-
midable gap of over $200 million still to be filled in 1975. On the basis
1/ All 1974 data are preliminary and are based on information available as
of mid-March 1975. The estimates imply a more pronounced deterioration
in the terms of trade in 1974 than shown in Sessional Paper No. 4, which
was based on information available in November 1974.
2j These estimates are based on the Bank's commodity forecasts prepared in
November 1974 and February 1975, except for the 1974 figures, which are
derived from Kenya's preliminary trade figures.



- 4 -
of present information, the larger part of this gap would be filled by
further special assistance of a quick-disbursing nature from the Fund and
other sources (some $120 million) and the proposed Bank program loan ($30
million), leaving over $50 million to be found from other sources, or
saved by a further compression of imports.
9.        Thus the Kenya economy is faced with an urgent need for adjust-
ment. The deterioration in the terms of trade expected between 1973 and
1976 alone represents a 16 percent fall in real income and would mean that
exports would have to be bcosted by about 16 percent a year just to
maintain imports at the same level as in 1973.   Yet Kenya's exports,
being predominantly plantation crops, are not elastic in the short term,
and both the tourist industry and the East African market for her
manufactures will be affected by the same unfavorable economic climate.
There is a limit to how far imports can be squeezed without cutting back
into capital investment and raw materials and therefore seriously reducing
the momentum of development. But, as the basic economic report pointed
out, the most immediate effect of a lower growth rate is to blunt the
attack on poverty and unemployment. There is also a political as well
as humanitarian limit to how far the Government can constrain consumption
when population is increasing at nearly 3-1/2 percent a year and the success
of past development itself has led people to anticipate a rising standard
of living. All these factors, as mentioned later, will make it difficult, if
not impossible, for Kenya to re-establish external equilibrium much
before the end of the 1970s, even on the most optimistic assumptions
about the success of the adjustment program which is being undertaken.
During this period Kenya requires a considerable increase in external
financing to maintain some momentum of development and there is an urgent
need for some aid to be disbursed faster than could be accomplished through
normal project lending. However, an increased level of assistance --
and particularly program assistance -- would be difficult to defend
unless appropriate policies were being implemented by the Government to
bring the balance of payments under control as soon as possible. The
following section describes the Government's program for doing this.
PART III - THE PROGRAM
10.       Once the magnitude of the problem facing Kenya had become
clear, during the early months of 1974, the Government reacted to the
situation by instituting a number of measures to contain the immediate
loss of foreign exchange, while giving urgent attention to drawing up
a revised program of national economic management for the medium term.
At the meeting of the Consultative Group for East Africa held in April
1974 (one of the first meetings to be held after the "oil crisis")
the Kenya Government appealed for a greater level of financial assistance,



-5-
and presented an outline of the policies it intended to follow to restore
equilibrium. The first manifestation of these policies was the FY75
budget, which introduced a range of new taxes, falling mainly on the rich
and the foreigner, a stringent curtailment of credit, higher interest and
deposit rates, and a freeze on government expenditure, all designed to
curb the level of demand and the growth of imports. Since then, the
Government has announced a comprehensive program for restructuring the
pattern of growth in the medium tern.    The program as a whole has been
accepted by the Government and has been submitted to the National Assembly
in the form of an official policy statement (Sessional Paper No. 4 of
1975). !/ The main components of this program are given below.
The Underlying Strategy
11.       The basic strategy underlying the program is to restructure the
economy as fast as possible so that economic development can be maintained,
albeit at a slower rate, within the much tighter balance of payments
constraint.   The most pressing need is to restrain the growth of imports,
with minimum adverse effect on production, and to direct more domestic
production into exports. This translates into the need to compress
consumption by both the private and public sectors, and to channel invest-
ment into those uses which will give the most productive and immediate
results, particularly in appropriate import substitution and in promoting
new exports. A major and very critical objective is to hold down domestic
inflation (if possible to only 50 percent of world inflation) so as to
encourage the substitution of domestic resources for imported goods and to
maintain Kenya's competitiveness in export markets. Domestic inflation is
a very recent phenomenon in Kenya. During the first eight years of in-
dependence (1964-72), consumer prices in Kenya rose at an average rate
of little more than 2 percent a year. In 1973 the rate of inflation jumped
to about 13 percent and was running at an even higher level through
1974.
12.       The Government recognizes that, in restructuring the economy to
adjust to external events, there will be real hardship in the form of
falling real incomes, increasing unemployment and development foregone.
An important objective of the program is, therefore, to distribute the
loss equitably between rich and poor, town and country, Kenyan and
foreigner. It is also recognized that, even on the most optimistic
assumptions, the measures being undertaken in the program will not
succeed in closing the balance of payments gap in the initial years, and a
final component of the strategy is to seek an additional inflow of capital,
through increased aid from traditional sources, greater access to funds from
OPEC countries, and special assistance such as the proposed program loan.
Major Macro-Economic Policies
13.       Fiscal Policy.   The program puts major reliance on fiscal and
monetary policy to contain domestic demand, hold down inflation and reduce
1/ Available upon request from the Secretary's Office.



-6-
the demand for imports. In the last two budgets, a number of measures
have been taken to increase income taxation and make it more progressive:
the threshold of personal income tax has been lowered, corporation taxes
and the withholding tax on foreign dividends have been raised, and sales
taxes have been raised on gasoline and consumer luxuries. The Government
has stated its intention to raise further taxes on non-essential domestic
and imported products, to adjust specific fees and taxes upwards to
take account of inflation, and to continue measures already taken to
improve tax administration. However, no major increase in overall tax
performance can be foreseen, since taxation in Kenya is already over
20 percent of monetary GDP -- one of the highest ratios in the developing
world.
14.       Certain qualitative improvements in the fiscal    system can only
be undertaken in conjunction with Kenya's Partners in the East African
Community. Principal among these is the external tariff. The Government
is anxious to modify the tariff structure towards more uniform rates, by
reducing the level of protection on consumer goods and imposing or raising
duties on capital goods. Some progress has already been made in this
direction, and the three Governments are discussing further action along
these lines. The Community Partner States are also considering abolishing
or modifying the investment allowance given to new investments (which
effectively subsidizes capital and discourages employment) and tightening
up on the provision of protection to "infant" industries.
15.       Monetary Policy.   The monetary policy proposed in the program
represents a significant change from the past. The whole interest rate
structure has been allowed to rise to the range of 9 - 14 percent and the
Central Bank is keeping tight control over the money supply. These
macro-economic policies to make capital more scarce are being supplemented
by administrative measures designed to channel credit into agriculture,
manufacturing, export business and tourism and to favor local small
businessmen. Foreign-controlled enterprises not operating in these
favored sectors are being denied access to domestic credit altogether,
forcing them to secure their financial requirements from abroad.
16.       Wages and Incomes Policy.   The Governmeat recognizes that
real incomes will have to fall over the next few years in order to
restrain the growth of demand, free resources for export, and curb
domestic inflation, and has already announced revised guidelines to be
followed by the Industrial Court in arbitrating on new wage agreements.
The Industrial Court, which has to review and approve all wage agreements
before they can be put into effect, has successfully kept wage increases
within officially determined limits in the past. The new wage guidelines
are designed to keep the average annual increase in monetary wages to no
more than 75 percent of the increase in the consumer price increase.
Moreover to ensure that this fall in real wages falls most heavily on the
richer members of society, the allowable increases are proportional to
income levels. Only workers at the bottom of the income scale (less than



Sh. 250 or $35 a month) will be granted full compensation for cost of
living increases (representing zero growth in real income for 36 percent
of the labor force) while workers earning over Sh. 2,000 ($280) will be
allowed no wage increases (representing a severe fall in real income)
until the balance of payments position improves.
17.       To supplement these controls over real wages, the Government
intends to introduce measures to control the increase in other factor
incomes, particularly profits and rents. Some measures have already been
introduced -- such as more progressivity in the tax structure, increased
corporate taxes and taxes on luxury items. In addition, the Government has
announced it will shortly introduce a capital gains tax, tighten the present
loopholes in inheritance taxes, and increase urban property taxes.
The Three-Year Budget
18.       The Government's strategy for restraining demand and restructur-
ing the pattern of growth relies heavily on the general macro-economic
tools outlined above. The most important action taken by Government to
adjust the economy by direct means is the revised three-year budget, which
now replaces the public sector expenditure program incorporated in the
1974-78 Development Plan. In calling for proposals for the three-year
budget, the Ministry of Finance and Planning announced stringent financial
ceilings and warned operating ministries that priority would be given to
the promotion of exports, to increasing the domestic production of agricul--
tural commodities which reduce the dependence on imports, and to the use
of more labor intensive techniques. Ministries were advised that adminis-
tration, social services, infrastructure and transport expenditure would
be severely curtailed.
19.       These objectives have been largely achieved in the revised three-
year budget although in many cases it has proved difficult to change the
direction of spending as quickly as desired. In order to reduce the
growth of government consumption, the three-year budget proposes to hold
the expansion of recurrent expenditure to about 6 percent a year in real
terms over the period FY1976-78. This compares with an average rate of
growth of about 10-11 percent in the past, and a projected rate of 11
percent in the 1974-78 Plan. This austerity has called for a number of
painful decisions, most notably the decision to freeze the proportion
of recurrent expenditure going to education. This will mean halving
the rate of growth of expenditure on education envisaged in the Plan
(from over 14 percent to 7 percent a year). After many months of debate,
the Government has finally agreed on a package of policies which
squarely addresses the main problem: the insupportable rate of growth
of the primary teacher payroll. The number of teachers per school will be
reduced from eight to seven, promotions will be subject to a restrictive
quota system (and related to classroom performance rather than the acquisi-
tion of additional diplomas); and teachers' salaries will be governed by
the general wage guidelines referred to above. Additional measures have



been agreed upon to curtail the growth of   recurrent expenditures at the
secondary and tertiary levels. The ,o-vernment has also decided to establish
a high-level National Commission on Educatiori Objectives an; Policies which
will redefine Kenya's eds.catioral obhectives ari' formulate relevant poli-
cies and a program of action to achieve these objectives.    The Bank has
reviewed the draft terms of reference of the Com=ission and agreed to
provide assistance to the Commission under the proposed third education
project.
20.       The rate of growth of expenditure included in the Development
Budget will also be severely curtailed, from the 12 percent a year proposed
in the original 1974-78 Plan to less than 8 percent a year in the revised
three-year budget. At the same time, the budget provides for a marked
shift in the pattern of expenditure away from infrastructure towards
directly productive sectors. The most significant reallccation of
resources is expected to be the dramatic increase in development expendi-
tures on agriculture and water, and an equivalent reduction in the share
of resources going to construction (roads, bridges and government
buildings):
Percentage allocation of development expenditure
Actual        Plan           Budget
FY 69-73      1974-78       FY 75-78
Agriculture and water    13.0%         22.3%         35.0%
Roads, bridges, and
buildings            34.8%         21.3%         18.2%
21.       Within the road construction budget itself, there will be a
very marked shift in emphasis from the construction of major trunk and
primary roads towards secondary roads and an innovative plan for upgrad-
ing and constructing rural access roads by labor-intensive techniques. The
following figures, which compare actual expenditure during the last two
fiscal years with that proposed by the Ministry of Works through the
remainder of the decade, illustrate the magnitude of the reallocation:
Percentage allocation of expenditure
on road construction
Actual                Proposed
FY 73-74               FY 75-80
Trunk and primary roads    78.4%                 54.7%
Secondary roads            10.2%                 25.5%
Minor roads                11.4%                  19.8%
100.0%                 100.0%



-9-
Increasing Domestic Production
22.       The Agriculture Sector.   In most respects, the agricultural
sector's performance has been very satisfactory in Kenya over the last
decade. Marketed production has doubled in the decade since independence
and, in real terms, this has meant a 6 percent average rate of growth in
the monetary agricultural sector. Within the sector, while development
has not reached all the rural population, the progress made by smallholders
has been remarkable. Since 1964 some 800,000 hectares of land have been
transferred from large to small farmers, over 630,000 holdings have been
registered, and several hundred thousand smallholders have been intro-
duced to new cash crops such as tea, coffee, sugar, pyrethrum or high
grade cattle. As a result, the value of smallholder marketed production
has tripled in the last decade.
23.       Yet despite the progress made in the past, it is apparent that
Kenya's success in adjusting to the difficult years ahead will to a large
extent depend on her ability to raise the past good performance of the
agricultural sector to an even higher level in the immediate future. In
particular, unless the macro-economic scene is not to be even worse than
foreseen, it will be necessary for the agriculture sector to (a) increase
domestic food production; (b) make a major contribution to import substitu-
tion, both directly and through resource-based industry; (c) open up
new export opportunities (directly or through resource-based industry);
and (d) play an even larger role in absorbing labor and maintaining incomes
and consumption when employment opportunities in the urban sector may
be far fewer and some sectors (particulary construction) may face serious
retrenchment.
24.       The Government recognizes the crucial role to be played by
the agricultural sector over the next few years and proposes three kinds
of measures to help the sector to rise to the challenge. First, more
investment resources will be channeled into agriculture through the
development budget (as described above), with as large a proportion of
these resources as possible going into directly productive projects. In
overall terms and allowing for price changes, the development expenditure
of the Ministry of Agriculture will be allowed to increase fourfold
between FY74 and FY78.    Second, the Government recognizes that these
increased resources will be difficult to absorb effectively without a
substantial increase in planning capacity, and is taking measures to
strengthen the capacity (see Part IV). Third, the Government recognizes
that if production is to increase, the farmers must be provided with the
right price incentives, particularly when costs of production are rising
so quickly, and that consumer prices must rise in tandem. The Government
has already increased the producer and consumer prices of most major
domestic farm commodities very substantially (see Annex I) and has under-
taken to keep them under review as input costs and other prices rise
over the coming years. Export duties on coffee and other agricultural
commodities have also been abolished.



-10-
25.       The Manufacturing Sector. Wqhile the greatest burden of
responsibility will fall on the agricultural sector over the next few
years, the basic economic report foresaw that industry would eventually
have to take over as the leading sector and therefore emphasized the
urgency to induce the sector to be a more efficient user of resources
than it has been in the past. Kenya's industrial sector will face a
particularly difficult problem during the coming years of adjustment
since it is almost wholly dependent upon imported capital equipment and
spare parts, and many manufacturers depend upon an uninterrupted flow of
imported raw materials and intermediates even to maintain existing
production. The thrust of government policy is therefore to shift the
emphasis of industrialization from import substitution to domestic
resource-based manufacturing and exports. A number of measures have
already been taken to this end. Foreign exchange and domestic credit
guidelines are being used to channel resources into the highest priority
uses in the sector; it is intended to move towards a lower and more
uniform tariff; and exports are being encouraged by increased promotional
activity and the introduction, in November 1974, of a 10 percent export
subsidy on manufactured exports outside the Community. At the same time,
the Government intends to reduce the preferences given in the past to
capital-intensive methods of production, to develop incentives for manu-
facturers to make more intensive use of existing plant and local sources
of supply, and to accelerate the development of small-scale industry,
particularly in the maintenance and spare parts sub-sector.
26.       These adjustments are necessary and urgent, but they cannot be
undertaken without careful study and without full recognition of the
unavoidable costs which will arise in the short term. The Bank has
offered to assist the Government in reviewing the priorities for future
development in the industrial sector and in formulating a national
assistance program for small businessmen. It is hoped that a Bank mission
will visit Kenya for this purpose towards the end of the year.
Other Measures to Conserve Foreign Exchange
27.       As described earlier, Kenya's strategy for conserving foreign
exchange during the next few critical years depends primarily upon its
proposed general macro-economic policies, the direct effect of the
government budget and the measures taken to stimulate domestic production
and exports. However, other specific measures have been taken or are
being considered. In dealing with the burden of oil imports, the Govern-
ment has so far relied primarily on the increased price itself to
dan-pen down demand. The full cost of oil imports has been passed on to
the consumer, and in the case of gasoline an additional tax has been
imposed on the consumer to restrain the use of passenger vehicles.    At the
same time the Government has accelerated the search for alternate energy
sources, although, at least in the short term, these are very limited.
The exploration of geothermal power sources has been pursued and the
initial results look promising, although even under favorable circumstances,



- 11 -
geothermal power cannot be expected to contribute significantly to Kenya's
energy supplies until the early 1980s. The next stage of hydroelectric
development is now going ahead; and a second Bank loan to assist the project
is to be presented to the Executive Directors shortly.
28.       It will probably be necessary also to find selective measures
to restrain inappropriate or non-essential imports. Although a limited
number of physical restrictions on imports have been imposed over the
last year on a selective basis, it remains the Government's policy not
to introduce general import controls except as a last resort in an
unmanageable balance of payments crisis. Other non-direct measures are
therefore being considered, including increased sales taxes, further
tariff reform (in conjunction with Tanzania and Uganda), the systematic
development of domestic repair and maintenance enterprises, the local
production of spare parts, and the withholding of credit from speculative
stock accumulation.
PART IV - THE PROPOSED PROGRAM LOAN
Introduction
29.       An initial request for a $100 million program loan was submitted
to the Bank in July, and a preappraisal mission visited Kenya in July/
August 1974 for preliminary discussions. The mission reviewed Kenya's
balance of payments position and discussed the major components of the
strategy which was being prepared by the Government. It was decided at
this stage that a smaller loan would be appropriate as an interim support
measure although the situation will have to be reviewed when the magnitude
of Kenya's resource gap and the possibility of other new sources of assis-
tance have become clearer. Following these initial discussions, the
Government's program was further refined in the latter part of 1974, and,
following the general elections, was appraised in January 1975.
Bank Staff Appraisal
30.       The Case for Program Lending.   The Bank staff is satisfied that
having regard to the special circumstances now facing Kenya, the proposed
loan is in accordance with the policy adopted by the Executive Directors
in regard to program lending. The Kenya Government has presented a revised
development program, with supporting economic and financial policies, which
is judged to be a satisfactory basis for the proposed loan, and by directly
supporting the program, as now articulated in the Sessional Paper, the
Bank Group can significantly increase the effectiveness of its lending
during this critical period in Kenya's development. In appraising Kenya's
development program, the Bank staff examined both the measures to contain
the balance of payments in the short term and the policies to achieve
equilibrium and restore full development in the longer term (see paras.
32-36).



-12-
31.       The Bank and other donors have accepted that Kenya, as one of
the countries most seriously affected by increased oil and other prices,
would require special assistance in adjusting to the unforeseen deteriora-
tion in the balance of payments without too great a disruption to her
development. The Government has succeeded in attracting a greater level
of project-related aid and is instituting measures to accelerate
disbursements on existing conmitm.ents. However, it is clear that the needed
additional transfer of resources in support of the developing program
cannot be achieved effectively and expeditiously by the financing of
further investment projects.
32.       Short-Term Measures.   The appraisal mission found that the
Government fully recognized both the seriousness of the evolving crisis
and the urgency for appropriate remedial action to be taken. The mission
concluded that the measures already taken by the Kenya Government to
contain the loss of foreign exchange in the short term were generally
sound and consistent with the direction of further adjustment required in
the longer term. This favorable assessment of the Government's short-
term measures is shared by the International Monetary Fund, which, in
assisting Kenya to cushion the immediate impact of recent events, has
worked closely with the staff of the Bank. The Kenya Government has made
systematic use of the short-term facilities available to it with the
Fund, 1/ and a Fund mission has recently visited Kenya to consider pro-
viding an extended Fund facility to support Kenya's medium term program
to restore balance of payments equilibrium.
33.       In addition to drawing on her facilities with the Fund, Kenya
has succeeeded in obtaining a significant increase in commitments from
traditional donors during 1974, including some quick-disbursing program
aid. The Government has also taken steps to secure more assistance from
private sources by forcing foreign companies operating in Kenya to borrow
abroad and by a greater, but still cautious, use of suppliers' credit
and export credits to finance individual projects. Kenya has so far had
little success in attracting financial assistance from oil producers, al-
though a recent mission from Iran has raised hopes that that country
may provide assistance in the future.
1/ By the end of 1974, Kenya has used most of her SDR holdings (SDR15.0
million out of SDR17.1 million), drawn the gold tranche (equivalent to
SDR12.3 million) and utilized 90 percent of her maximum access to the
Fund's 1974 oil facility (SDR32 million out of a total of SDR36 million).
In January 1975, Kenya made a first credit tranche drawing equivalent
to SDR12.0 million (of which SDR4.2 million was utilized for reconsti-
tuting her SDR holdings) and made a final drawing of SDR3.97 million
under the 1974 oil facility.



-13-
34.       The Medium-Term Program.   The Government recognizes, however,
that these actions are only emergency measures to contain the position
while a longer term strategy is being formulated, and has accordingly
given urgent attention to drawing .up policy proposals designed to re-
establish balance of payments equilibrium and maintain the pace of
development in the future. The proposals have, over the past year, been
augmented and refined to the point that they now represent an appropriate,
comprehensive and consistent program for national economic management
under the new and harsher circumstances which face Kenya.
35.       An important aspect of the program is the consistent effort
made to distribute the burden of economic hardship equitably and to
minimize the impact on those whom the Minister for Finance referred to
as "the poorer, weaker members of the community".   In opening his FY75
budget speech, the Minister emphasized that "it is these poorer members
of society who are in danger of being pushed aside in the rush of the
richer and stronger members to protect and improve their own economic
status.   In the difficult economic and financial circumstances in which
we find ourselves, as a result of raging inflation throughout the world,
that obligation to protect those less fortunate must be paramount in
our minds." The program appraised for the proposed loan is consistent
with this aim, in particular the emphasis on small-holder agriculture,
the shift towards labor intensive roads and a rural works program, the
wage/price guidelines, and the intention to increase taxes on wealth
and luxury consumption.
36.       In many instances, such as the decision to curtail education
expenditure and reduce real wages over the next few years, the Government's
proposals display courageous political leadership. In fact it must be
recognized that the program as a whole represents a very tough package of
measures which will not be readily accepted by a population which has
come to expect a rising standard of living including a labor force which
is already voicing its dissatisfaction over rising prices and falling
real wages.   Some measures -- such as the proposal to curtail the growth
of education -- will be particularly unpopular in that they may appear to
penalize the common man. However, the actions which have already been
taken, particularly the FY75 budget and the recent general increases in
agricultural pricing, actions which are central to the strategy of the
program, are convincing evidence of Government's level of commitment in
grappling with the problems facing the economy.



- 14 -
Assurances Under the Loan
37.       In the Sessional Paper, the Government confirmed its commitment
to promoting accelerated agricultural development, and has discussed various
measures for doing so. The Government already has drawn up preliminary
proposals for substantially strengthening the planning and implementation
capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture and has notified the Bank of its
intention to give urgent attention to implementing these proposals and to
securing the necessary local and expatriate staff.     The Government has
also confirmed its intention to consider measures in the near future which
would strengthen the planning and implementation capacity of other agencies
in the agricultural sector. Pending this major increase in capacity, the
Government and the Bank have agreed on an interim schedule of priority projects
which can be prepared and implemented within the existing capacity of the
Ministry of Agriculture, including major investments in sugar and wheat pro-
duction and further projects to support smallholder development.
38.       The Government has also agreed on the importance of maintaining
the cost/price incentives for agricultural production and has notified the
Bank that it intends to keep the level of agricultural prices under review
in the light of the cost of inputs and changes in incomes earned in other
sectors. It has also undertaken to announce agricultural prices and levels
of seasonal credit advances well before planting.
39.       These measures would go a long way towards boosting the absorptive
capacity of the agricultural sector. W4e intend to support this development
both through a further adjustment in our operations (see Part VI) and
through an increased level of technical assistance. The Bank has already
provided one agricultural planner to the Ministry of Agriculture and during
negotiations agreed to consider providing another senior staff member to
assist in the organization and management of the new planning unit, once
its structure and manpower needs had been determined.
Description of Project and Disbursement Procedures
40.       The proposed loan is designed to help finance the imports required
to maintain a reasonable level of production and momentum of investment while
long-term adjustments are being undertaken. The use of the loan is confined
to SITC categories 2, 5, 6 and 7 which comprise crude materials, chemicals,
manufactured goods, machinery and transport equipment. Manufactured fertilizers,
consumption goods and luxury items have been excluded from the eligible SITC
categories (see Schedule I of the Loan Agreement). Thus, by financing raw
materials, intermediate goods and capital equipment, the loan will directly
support the Government's objectives of expanding production from existing
capacity and channeling resources into productive new investments.



- 15 -
41.       Disbui.+ements will be made, on a reimbursement basis, against
full documentation including cancelled import licenses returned to the Central
Bank of Kenya under existing regulations controlling the allocation of foreign
exchange. Evidence of payment will be provided by commercial banks. No
reimbursement will be provided against imports for which other sources of
financing are secured. A minimum value of Sh. 20,000 (US$2,800) is proposed
for eligible invoices, although it is expected in practice that most of the loan
will be disbursed against much larger invoices.
42.       The import licensing system applies only to goods imported through
the private sector, which account for the overwhelming proportion of Kenya's
total imports. The commercial sector in Kenya is sufficiently diversified
and competitive to ensure efficient procurement, and all invoices eligible
for disbursement under the loan will have already passed through preshipment
quality and quantity inspection by the General Superintendence Company of
Switzerland. Since the loan will be wholly disbursed against private sector
imports, there are no provisions for formal international bidding. Procurement
from member countries (and Switzerland) accounts for over 95 percent of Kenya's
total imports.
Counterpart Funds
43.       The Government has agreed to onlend a sum equivalent to the counter-
part funds it will derive from the proposed loan to the Cereals and Sugar
Finance Corporation (CSFC) to finance seasonal crop purchases. The CSFC, a
legal entity within the Ministry of Finance and Planning, is the major conduit
for channeling seasonal financing into the agricultural sector. Until recently
its financial requirements were met principally by short-term borrowing from
commercial banks. However, since the recent credit squeeze, the commercial
banks have withdrawn their deposits, and the CSFC has been obliged to call on
the Government for short-term support.
44.       The Government has agreed to make the counterpart funds available
to the CSFC (through normal budgetary procedures) as permanent working
capital, on terms and conditions to be specified in a subsidiary loan agree-
ment satisfactory to the Bank. In this way, the local currency proceeds from
the proposed loan can be productively channeled into the agricultural sector
and relieve the liquidity squeeze of the CSFC, without undermining the
financial discipline which the Government is trying to impose on the major
spending Ministries.
PART V - FUTURE PROSPECTS
45.       On the optimistic assumption that all the measures provided for
in the Government's program will be successfully implemented, the prognosis
for Kenya's growth and balance of payments is still not very encouraging



- 16 -
(see Annex I). While the projections are necessarily very tentative and
subject to large margins of error, it seems likely that production can grow
at a rate of no more than 4.5 to 5.0 percent a year during the period up to
1978. While much lower than the target growth rate set in the Plan (7.5
percent) and even less than the revised Government projections (over 6 per-
cent), a 5 percent growth rate would allow for some dynamism in the economy
while structural changes were taking place, including an increased export
performance. Private sector consumption could just keep pace with population
growth, provided the efficiency of investment is increased significantly and
provided Government expenditure is held to the ceilings imposed by the
three-year budget.
46.       The major constraint to growth over the next few years will of
course be the balance of payments.   In projecting Kenya's resource gap, we
have assumed a rapid expansion of exports and a very slow growth of imports,
which would result from major import substitution (paper, sugar, wheat),
price elasticity and a lower level of domestic activity.    However, as a
result of the anticipated further decline in the terms of trade (see para-
graph 8), the reduction of the resource gap to manageable proportions would
be slow and would continue through 1978.
47.       The Government's efforts to secure additional commitments of con-
ventional and extraordinary financing have met with generally positive
reactions and as a result, the larger part of the net overall deficit in
1975 can be covered by anticipated capital inflows. The anticipated capital
inflows include conventional public and private sources, further resort
to various oil facilities (IMF, EEC, UN and Arab Fund), use of IMF facilities
and the proposed program loan. A similar broad effort would have to be made
for 1976, and this and following years will require additional flows of
resources -- from as yet unidentified sources -- in order to close the residual
payments gap. These could represent additional borrowing from OPEC countries,
a continuation of some form of oil facility, a greater resort to commercial
borrowing, or some combination of these resources.
48.       For the time being, in view of the uncertainty surrounding the
future, it is reasonable to leave some of the anticipated gap unfilled. It
seems likely that the program of action identified by the Government -- with
its built-in restraints on incomes, consumption and employment -- may well
be the maximum which can be politically feasible in the immediate future.
If additional external resources prove to be unavailable, or if the terms of
trade deteriorate even faster, Kenya will have no alternative but to make
further adjustments to the domestic economy, including a further reduction
in the growth rate. The possibility is recognized by the Government, which
has undertaken to set up a monitoring and early warning system, so that any
future deterioration in the economic position can be quickly identified and
remedial measures put into action.



- 17 -
49.       In the past the Kenya Government has followed a conservative
policy with regard to external borrowing. Since independence, Kenya has
accumulated new commitments at a rate of about 8.5 percent per year, or
somewhat less than the rate of growth of the economy as a whole in current
prices. As a result, Kenya's debt service burden is still comparatively
light (4 percent of exports in 1974, excluding Kenya's share of East African
Community debt), and the country could if necessary resort to moderate
borrowing on commercial terms during the next few difficult years, without
impairing long-term creditworthiness. At the end of 1974 total debt outstanding
amounted to $722 million, of which $455 million had been disbursed.    About
36 percent of total external debt is now held by the Bank Group, but because
Bank Group lending has only recently become a significant proportion of Kenya's
debt, debt service to the Bank Group in 1974 was still only about 13 percent
of all debt service payments. 1/ In addition to its own external public debt,
Kenya is also jointly responsible together with the other two Partner States
for the debts incurred by the East African Community and its institutions,
which amounted to some $300 million (including undisbursed) at the end of
1974. Allowing for a nominal one-third of service payments on these debts,
Kenya's debt service ratio is about 6 percent.
50.       In spite of the much greater need for external capital now facing
the country, Kenya is still following a cautious policy in her external
debt management, although, with moderate success, the Government is trying
to make greater use of suppliers' or exports credits to finance some of the
larger projects now ready for implementation. Under the assumptions made
by the Bank staff about future balance of payments, Kenya's external debt
will have to increase considerably over the next decade if the target balance
of payments gap is to be filled, and it can be expected that borrowing would
be on average terms less favorable than Kenya has enjoyed in the past.
However, since export earnings will increase during the period as well, the
debt service ratio would probably not exceed 11 percent by the end of the
1970s. By that time it is estimated that the Bank Group might hold about 40
percent of total disbursed debt and receive over 20 percent of debt service
payments. Beyond 1980, creditworthiness will depend on Government ability
to take action in the near future to increase the productivity of investments,
to reduce the import propensity, and to increase exports.
PART VI - BANK GROUP 0PERATI0NS IN KENYA
51.       The proposed loan would be the twelfth loan to Kenya, bringing
the total of Bank funds committed to US$154.9 million. In addition, Kenya
has received seventeen IDA credits, totalling US$135.7 million. IFC has
1/ IBRD's share of total debt outstanding, including undisbursed, was 18.4%
and IDA's share 17.7%; IBRD's share of debt service payments in 1974 was
11.7% and IDA's share 1.4%.



made three investments in Kenya, amounting to US$25.9 million. Annex TI
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments,
and provides notes on the execution of ongoing projects in Kenya and of
Bank loans extended to the East African Community Corporations. On the
whole, ongoing projects in Kenya are progressing satisfactorily, although
the shortage of qualified personnel in engineering and other technical fields
continues to impede progress on some projects.
52.       Most of our lending to Kenya in the past has been for transport
and public utilities, although the Bank Group has made an important contri-
bution through both its financing and its technical assistance, to other
sectors, notably agriculture and forestry, education and family planning.
However, in recent years we have aimed to broaden the basis of the Bank
Group's operations in Kenya, and, in particular, to put more emphasis on
agriculture and other directly productive projects which are likely to bring
more immediate benefits to large numbers of people and expand Kenya's foreign
exchange earnings.
53.       With these objectives in mind, the Bank agreed with the Government
on a program for expanding the Bank's technical assistance in agriculture,
beginning with the agricultural sector survey that was mounted in late 1972.
We have also provided an expanded program of assistance in project identifica-
tion through the Regional Mission in Nairobi, and have provided an agricultural
planner to the Ministry of Agriculture. This emphasis on the agriculture
sector is starting to show results. An IDA credit and a Bank loan totalling
$15 million for a Group Farm Rehabilitation Project was approved by the Executive
Directors earlier this year, and a second forestry project is to be presented
shortly. A broadly conceived integrated crop production project, designed to
benefit a large number of small farmers is due to be appraised soon, and prepara-
tion is under way for an irrigation project in the Lower Tana River Basin and
for the rehabilitation and expansion of the sugar industry.
54.       While these results are encouraging, they are only a beginning, and
it is hoped that in its future lending to Kenya the Bank Group will not only
help to maintain the pace of development by transferring more resources, but
will also be able to support the restructuring of investment which underlies
the Government's medium term program. The proposed program loan does this
directly by supporting the program as a whole, but the Bank Group can also play
an important role through the selection and design of projects, the provision
of technical assistance and the strengthening of institutions. For example,
over the next few years, we intend to prepare an average of three agricultural
projects a year for Bank Group financing, with the help of a major Bank
technical assistance effort. In education we expect that the Bank's partici-
pation in the proposed national review commission will result in an intensified
dialogue over the difficult choices facing the country in the education sector
and may eventually lead to a sector loan for education. We would also intend



- 19 -
that the Bank's future support for highways will be through sector lending.
Finally, it is envisaged that the Bank will play an even greater role in
financing projects which are targeted at the poor, including labor-intensive
roads, rural water supplies, and further urban development projects, as
well as the heavy emphasis on the small farmer in agriculture.
55.       Yet while the major emphasis of our operations will be on directly
productive agriculture and on innovative projects in other sectors, we shall
also help provide the necessary infrastructure and services to support the
continued growth of the economy.   Three major projects (an oil pipeline,
further hydroelectric power and a major water supply scheme) will be presented
to the Executive Directors in the near future. In view of the high capital costs
of these projects, the Government is seeking a substantial proportion of the
financing required from bilateral sources and from export credit agencies. In
addition, a second project for the Industrial Development Bank is being prepared.
56.       The difficulties facing the East African Community Corporations have
affected the Bank's lending program for the Community. As a result of the
agreement between the Partner States in July 1974 on measures to rehabilitate
the East African Railways Corporation the Executive Directors approved a pro-
posal on November 5, 1974 to allow the EARC to use the uncommitted portion of
Loan No. 647 EA, amounting to about $7.4 million, for consulting services and
to help support an emerging investment program. However, since EARC corporate
funds are not being transferred in accordance with the agreed formula and Sh 60
million, out of a total of Sh 150 million the Partner States agreed to inject
into EARC, have not been paid, the EARC's right to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account from Loan No. 647 EA was suspended in February 1975, pending
action on both these issues. Furthermore, in the current state of uncertainty
regarding the future structure of the Community Corporations' appraisal of
further proposed Community projects for Corporations which may have structural
changes have been postponed until the issues mentioned above have been clari-
fied. The Bank has throughout this difficult period provided assistance to
facilitate solutions to the problems facing Community Corporations. This
effort is continuing but these fundamental and complex problems will not be
easily resolved.
57.        IFC has committed a total of $25.9 million for three companies in
Kenya (Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties Ltd.; and
Tourism Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.). As of January 31, 1975 IFC held
for its own account $17.9 million comprising $13.3 of loans and $4.6 of
equity. IFC is discussing with the technical partner, SEDITEX, and the
Industrial Commercial Development Corporation a proposal to set up a new
textile mill in Nakuru. IFC is also considering assistance to the sugar
industry and is discussing the possibility of assisting small-scale industries
through local commercial banks.



- 20 -
PART VII - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Kenya and the
Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of a resolu-
tion approving the proposed Loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
59.       I am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VIII - RECOMMENDATION
60.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 6, 1975



SOUNThI DATA - KSNYA
AREA                                                 PO)PUJLATIANi                                JENSTY
582,1K! kOT2                                          12's  sA1llies (hd-2972)
P-r mNorf ..table lend
SOCIAL MII0ATORS
GE PR  aIT  12 (ATLA tRASIS)                                  .           130 /o            15 /a        71/a         30/
Cru"de death rats (for thousand)                                   o Ta        1               22 A 
Infant mortality rata (pe thoucand lice births)                    ..5,;                    3/-15              .a0be
Life sopuotan-y at birth (years.)                               05/c            (                11'
Population growth rats                                            ...2 If                       .3.0 /f       2.2 /1       2.2  f
Pep,flotlen gr-th rate - urban                                                    7    n             Q-Q        6, .0        2
Ago strutur    (p--cnt
0-lb                                                           (:.IL.8I                        1A~ iI                    Li. Ia
15-60                                                            , 7-         LIT A             si           527A         56 A,
65 aol on..                                                                                       T,esA7
o  /neelc'oo" ratio /1                  1.1 2n        iU  01          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0. 70in    7.,
%ouectc d'oc rn-ac  clOTh                  *1          i.i -            5~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~.2 -   1.
/theb- pop.!uioiuon'cusao       total                                                             7 n 1  ~~.2 ~ L  l         J  7
Fusitspl ftoc,io  , i of ouu-prt-  ouialti-s (thaus.)              .       
A.. bo u...co (K of ....nisd w,n 
Tute    labor foco  ;ooaoe                                      3,3CCn I'5,05Ls                 5    Ao5. ir  '5, 50A Ia 
IACOKE DISTRIBUTION
Poruont ofotuoltn,,t ndi .   -oeiend by highout 5%                 ....1.A /c                                    5 I- -
P,rusa  of -uti-oo   i-cueota-ied by hiahut 20%                                                                  7   ,1
Pe-st of coin)inc-e       ton-nd by blghoet 20%                                                    A          1
Pocuc o of  atbooI1000      ceoulnu  by 3esot hO%                                 .               pT            2,
DISTRIBUTION OF LARID 5a2RSIAP
%     op 7 ct% of rult                                        . .
% oeoad by sals      10% of 2sst
HEALTH ADD NRUTRITION
Pupolotoo per phyeioia                                         11,000 b.c     7,630 Is        23  20t /I     2'10) I       0,0
Popolotion put oorslsg person                                   1,61S  eo     1,5.70 A-        L,8.u 77i    1,/i6  A-       B0,
Popbletiso Per haspital bsd                                       570 t   ,     270      0        7 DO       1,920           5
Per capita colois supply as 5 of rsqoirsessts 15                  117  A.       101l              711-~I
P,er .aPito prtlo su Pply, totaI graze    P., day)/                25A           21
O/f ohc,  -eOlad poles                                           1a T.         23                              slo
Death tote 1-4 yeses /7
EDUCATION
Adjusted ID crinory -ohoul set.ollest tatie                         :9           6/                                         l
Adjuste d 70 se-ondory cuhonl ...roll-et ratio                                                     37.Iu  lo  ,IA
YI.a.s of -h-ollsg pr-ibded, first en    scnd   lanai1-            ii            13               13            32
Vuuatbn-l e-roll..tt as 5 af se. school Lnobast1                                  2                iIa          15 It           I
Adult Literac.y rate 5                                             .             3  br..i                          coo.L
HOUSING
Average to.. of pursues put rues (urb.o)                          y.    .         ...                          2-7
Paruent of ooupled units eithoat pipud water                       ......oAr
A...... to elsutriolty (an 5 of total popolatisn)                  .....50
P...net af t-ra   poplatoan oe--eted to sinotcluity                .                               .30
CANSIJXPTIO;l
Radio re-ilners pur IODO poPulatIon                                              '8 Ia            I / /a       120 /0       121c.
Pa.ssenge  oar ...Pur 1000 Popoletiso                               S ld        d                  37 A   d      2T.         1o
El-otric Pose   cssusptiae (kwh p.c.)                              50            38               31 P         392Z.:       301A
Newsprist on-suept;on p.c. kg pur year                            0. 1,         0.5 l            0.1 A1        3.7 Ia       3.8 A
Notos   Figur-    cef.r ethet to the lciest p-i.lod  or to            asooaet of ae-tr-,eetl teepuratore, bodly wihs         n
the Int-nt yrats     Lnt-et petid  refer is ptinriple to              ditetrbhaton by age and see of natinal popolatiena.
the Years 1956460 or 1966-70; the latest yearn Ao prAn-           /6  protei standards (requtreoeta) for all... tooitte      as estb-
olp1o to 1960 and 1970.                                               lished by USDA En...omio R.esarch Service pranide for a ainbou
aI  The Fer Copito GNP ontiate is at -nrkit pri-e for                 allowance of 62 granD of total proteIn per day, and SO grzes of
ye...ou0oth- thue 15'l2,-oLoolted by the   .ct coo-esloa          animal and polee proteIn, of   hahih 10 grans should ho anilea
ts tiqa  nhe 1972 World book Atlen                         pretto.i    These standards are e-eebt Iwer than those of 75
A   -derage enhbr of daughters per au-a  of reprodootive            grar  of tetal prateto and 23 graze   of anleal protein as a
uge.                                                              averge for the world, propone.d by FAO in tho   Third World Food
a3  Popolotlc- growth rot-o arc for the deonden ending in             Sou-.Y.
1960 and 1970.                                                /7  Som  stodiss have suggested that crods death cotos of children
IL lot/il of oupulot/ec uodor 15 and 65 sod 0cr to popula-            ages I through    nay he used as a fIrst appreateetlo   inde  of
tAut of 4100 15-61i foe oj:c depeodceo; r.Lio -cd to 1at-r        slotol
forc   of ugn- 15,-6, for oe ..onio dvp-ndocy r-cAo.          lbPer.oetge enrolle      of  --rcsp-doltg pepulatin of school age
ra  ecrr   - oaondt -prua-or p,.i.ylaloioal i-             as d.fefs  for each soantry.
qlcenofor oorenl actiity and health, tahing
Ia  1272:     A5  Iainoa.d Tanzania;     Ic   ITerivt     for African Pnpulsti-, he-d on a-ly,io of dats fre         1962 poe,t-
occu-1 oouplv nacy;       /d   01vlbsn      for 1265-70;     Is  19~7;   If   12'0-22;    /9  1022;        I    2,000 or crnm
ineioiit-ctr;    ai 'Tngaaylhk   only;   _/    15 gacetted towobIpo, l'1575-67;     /b   eno.l cAt:, aod -cuicpalitjen of
5, 000n oca~n.;/a Proolnined tuwoahips, a-oordlng to enlargod Un.its an of August 1963, Pion tho toan of Mokhrurg;
19/2;      _a  Aaod son copletc ens-t-tin       of non-Afri-a population and of arban    Afrlc-n puplatiun and 00 a 10 po-
c-nl ounpic of rural AfrAces epipulot/un;      Is  1969;     /r  Lebor fur..c in oge bira.hkt 15-59;    /5 16 g-retted to....hipo;
It  1971;    Is  Sober on thc register, not all nothing In the      -uontry;   at  Ircluding   ildiccos, snnitst..  aldaice  and
-reuro     /u  3973;   LI. Estimate;    I.   1968;   I.  1oclud5ng teacher7tra.isin   at the third 1-ce;      a   H ...osholds;
a  i  yearo ood -ner;   Ion   1961;   /nh   Definition of literacy   -koulc;    I-   Water piped inside1    lad   Includiag cehicle-
op-Lstd by joiouo   - or ther gv-ro-ent snen.rity organ.Lnotn and llgnt     -   -ieeril -ehilcln    o   Regiotered only.
Mar    o   boo I~ee e-1-t-d 00 on -oaplo of a predoomai.ntly ogicutra              nooaoy, oich if, fu11owiog: ...nenlighe-cdd
f00i0i( 00 cino te  t di--infy productiun and pro....     occtlvraltd iuduunraioaj-io.-
Ri April 21, 1275



.ANNEX I
KOOI     U-VIPW DATA                                                  Page 2 of 5 Pages
%AM0ounts In ailli1nne of U.S. dollars)
NATIOKAL ACCOGEID                     ~~~~~~~~                    ~~Actual  Projected  l9 ~1964 -        19713 -   17       95     17
NATIOT,AL ACCOITNIZ ~ ~       ~                          1975    19T                         172      1978
At 1973 prices and Exchtange Rates       Average Annua! G~rowth Rates       AP ercen.t of GDY
Gross Domrestic Product                              2.,337    2,442     2-.575   2,703     2,981             6.7       5.0     100.0   106.1   107.6
Gains from T'erms of Trade (+)-                                 - 66      -148     -162      -211.
Gross Domestic Income                                2,337     2,376    ~~                   ,7                 .        .      0.       0.      0.
exports 'inicl.. NwS)                                  728        780       604     814      835               6.1      2.5     31.2     33.1    30.1
ExLI t        (import capacity)                       6_75-       586     _601      633      710               2.8      1.0     28.9     24.8    25.6
9e5ourc, cap                                            53        194       203     181      125                                  2.3     8.4     4.5
Consomptior, Su-penditurcs                           1,797     1,905     1,962    2,030     2,156             6.6       3.7     76.9    80.8     77.8
in-estmnt    11(incl. stocks)                          593       665        668     692       739             11.6      4.5     25.4     27.5    26.7
Domestic Savings                                       540       471        465     511       614              3.9      2.6     23.1     19.2    22.2
National Savings                                       518        441       445     491       594              5.0      2.6     22.2     18.3    21.4
MER1CHAI;O!i,F TPADE                       Annual Data at Current Prices                                                       As Percent of Total
Tienort 5
Ciapital goods                   122.4    170.5    175.2                                                                     2.
Intermediate Foodis   lfinels)   173.2    214.7    272,6                                                                     43.1
iInand rp2at.ed materials      41.3     47.4     67.0                                                                     10.6
o'w h:Petr,leina         (41.3)   (47.4+)   (67.0)                                                                   (10.6)
Co-usurf,lone c-oods            105.8    128.1     117.6                                                                     18.6
Tot-i I  err. Torports (ric)     442.7    5~60.2   632.4                                                                    100.0
5.rL- y prodicts (excl. fuels)   144. 7   135.8    256.2                                                                     54.7
Fiels and related materials       40.3     51.4     61.7                                                                     13.2
o, which: Petroleum            (40.3)   (51.4)   (61.7)                                                                   (13.2)
---5-         ~~~~~103.6  112.6  150.1                                                                     32.1
(folr) 1/  288.6    299.8   -TT0                                                                       100.0
Tcuri so a-id Porder  Trace      25        76       70
lller,handi so Tr:,de indices                         1973'  100
Export Price~ !nd,x                                 100       142        140     153        169
Imort,r Pr-ice Index                                100       156        176     194        222
T,rms of Trade Index                                100        91         79      79         76
F.rrorts Volume, Index                              100        92        110     117        137
VAItTE AliDED; BY SECTOR          Axnnual Data at 1964    Pie a-nd Exchange rates             Average Annual Growth Rates       As Percent of Total
1964   1972       1973                                             1964-1972                 19V64   19/2__  19/3
Ag,riculture                     437     686      739                                                  5.8                    23       20      20
Indunstry and MIning             370    711       790                                                 8.5                    20       21       22
Service                       -1Q84    1,983.   2...nn                                                 7.8                   57        59      56
Tntal                          1.891   3.380    3,629                                                  7.5                  100       100-    100
RIBLIC FTNPJiCE                                tes                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As Percent of GDP
CeTr",   Dm-'eovrncsent)           64/65   71/72   72/73        73/74     74/75   75/76      77/78
Current Feceipts                 138     39 8     4_1Z9-     5~3 6       60O5    6-71       941                                       19.7
Cuirrent Expen~oditures          159    337       374         444        440     511        647                                       17.5
- -ndtu   s     -i              -21     61       45          9-2      1T65-     160        294                                       2.2-
DeNelopaont Budget                38    145       173         165       247      322        420                                       8.1
CUERENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS  Ac,ual  Prelim.  Est.       DETAIL 014                               ~~~US $ million
CuThiEitI EXPENDIT1JDE LETAlLS  Actual  Prelim.  Est.     Pro.j.       DTIONAt erd 1975/76 P and ER
A~ITotal Current Expend.)       I1914/il" ~~/f3      12 7 74   1974/7    1377/7C      PUTLIC SECTOR                                  %7 of Total
7ducaticn                             11      28          27       -28        27~      tINVESTMENT PROGRAI4                (1974 /75  - 1977 /78)
Oti,er Social Servies                 8       10          9          9         9       Social Sectors                      199             16
Agricultt.re                           9        6          8          7         7       Agriculture & Water Development     445             35
Other Econiomic Servi"ces              3       11         10        17         15       Industry sand Mining                 42              3
Administration and Defense            30       27         26        26         21       Power  and Cosesunications           78              6
Other                                 39       16         20        13         21       Tranisport and construction         232             18
Total Current Expenditures           ioo     100         1oo       100        100-      Other                               28772
____________________________________________________________________________  TotallExpendituressUSS$1,2766millionn   100'!
SELECTED IIIDICATORS                                        1965-             1973-       F-INANCING,
(Calculated from 5-year averaged data)                      1970              1978
Ave~rage TCCP.                                               3.3              5.18           P5dblic S,ctor Savings            389            30
Import Elasticity                                            1.0             o.5o            Domestic Borrowing               347             27
9lrginal Domestic Savings Nate                               0.29            0.17            Foreign Project Aid                              41
Marginal National Savings Rata               ~~~~~~~~~~0.22   0.18            Total Financi-ng           US$ 1,276 million    1007.
lAbOR FORCE ANDI                              Total Labor Force                                Value Added Per Worker (1971 --     Prices   Exo. Rates)
OUJTISIT PER WORKER                  In Mlillions               7, of Total                      In U.S. Dollars               Percent of Average
1971                        1971                             1971                              1971
A,griculture                            4,647                        86                               109                                36
Industry                                  141                         3                            1,426                               475
.,ervice                                  301                         6l.~                                                              2
Total                        ~~~~~~~5,377                 100                              300                                100
not applicable        -nil or negligible            p - preliminary
r nt avail1able   -- less, than halt' th,             I/  including unspecified exports and re-exports                           NACPIC
smallest 55nCt shown        1/l Non-oil                                                                  rl2,17
3/  oil                                                                    Aprl2,15



ANNEX
RAIANCE OF PAYKENTS, TEXT8NAL ASSISMTAIE A03D DEBT
Avg. Annual         Ang. Annual
Ac tual                                                      P-j~g~Irj-e ed                   Growh eats           Growth Rats
1970       1L971       192         193          114E9                    1_97 6      197         1978        17 3   -    98         1974-1978
SUMMARY BAOUNCE OF PAYMEN1TS
Eu7p-tu (i-el. DFS)                   4273. 2     508.9       557. 6      6 75 .0     894. 3        1033.1      1177. 7     1312.1     1105.7                   17.4          13.9
-  r.:                       3~~~~  ~   ~~~~~~     ~~~~24. 9  654.8  631.2-  7 28 .1  1190.6  1367.5  1030.8      1640.5      1760.0                   19.3         10.3
'-M)         -51.7     ~~-145.9     -73.6       -31         -CW"                       331        -283q.0     -254.3                   37.0         -3.8
Ineet (not)                          4. 8        2.1        4.5        -2.0 
[liven'- IccerurcocI-c-           -27. 7      -26. 9       - 28.89   -43.4       )-56.8         )-53. 2    356.7O       -588       361.i                    (6.1          (2.0
_4                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.1
_ _ _     _                -49.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"0  -124 -70.6   -74.9       -3_2                      -3_931.                      7s
g. i'e Ldr.. tc e-rs 5ru6.4                       58.8         59.9       47.3        56.0           66.0        45.0       "I8.0        75.0                   9 .56 0
o.Picl GI-oit 4/-                          --                     --
alrnoec                             30. 3       48. 1        66. 5     60. 9        62.0          104.0       136. 0      143.0       147. 0                 195 2         24.0
___----- __7.03                                   7. 8        10.7      12. 7        18.8           16.40       22 .0      jj.       ....ZL.12              .A.0L           20. 0
23.0        48.3         51.8      48.2         4.4.0          88 .0      114. 0     116.8       119.0                   19. 7         215.2
lrTsl.rrsucoolc                                                           ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~                          ~      ~~~~~~~~~214.4  187. 9  140. 6  1132.7--
-Onflcyrcrtio                                                               ~     ~     ~     ~     ~~~   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -  5.0  15.8
:.rc Dtuh---tcc                                                             -7Z                                    V         135.6       973.7-
Actcn1                    Eutioted
..p Tnl r-.naci-rl;o -0.i. 2/       20. 3     -52. 1       -10.2        9.4        137.5                                      E.22     1.2.      12J      12          197'   pl
.Ic  n-Oc 4,'n-vc  3/             -50. 7      65 .4       -34.9      -30. 2       84.0         DEE AND0 DBT SERVICE
P.ubic Debt Out. &, liebup-d   283. 7   3(1 .8    366. 6    431.3       445.8
-,  .   .  .r .                                                         In~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1toeet on PublIc Debc  11 .5  62 .3  14. 8  16.1  I 1. 2
RePoYnlents no Public Debt     7 .3      7.08     15).    712. 7       IS.63
Total Public Debt SereSc      10.8      26. 1    23.5      28.8        3c . 
[415                        0~~   ~    ~~~~   ~   ~~~~    ~~. 3  33.0  29 .0  34.0  1 0.4  BOthe  Debt Se-ic.c (5*t)    . 
rN                                   10. 7                   2870.        -          335           Total ,Debt Se-ier (net)       ..        ..        .
(StARr Hal  r .rc3          1~~    ~   ~~~~         ~~.5  3 .5  I .                    B-rden ut-Onnet
looerrcr.rrrr..             ~~~~   ~   ~~~~    ~~15. 5  40.4  26.0  55.72   95. 7                   .    Drory 
lupplire.:                1.1         7,3~~~~~~~~~~~~~25 17 3  -. 6                    Public Debt Sorocce            4.0      35        4.6       4.3         L.1
.3 Ten> cccrnc.u  -  2.5       17.3         1.6          -          ~~~Total Debt Serice-.                    . 
-  -        -           -           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PD100D.r-t T-unet. mbc.  9.8  9.2  9.8  10.7        10.4
0.1          - 
.rc,          ~~~~    ~~42.2  7.7     94.3        919         138.6       A-erage Tene  uf Public Debt
Actual Debt lotetouding 00 Dec_. 3, 1974  p./      Iet.t00 % PriurYour 1336       4.3       4.3       4.7       4.4         4.5
15136 15'31                     ns~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dibsrsd DNly  occtAs-rt,                         a    Prior Tear DO&Dl   2.7       2.8      3.4       3.5         1.6
..'nrfld ARch                        ~~~~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~62.2  14.0
i5                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~74.6   16.7                      lBRD Debt Iot. & Dibursed
crp   II-     er.                                 4.9                    1.1                        c     % Public Debt CltD       1.9       3.0       8.9      17.4        04.0
.eonrr~~~~~~~~~JOO(rc. ~~~~~~~~247.4                         55.5                       c      % Public Debt Se.. ne    7.6       2.1      5.4      10.0        11.7
.oj.rl lots                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9.9    2.2
eic.,,c4.,l Inr-c,rulionu            ~~~~         ~          ~~19.4  4.4               IDA Debt Cut. 4 Disbursed
rornlc                              ~~~~          ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~27.4  6.1      05 9 Pblic Debt 060         11.2      11.2      13.6      15.8        16.7
iiiibir. in-..  1                              -                        -                           a 9 Pblic Debt S.-rei       6.8       1.2      1.3       1.7         1.4
cia.. Prilin Mtl.T Debt            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~445.0   100.0
'.thee 44T DrUm~
Dlne-trolo  (dieb. c-ly)
rcUappli-nuel                                                s   teff estiewte
cnt coollike                                                - nil er negligible
rri eioblo -epr-tely                                     --less tIns baif tbe
.'Estieelcd -oqor-d -opittl iuflc-                             I/ Seluded ieeureerranst      rs(nor).
2/' Includes ol   co    of iDRa, nor n-e- and    i-i-s-es        P/  I'ster      igor-..ECl
3/  Iu  -dcue f DF credit.                                                                                                                  April 23, 1973



Aitx I
Page 4 of 8
Table I. Vo1xme and Lad Use of Kenya's Imports, 1969-74
1969      19770    1971     1972     1973     1974
-   (rdillion)
Frorn outside Eas-, Africa   117.0     1h2.Q    126.1    177.6    2o5.8    353.0
of which: comr.mercij-.   (100.7)   (126.5)  (162.3)  (160.3)  (187.4)    r.
goverrnmnent    (16,3)    (15.5)   (1.3)   (17.3)   ( 1 8.4)  n.a.
.From Ugc.nda and Tanzania    11.8      16.0     16.0     13.5     12.3    1365
Total In,ooi>ts              123.8     178.0    200.1    191.1    2=8.1    366 .5
(Percoentages)
interried-LtAe consunption    59.5      57.7     56.4     55.3
Canital fornatiori            17.7      19.4     19.7     22.5         riot
Finl houisehoi-d conslumtion  18.7     18.8     19.3     17.7      available
Govermenat consumption         4i 4.1            .46     ___
To t                         T i.00.0  100.0    100.0    100.0



Pae    o-f  3
Table 2. Composition of Kenya's Imports, 1970-74
(Percentages)
1970     1971    1972    1973    197h
(a) By Broad Economic Categories (All Imports)
1.  Food and Beverages, of which:                8.3      9.5   10.0     9.9
for household consumption                 (5.1)    (6.5)   (7.7)   (5.6)
for industrial use                        (3.2)    (3.0)   (3.3)   (4.3)
2. Industrial Supplies                          36.0    35.2    34.6    38.7
3. Fuels and Lubricants                          9.3      8,5   10.7    10.6      H
4. Machinery and capital equipment              14.7    15.9    18.9    18.6      C
5. Transport Equipment, of which:               16.7    17.8    13.8    11.2
passenger vehicles                        (3.8)    (3.3)   (3.1)   (2.1)
6. Consumer Goods                               11.9    12.4    11.3    10.7
7.  Other imports, n.e.s.                        3.0     0.6     0.7     0.2
Total                                      100.0    100.0  100.0   100.0
(b) By SITC Categories (Excluding EAC Imports)
0. Food and Live Animals                         3.9     6.0     7.2     6.9     4.3
1. Beverages and Tobacco                         0.6     0.8     0.6     0.7    04
2. Cruade Materials                              2.0     2.4     2.4     2.7     2.4
3. Mineral Fuels                                10.3      9.1   11.5    11.0    23.0
4.  Oils and Fats                                1.4      2.0     1.9    2.2     2w2
5.  Chenicals                                   10.4     10.0   10.8    12.3    14.7
6. Manufactured Goods (by material)             25.8     24.5    21.7   25.0    24.2
7. Machinery and Transport Equipment           34.2     35.2    34.7    31.1    22.6
8. Misc. Manufactured Articles                   8.0     9.3     8.3     7.7     5.8
9. Misc. Transactions & Commodites               3.4      0.7    0.8     0.4     o.4
TOTAL                                      100.0    100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0
of which, SITC categories 2, 5, 6 and 7    (72.7)   (72.1)   96     (71.1)  (639)



AINNEX I
Page o of o
Table 3. Imports by Country or Origin, 1970-7h
(E millions)
Members             1970         1971         1972        1973        197L
Tanzania and Uganda       16.0        16.0          13.5       12.3         13.5
Other Africa               1.8         2.7           2.7        2.3          h.2
EEC                       71.0         95.h         92.4       99.3        1l8.1
Other Europe               6.6         8.9           9.h       12.9         19.0
North & South America     13.0         19.4         15.6       20.9         25.1
Middle East               1h.3         15.6         18.8       21.0         71.2
Far East & Australasia    25.8        34.6          31.9       41.2         68.3
Total Members            77.T (9h%) 192.9 (96%)   -14.5 (97%) 209.9 (96%)     T(95'
Non-Members
Eastern Europe             3.0          5.0          3.7        3.9          9.6
Far East                   1.2         1a            1.2        1.6          4.3
Total Non-Members         7__          6.4         7__          _7          13.9
Parcel Post, etc.          7            5            1.7                     3.2
TOTAL IIPORTS            158.0        200.1        191.1      218.1        366.



AI'lNE'X 1
Page 7 of 8
Table 4. Adjustments to Controlled Prices of
Major Agricultural Commodities
(Sh. per 100 kg.)
1972          1973          1974          L975
Maize                Jan. 38.89                    Feb. 44.44    Jan.  72.22
(Grade I)                                         Aug. 50.00
Oct. 55.55
Wheat                 Jan. 5o.61      Sept. 64.44  Feb. 77.78    Jan. 111.11
(Grade 2-5)                                      Aug. 88.89
Oct.100.00
Rice Paddy           Jan. 65.00                                  Jan. 120.00
(Basmati)
Sugar Cane           Jan.  4.53                    Feb.  6.00    Jan.   9.00
(Coast Region)       Apr. 5.00
Beei4/               Jan.  4.50       July   4.90                Jan. Decontrolled
(c.d.w.)             Feb.   .702
Yilkz-                                July  72.00                Jan.  82.50
(100 liters)
g/ Prices paid by Kenya Meat Commission for prime quality.
2/ Prices for other grades were increased in December 1972.
2/ Prices paid by the Kenya Co-operative Creameries.



Oage b of b
Table 5. Cof:r olled Retail Prlces
For Seiec1-,ec ConsumtioLn Goods
In Nairobi Area
(S.per Kg)
August     February
1972        1973        1974        1975
Sifted Mlaize Wheat           0.85                    1.10        1.40
(Grade I)
Bread:
Brown                       1.60        1.90        2.20        2.80
White                       1.70        2.10        2.ho        3.00
Sugar                         1.85        2.40                    3.50
Milk (per liter)              i.60                    1.60        1.80
Me at/
with bone                   6.40                                7 4A
without bone                7.60                                8.60
go.t/nutton                 7.60                                9.00
Rice:
Grade II                    1.65        1.65        2.25        2.30
Grade I                     1.75        1.75
Basmati                     2.00        2.50        3.4o        3.45
j/ Maximum prices for better quality cuts were higher in 1975.



ANWEX '
Page I of 7
TUE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERAT'IONS IN KENYA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as at March 31, 1975
(US$ million)
Loan or                                                   Amount (less Cancellations)
Credit #    Year     Borrower    Purpose                   BANK  IDA 1/  Undisbursed
Three (3) loans and nine (9) credits, fully disbursed      32.1    40.0
641         1969      Kenya      Forest Plantations         2.6             0.2
185         1970      Kenya      Education                          6.1     2.4
714         1970      NCC        Water Supply               8.3             2.4
224         1970      Kenya      Road Maintenance                  12.6     2.5
745         1971      TRDC       Hydroelectric Develop.    23.0             1.4
276         1972      Kenya      Highways                          22.0     9.5
826         1972      Kenya      Nairobi Airport           29.0            13.4
344         1972      Kenya      Agricultural Credit                6.0     4.2
932         1973      Kenya      Highways                  29.0            29.0
946         1973      IDB        DFC                        5.0             3.5
468          1974     Kenya      Population                        12.0    12.0
477          1974     Kenya      Livestock                         21.5    21.5
993          1974     Kenya      Tea Factories             10.4             9.9
1093         1975     Kenya      Group Farm Credit          7.5             7.5
537          1975     Kenya      Group Farm Credit                  7.5     7.5
Total                          146.9   127.7   126.9
of which has been repaid       7.0     0.1
Total now outstanding          139.9   127.6
Amount sold          5.1
of which has
been repaid        4.3          .8
Total now held by
Bank and IDA                139.1   127.6
Total Undisbursed               67.3    59.6   126.9
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
B. Statement of IFC Investments in Kenya as at January 31, 1975
Year            Obligor                     Type of Business    Amount in US $ Million
Loan    Equity    Total
1968 & 1973    Kenya Hotel Properties       Hotels               5.2      0.7       5.9
1970 & 1974     Pan African Paper Mills     Pulp & Paper        11.9      5.7      17.6
1972            Tourism Promotion Services  Hotels               2.4       -        2.4
Total Gross Commitments                                    19.5      6.4      25.9
less cancellations, terminations, repayments & sales       6.2      1.8      8.0
Total Commitments now held by IFC                          13.3      4.6      17.9
Total Undisbursed                                           3.0      0.2       3.2



MtNLX II
Page 2 or 7
KENYA
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Loan 639 - Highways:   $23.5 million Loan of October 10, 1969;
Closing Date: June 30, 1975: Construction is substantially completed except
for two contracts which have been delayed by changes in specifications and
construction standards. These delays required postponement of the Closing
Date from December 31, 1973 to June 30, 1975. There has been a 30 percent
increase above original cost estimates due mainly to design changes.
Loan 641 - Forest Plantation: $2.6 million Loan of November 7, 1969:
Closing Date: December 31, 1975. Progress is satisfactory and disbursements
are proceeding faster than envisaged, and the loan was almost fully drawn
down a year before Closing Date. Planting and technical aspects are satis-
factory. A second phase project has been negotiated.
Credit 185 - Education: $6.1 million Credit of May 20, 1970:
Closing Date: December 31, 1975. Construction is proceeding at a slower
rate than anticipated. As remedial action has been taken, it is expected
that all project institutions except two will be completed prior to the Closing
Date. An extension of the Closing Date of about 12 months is likely to be
required in order to complete the two project items lagging behind.
Loan 714 - Water Supply: $8.4 million Loan of November 7, 1969:
Closing Date: March 31, 1976. Good progress has been made on the main pro-
ject items, and water was delivered to Nairobi on schedule in March 1974. A
twelve-month postponement of the Closing Date, however, was required to enable
completion of ancillary items. The Water and Sewerage Department is still
experiencing staffing shortages in its engineering and commercial sections
due to inability to attract and retain staff. The financial results of water
operations are generally satisfactorv and *water tariffs have now been increased.
Cost overruns, which are mainly due to local cost increases, are about 23
percent over the appraisal estimates.
Credit 224 - Road Maintenance: $12.6 million Credit of December 28,
1970: Closing Date: June 30, 1975. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
All designated posts in the MOW have been filled. Most of the equipment has
been installed and the Highway Training Center is operational.
I/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they
do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses
in project execution.



Page 3 of 7
Loan 745 - Kamburu Hydroelectric:  $23.0 million Loan of June 7, 1971:
Closing Date: June 30, 1975. The project was commissioned in August 1974 and
there are only a few minor details outstanding. Cost escalation was 7%,
principally the result of consultancy fees, a sales tax that was imposed and
currency fluctuations. The Closing Date of June 30, 1975 may have to be
postponed because some retention monies are not due until after that.
Credit 276 - Highways: $22.0 million Credit of June 5, 1972:
Closing Date: March 31, 1976. This project, which is jointly financed by
a Swedish Credit of $6.0 million, made a slow start due to delays in obtaining
governmental approvals to issue tenders. Because of high bid prices, total
estimated cost of the project may exceed the appraisal estimates by 15 per-
cent.
Loan 826 - Nairobi Airport: $29 million Loan of June 2, 1972:
Closing Date: December 31, 1976. The major contracts have been awarded,
and work has commenced. Inadequate supervision by the key contractor and
administrative delays by the Government have led to delays in the physical
execution of the project. Financial and organizational problems persist.
There is likely to be a cost overrun of about $10.5 million.
Credit 344 - Agricultural Credit: $6.0 million Credit of
November 29, 1972: Closing Date: June 30, 1976. The Agricultural Finance
Corporation has started a second phase of lending operations, following the
completion of the first under Credit 105. Progress is proceeding well, and
disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan 932 - Highways: $29.0 million Loan of September 6, 1973:
Closing Date: December 31, 1977. This loan was made effective on November 9,
1973. Some of the bids have been awarded but progress is at least twelve
months behind schedule.
Loan 946 - Industrial Development Bank: $5.0 million Loan of
November 29, 1973: Closing Date: March 31, 1976. Sub-projects totalling
$3 million havebeen approved. The Loan is expected to be fully committed this
yeare and a second loan will be negotiated soon.
Credit 468 - Population: $12.0 million Credit of April 1, 1974:
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. This Credit became effective on July 31, 1974.
There are a few months delay in the construction schedule. Progress on other
components is satisfactory.
Credit 477 - Livestock: $21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974:
Closing, Date: December 21, 1980. This credit was declared effective on
December 2, 1974. Work on the ranching component is now proceeding, but
disbursements are behind schedule.



ANNEX l;
Page 4 of 7
Loan 993 - Tea Factories:  $10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974:
Closing Date: June 30, 1980. This loan became effective September 23, 1974.
Contracts for four tea factories have been let.
Credit 537 /Loan 1093 - Group Farms Rehabilitation Credit and Loan
of March 26, 1975: Closing Date: December 31, 1981. This loan is not yet
effective.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
D. Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed by Kenya, Tanzania
and Uganda as at March 31, 1975
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellations
Loan #     Year     Borrower      Purpose                  Bank    Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                                75.0
638 EA      1969    EAHC          Harbours                 35.0       5.8
674 EA      1970    EARC          Railways                 42.4      17.3
675 EA      1970    EAPTC         Telecommunications       10.4        0.4
843 EA      1972    EADB          Development Finance       8.0        7.7
865 EA      1972    EAHC          Harbours                 26.5       19.0
914 EA      1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications       32.5       21.3
Total                                   229.8      71.5
of which has been repaid                29.8
Total now outstanding                   200.0
Amount sold:                    24.4
of which has been repaid      24.4      0
Total now held by Bank                  200.0
Total undisbursed                        71.5



AJ.FjE:X ITI
Page 6 of 7
E.   East African Community
Loan No. 674 EA - Third Railways Project: $42.4 million Loan of May 25,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1976
This Loan was suspended on February 13, 1975. The reasons for
suspension and conditions for lifting the suspension are discussed in
para. 56 of this report.
Loan No. 638 EA - Second Harbors Project: $35.0 million Loan of
August 25, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1975
The Harbours Corporation is in a healthy cash position although
there have been problems in transferring funds from regional offices to
headquarters. Damage to a partially completed pier has delayed project
implementation. It is now expected that the project will be completed
by the end of 1975.
Loan No. 865 EA - Third Harbors Project: $26.5 million Loan of December
18, 1972; Closing Date - June 30, 1977
A delay of six months is expected in completing civil works under
this Project. Cost overruns have been experienced in some project items.
The situation is under study by the Corporation, which will shortly issue
a plan for speeding implementation.
Loan No. 843 EA - East African Development Bank Project: $8.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1972; Closing Date - May 31, 1976
Operations of the Bank have been decentralized with a resulting
strengthening of the Bank's supervisory capability. Management problems
associated with decentralization have largely been rectified so that the
pace of bank operations is expected to quicken in FY76. Nearly $6.5 million
of the Loan has been committed, and a second loan is being considered for
appraisal.
Loan No. 675 EA - Second Telecommunications Project: $10.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1975
Problems within the EAC have only marginally affected the Posts
and Telecommunications Corporation due to the considerable existing
decentralization of operating authority. Deterioration of the corporate
cash position and rate of return has been slight in comparison to other
Community Corporations; the situation will be improved by a pending rate
increase allowed by the Community in February 1975.



AN?EX TI
Page 7 of 7
Loan No. 914 EA - Third Telecommunications Project: $32.5 million Loan
of June 22, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1976
Procurement is generally on schedule with $20 million commi.tted
and the balance near tender stage. All major items are expected to be
completed by mid-1975, except two microwave links which, due to long lead
time for delivery, will be delayed by 18 months.



7NN  -
Page 1 of 1
KENYA PROGRAM LOAN
Loan Summary
BORROWER:                   Republic of Kenya.
AMOUNT:                     US$30.0 million equivalent.
TERMS:                      25 years including 7 years grace at 8-1/2 percent
interest.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:                The proposed project would provide the Borrower with
foreign exchange required for imports of raw materials,
capital goods and intermediate goods.
PROCUREMENT
ARRANGEMENTS:               The loan would be disbursed against goods imported by
the private sector through normal commercial channels.
The private sector is sufficiently diversified to
ensure competitive procurement and imports over
Sh. 20,000 are subject to preshipment quality and
quantity inppection.
DISBURSEMENT
ARRANGEMENTS:               The Borrower would be reimbursed for the foreign
exchange expenditure on the basis of fu.lly documented
claims. No disbursements would be made for food, fuel,
manufactured fertilizers and consumer goods, or for
direct imports for which other sources of foreign fin-
ancing have been secured. Individual import expendi-
tures of less than $2,800 (Sh. 20,000) would not be
eligible for reimbursement.
OOUNTERPART FUNDS:          The local currency equivalent of imports financed
under the loan would be credited to a Project Account
to be created by the Central Bank of Kenya in the name
of the Cereals and Sugar Finance Corporation (CSFC).
The Borrower shall cause the Project Account to be
audited by auditors acceptable to the Bank and certified
copies of the financial statements in connection with
the Project Account will be transmitted to the Bank
periodically. The Borrower would lend, under a subsi-
diary loan agreement agreed by the Bank, a sum
equivalent to the counterpart funds to the Cereals and
Sugar Finance Corporation as permanent working capital
to finance seasonal agricultural crop purchases.
Eastern Africa CPIC
April 14, 1975



- 55~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4O
S U D A N    ,!-         
;t            A        /~~~~~~~~~~~~J/*~~~~o  S5pteSo".
/                         I           '  N .<   X     ;   T   H   I   O   P   I   A
4~~~~~~
A                               X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  /                    Ma\. , /
I  dwor s                                             ..............  3 
0
26 
UGANDA                                                    A.          ,ejiR
55~~~~C
Jt2~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
;aSA29~~~~~~~~~~~~
Oeru  15                              KEN -
POPULATION DENSITY < k9 _t\ /~)\, A2
VYERI                            ARISS~~~~~~~~/A
50-2r500                                            - 0   \ w  . i_ z   t /'.          I 
10-50               Jr  n        tlAbe/                \           ,,               s   NYlCS
indaruma ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Dsritnmer  1Nynas
1' ~      e4      X       *\\                   e     <    WESTERN  23Kirinycgc
_ Transmniseis lrJ ines  II        V /  *MKLANRo3 '.1i                         2i 3Kokieg  25ASTERN
Internotional airports   Trunk and Pr mary Rods  '  ..Vai  .g//5/   (0 2     4NSioyo  267Masbitl
air  routes    IIhe                                                           Si p    27  Isio K s i   0 l o
tul~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 ih            3 lu
Inhabitants per s-uaRailiays
-ROllw]ys   s   37   ffi_    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4 ~8 Thrtrara  NORTH E,
_4.50 Nrzlono250oPlol \, \                                                .. //%-  f   ..........- .R. er  9  Sam buru   32M an3 6er
10-50                  t~~~~0  Parnia  api el  'Nc40                   1 TansNz  CEN3TORsAL
?  XO  bO  1?0  ItO     'C les ond h3wns   l gA F R   3C -g  ;  39  OMB9M ASA  12 ElgeyoMarakwet  COAST
Lets t an  to  s0       'iisad  on 1                                        3  oig     aaRs
KiSMt oievs       -- Prasincial bai.ndories  >;Kenyur^>-..1,/ <           14 LaikipiPaj  37TLimo
0  20  XC  50  bO  100ion- -  - District bauettariea   k   I   .  \-,  -/->tr 16 Ncndi  38KIi rI
MiLES                             T Internaional  boundarics            17 Kei8 ck  39Kwale
.5                II      | \,.1  TC                      t9Nar S ! ! Soi c ern _ t 4,3 20 Ko  lo L2 NAiRObI
Interntionalairpors  Trun   and-Pimary Ioads.Toi 2a7Clee20           F 'ad     Nairobi 



