n_mmeM or
The World Bank
FOR OMFCIAL USE ONLY
Rb., N* P-3676-IB
uzPoRr AMD
OFp THE
PRESIDEN  OF TE
3UTBM1    LDmA  FOR  COISTE13ION AND I   EVnEOrpi
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIEIORS
OF A
IX AN AMOUNT EQJIVALET To US$250.6 MILLION
TO
~ZAIS ELETICAS BBS        A  S.A. -    DOBRAS
WITE TUE          OF
'THE FEDERIMMnVZ REzPULIC oF DRAh
FOR A
SECOND EXTPJBRAS POWER DISTR NPROJECT
Noveiber 16, 1983
Tb il cdi_ n s  e_ q                 be _dddby  w       W'n J-_



Currency  nit - Cruzeiro (Cr$)
As of Jue 1983
Cr$1 - lS$0.0018
US$1 - Cr$543.00
Govelnlt of Brazil Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Glossary of Abbreviations
ElETROBRAS     - Centrals Eletricas Brailea  S.A.
CE&L          - C      bia Eletrica de Alagoas
CUAR          - Centrals Eletricas do Maranhao
CENIG        - Centrals Eletricas da Mna Gerais SA.
CEPISA        -  Centrals Eletricas do Piaui SA.
-  Centrals Eletricas do Rondoula
COPEL         - C          Paren-se de Enexgia
DEER          -               deepata   dc Eletrficacao Rural
DNAEE         -  Depamto Nacloal de Aguas e Energla Eletrica
ELETRONORTE    -  Centrals Eletrlcas do Norte do Brasil S.A.
ETRPABDLO    -  ELetricidade de Sao Paula S.A.
GEER          -  Grupo Ezecutivo de Eletrificacao Rural
ICB           -  lnternational Competitve BiFddng
IDB           -  I.uter-Auricam Developuut -Bank
INCR&         -  Instituto Naclonal de Colonlzacao e Reforia Agraria
I=E           -  Imposto Unico de Ene1gia Eletrica (Sale tax on electricity)
LIGHT         - LIGHT-SI uvicos de Eletricidade S.A.
ORTE          -  Obrigacoes ReaJustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
(Adjustable Natioal Treasury Bonds used as a basis for
monetary correction)
SEP           -  Secretaria Especial de Abasteciusto e Precos
SEPLAN        -  Secretarla de Planejamiento da Presidencia da Republica
SEST          -  Secretarla de Controle de Empresas Estatas



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
ELETROBRAS II POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:      Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS
Guarantor:     Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiaries: -  Centrais Eletricas de Rondonia (CERON)
-  Gentrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil S.A. (ELETRONORTE)
-  Centrais Eletricas do Maranhao (CEMAR)
-  Centrais Eletricas do Piaui S.A. (CEPISA)
-  Companhia Eletrica de Alagoas (CEAL)
-  LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade S.A. (LIGHT)
-  Eletricidade de Sao Paulo S.A. (ELETROPAULO)
Amount:        US$250.6 million equivalent, including capitalized front-end
fee of US$624.9 thousand.
Terms:         Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with
interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
Relending
Terms:       ELETROBRAS will relend the proceeds of the loan to the
beneficiaries on the same terms and conditions as those of the
loan, charging in addition 1% on the outstanding balances of
the subloans. The beneficiaries will bear the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks.
Project
Description: The proposed project consists of parts of the 1983-88
investment programs of the beneficiaries. Its purpose is to
expand and modernize power distribution systems in five leas
developed States of the Northeast and the Northwest, and in
the low-income metropolitan areas of Rio de Janeiro and Sao
Paulo.   The project would further strengthen the organization
of the beneficiaries and improve their technical and financial
performance.
Risks:         The project itself does not present any special risks. Both
the borrower and the beneficiaries, however, have been
affected by the financial problems of the power sector. These
are being addressed through a program of tariff increases and
cost reduction measures agreed between the Government and the
Bank which will progressively Improve the financial condition
of the power sector.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance or
their oficial duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                    US$ million-
Local       Foreign      Total
CERON sub-project                             35.7       21.1        56.8
ELETRONORTE sub-project                       35.4       20.5        55.9
CEMAR sub-project                             49.6       29.6        79.2
CEPISA sub-project                            29.1       17.4        46.5
CEAL sub-project                              35.2       20.7        55.9
LIGHT sub-project                             92.6       54.6       147.2
ELETROPAULI  sub-project                     119.0       66.9       185.9
Base Cost  /a                           396.6  /b  230.8       627.4
Physical contingencies                   39.6       23.1        62.7
Price contingencies                     32.7        62.2        94.9
Front-end Fee                            -           0.6         0.6
Total Cost                              468.9      316.7       785.6
Financing Plan:                                    -US$ million-
Local     Foreign       Total
Beneficiaries                         336.9        -          336.9   42.9
Local development banks               132.0        -          132.0   16.8
IBRD                                  -           2250.6      250.6   31.9
Cofinancing                           7            66.1        66.1    8.4
468.9       316.7       785.6   100
Total                                                         _
Estimated                                          -USS million-
Disbursements:   Bank FY      84      85      86       87       88      89
Annual      5.6 /c 60.0    100.0    60.0    20.0       5.0
Cumulative  5.6    65.6    165.6   225.6   245.6   250.6
Rate of Return:      The rates of return of the sub-projects range between
9.8% and 31.7Z (para. 82).
Staff Appraisal      No. 4660a-BR, dated tiovember 11, 1983.
Report:
/a At December 1982 prices, adjusted for the February 1983 devaluation of
the cruzeiro.
/b Includes taxes and import duties estimated at 10% of the base cost before
taxes and import duties.
/c Includes front-end fee of US$.6 million. Excludes deposit to Special
Account.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPNENT
REPORT AND RECOMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
0N A PROPOSED LOAN OF US$250.6 MILLION
TO CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRAS
FOR A SECOND ELETROBRAS POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS with the guarantee
of the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$250.6
million, including a capitalized front-end fee of US$.6 million, to help
finance a second ELETROBRAS power distribution project. The loan would
have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at the
Bank's standard variable rate. ELETROBRAS will relend the proceeds of the
loan to the beneficiaries on the same terms and conditions as those of the
loan, charging in addition 1% on the outstanding balances of the subloans.
The beneficiaries will bear the foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled -Economic Memorandum on Brazil'
(Report No. 4674-BR, dated August 22, 1983) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 22, 1983. The following paragraphs snmmarize
some of t&.e principal findings of that report.
3.        The present Government, headed by President Figueiredo, took
office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. While the process of
political redemocratization has been its prime concern, much of the
Government's attention has necessarily been devoted to grappling with
inflation and a difficult balance-of-payments situation. Major economic
priorities of the Government include the growth of agriculture, reduced
dependence on imported petroleum, expansion of manufactured exports, and
increasing domestic savings, while at the same time improving the situation
of Brazil.'s economically most disadvantaged population. Success on these
fronts is crucial to the solution of the inflation and balance-of-payments
problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of living standards and
better income distribution. In mid-November of 1982, Brazil held its first
major elections since the mid-1960s. Opposition candidates captured the
governorships of several key states, including Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro,
and Minas Gerais. A presidential election is scheduled for November 1984.
Recent Economic Performance
4.        Prior to the sharp worsening of its terms of trade in 1973,
occasioned by the quadrupling of the price of imported oil, Brazil had
enjoyed a period of rapid economic growth in the context of declining



4-2-
domestic inflation and a significant liberalization of both foreign and
domestic trade. After 1973 successive Brazilian governments attempted to
cope with the constraints placed on the economy by the worsened
terms-of-trade, while maintaining a high rate of growth of output and
employment. Although aggregate demand management was somewhat erratic, the
general policy tendency through 1980 was characterized by large credit and
tax incentives to industry and agriculture, particularly for export expan-
sion and import substitution; growing direct state economic activity;
intermittent controls on prices and interest rates; rising import barriers;
heavy foreign borrowing; and an intensifying effort to reduce the growth in
energy consumption and substitute domestic energy resources for imported
petroleum.
5.        Although reduced from the 11% annual growth of the 1967-73
period, GDP grew at a still remarkable 7% average annual rate from 1974
through 1980. As the merchandise trade deficit ballooned to US$4.7 billion
in 1974, efforts were made to redress the external imbalance. Over the
entire 1974-80 period, nominal exports rose 153% as compared to an 82%
increase of imports. Non-oil imports rose only 322. However, the rapid
accumulation of external debt, which rose mDre than 3-1/2 times, the
compression of real imports, and the intensification of inflationary
pressures increased the economy's vulnerability to the further sharp
increase in petroleum prices and the rise in interest rates which occurred
in 1979 and 1980. Thus, over those two years, the current account deficit
more than doubled to reach US$12.4 billion, and international reserves fell
by US$5 billion. Domestic inflation accelerated to 110x.
6.        In response to the deteriorating balance-of-payments and rising
domestic inflation, the primary immediate objective shifted from growth to
stabilization. Monetary correction and exchange rate adjustment, which had
lagged behind inflation in 1980, were brought back into line with
inflation. Interest rate controls were removed from commercial bank
lending, and the rate of credit expansion was severely limited. The
intention was both to dampen aggregate demand and to encourage external
capital inflows. Although still highly subsidized, -he interest rates
charged on official loans were also increased. The previously eliminated
tax incentive to exports was temporarily restored, and the financlal
transactions tax applied to foreign exchange operations for imports was
raised from 15% to 25%.
7.        As a consequence of these measures, GDP declined by 3.5% in 1981,
with the industrial sector in and around Sao Paulo being particularly hard
hit by high interest rates and declines in capital goods and consumer
durables purchases. But the trade balance improved from a negative US$2.8
billion in both 1979 and 1980 to a positive US$1.2 billion, and the current
account deficit was reduced, despite a US$3 billion increase (to US$9.2
billion) in net interest payments abroad. Contributing to the trade
surplus was a 33% increase in manufactured exports and the further
contraction of petroleum imports. International reserves rose US$687
million, to the equivalent of 4 months of goods imports (compared to 3.6
months coverage at the end of 1980). Domestic inflation fell to 95Z. The
policy measures introduced and the ensuing balance-of-payments improvement



- 3 -
served to sustain the confidence of the international banks, and no
problems were experienced in raising the US$10 billion in required net
borrowing during 1981.
8.        The slowdown of international trade caught up with Brazil in
1982, with declining commodity prices and severe difficulties in several of
the theretofore fastest growing markets for its manufactures. As a result,
nominal exports declined by 13% in 1982 relative to 1981. Imports were
also down, resulting in a US$767 million trade surplus, which, however, was
significantly below earlier expectations. At the same time, the
international financial community reduced its lending to Brazil following
first the war in the South Atlantic and, later, the Mexican liquidity
crisis, and Brazil was forced to increase its short-term borrowing and draw
down its reserves in the last quarter of 1982. The current account deficit
for 1982 totaled US$14.5 billion, the highest in the country's history,
mostly reflecting record high interest payments. These interest payments
(US$8.5 billion) plus amortization of existing medium- and long-term (MULT)
loans (US$8.7 billion) exceeded net disbursements of new MELT loans
(US$15.2 billion), constituting a negative net MLAT resource transfer.
9.        The 1981-83 stabilization effort in Brazil has placed heavy
reliance on monetary policy. The money supply in real terms fell, and the
Government has relied on the sale of indexed bonds to finance its large
fiscal deficits. Restrictive monetary and credit policies, alongside the
large public sector deficit and the channeling of available financial
resources into certain priority areas, have resulted in very high real
interest rates in the relatively free portions of Brazil's segmented
financial market. Real interest rates of 40-50Z have become common. As a
result private investment has fallen dramatically, contributing in a major
way to the continuing recession, now in its third year. Reflecting the
depressed domestic economic conditions, manufacturing employment in the
State of Sao Paulo fell by over 20Z between November 1980 and october
1983. For 1982, GDP dropped by about 1%, while inflation continued at just
below 10OZ. GDP for 1983 is expected to decline by 5-6%, bringing the
cumulative decline in per capita income since 1980 to over 15%.
10.       In late 1982 the rundown of Brazil's international reserves, the
reluctance of international commercial banks to roll over -xisting loans
and to extend further credits, and deteriorating international market
conditions led Brazil to seek assistance from the International Monetary
Fund in support of its adjustment program. Adverse external circumstances
have considerably complicated Brazil's economic situation and have rendered
short-term adjustment both more compelling and more arduous. In February
1983, to support the Government's austerity program, the IMF pledged
financial assistance on the order of US$5.4 billion (including both
compensatory financing and an Extended Fund Facility) over 1983-85.
Coupled with this financing package were commitments by the international
commercial banks for 1983 of US$4.4 billion in new loans, the rollover of
US$4.6 billion of medium- and long-term loans falling due in 1983, us$9.4
billion in short-term commercial credits, and restoration to US$7.5 billion
of deposits held by foreign banks in overseas branches of Brazilian banks.



- 4-
1983 and Prospects for the Future
11.       The country faces a difficult period of adjustment in 1983-84.  A
major objective for 1983 has been to generate an unprecedented trade
surplus of US$6 billion, thereby reducing ±ts current account
balance-of-payments deficit and its external borrowing requirements. In
order to increase the chances of attaining the ambitious US$6 billion trade
surplus target, the cruzeiro was devalued by 30% in February 1983. The
cruzeiro will continue to be devalued in line with domestic inflation
through 1984, implying some additional real depreciation as external prices
rise. Simultaneously, the Government has temporarily imposed stricter,
emergency oriented, import restrictions. Despite a slow start and
continuing adverse international market conditions, it now appears that the
trade surplus target win be exceeded by US$300-500 million. While much of
the surplus is attributed to reductions in imports, export performance in
the past few months has improved considerably. October 1983's exports
exceeded those of October 1982 by 13%, pushing up the cumulative growth in
relation to the first ten months of 1982 to 8%. The current account
deficit will be reduced from US$14.5 billion in 1982 to about US$8 billion
in 1983, or some 3% of GDP in this year.
12.       Less success has been achieved in attaining the 1983 internal
stabilization targets. In the beginning of 1983 measures were announced to
(aj reduce the consolidated federal public deficit through both expenditure
cuts and revenue increases, (b) restrain monetary and credit expansion, (c)
decrease credit and commodity subsidies and (d) reduce overall wage
indexation to less than 1002 of cost-of-living increases. According to
GovernmenC estimates of the consolidated federal deficit, the program
aanaunced in early 1983 and embodied in the internal credit and financing
ceilings in Brazil's agreement with the IMF, if fully complied with, would
have brought about the reduction of the deficit as a percentage of GDP from
6% in 1982 to a surplus of 1% in 1983.1/ By May 1983 it had become
apparent that this ambitious target, involving a 7% change in the deficit
as a percentage of GDP, was not being met. Consequently, the IMF suspended
the second disbursement of the EFF of US$411 million scheduled for May and
initiated negotiations with the Government to revise the stabilization
program and the ceilings in the agreement.
13.       In June the Government announced a new package of stabilization
measures. The stabilization program during the first half of 1983 had been
complicated by a reacceleration of the inflation, in part attributed to the
February devaluation, and a growing climate of economic uncertainty.
1/   The IMF computes the public sector's borrowing requirements, which are
much higher than the operating deficit. The discrepancy derives from
definitioaal or conceptual differences rather than from statistical
ones. The Brazilian Government's estimates of the consolidated public
sector deficit relate to current expenditures and do not incorporate
the accrued monetary correction of the federal internal debt as a
current expenditure. The IMF, on the other hand, prefers to treat the
monetary correction of the debt as a current expenditure and to
express the public sector's financing requirements in nominal
values. Thus, the respective concepts can be translated into each
other, once the rate of inflation is given.



- 5 -
Renewed efforts have been directed at reducing the consolidated public
sector deficit. A rapid phase-out of agricultural credit subsidies was
announced. Prices of goods and services produced or marketed by the public
sector, such as petroleum derivatives and wheat, were substantially
increased, reducing implicit consumer subsidies and the accompanying public
enterprise deficits. The control agency for the federal public enterprises
has been strengthened, and a new public enterprise budget has been
implemented, involving a further 20% cut in the investments of such firms.
Wage policy has also been modified to provide less than full cost-of-living
indexing to wages and salaries. After considerable political bargaining,
the new wage policy was approved by the Congress in mid-November.
14.       The new letter of intent to the IMF was signed by the Government
in mid-September, and the IMF Board of Directors approved the revised
agreement on November 22, 1983. A major target in the new agreement is the
reduction of the public sector deficit from 6% of GDP in 1982 to 2.7% by
the end of 1983, with complete elimination scheduled for 1984. The
monetary base is to be held to a 90% increase in 1983; in contrast,
inflation is expected to be over 200% for 1983, as measured through
December. External payments arrears of more than US$2 billion are to be
eliminated by the end of 1983.
15.       To achieve the reduction in the public sector deficit, the
Government is committed to the phase-out of agricultural credit subsidies
and continuation of pricing policies to eliminate existing subsidies on oil
derivatives, wheat and major public sector products. Price controls on
some 300 privately produced industrial goods and services will be rescinded
gradually as inflation falls. The finances of the central government will
also be improved by additional revenue-generating measures; those of the
state enterprises will be strengthened by control of wage costs and by
cutbacks in investment outlays, as well as by better pricing policies. An
improved system for controlling expenditures and borrowing has been
introduced.
16.       A new external financing package from the commercial banks and
official lending agencies for the remainder of 1983 and 1984, amounting to
US$11 billion in new funds and some debt rescheduling, is currently being
finalized as an integral part of the renegotiated agreement between the
Brazilian Government and the IMF. In addition to rescheduling principal
payments, the international commercial banks will be providing US$6.5
billion in additional new loans.  Official bilateral institutions are
expected to lend Brazil about US$2.5 billion as part of the package, with
another US$2 billion resulting from the rescheduling of bilateral loans
through the Paris Club.
17.       Brazil's balance of payments would benefit from a continuing fall
in the LIBOR and in world petroleum prices.  Because about three-fourths of
the country's debt bears either variable interest rates or is short-term,



each 1% drop in LIBOR would mean a savings of about US$650 million. For
each dollar reduction in the price of a barrel of oil, the imported oil
bill, which accounted for about 50% of total imports for 1982, would fall
by US$300 million at current consumption levels.
18.       Savings on imported oil could be even greater, as domestic oil
production increases and energy conservation continues. Since 1973 Brazil
has made major efforts to reduce petroleum imports.  Investments in oil
exploration have been accelerated, with additional steps taken to develop
the nation's hydroelectric potential and to substitute alcohol for
gasoline.  Efforts are also being made to induce energy conservation,
particularly through pricing policies. As a result of these and other
policies, domestic gasoline consumption was reduced by more than 10%
between 1979 and 1982, and domestic petroleum production increased by about
50% over the same period. Petroleum and petroleum derivative Imports,
which totaled US$10 billion in 1982, were reduced to an annual level of
US$7-8 billion in the first half of 1983.
19.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must
continue to experience a period of careful demand management. Maintenance
of international competitiveness through the exchange rate, and realistic
prices and interest rates should help to promote more efficient resource
allocation favorable to both export growth and efficient import
substitution. Public investments will continue to be constrained by
reduced resource availabilities over the next several years, but
agricultural and industrial production and exports, as well as the
development of domestic energy sources, are receiving priority attention.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
20.       Any projection of Brazil's balance of payments depends heavily on
assumptions regarding the rate of export growth, interest rates and
petroleum prices. Assuming that the recovery of the world economy now
underway is sustained, Brazil could look forward to gralual recovery
beginning in 1984 and reaching about 5% per annum by 1987. Such a scenario
would be compatible with a falling current account deficit through 1988.
However, it does require the continued availability of net capital inflows
over the period.
21.       M&LT borrowing for 1983 and beyond will be substantial -  over
US$20 billion gross and about US$11 billion net in 1983 alone. As Brazil's
exports increase, however, the country's borrowing requirements will fall
over time, and the net MLT debt service ratio is expected to decline from
752 in 1982 to approximately 64% in 1987.
22.       These objectives will not be easily achieved, however, and
instances of short-term cash flow problems cannot be ruled out. However,
the Brazilian economy remains dynamic, diversified, and relatively
resilient, and policy-makers have repeatedly demonstrated their ability to
adjust to changing circumstances. With the Government's commitment to the
austerity program, and with IMF support, Brazil should be able to make the
adjustments needed to cope with adverse international



circumstances and to reorient the economy tovard a more efficient
development path for the remainder of the decade. Thus, Brazil remains
creditworthy for new borrowing on conventional terms in the magnitudes
described above.
Poverty Alleviation Programs
23.       Ulthough Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has made substantial efforts to relieve
poverty. The educational system has been rapidly expanded, giving rise to
increased enrollment rates and reduced illiteracy. Social security
health programs have been strengthened and extended to rural areas, and
upgrading and expanding previous health services for the poor have received
much Government attention. Increased Government efforts have also been
directed to low-cost housing programs for the poor and the improved
provision of water and sewerage services. In part as a reflection of these
and ether programs, there are indications, based upon preliminary estimates
from the 1980 demographic census, of substantial living standard and
welfare improvements during the 1970s. Considerable absolute real income
gains were realized by all income decile groups. Non-income gains, as
reflected by improved access to public services, declining infant
mortality, and increased durable consumer goods possession by households,
also attest to significant poverty reduction during the decade.2/ Given
the impact of the stabilization program on output and employment, however,
much of this gain may be lost in the present crisis. Particularly affected
are the urban poor.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
24.       By September 30, 1983 the Bank had made 122 loans to Brazil,
amounting to US$8,187.2 million (net of cancellations), of which 66 were
not yet fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150
million per year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, but increased to US$472
million in FY82, and US$764 million in FY83. The undisbursed amount as of
September 30, 1983 was US$3,676.7 million. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans.
25.       Over the FY77-82 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 million to over US$800 million per year. However, in FY83, seven
loans totaling US$1,457.5 million were approved. They included US$8.9
million for a project to help finance the preparation of metropolitan
development programs for Fortaleza and Salvador in Northeast Brazil,
US$304.5 million for an iron ore mining project in the Serra dos Carajas,
2/   For a more detailed account of these developments, see  Perspectives
on Poverty and Income Inequality in Brazil: An Analysis of the Changes
during the 1970s" (Staff Working Paper No. 601, dated July 1983) and
"Brazil - Human Resources Special Report" (Report No. 2604-BR, dated
July 13, 1979).



- 8 -
US$154.0 million for a third feeder roads project, US$220.0 million for a
second development banking project, US$302.3 million for a water and
sewerage sector project, US$67.8 million for a second rural development
project in the State of Bahia, and US$400.0 million for a third
agro-industries credit project. For FY84, loans for US$52.7 million for a
market towns improvement project in the State of Parana, US$352 million for
an export development project and US$303 million for an agricultural credit
and export development project, in the context of the Special Action
Program, and US$65.2 million for the third phase of the Northwest region
development program have so far been approved. Loans for rural
electrification, technician training and supplemental financing for
on-going agricultural and rural development projects will soon be
considered by the Executive Directors.
26.       Brazil's external medium- and long-term public and private debt
outstanding and disbursed is estimated to have been US$68 billion at the
end of 1982. The Bank's share in this total is estimated at 9% while its
share in total debt service is estimated at 4%.
27.       As of September 30, 1983, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled
US$983.08 million, of which US$622.36 million had been sold, repaid or
cancelled. Of the balance of US$360.72 million, US$286.30 million
represent loans and US$74.42 million equity. A summary of IFC's
investments as of September 30, 1982 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
28.       Brazil is now undergoing a difficult adjustment period, in large
part due to external events. At the same time, it faces the challenge of
developing a longer-term development strategy compatible with lower average
economic growth rates and reduced availability of external resources, while
satisfying the country's vast unmet social needs. These present and
prospective adjustments are being accompanied by complementary changes in
the Bank lending strategy for Brazil.
29.       In the short-run, the Bank will try to help ease Brazil's current
external financing constraint through accelerated resource transfers
coupled with support for the major policy changes required by the austerity
program and necessary for longer-term growth and lower inflat' -. In
support of these efforts, several modalities of the Bank's Special Action
Program, are also being reflected in our operations. These include working
capital financing under the third agro-industries project, financing of a
higher share of project costs during the initial implementation years for
the second rural development in the State of Bahia, and greater use and
streamlining of the operation of Project Special Accounts into which Bank
funds are deposited in advance in order to reduce the need for the
Government to prefinance Bank's share of project costs, and which allow
disbursements of Bank funds to be made at the exchange rate prevailing on
the date of expenditure.
30.       The Bank's longer-run lending strategy is directed toward helping
Brazil resume efficient and sustainable growth. One focus of the lending
program is on structural transformation and efficient resource use.



-9-
Expanding export capacity in industry and agriculture will ease the foreign
exchange constraint on develcment while promotirg efficiency through
exposure to international competition. Several loans to BNDES to
strengthen industrial development along these lines have already been
made. Sector loans to industry and agriculture, envisaging a restructuring
of incentive and trade policies in support of Government initiatives, have
been approved by the Executive Directors. Given agriculture's large
potential contribution to export growth and import substitution,
adjustments in this sector will be crucial to Brazil's transition from
stabilization to growth.
31.       Another lending priority is the development of domestic energy
resources on a cost-effective basis and energy conservation. Lending for
the electric power sector, which encouraged the development and use of
hydroelectric energy, and the alcohol and biomass energy development
project, have addressed the need to reduce petroleum imports. To foster
the use of electricity and limit that of petroleum products is also an
objective of the proposed lean. Further lending will be based on
appropriate pricing of energy, so as to provide incentives to producers and
encourage conservation by consumers while reducing government subsidies to
the energy sector.
32.       A third lending objective in Brazil is to help intensify the
efforts of the Government to increase the productivity of the lowest income
segments of the population, to broaden the opportunities open to those
groups, and to improve their living conditions. Previous loans for primary
education, vocational training, agricultural research, agricultural
extencion, polder construction in the lower Sao Francisco river basin, . d
integrated rural development were designed to assist low-incuome groups in
rural areas, especially those in the northeast and the northwest. Ioans
for water supply and sewerage projects in the state of Minas Gerais, in
greater Sao Paulo, in the Northeast and in the South, loans for urban
transport in several major cities , a lcan for sites and services and
low-cost housing, and a loan for urban development in medium-sized cities
are assisting the improvement of the living conditions of the urban
population, particularly of the urban poor. By improving electricity
distribution systems in the metropolitan areas of Rio de Janeiro and Sao
Paulo, the proposed loan should enhance the quality of life in low-income
urban areas.
33.       Institution-building and improving the operations of the public
sector remain important components of the Bank strategy for Brazil. The
Bank also serves as a catalyst in stimulating the inflow of resources.
Continued lending by the Bank in Brazil is regarded by the international
financial community as a sign of confidence in Brazil's development
prospects. In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry,
Bank participation has helped Brazil obtain additional resources in greater
amounts from bilateral credit agencies and private financial institutions
than may otherwise have been provided. Since 1976 through June 30, 1982,
ten co-financing operations for about US$560 million have been arranged and
signed with private financial institutions. Co-financing opportunities are



- 10 -
rather limited in Brazil for the time being, as the volume and terms of
commercial bank financing available to Brazil are determined within the
framework of the debt rescheduling pzckage. Co-financing could become more
important in future years, however, and the new co-financing instruments
developed by the Bank could play a role in encouraging commercial banks to
provide Brazil with additional lending on appropriate terms.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Energy Resources
34.       Brazil has vast water resources, with a potential for
hydroelectric development estimated at about 213,000 NW. Of this, about
33,000 NW has been utilized and an additional 10,000 MW is scheduled to be
developed by 1987. Installed generating capacity was about 39,000 in 1982;
85Z in hydroelectric and the rest in thermal plant.
35.       Proven oil and natural gas reserves are limited.  Domestic output
of crude exceeds 300,000 barrels per day and meets about 30Z of the needs;
ever 700,000 barrels per day have to be imported. By the end of 1985,
output may reach 500,000 barrels per day, and while this is a reasonably
realistic target, maint.nance of a 500,000 barrels per day production level
wi11 require an intensive exploration effort.  Since 1977, the Goveroment
has granted some risk-type contracts to private companies to accelerate
exploration but the major responsibility still falls on PETROBRAS, the
national oil company.
36.       Coal deposits are estimated at 22 billion tons. However, most of
it is low quality and some is costly to mine. At present, coal represents
only 4% of energy supply. The Government expects to raise this share to 6%
by 1987 and encourages the use of coal instead of other fuels in industrial
boilers, particularly by the cement industry.
37.       A U.S. built 626 MW nuclear unit was completed recently and
should be in commercial operation in 1984. Two German-supplied units of
1,245 MW each are under construction. An agreement with the Federal
Republic of Germany provides for anothe- 2,490 MW in nuclear capacity by
1995. However, the nuclear power program is being reviewed because of
substantial cost increases.
38.       Other widely used energy sources are firewood, charcoal and
sugar-cane bagasse. Production of alcohol for use as fuel in internal
combustion engines started in 1975 and amounted to 3.3 billion liters five
years later. Since 1980, cars running on alcohol have been introduced on a
commercial scale. The current goal is to produce in 1985 about 11
billion liters of alcohol to substitute for 39% of estimated gasoline
consumption.



- 11 -
39.       In 1981, Brazil's gross energy consumption was 115 million tons
of oil equivaleut, or 0.95 t.o.e. per head of population. Oil products,
about 70% of them imported, accounted for 40% of energy consumption and
hydroelectricity for 27Z; the remaining 33Z was met mainly by coal, wood
products and bagasse.
Power Sector Policy
40.       Conservation of energy, intensified exploration and exploitation
of domestic energy resources, substitution of domestically produced energy
for imported oil and metallurgical coal, and promotion of the use of
electricity through extension of distribution systems in urban and rural
areas, are the main objectives of Brazilian energy policy. In achieving
them, the electric power sector will play a major role, now that the use of
alcohol as automotive fuel is well under way. Pricing of electricity wlll
be very important in conserving oil; in this respect, progress has been
made through marginal cost tariff studies carried out under lbans 1300-BR
and 1939-BR. The results of these studies will be put into effect over
several years in the framework of recently enacted legislation and should
result in more efficient use of installed capacity. Plans for generating
plants to be built in the remainder of this century aim at 89% of capacity
being hydro, 2% coal-fired thermal and 9% nuclear. As 96Z of electricity
generated in the existing interconnected systems is hydro, there is little
room for displacing oil in power generation. However, gradual substitution
of electricity for oil products in industry is being encouraged. To make
full use of the existing hydro generation capacity, low rates for
interruptible electricity services are now being offered in Sao Paulo, Rio
de Janeiro and Minas Gerais. A project which would allow industry to
substitute considerable amounts of oil now used for electricity is under
consideration by the Bank.
The Institutions
41.       The Brazilian power sector is now one of the world's largest.
During the past 50 years, it has been progressively nationalized and
consolidated. Since 1960, the jurisdiction over the sector rests wit- the
Federal Ministry of Mines and Energy. A 1967 decree laid down the sectoral
organization under which the Departamento Nacional de Aguas e Energia
Eletrica (DNAEE) acts as regulatory agency, granting licenses, setting
power rates, assigning concessions and approving expansion plans, whereas
Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS, established in 1962 as a
holding company for the federally owned utilities, administers public funds
allocated to the sector, coordinates external borrowing, plans the
expansion of major generating and transmission facilities, and extends
planning and managerial assistance to electric power utilities. The decree
further provided for the centralization of public electricity services in
the individual States. As a result, major state-owned power companies have
absorbed numerous municipal and private utilities; nonetheless, the sector
still comprises about 600 concessionaires, of which 25 are state-owned
companies and the rest small municipal and private undertakings.



- 12 -
4Z.       The main bulk suppliers of electricity are four regional
subsidiaries of ELETROBRAS: Centrais Eletricas do Norte do Brasil
(EIETRONORTE) for the North and part of the Central West; Companhia
Hidroeletrica do Sao Francisco (CHESF) for the Nortieast; FURNAS Centrais
Eletricas (FURNAS) for the Southeast and part of the Central West; and
Centrais Eletricas do Sul do Brasil (ELETROSUL) for the South. ELETRDPIRAS
also holds the Federal Government's 50% interest in Itaipu Binacional, set
up by Brazil and Paraguay in 1973 to build the Itaipu hydroelectric scheme
on the Parana River now nearing completion. The main state-owned
utilities, primarily responsible for transmission and distribution within
their States, are Companhia Energetica de Sao Paulo (CESP), Eletricidade de
Sao Paulo (ELETROPAULO), Centrais Eletricas de Minas Gerais S.A. (CENIG),
Companhia Paranaense de Energia (COPEL) and Companhia Estadual de Energia
Eletrica - Rio Grande do Sul vEEE).
Sector Finances
43.       After World War II, Brazilian legislation adopted for the power
sector the principle of service at cost plus an adequate return on the
capital invested. Since 1971, power companies have been allowed to earn,
at the discretion of DNAEE, a return of 10% to 12Z on the remunerable
investment3/, after meeting operating expenses, depreciation, taxes other
than on income, the reversion tax4/ payable to ELEIROBRAS, and a guarantee
surcharge5/ accruing to DNAEE. fowever, in 1981, DNAEE's regulatory
functions were curtailed and final approval of power rates vested in the
Supply and Price Secretariat (SEAP) of SEPLAN.
44,       Annual revaluation of the assets serving as a basis for
calculating the rate of return has been mandatory since 1966. Ten years
later, a monthly adjustment of asset values was introduced, based on the
adjustable National Treasury bond (ORTN) index. In 1980-81, changes in the
ORTN index lagged behind inflation with a negative effect on asset
revaluation; this policy, however, was abandoned in 1981 and current
revaluation procedure (except for isolating the price index from the effect
of the abolition in mid-1983 of oil and wheat subsidies) reflects the rate
of inflation. It was agreed during negotiations that if for three
consecutive months the adjustments made to the ORTN index for the 12-month
period immediately preceding each month is below the variation in domestic
inflation for the same period by more than 10 percentage points,
commitments and disbursements from the loan could be suspended (Section
6.01(g) of the draft Loan Agreement).
31 Net revalued assets, plus an allowance for inventory and net working
capital, plus or minus the difference between actual and allowable
return in prior years, minus contributions and grants.
4/ A federal tax of up to 4% on assets in operation; ELETROBRAS applies
its proceeds to sector investment and compensation for taking over the
assets of private utilities.
51 A surcharge of up to 2% on assets in operation used in the 1970s to
supplement the revenues of certain rower companies and since 1981 to
equalize the rate of return among tr.e companies.



- 13 -
45.       Heavy investment in large hydroelectric schemes and nuclear
plants during the past ten years, coinciding with the erosion of power
rates in real terms, resulted in a deterioration of sector finances. While
in 1973 consumers contributed a record 56% of sector resources and
borrowing amounted to 30Z, in 1982 borrowed funds represented 87% of sector
resources. Despite substantial nominal increases in power rates in 1979,
1980 and 1981, the sector has failed since 1978 to achieve the 10% rate of
return on remunerable investment provided for by law and reflected in loan
agreements with the Bank; in 1980, the rate of return fell below 5%. After
a review of sector finances with the Bank, the Federal Goverment agreed in
September 1981 to increase power rates in real terms by at least 3% in 1982
and by at least 5% in 1983 and thereafter, until the annual 10% rate of
return for the power sector as a whole has been attained and return
shortfalls occurring since 1978 have been recovered. The September 1981
agreement also provided that power companies, which are Bank borrowers or
beneficiaries of its loans, would maintain a return at least equal to the
average rate for the sector. Because of slippage in the dates of rate
increases in 1982, and the lagging demand growth, sector revenues have not
expanded as expected. During loan negotiations the Government agreed with
the Bank on a series of measures aimed at improving the financial situation
of the power sector. Such measures include a commitment from the
Government that the electric power sector will reach a 10% financial rate
of return in 1989, to be achieved by improving the rate of return by one
point per year from the current estimate of 4% in 1983. It is to be
achieved through tariff increases and other measures aimed at reducing
operating costs. To achieve the agreed rates of return in 1984 and 1985
the Government agreed to increase tariffs by 5% in real terms each year.
Beyond that, the Government agreed to review with the Bank by January 15,
1986, the financial performance of the power sector and to agree on a
program of tariff increases and other measures required to achieve the
agreed rates of return targets in future years. Failure to achieve the
agreed rates of return or to reach agreement on the program of tariff
increases for 1986 and thereafter, by January 15, 1986, shall entitle the
Bank to suspend disbursements under al loans to the power sector in
Brazil.
46.       The tariff increases will be achieved through a series of
quarterly tariff adjustments. The increases will be made effective no
later than February 1, May 1, August 1 and November 1, each year. The
increase to be made on February 1 and Ma- 1 would include one-half each of
the real increase that has been agreed for the year. During negotiations
it was agreed that until a tariff increase of not less than 2.5% in real
terms, scheduled for February 1, 1984 takes place, the Bank would not
declare effective the proposed loan for this project and the proposed loan
for the Rural Electrification project.
47.       Several large generating projects have been commissioned in 1982
and three more, including Itaipu, will be completed in the near future. As
demand for electricity has slowed down, excess capacity exists at present
in the power sector. This reduces investment requirements; consequently,
consumer-based contributions are expected to reach 35Z of sector resources



- 14 -
by 1986. While a low return is still projected for the sector in 1983, the
tariff policy agreed with the Bank should cause the rate of return to rise
beginning in 1984 and continue to do so in the following years.
48.       The completion of the Itaipu hydroelectric scheme might affect
the operating costs of the sector. The agreement between Brazil and
Paraguay for the construction of Itaipu established a tariff pattern for
the bulk sale of electricity based on the debt service. Higher interest
rates and massive short-term borrowing by Itaipu Binacional in recent years
have distorted this pattern; the original agreement is likely to be
revised, with the result that a growing percentage of sector revenues would
be applied towards paying for Itaipu-generated energy. Because of this
prospect, the draft Guarantee Agreement provides that the Federal
Government would promptly take all measures required to offset cost
increases arising from higher Itaipu tariffs and ensure that the agreed
rates of return are achieved (Section 3.03 (a) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
49.       In addition to power rates, residential, commercial and small
industrial consumers are billed for the IUEE tax, accruing to the Federal
Government, and state and municipal utilities, whereas industries using
more than 2,000 kWh per month subscribe to a compulsory savings scheme in
the form of long-term bonds of ELETROBRAS. Nation-wide, the power rates
provide about 80Z of revenues collected from consumers; the IUEE tax
produces some 12Z of sector revenues and the compulsory savings the
remaining 8%.
50.       As financial agent for the power sector, ELETROBRAS raises funds
and allocates them for expansion of electric power facilities. The origin
of the funds is as follows:
(a)  proceeds of the IUEE tax6/, the compulsory savings scheme
and the reversion tax;
(b) special federal budget appropriations and refunds by the
Federal Government of most of the dividends paid to it by
ELETROBRAS;
(c) dividends received by ELETROBRAS from subsidiaries and
associated companies, and service payments on loats made to
these companies; and
(d) domestic and external borrowing.
In allocating funds, ELETROBRAS has given priority to large projects,
mainly in power generation, promoted by the Federal Government.  As a prime
channel for Bank lending to the power sector, it has become deeply involved
in expanding transmission and distribution systems. The deterioration in
6/ Since 1982, the Federal Government does no longer refund its 40% share
of the IUEE tax as equity contribution.



- 15 -
sector finances in the past 10 years, precipitated by the erosion of power
rates and heavy capital expenditure, was reflected in increased borrowing
by ELETROBRAS and rapidly growing debt service. Between 1973 and 1982,
ELETROBRAS' debt/equity ratio increased from 44:56 to 53:47. The trend is
likely to be reversed; recent tariff agreements with the Bank are expected
to result in a rising net income.
Power Demand and Sector Investment
51.       Throughout the 1970s, sales of electricity by the public supply
system grew at an average annual rate of 12.6%, substantially exceeding it
in the latter part. The growth was largely due to rising demand from
intermediate goods industries, but substitution of electricity for other
forms of energy was also a factor. By 1980, per capita production of
electricity was 1,120 kT1h, compared with 1,464 kWh in Argentina and 741 kWh
in Colombia; 56% of Brazilian households were supplied with electricity.
At present, industry uses 57% of the electricity produced and residential
consumers 20Z. The distribution of demand is very uneven, owing to the
industrial and urban concentration in the Southeast of the country. Latest
tentative demand projections assume sales expanding by 7.6% in 1983 and 1O0
to 11% thereafter.
52.       Planning for investment in generation and transmission is the
responsibility of ELETROBRAS, which prepares the national Master Plan with
due regard to opLimizing the nation's resources so as to provide a least
cost expansion program for the whole country. The Plan is subject to
review '- DNAEE and approval by the Ministry of Mines and Energy; however,
in the last two years the overall control of investment by public
enterprises has been vested in the Secretaria de Controle de Empresas
Estatais (SEST). A master plan for the sector to meet the demand through
the year 2000 was prepared by ELETROBRAS in 1982. Since then, changes in
the economic situation have called for revisions. The new investment
program for 1984-87 should be ready by the end of 1983. It will
incorporate projects selected in accordance with the current shortage of
resources and stress expansion in transmission and distribution systems to
absorb the electricity to be produced by the new generating plants.
Rural Electrification in Brazil
53.       While rural electrification has not been fostered at the national
level, some of the state-owned power companies, mainly in the more
developed States, have carried out rural electrification projects. In the
State of Rio de Janeiro, 40% of rural households benefit from electricity
service. The States of Parana and Minas Gerais snow a proportion of about
17% and 10%, respectively. The State of Bahia is at the bottom of the
scale, with only 1% of rural households being connected. Nation-wide, the
weighted average of households supplied with electricity in rural areas is
19%, compared with 85% for the urban areas.
54.       The start was made in 1965, when Instituto Nacional de
Colonizacao e Reforma Agraria (INCRA) assumed responsibility for planning
and promoting rural electrification through consumer cooperatives. In



- 16 -
1971, the Grupo Executivo de Eletrificacao Rural (GEER), sponsored by INCRA
and supervised by the Ministry of Agriculture, was made responsible for
assigning priorities to INCRA projects, appraising and supervising them,
and arranging financing. GEER on-lends funds made available by banks and
government institutions, providing 80-90% of the project cost with the
balance put up by cooperatives or state utilities. In the 1970s, GEER used
the proceeds of two IDB loans to connect some 63,000 rural consumers.
55.       Between 1976 and 1980, ELETROBRAS helped finance some rural
electrification projects submitted to it by state-owned utilities, setting
up a separate Departamento de Eletrificacao Rural (DEER) to coordinate
these operations. The projects consisted of the extension of distribution
networks in rural areas located close to existing power lines. The number
of customers connected annually peaked at 43,000 in 1979 and declined
thereafter due to a cutback in available funds. As a consequence, DEER was
absorbed by another department.
56.       Rural consumers finance a large part (between 70% and 100%) of
the cost of connections and the entire cost of internal wiring. As an
offsetting measure, rural power rates are fixed at 40% to 65% of urban
tariffs. The proportion of connection costs to be borne by the rural
consumer is defined by the power company; it is up to the prospective
consumer to seek credit for this purpose from state or commercial banks.
In some cases, prospective consumers borrow from banks at subsidized
interest rates, but no uniform procedures exist in this regard. It is a
legitimate question, whether the policy of requiring from consumers
substantial capital contributions, setting low tariffs, and -  at times
subsidizing interest rates, has been conducive to promoting rural
electrification. A study to look into such problems as these is included
in the proposed Rural Electrification project and would be financed by the
Bank.
57.       At present the main problems facing rural electrification are
lack of well developed standards for investment prioritieb; of criteria for
the evaluation of rural electrification projects and poor coordination
between the entities carrying out rural electrification programs to ensure
that their programs are consistent with national priorities. The
Government, during negotiations of the proposed loan for Rural
Electrification, indicated its commitment to address these problems and its
interest to promote rural electrification as a means of raising
agricultural production, limiting the use of oil products in farming and
improving conditions of life on the land. It was agreed that ELETROBRAS
will undertake the responsibility of assuring that priorities are correctly
assessed and projects are implemented efficiently. To meet this
responsibility ELETROBRAS agreed to set up a Rural Electrification Unit
which will coordinate, review and evaluate for socio-economic
justification, technical soundness and financial viability the rural
electrification programs of all the utilities that request federal funding,
or credit from federal banks or agencies or from international financial
institutions. It was also agreed that the rural electrification study
included in the Rural Electrification project will cover appropriate
aspects to provide Brazil with the basis for a national long-term rural
electrification policy.



- 17 -
Bank Assistance to the Power Sector
58.       Since 1949, the Bank has made 35 loans, amounting to about US$1.9
billion, for electric power development in Brazil. These loans were for
hydroelectric plants, associated transmission lines and distribution
systems. Bank participation has contributed to the organization of the
sector and to the planning of Brazil's interconnected electricity grid.
The Bank has encouraged Federal Government efforts to implement a tariff
policy, which would enable the sector to generate an adequate proportion of
the funds required for expansion; it has also facilitated private foreign
borrowing by the sector. Eight project performance audit reports, covering
nine hydro-electric and five distribution projects in Brazil have been
distributed to the Executive Directors7/. These reports conclude that,
despite construction delays and cost overruns in several cases, the
projects succeeded in achieving their objectives.
59.       The Bank's past involvement in rural electrification in Brazil
was limited to rural electrification components of rural development
projects. Given the large recent and pending increases in hydroelectric
generation capacity, and the need to foster agricultural production and
raise productivity on the farm, future Bank assistance to the power sector
would emphasize rural electrification.
60.       The first ELETROBRAS Power Distribution Project (Loan 2138-BR
signed on May 12, 1982), is making good progress. Procurement of goods and
services is advancing according to schedule. Procurement documents for bid
invitations representing purchases worth about US$50 million have been
approved for issue.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
61.       The project was prepared by ELETROBRAS with the help of Bank
staff.  It was appraised in January-February 1983 and the appraisal
mission's findings were brought up-to-date in Brazil in July 1983.
Negotiations took place in Washington in November 1983 with a Brazilian
negotiating team headed by General Jose Costa Cavalcanti, President of
ELETROBRAS. A Staff Appraisal Report entitled 'ELETROBRAS II Power
Distribution Project" (No. 4660-BR) is being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. Supplementary project data are shown in Annex III.
Project Description
62.       The proposed project of US$785.6 million consists of portions of
1983-88 investment programs of seven electric power utilities, selected by
ELETROBRAS and located in various parts of the country. The project
7/ SecM75-646 of September 4, 1975; SecK77-532 of June 28, 1977;
SecH78-934 of January 16, 1978; SecK79-82 of February 12, 1979;
SecN79-756 of October 23, 1979; SecM79-757 of October 23, 1979;
SecM79-905 of December 29, 1979; and SecM81-532 of June 22, 1981.



- 18 -
represents 24% of their investment programs. It would expand and modernize
distribution systems in five less developed Stctes of the Northeast and the
Northwest, thus fostering agricultural production, and in the metropolitan
areas of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, thus raising the living standards of
about one million low-income consumers. The project would further result
in institutional improvements.
63.       The investment programs of the seven beneficiaries were drawn up
with the assistance of ELETROBRAS, which used criteria patterned on those
applied by the Bank in identifying, preparing and appraising projects.
From the technical and economic standpoint, the programs represent optimum
solutions based on conservative marketing assumptions. They provide for
the purchase and installation of sub-transmission lines, substations and
associated transformers; distribution lines and transformers; low voltage
secondary circuits; consumer connections; and general service and related
auxiliary equipment. In addition, two of the beneficiaries, CERON and
ELETRONORTE, have included in their programs the rehabilitation of thermal
generating plant. About two million new consumers may be connected by
1988, owing to the investment.
The Borrower and the Beneficiaries
64.       ELETROBRAS (paras. 41 and 42) would be the Borrower and would
relend the proceeds of the loan to CERON, ELETRONORTE, CEMAR, CEPISA, CEAL,
LIGHT and ELETROPAULO on the same terms as those of the loan, charging in
addition a 1Z service fee on the outstanding balances of the sub-loans.
The beneficiaries would bear the foreign exchange risk and the interest
risk on the Bank's loan. Except for a US$20 million loar. made in 1973 to
LIGHT, when it was still a foreign-owned private company, none of the
beneficiaries was in the past financially assisted by the Bank.
65.       The Federal Government holds 99.6% of ELETROBRAS shares and 100%
of its voting stock. The President is appointed by the President of the
Republic; he chairs the meetings of the Administrative Board, which is also
comprised of five Directors and six Counselors elected by the shareholders;
one of the Counselors represents the private shareholders. The
Administrative Board sets policy, approves the annual budget, decides on
borrowing, and bears responsibility for investment by, and the financing
of, power utilities. The President and five Directors, who head the five
Directorates of ELETROBRAS, run day-to-day operations and may make policy
recommendations to the Administrative Board. The professional staff of
ELETROBRAS is competent and well trained, some of them in power companies
in Europe or North America. ELETROBRAS has a modern, comprehensive
training program for its staff and for personnel of Brazilian power
utilities; this program has been extended to other South American electric
power companies.
66.       In the past five years, ELETROBRAS developed, with the assistance
of the Bank, an adequate capacity for the appraisal and supervision of
power distribution projects. In 1981, it took over the Bank's
identification, preparation, appraisal and supervision functions in respect



- 19 -
of the sub-projects included in ELETROBRAS I power distribution project.
At present, special tenams from various ELETROBRAS Directorates work with
the technical and financial staff of the prespective beneficiaries in
identifying and preparing sub-projects for appraisal; following the Bank's
advice, institutional aspects are being carefully scrutinized with a view
to strengthening administrative and control systems. Appraisal of the
investment programs and the sub-projects of all beneficiaries have been
zompleted and are satisfactory to the Bank.
67.       The Subsidiary Loan Agreements between ELETROBRAS and the
beneficiaries and the respective States repeat the provisions of past Bank
agreements relative to loans to the Brazilian power sector, specifically
the provisions on power rates and debt service coverage (Schedule 5.II.9.
to the draft Loan Agreement). The provisions on power rates and the
revenues from the sale of electricity by the beneficiaries have also been
repeated in the Loan and Guarantee Agreements for the proposed loan
(Section 6.01(f) of the draft Loan Agreement and Sections 3.02(b) and 3.03
of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
68.       All prospective beneficiaries are joint stock companies, which
distribute electricity within their concession areas from sub-transmission
systems at 138 kV and lower voltage levels. The corporate structures are
similar, with a Board of Directors appointed by the shareholders and
headed by a President who acts as the chief executive officer. The other
characteristics vary widely. For instance, CERON sold 38,000 consumers
130.6 GWh of energy in 1982, whereas ELETROPAULO's sales to 3,637,000
consumers equaled 32,652 GWh. The concession area of LIGHT covers about
12,000 sq. km. and that of CEMAR about 324,000 sq. km. Each of the five
smaller utilities employed less than 1,800 people at the end of 1982; on
the same date, LIGHT had nearly 15,000 employees and ELETROPAULO more than
19,000.
69.       Among the smaller beneficiaries, CERON has to expand its
electricity supply most rapidly because economic activity in the State of
Rondonia is currently growing at the rate of 25% per annum. In the less
developed areas, four beneficiaries supply electricity throughout their
respective States. The fifth, ELETRONORTE, responsible for generation and
high voltage transmission in the North and part of the Central West (para.
42), is in a special position. It will be borrowing from ELETROBRAS under
the proposed loan for the investment requirements of the city of Manaus
distribution system, which it has taken over temporarily from a private
company because the state-owned utility in the Amazonas did not have the
resources to do so.
70.       Of the two large prospective beneficiaries, LIGHT, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of ELETROBRAS (para. 42), would improve and expand its
distribution network mainly in the slum districts of Rio de Janeiro, and
would connect some 450,000 low-income consumers. The state-owned
ELETROPAULO would connect about 550,000 new consumers living mainly in the
rural and low-income areas situated on the periphery of the Sao Paulo
metropolitan region.



- 20 -
Cost and Financing
71.       The cost of the project has been estimated at US$785.6 million,
including the front-end fee. The foreign exchange component amounts to
US$316.7 million, or 40.3Z of the total cost. Base costs reflect prices in
December 1982, adjusted for the 30% cruzeiro devaluation of February 1983,
and include engineering and administration. Taxes and import duties are
estimated at 10% of the base cost. Physical contingencies were calculated
at the rate of 10%, and price contingencies for the foreign cost component
assume the following annual escalation rates: 8% for 1983, 7.5% for 1984,
7% for 1985, and 6% for 1986 and thereafter. Price contingencies on local
costs, which are expressed in dollar terms equivalent, were astimated
assuming that the exchange rate is to be devalued pari passu with domestic
inflation through 1984 and according to the difference between domestic and
international inflation thereafter.
72.       The financing plan provides for the seven beneficiaries to
contribute together the equivalent of US$336.9 million to the local cost of
the project. Brazilian development banks would advance the equivalent of
US$132.0 million. ELETROBRAS has arranged with State governments and
federal agencies for financial support to the beneficiaries, if this proved
necessary to ensure the timely execution of the works (Section 3.01(b) of
Schedule 5.III.3. to the draft Loan Agreement).  To strengthen the
financial position of the beneficiaries during the execution of the
sub-projects, ELETROBRAS and the States in their capacity of shareholders
would reinvest the dividends paid to them in the capital stock of the
respective beneficiaries. The States would also invest in the capital
stock of the beneficiaries the proceeds of the IUEE tax allocated to them
(Section 3.09 of, and Schedule 5.111.4. to, the draft Loan Agreement).
73.       The proposed loan of US$250.6 million would finance 31.9% of the
total cost of the project providing the major part of foreign exchange
requirements (Loan and Project Summary). The rest of the foreign exchange
requirements, i.e., US$66.1 million, would have to come from foreign
commercial banks. These funds would not be needed until 1986. In the
meantime, ELETROBRAS would assist the beneficiaries in working out
co-financing arrangements.
74.       The cost of the individual sub-projects varies from US$46.5
million in the case of CEPISA, the Piaui State power company, to US$185.9
million for the Sao Paulo state-owned ELETROPAULO (Loan and Project
Summary). A comparison of the sub-projects and the overall programs to be
carried out by the five smaller power utilities demonstrates that the base
costs (plus physical contingencies) of the sub-projects represent from 49%
to 66% of the overall investment. On the other hand, only 19% and 15%,
respectively, of the overall investment of the two very large companies,
LIGHT and ELETROPAULO, would be included in the proposed project as the
co-financing from the commercial banks would be applied to the works
executed by the big companies.



- 21 -
Execution of the Project
75.       Most of the beneficiaries have the capacity for carrying out
engineering and construction supervision with their existing staff;
wherever appropriate and recommended by ELETROBRAS, they would be assisted
by Brazilian consultants. Larger works would be built under local
contracts and smaller works executed by the beneficiaries' own staff, as is
normal utility praztice. ELETROBRAS has reviewed construction programs to
ensure realistic timing; progress would be monitored according to
construction schedules prepared during the appraisal of the sub-projects.
H4ost of the pover lines would be routed overhead and the substations
located so as to minimize the environmental impact (Schedule 5.II.16. to
the draft Loan Agreement).
76.       By October 15 of each year, ELETROBRAS would furnish to the Bank
a preliminary financing plan for the next fiscal year showing the financial
requirements which would ensure the timely execution and completion of the
investment programs of the seven beneficiaries. This would be followed by
the presentation of a final financing plan not later than on May 31
(Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Modifications to the
investment programs of the beneficiaries larger than 15% in real terms in
any one year would require prior agreement by the Bank and ELETROBRAS
(Schedule 5.II.2. to the draft Loan Agreement).
Procurement
77.       Equipment and materials financed under the proposed loan would be
procured in accordance with Bank guidelines, through international
competitive bidding, except for minor quantities (each item not exceeding
US$50,000 equivalent and all items totalling not more than 5% of each
sub-loan) where sppcial reasons justify limited international tendering.
Within the same limitations, direct purchases may be made for the
rehabilitation of thermal generating plant, if the original manufacturer is
the only source of supply. As in previous power loans, Brazilian suppliers
whose bids contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50%
of the value of the bid would be given a margin of preference of 15% or the
applicable import duties, whichever is lower. About US$240 million
equivalent of equipment and materials to be financed under the proposed
loan would be acquired through ICB and about 2/3 of the value of the
contracts placed after ICB may eventually be awarded to Brazilian
suppliers. Equipment, materials and services not paid for with the loan
proceeds, would be procured locally under the normal procedures of the
beneficiaries which are satisfactory (Schedule 4 to the draft Loan
Agreement).
Disbursement
78.       Preparations for the procurement of goods and services are well
advwnced so that invitations to bid may be issued promptly, once the
proposed loan has been approved. ELETROBRAS expects disbursements to build
up quickly after the first year and be completed in about 4-1/2 years after



- 22 -
the loan approval. Nevertheless, in view of the disbursement profile for
Bank-financed power distribution projects in Brazil, it appeared prudent to
allow for additional six months and set the Closing Date at June 30, 1989.
79.       Disbursements would be fully documented and would be made for
100% of foreign expenditure on in.ported equipment and materials, or the
ex-factory cost of locally manufactured equipment and materials.
80.       In order to reduce the interval during which the beneficiaries
would finance the Bank's share of locally procured project costs with their
own resources, a Special Account with an initial deposit of up to US$22.0
million would be opened at the Central Bank of Brazil (Section 2.02 and
Schedule 6 of the draft Loan Agreement). The beneficiaries would be
entitled to make withdrawals in cruzeiros from the Special Account upon
presentation to the Bank of Statements for expenditures of the project.
Conversion from cruzeiros into dollars would be made at the exchange rate
that prevailed on the date the expenditures on the project were made. The
Central Bank would forward those statements to the Bank, which would then
replenish the Special Account.
Benefits and Risks
81.       The five sub-projects situated in the five less developed states
of the Northeast and the Northwest should promote economic development in
general, and faster farm production and the establishment of small
enterprise, in particular. The benefits of the two sub-projects in the
low-income metropolitan areas of Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo would be
primarily of a social nature, although they are likely to result in risirg
productivity and incomes.
82.       As costs and benefits of the subprojects cannot be segregated
from those of the investment programs of the seven beneficiaries, the
economic rate of return was calculated for each investment program as a
whole. The project alternatives - utilizing different voltage levels 
have been selected through the least cost solution method. Since it is not
possible to quantify properly all the economic benefits for this type of
program, the incremental revenues have been used as a proxy for economic
benefits. These were measured as the growth of sales during the 1983-88
period valued at the yearly average tariffs (para. 45). However, since
tariffs are administratively determined and not established on the basis of
market forces, they are probably lower than what consumers are willing to
pay and they may be assumed to understate the full economic return on the
investment programs. On this basis, the investment programs of the
beneficiaries show the following economic rates of return: CERON 11.0%;
ELETRONORTE 13.0%; CEMAR 14.6%; CEPISA 9.8%; CEAL 14.5%; LIGHT 28.3%; and
ELETROPAULO 31.7%. The significant difference between the economic rates
of return of the major distribution companies (LIGHT and ELETROPAULO) and
those of the smaller ones arises from the effect of the tariff equalization
scheme currently applied to electricity consumers in Brazil and reflects
the different characteristics of the beneficiaries. Because of the



country-wide tariff equalization policy in Brazil the tariffs in the least
developed regions of the country are lower than they would have to be
without the cross subsidization received from the more developed regions.
Because of this, the rates of return on investment, as calculated on the
above basis, are in general lower in the least developed regions than the
average rate of return on the total power sector investment programs.
Relatively low rates of return for some of the recipients of funds under
the equalization program such as CEPISA are to be expected. Conversely,
contributors to the equlalization programs, such as LIGHT and ELETROPAULO
have a higher return.
83.       The project as such does not present any special risks. Both the
borrower and the beneficiaries, however, have been affected by the
financial problems of the power sector. These are being addressed through
a program of tariff increases and cost reduction measures agreed between
theGovernment and the Bank which wiLl progressively improve the financial
condition of the power sector (para. 45).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
84.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Centrais Eletricas
Brasileiras S.A. - ELETROBRAS, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Federative Republic of Brazil and the Bank, the draft supplemental letter
on the Revenues of the Beneficiaries (similar to that approved by the
Executive Directors on May 11, 1982 in the context of the loan for
ELETROBRAS I power distribution project), and the report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
85.       Special conditions of the proposed loan are listed in Section III
of Annex III. A condition of effectiveness would be the execution and
delivery of three Subsidiary Loan Agreements between the Borrower and three
of the beneficiaries. The execution and delivery of Subsidiary Loan
Agreements would be a condition of disbursement for the subloans to the
other beneficiaries.
86.                 I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



- 24 -
PART VI - RECION
87.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 16, 1983
Washington, D. C.



BEST COPY AVALABE
- 25 -                                              XDs 
AN=E 
sPage 1 of 5
- seQ. Olt^SE 9WIS CULU_
inIZ8.                  irin     awis (IWtml £ua)   a
39.4  1,74                          3U~~~~CWSrRED   tlYMAlM) lb
sesr~~~am                        m csmz rnc
Mu~~~ ~~~w ,~    go. ,0                                    LA. ama4CASvc
a    _ c   tw . uQ
U2t,r0   105.3  11.3  2209.5
PW Am cwI  on)                   330.6      U0..      20               2O.2                    243.4
-om  co wrza NM  cAM
CsL0mh3  0 ar  L t00?VLEhf      38.         5. I     1tut.0           110.8                   ISO.$
1~A11W        11.  m 1s _ S
STZWgX=-3M (lUSAM)  12594.0                 87-.0   12?z.0
=mm  OpauAlI  (C OF TOM)         48.1       5S.9       ".2              65.9                    4.
S109.85 P      XwUR)                                 79.
lIMAR 51106X  10?. MMAI                             7110
SoaAMr P. tr10
83. Wl.                      8.        It.3       15.9           32.G                     S2.0
SU   09l. At.  LAW          A4.v       48.4       53.6                                    Ut.2  z.5
P0IlIgrz0 AM1 SIwcYUCZ ()
0-14 TR$                       MG.        42..?      61.1'613.
OS-t ms                         Ms        SAL        *t.t              t*t
tS-8   S                        53.8      54.         55.             55.8                    80.9
65 an Ann                       2.6        3.1        3.5              4.   *.2
Tom                             3.1,       24         2.S              2.3                     1.4
IRma,                            5.5       4.7        3.9              3.7                     3.4
cM2    c RATE CMt    s)          47         350        30.5             31.5                    Z3.0
cow man RAL   (CM  ImuaS)        12.9       1Q.3        8.2              .1t                     9.1
Cam  zmOgacra. MM                 3.0        2.4        1.9              2.0                     Z.7
IMELY R.AIW=
Acce-m. AltL C-.                             0         3.6/e
OF t- t:r0. V" CA..
Pm car   w.w
m ans sar or
CLORW    Zaor soRIRSq          106.0   te.           103.0  llS         .3                   tr1.6
13M1.5 (C1*1 PM CAW)            64.0       820       Gt.0             67.9                    C2.3
Or UilW Aur AIW P6D    5       35.0       34.0       3l0/d           31                       .
0D  CA.1 X-4) DU  RAIlM          13.4       12.5        6.9              5.3                    LOA
WI 3ccr3 . A?r 3.1 CrEAMS)        54.?       56S.      63.6             3                       6J.2
'.AIr n?r. RAil (CPU Zn>s       116.7       966         M5.             82.8                    7t.4
A== To Saee 6123 r10)
1018                             ..        5.0        77.1.1.         84.8
18*3                              .        76.0       "an8            77.8
Rag.                              - .      MO         56.d7           44.3
105                               -         6.         6./            54.4
* er                                         09.8
11235.                            ..      z260        3i.7            9.8
PM 2 CI              267nL0     230.0      1700.0/f         177.0                   109.
. t NSDvC plum                 u20.        120.0o7                    10z.2 .2.5
33. P= 0s9p1AL Dm
TOM                            310.0      270.0      230.0/.         477.0                   334.0
031*3                          260.0      520.0        ..       -     67.3                   216.0
tug.  ..  ..         ..           1921..
P  Nosn  s                        .. o                  ..             2.2                     20.0
AVRC Sr=c or   I roL
101.                             35.1       4.6        4.r..
On=43                             ..        4.         *
,,L                     .2 .            '
*AVER   Mo 89 013sheU/
TOTAL                             ..        1..
0933                             1..        1.0
1AL                               ..        1..
C35 To CuCr.  cr 00&U=)
ITL                             37         47.        87.4.
now      73li       aas.
SaL                               ..                  20.6



BEST COPY AVAILABLE   -26-                                                                           ANEX 2
Page 2 of 5
DRAZIL             SOCIAL IUDtCAThPS OMT sumE
£REWXCE GWuePS (WEL ilED AVERAGESJ Ja
mmS                      cmQ  Rl:CEII MTIITE) Zb
60fb  IMLb RECETr/b           NIDO                   NOILE IJCH  IIIL.UOI
60'-    1970-. ESTIPATEN  LA?. AJIICA T I  CARIB   euR
Sr   zOuT  RArtOS
:wmaT   TCTAL                    95.0       B *&0       93.08           105.0                    102.2
HALL                  97.0        34.0       93Of             1.06.3                  107.2
FEMA                  93.0        84.0       93:.;7           103.%                    97.9
SCWUDAE: OTAL                    1.0        Z6.0        32.W!C,          60.e                     56.5
MALE                   i.t0       z6.0       29.0b            38h.6                    63.4
EtNAL.                            U00  M.o   35.              41.2                     48.9
vOATMIW. : OF SECWIoJa)            18.6       M6.7        59.2l..b         34.0                     zz.4
PUPIL-TEA0IEII MAITO
PzmAt                            33.0       28.0        26.0             30.7                     24.7
sca~mnzT                         13gu       1.3.0       14.0th           1.67                     2Z.1
ADULT LEMRACY RATE C:)             6t.0       5e.2        76.0             79.5                     69.7
mELSONT
PASSE$   CARS/ThOUSAMS POP         7J6        L6.6        501.             45.6                     5Z.9
RADO RIECEVERs/THOUsA.U &          65.4      1.08.4      169.3            228.2                    165.5
TV RECELVERs/TGSAMD M0r            16.5        4.3        2Z.7           108.3                    124.2
ISEAPW (-DAZLL t;i5E:L
LSCrEST) CXRCULATION
PER TIWUSAD POPULATIU             39.1       3S.6        64.6th           64.1                     96.3
CUIOD  A3WAL ATrECE/l!CAPL          4.4        z.0         1.Q9/b           2.9                      2.9
TO    LAWR FOR    CS)           23326.0    30411.0    35256.0                . 
IEnA    CPERC-T)                 17.2        0.1.       ZB.              24.8                     34.5
CTWE (PERCElT)            51.9        45.6       29.9             31.3                     40.7
IBUUSRT  (PERCENT)               14.8       18.3        24.4             23.9                     23.4
PARTICIFAnOS UAT (FERC09r)
TOTAL                            32Z1        31 7       29.3             31.3                     42.0
MLE                              52.7        50.3       50.9             49.5                     55.2
FEAE                             lt.2        I:S        t4.1L            14.3                     29.1
ECONONIC DE PUEs RinAU              1.4        1.4         L.5              1.4                      0.9
1Ur DS -ISTEIIOM
DERMI! OF PIEVATr IECON
MIGESr S OF MIOJSEMULDS           .-
ST zo2 0F eobs69.0                          63.5        6Z.OJ c
IDEES 20; OF    OLOS              3.U        3.Z         Z.3/lc
LOWS ; 40 OF dWOSEMOLDOS         10.8        9.0         9.47..
ESTIMAED AUS3LiE rvvrT XSCaIE
LVL CUSS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              .e9.
RURAL                              ..         ..       t50.0fc          164.5
EST ED REAVE POVERIT  DE
LZVEL. USS PEx CAPITA)
UtBAN                              ..         ._       *65_0/d          519.0
RURAL                              ..         ..       332.07a          372.1                    409.0
ESTImATED POP. BELOW ASOLUTE
pOVEL  XCEE LEVEL (C)
URW                                ..         ..
..r AVAILABL
Mr ArFCALE
n OT E S
/a 7be grop a.rage. hor eaca Indicator azs populatow-weltated aritmetic  mn_. Covrage of tnontr1u        U5 the
indic-ror depeads on availability of data and Ls not unform.
/b Unl1ss otherwise noted. Data for 19W  refer to aoy year between 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970- betwen 1969 and
1971 ; d data for p    Recos e.Liete- beutjen 1979 and 1981.
/c  1975; Id 1977; t 1976; lf 197C; A BegitnnLg 1973 primary an aeCooday eductLom coDer ar   groups 7-14 aid 15-17
inateJof  J-10 g11-17i  earlier years; tberefore det reant estimates r_ce not comprabl* with earLiLr data;
/1 1978.
Na l9U3



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
-27 -AN I
Page 3 of 5
Now. 411335.11          dt-4.155.19c;   971377....eI §  I 15 L      5.1Co  Q-C 1.1. bl -Itl.b1. 1. N ." 5 A 3 . - 8 133  H.   0F 5-  M. t.as.-g3L-"t
*tIso ..usu of             lodgee. 551.1.171.. on5 Cho-1welsol s.lrsl" u.Jwr 41l(5M. 1135 v       1755
lomMM,.3.             Cs)~(1  115 -     .-1P   v,-M .7 133 .353.5  15Ir .15 (23  - -C., F 1  031119-  5--I     -153 137s I57    *%e 11- 15 5 -77..   73.
0(0   e 4.5 ft lIs -1155.33. Sb."  Ott C ...~e.. '- .1  e -Pt  'W  13 1151-1*.% 4.53.4  -1 (54t %1l3s5Ik .1 417 b13 5.1 .51.1 731-51
g5.e315 3 11521. 55      C 55. 35- to.           15-  175 ~   35.331  .7.5.1  .5.7.1 I. -g  171-. 115 leet    Ld I- 311.I,  %tS1           1 4  311   1
11.51 , -MocsL..(1..l  oces ad1  wad1171 -wooes      175.50    1   57535  115.t   M *1 .5                              .   575-r 11t L-.&.1 
ism  -  &la dcCe.                                                                                                                L~~~~~~~~33-  .  17.1..  571  3915.  b -   155  1.35,5
7   (t5. 571 (Ipifo M  W -b.5-9 t n.eg. .                                        .. 1  5-15 . 11-1 -bt  w.es...sIv W-CoL  " of. -3311 - %. 5. -013
pIn., 5~l371h1  15115W 171. WWR157.* d5Lo 5-1745-. 15t.37                          w0wslse ~m   1-f. ft11o.) -55 .31. 3L.e-t-  l1~1Lef5d
&MI. WIFIN. -W gm  d-  ~ ~ ~ ~     ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     befl1-.Itt-v71l.la.-                       3C1- 5.f1   517.
N1        sse151 P     wm  5.1575.51..7_13ev.3 -      .7.31w1clO.913 or e- 1353-              t151.   -111         1--     -c & 11-1    b1 .1 .ft1sI..3  3-   -st1.1.3
-                                                                                                           3557 35.911511~~~~cce_-  --&  -   d  " .   2-~  4114.911c5 11.) _Cf  Iftbe.. C- 
911- 5-151111 (5.v....1 .7 7s.s13 - 3.15. 1                                                    -W-7.3-11W151-1              --I.. .-C7_
..5-.1..~~ 3550. 1115. 15 1151 d.Sc.                       .e.. 511. .7 3302.t..~    3.7.1..4 .. Wt.-1   -  1.7.  1-54571
NOW OM115                                                                                Ag7.       57-91..1   7j313.5115   315  e  -W  us15551.     551.15775   1351    .751 .11   15717015
.   sew s   tns~r   .t..t,  -  1.111131,       115  %"-a      .s         Che1.15  ,.1  ..sI.. .
7015-311.7 1115157 -1 75.511117 77..P.r .7l 2- beo .1SON                         15f -3.1. "M.1 bcel    a 7.14.5111. 1.3517i1r -I
63.(115 515.5131.   51  f %l%151.s.  511.715  1-t137'  3155                     1*5l1   51155  17
ed1us1--        31.11 1   14  -     .5.1.3.1  5.f 1    .Ktg11311    715 5-I            ,7Im..1 -ov-,-. 111w -L 71.1 -14 CSl  l11  els                  e-d.
YM,I.1115.15           "e *.st. 17.ft  L- 171.     I..-L....                                  Fe  .1w..1175    15       57.135.   5t1
701.51..  0.1  1L11 5.eelpe - 151.1 1... d.5-L,                                                                                      57-.774 R715.7  l.551771*l
b 1.410. 1915 beZ 335 4 .                                                          .51. 5cs1      5 1 1          f7 y*7s - C51  1751-1-.5.51-1 f.5115
157 1b 5.. .577.1.5  11. -"1-   1~11  515-..   -M. 1611-tl01 35--r .lI1, 5011131*.-
153tk-3..  1110 1170.Ube 15.  4111                                                     Vesll57..5.7.1  -Lt   .  7 111. *--  Ee51c. be-- .5711c. - 31. P 1--T  1(1 1..34 13
5.51511s    ew*- 111  (5p1.5-(t L-  L . 1.1  517355  1111431371-&&%0.7 _1.71 .51.145   15155  37 117371  115f
15-, 5.91115   1.11.1.35-g .   V. 1          111-1.1.3.55  11.51.  ~b!.                                                         e~"LLL-.
Z117      Igoe.3 1101910. - e gm3 ne. s..9LL                                                                ZC    ; _~
-1-5C31.C       M5510 7-  111 4113   5713.b .7 114-7.3                           p..1y  1- s 7~  *...   51111      55*   .315.1 
9soo1oes: 1135. [Il. *.l LIM& 4.1                                                        11702 -515etd11.751571511.141.1                        1. 1.17.1.1t5L
Fe3.1el171                  .s .7 i vr5s...                 11157                         siIS  5.51.".
CW.ft v..% B.- C---  .-C. -  ~    ~          ~           ~          5.5157  I.. bt....  171.1111--t  .715s. .77-.415  1
91355151   1.-s. (37151  .7 ..771  43 -                      .w31.ss 15.W71.4              55.3.51 p.k11.s bs1    1111l  115..11.47 -l
33  -Ue CoCee;  -LL1.57  C.'.-._-  -.0-113 -d  115.t 13  .7.0I. t5513.571 _  _e11   77511711111 _15P.711 U~L-   -!.S- -35
ML.1    5  1115.7p5lb   .1115.5bef 1    .1f1  11- A.59..    15.1  t.                                                               'W51 ......
*5  5   t 1 tlltp355151.   411.  .57p737   313 15.Cf-L45315731.7.11   15751  317-5115-11                                                       51
.s    .151111  71573.SlCM -IW~ttl-IA 1111115515  W.                                                                                                C-1535£715  1111.-111315t33..3311.17.111
417  4111.15  5.51155v-,5  41.33C-19L- e311-. 1.5..171~ (... a3551.53.                                      3-7151115r., II        -  11l0315-55.731 or
51115..55 3 7- 55.1531.be 1-..1 15457151-.   L..%.                                                  ..1   .1. 7-1 C---.155.2  51.  13 -7                a55
am~~~~~~~~                             ~~~~ 151s41..;  17.4  11  -1 74..             1.  171.  P.be.15   P5(1t5717135W   .75310
5.5111  .519t   I-111 -.... -_ I.   - L"n. 1s     - S...1.7 p7  -d                     11 b   1914C st..          14    -
..M,,151-  . 41..f.       .575d .7  s. t. 41-01114                                  r-ot757775.1.  151 - .1.11 -  1571.  ..1.. b   I--elp.! t- PSI.1,1-  17e~
1151,41    357rho 1l-15.515.4 Is 1141 97.514. 717.111.                                   111711   51:57-c.39-7.57  1151. f-15. b   lIsIl  15. 7.7....e
5p1M  ..  41-55.Z-.  C171511  .1l1         .&L-M to w 01-e.7111.1-   .011s7.7h1  .51.1 S.=                                 1£." 3.5.     -     A-.7 .1131   13113
ed,. 5735.S  117  3              .l.41.#3.   vt13    55                                   95.31*b   3131  .1-.315.573 -154      13.p1 11b..1l3  7115
W.1111351111 W5.0d   -W5.        5.15 "F 5..151.15.3171  3557-tv                                      ~.-     4   _         "..I   25.1111 15nl 115
l.5.3  1. b.1115.3.11  311   c1-57  4.7  1511P1-. 191  be Am tIn                              5-        _ --    .I.at.W&M  g                       ol
or ft  13 431 4171-  -711113    b.51. 315*  =910  be F1A3D11.                            5-13311-C.~          i:--.e-
~U1~31117.17  1 1.31 ('P"* '674151 - ft-   d.71371   11.11.33.                                                                            ft-Ile  31  ..  .s   w55s51.71.    ." n, 155.1.. 5-
ow r1111 a9-5 1910 5      .-313   C..L.                                                    3145 M..1s5p..1-.-a d311 7.111417C-51Z - ~ 1_1515.    PWo,      red,.
d7 ." 351 13.13- 11F.11,133;  VIVO. 3977 be 113    do.3.                          51553115 5.51731    15   53131-55-1    31.331
41-51  59  1151(9.5577 11.5111  -7.13..7.1.       .71              57n1.511  13111   31  511.l.331  13C1  sqlt.  133I3
17 3.151  11.1151 3-%1t. et F5-711          Li1- 711315137111115s        M157574.53..                                    ~     9  eorr  -L. 
(5.11.53.             335  -115111......md    15 7                                         o373Nob7le.31.  31 .l7  5f73                     35117113-ell
lo.  .4 1y15 _11.11  4550o                     -t1.1  15.3L* 4.p71-11t-15(Ml5715         .". 
-   17~1l51l  1517   ...L 3.5 -1~5  -5.'    ~ 57.1. 411E3......lt&q,~ 
o, 1111  be 1355.157I.- 117--7. 5,3357 333  -t 15C 5315m                                                                    4151beP.73....11
S.55  tmee115t1- 31151315.                                                                                                          33t35.



BEST CPY AVAILABLE   I
- 28 -
6tONC IIIOIC4WRS
Populetlon    : 120.5 million (1981)
CNP Per Capita: USS2.220 (1981)
Indtcitor                              A_Rzt                     Average Anual Increase tZ)              Sure of Gip at Pbrhet Prices CI)
(Illillo. IIS$ Current)           (at Gbnutant 1970 Prices)                     Cat Curnt Prle.)
1982 Di             1965-70   L970-75    197540    198366            1970      1975      1982 !
bational Accounts
Gross DsesLic Product In                       289.000               7.7      10.6        6.9       1.0           100.0      1O0.O     100.0
Agri acule                                    35.333               1.9       5.7        4.,       2.8            30.Z      10.9       14.3
Induscry                                     78391                9.2       11.6        7.6      -2.0            35.8      37.2       31.6
Serries                                      133,106              8.0       10.7        6.8       2.1            54.0      51.9       53.9
Gonou.pcLn                                    215.940                7.7       9.8        5.7       0.5            77.8      76.6       74.7
Gross Inveetment                               60.755                9.4      14.6        5.2       0.1            22.7      23.3       21.0
Espo,ts of Goads sa IFS                        22.180                8.2      11.2        7.3       4.3             6.7       7.5        7.7
l-ports of Goods ad NFS                        24613                14.5      17.2        2.8      -3.9             7.2      11.4        8.5
Gross flmstic Savngs                            58.317               7.9      12.9        6.1       1.8            22.2      23.4       2n.2
Amount                 Average Annual I:crease CM          Gopeltion of  erchdiine Trade t2)
(Iiuli   s5 Current)         (Ca Couart 1970 Prices)                     (at Corret Prl3s)
1962               1970-lS       1975-B0     1981-86               1970       1975       1982
lMerchandise Trade
RercbandLse ExPorts                            20.164             11.1           7.7            2.8                100.0      100.0      1OO.o
PrIinrF c/                                   8.915               8.3           1.1           0.                   76.7       62.7       56.1
mIanufactures dl                             10 984             28.2          18.2            5_6                 22.5       34.8       43.9
Merchandise Imports                            19.397             14.8          -3.3            1.2                100.0      100.0      100.0
Food (cereals)                                1.001             -6.7          17.5            8.8                  4.5        3.0        9.6
Petroleu                                     10.126              7.6           4.3          -11.0                 11.2       25.4       14.3
Machinery and Equlpln S/                      3.272             15.2          -7.5            2.0                 36.2       3Z.2       25.3
Other                                         4.999             28.4          -1.9           ;.3                  48.1       39.4       50.8
1975         1976         1977          1978         1979          19F0           191           1982
Prices and Term of Trade
GDP Deflator (1970 - 100)              305.1        444.3         632.7        892.5       1.399.4      2.724.6        5.696.8      I1.108.8
exlan-e Rate (Cr513355)                  8.1         10.6          14.1         18.1          26.9         52.7           93.1         180.0
Export  iee Index (1970 - 100)         176.0         192.0        226.0        22B.0         266.0        Z90.0          252.0         220.0
laport Prlce Index (1970 - 100)        242.0        255.0         286.0        317.0         389.0        631.D         474.0          522.0
Term of Trade Index (1970 - 100)        72.0         75.0          79.0         72.0          68.0         67.0           53.0          42.0
An T of GOP
(at current Cmuzero Prices)
1970          1975           1979           Iq   of     1981 S/ 1982it
Public Finance CCentral Goveruut)
Current levenue                                                          16.6          19.8           20.8            ZO.1        18.9    21.2
Curreat Expenditure                                                      14.4          15.8            17.6           19.8        20.2    25.4
Surplus (.) or deficit C-)                                                2.2           4.0            3.2             0.3        -1.4    -4.2
Capital Expenditure                                                       2.6           3.8            3.7             4.1         3.5      3.4
Fnancng (RtN)                                                             0.4          -0.2            0.5             3.9         4.9      7.6
1965-70         1970-75         1975-79            1981-86
Other IdIcator-
C"P croRthuts t:1                                                        7.7            10.7             5.8                0.9
CUP per Capita Growth Rate (U                                            4.6             7.7             3.0               -1.6
Vhergy ConauxpiOTs Crowth Rate (C)                                       7.2             7.3             6.5                -
LOOK                                                                    2.9              3.0             3.9               18.3
Nargtnal Saings Rate f1                                                 20.5            Z5.7            22.7                 0.5
two-rt Elastieity  fi                                                    2.2             1.6             0.3               -4.5
*/  A1 Sarkat prices: cnqo t ar  net dOtSeic products expressed at factor coat and  iLlU nut add due to exclosion of deprecatia   and ildirect
taxes less subhidies.
b/  Fstiste.
J   Includes coffee (beans and  oluble), other agricultural products. sd minerals.
d/  lmeludes -anufaccued and aul-procemsed products.
Tl  Includes trtanpartation materiala.
fl  Mhe 1981-86 projections are cAlculated uaing the least squares _ethod.
jI   1980-1982 lnclude governec expendltures effected tbrough the monetary buJIet end sove minr oernmet funds. a- well as tranfers to the
federal enterpriaea.
_eeber 14. 1983
So0rce: Conjuntura Ecosomica. FCG: Renco Central do Drazil: Brazil Standrd Model (aorld Bank).



2 BEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 29 -   BESLE
RElt*~M m   wmZil cvilU 1w tl
39003.   28.2 .31110 (5103)                                                                                                                                                        -*.rs
q~~~~~~~~~ l. Coplol 1512*7  (3993) f 
*_1. l-  12|1.5 llat_ (twl)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~gm                                                                ls          u
~~~~£33.                                                                             p1123(19 1/
M -ft    ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     .Tmz~97    3911       3917v     -5.13        tue03      t3       -11.93            IUl.        39921      313        31121  5.  -3104
_.on        12        12.12      31           1.2        .1           1            0.          .1          1 
104-03 1.64.                             ~~~~~~~~   ~~~        ~~~-32.230    -233 -12.2  -3.M 3.0  7.2        7*0            -39M9    -3400         234.39     -33*9      -20.37s
.4       S 1W  3       .1.                              -3.7i2     -2.0151      2.5       -5.21? _.DD. 2. - 3 a  -U.923     -n. m          -13.       -33.275     -32.24     -32.9     -3149
(03~~~~~~~~~~~~ D410 m.1110   .1)1       -.1)      (130        *I.tlD)   (11.15       -.15 11,11     15 ID*59             (-5.09)  (-t.211)   3-50.31)    3-13*131  3. 53*
I_41 o.1.e.o    'lo                                     -3.42       -3.,5tl4    -3.519    -3.1t    -2.Ju         -1.321     -               1.0                   -21.3209    -21.55
i .  _                                 -                                   3t  - JI                         9    39   3I7                         -           -3 -2   >           -1Z -11
c- *r_                                                                                                               30zI - tI 1   |  197                           
Co.....     t-b t_1..                                     4*.00        4.1       _.4017      X.4.03    -30.021    -32.,94    -30.911         -34.920     -7.111     -1.022      -5.191 -7.054
-   Lt..o p          . t.0.                                           99t2       939         B        3ID  8.03   5.4931A.2s.7 5.549993                              11.73 50  591                    13J
331?l__ t_W                                                                                     7 1.145  5.  30.0D  1.  1      9.492 t        1.44        0.031      1.422       5.n       *.472
hI.      o                                              (1.12       (3.310     (0.23      005.        1         (50.9952    r..19          (3.77    czo.1m    (34.l    (35.943   (20   ll
_    *E_                                 {~~~~~~~~~~-2.152)   (-2.4192    (-2.421)   (-1.3415    (-4*.t1    (-1.130.05  (-7*U54  1-723)    C-9.393)   (-9532    (-30.nfl  (-11.2
44.0113.. 1.... 04g64 (.012                                 .190     -o.           -l a5                  4)         434       -_2             194344   _l W                   -I .i     - 0
04431 1*pI1.I *.0...                                         21n        924      -3.524       -495         123      9.001       3.351.0    * ..  1       -2.0 13.341 4. I  S                   0
t c1_ s. .    a_50                                                     -3.192        -123     .4.212    1 .211        1.323       -071           1.070       -410     -2a.4         -3        -
fw "s lI-    -l-  C.                                         ---                                                    _S            _              _0
1~bo~o011*~.1  _LTI                                        4t43_       1.544      7.254      33.512      9.499      4.933       7.990          2.900      1..40                  7.416   I.I 2
440090~~~~.**000364l31~~~~~p*~~13f             4~"      41.12           7.20      30.16      4.41       .2.9         4.211         2.2m         2.O        4.0.3                 2.
,m                                                             ulir                                                                            t 3  2TwZ-  Z D.1    M s      . n     .2   D     *.SDs
3975 . sel 397. 1     3977 5VT      9        392         30         311            3112
2."01   r t4.u .1 .161   -  d3598                         23.29       23.48      24.40t1    4.416       5I342   *t.U1s         1t2            33.2W0
99411 .64 AB91311 3.0391.4                              33.104      17.349     21.19      30.=        25.411     29.330     42.33           50.497F
ff31~~~~~5*1 ...o~~~~~~~.                1~~.95      4.453      4.717      5.4-01      5.11       6.41b       7.244          B.M1
1309                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(I.9  (5 1.2373    (I1.41  (1.402)    AL.32=  (2.009  (2432)       (2M24
at_mt .                    l                          E7 t na.-l00 ,* l
04441                                  (2.9443~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z"  (2.214  (2.204)    (31710)    ('.042 (.43  (495            114
9.747     32.911 1 1   .379      2295       2929       1.594       21.5)           MAN0
5141 -..  444t (mobxlo 0171                              1.7         6.2        8.3       3.219      15.494      Im.043     5999            1.9
1.... M*4403.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~38                              M 9.1   6311007
-~ -.  _ _llet,.   _ 99*21..                  *            .312 13.110           9.9    IS39           55.723     10.0       55.01            .7
3U1. .6   0511   ...4773                                             495        542       3.5         9.4152    46.99       16.9197        3L.9
0(0I3. -d     o 116411    A                               4G3         405        140        £10M        44873      45          23 -0     9370
CM93                                                    2W0         17         29         2           302        14m        137             123
1- .441       a                 1110.139                            112         92        121         204        197          *9            440
1.30. _ ....... 2.191                                             4.232      A.MLZ      0.21G   * .19          797 .       t.343 *.I   D
m_  _                                     Z~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~.104  J.M  3.16fi  a,B    *ss        Z           .3e            T .11
chlbt                                                                      S~~~~~~~~~1.9  .29 2.4  .04  '.514  2.195  9.065     4.994
0.301 dft   _ .  001                                  4.195       4.2n       1.42       B.=        33.347     33.340      3.1199         1.1e1.
7W19x1 (...2s1                                         (5.677)    (71.43 2     5.431)      I 457)    (3.5355    (5.412)    (7.*79)         t.23i4
BAo~o                 c 1.m.0.ws                         43.0       39.7        42.2       59.5g      44.8         0.0       54.315.
P.3.00  1.      cml                                           2.9         2.6        2l          .7         9.         4.3        1.4             4.0
_%i_            0    0 *-11 _._t      (An hY                    3.7         7.4        *.2        9.9        53.2       12.3       15.2            132.
7.7        7.9        3.0        7.5         8.2         9.1        9. 
_  ~~~e  of _   ~~~~~ a                                 *J9.      11.3       16.0        111.0       11.3        *.4        *.7*.
oih...i = .m.                                                31.4        39.1       39.1       14.5        1 .0       12.         5.8             -
mo... _                                                       7.0        9.          9.*        9.1        11.2         .7        *.9             -
gSD D*U4.7                                        4.1        4.1         2.4        2.4        2.1         2a.            3.0
1540 414  ..54..            _      (a.. d(2)                  1.5        2.1         2.2        1.3         LI         2.         LI             4.
35404491 .....1..ir_.c.1  4.91     tJ1 (1)                    2.5        2.7         2-         27          2.2        2.1        1.2            2.5
IA X dE ABB XtT    ft      _
"At"SAY M-tBAW ff 3eX dft BBD,,ABA0                                                           3
.1. ts-6 "e 1     2 1D                                                             39
440.110 4  310010 20                                                          9
'I lacW I _ e_-t _. BBI> gs I. BB
_S * IlJB49  '8drr   W1            _   ._    _       , _
el XeIMt r-u t B      t u"dsct-.     J-
LI3.1.4  1hel      19 IIr  Ia_001_30.X_    4 e  _t
GB 1                       _     l*-17.
39. 110.1.y
1/  *_1    h   11441 (y t _b-
: "`ABI _e  C oel   Ir_U: --BAI tet . 11-a   CDII3: D31
_         IM1



BEST COPY AVAILABLE 
-30 -                           A=I
Page I of 3
THE STArUS OF BAM  GROuP OPERAIONS IN BRAZI
A. SIMA  SIAXEIET OF 0I*M
(As of Sepember 30, 1983)
Amount less  Undis
Loan#  Year            Borrower                       eCancellations 
-   -                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(US$ miiiionu)
Fifty-six loans fully disbursed                                  2,018.9
923    1973 Furnas Centrais Eletricas -    POwer                  125.0       0.0
Ituba
1008    1974 Cia. Hidro Eletrica do          Power                  81.0       1.4
Sao Francisco - C8ESF
1067    1974 Brazll                          Education              21.2        .6
1075    1975 Brazil                          Roads                 110.0       8.8
1151    1975 Companhia Siderurgica Nacional Industry               95,0        4.0
1152    1975 Companhia Siderurgica Paulista Industry                60.0      14.7
1153    1975 Brazil                          Agriculture            23.0       0.0
1171    1975 FEPASA - Ferrovia Panlista      Railways              75.0        2.9
1195    1976  Brazll                         Rural Development      12.0       4.8
1207    1976 Brazil                          Feeder Roads           55.0       8.4
1249    1976 Brazil                          Agriculture           40.0        0.0
1317    1976 Brazil                          Agro-Industry          83.0      30.2
1343    1977 ELETDSML                        Power               - 82.0       11.6
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais          Rural Development     42.0        5.5
1406    1977  Petrobras Fertilizates        Fertilizer             52.0        .5
1411    1977 Fertilizantes Vale do Rio       Fertilizer             55.0       1.5
Grande S.A. - VALEFERTIL
1452    1977 BrazIl                          EAucation              32.0      17.2
1488    1977 Brazil                          Rral Development       17.0       4.0
1525    1978 Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Sewerage              110.0      59.0
1537    1978 Brazil                          Rural Development      24.0      16.6
1538    1978 E lS                            Power                 130.0      31.4
1557    1978 Brazil                          Roads                 114.0      62.2
1562    1978 COLPESUL                        Petrochemicals         85.0       2.3
1563    1978 Brazil                          Urban Transport        88.0      13.6
1568    1978 Brazil                          Agric. Extension      100.0      45.4
1589    1978 Brazil                          Rural Development      37.0      22.3
1654    1979 Banco Nacional da Hbabitacao    Sites and Services    93.0       38.8
1656    1979 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water and Sewerage   100.0        42.5
1660    1979 Valesul Alumin1o S.A.           Aluminm                78.8       0.0
1714    1979 Brazil                          Rural Development      26.0       19.4
1720    1979 Brazil                          Urban Development      70.0      44.8
1721    1979 COFEL                           Power                 109.0      44.3
1728    1979 Brazil                          Rral Developmet        40.0       28.0
1729    1979 Brazil                          Irrigation             28.0       11.3
1730    1979 Brazil                          Roads                 110.0      58.7



ANNEX t
-31 -                            Page 2 of 3
A. SIUMMUY SIATEMEWNr OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of September 30, 1983)
wAount less Undis-
loan 1   Year           Borrower                  Purpose      Cancellations bursed
(USS tillions)
1822     1980 Brazil/UNDE                     Pbllution Control      58.0       57.2
1823     1980 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply           130.0       56.8
1824     1980  CEEE                           Power                 114.0       87.8
1839     1980  Brazil                         Urban Transport       159.0      135.5
1850     1980 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply           139.0       63.7
1867     1980 Brazil                          Education              32.0       26.8
1877     1980  State of Minas Gerais          Rural Development      63.0       58.0
1895    1980 ELEfRlSUL                        Power                 125.0      105.8
1924    1981  Brazil                          RLral Development      56.0       39.8
1939     1981  ELET)BRA9S                     Power                  54.0       49.3
1965     1981  EBT3                            Urban Transport       90.0       71.2
1970     1981  Banco Nacional da Babitacao    Water Supply          180.0      135.7
1989     1981  Brazil                         Alcobol Development  250.0       199.6
2015     1981  Brazl                          Agriulture            29.0       2.0
2016    1981  Brazil .riculture                                      60.0       46.6
2060     1982 Brazil                          Agriuture             67.0       45A
2061     1982 Brazil                          lealth                 13.10       9.6
2062    1982 Brazil                           Highways              240.0      183.4
2116     1982 Brazil                          Agriculture            26.4       22.4
2138     1982 ELErOBRAS                       Power                 182.7      165.5
2163     1982 Brazil                          Agriculture            26.4       23.3
2170     1982 Brazil                          Urban Development    123.9       111.6
2177     1982  Brazil                         Rural Development      42.7       39.1
2193     1982 Brazll                          Urban Development       8.9        8.0
2196     1982  CVED                           Iron Ore             -304.5      205.4
2224     1982 Brazil                          Feeder Roads          154.0      137.7
2225     1982 BNDES                           Development Banking   220.0      148.8
2249     1983 Banco Nacional da Habitacao    Water Supply           302.3      273.6
2268     1983 Brazil                          Agro-Industries       400.0      374.0
2269     1983 Brazil                          Rural Development      67.8       62.7
2343/1   1983 Brazll                          Urban Development      52.7       52.7
Total                                              8,187.2 12
Of which has been repaid to the Bank               1,243.1
Total now outstanadiug                             6,944.1
Amount sold                            45.8-
Of which has been repaid             45.8            0.0
Total nw  held by Bank                             6,944.1
Total undisbursed                                             3,676.7
/1 Not yet effective.
/2 No IL. credits have been =adW to Brazil.
Note: The status of the projects listed In Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



5tSt CUPY AVAILABLE                                              -32-
-  32  -                                    WVa3oof 3
3-i~~~                                                                                                   sm2 ha 13, .111k
O   b   l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A ut     orpd ino US     bu f t 
viseni                     ~ ~~Oblige!T~ofsdmslt
199                Srn   do kasi' 0*. de 0*tFJem                                                                2D         -       2.0
1bm                alliUS t, S. A.      6e ZPCpI                              1  no lW                           IJD       -       1D
D.  IL L. R.    do U0    S. A. S- A-                      ps                                                   0.4 _
im5                U11MjnrImi1 do W1I, S. A. - Xz6MM1 e JzdO                New Vddcli                          245  _             245
us                       Qin~t. batlinl. S. A.                                                                   1.I       -       1.20
1959               Oin,o  salul de S. A.    allip                                                               4.00       -       4.00
1966h1I9fl                 VJalun,  S. A.                                    WV                                 s.        1.93     9.93
136619D69          r4d e  CuIe Cata.e, S. A.                                 nap ad Ir                          3.7d      3.4      7.1D
1I/1n 97t fertil, s. A. - rnstde Sc                 o d e FeitIl                                                 622 3m           1125
D6                 FeMaudar TIm. S. A.                                      1bamdadem1s                          5.0      2.18     S3
1970            PS, S. A. IA.tr±a e                o                                                             S0       2JB      8.3
1971          aS. A. Tiuhtrla a Gzdo                                          raduadmla                          4A0     14       6.04
Eln    n-r     s dade c1-b1   do Sa                      Dui                                 41        -       4.90
2/197/19111   rhu de do Wn _to llfJiaL ib                                   -                                 59.14      6.70   1S5.
7y374I1977J/1V8.   Cm a Sidm%Wm da Onwahn - 03U1A                           Su1                                7617     1117    88O
1973               ap1xa )bdmc Dmol  t| Fszw  - RIClP        w         I        b ecl_                           5.00 _            5.00
193/1973/1983     in 1    sde Dexalvk.   %curha  Izrl- aMM  S. A.  NICl fig ail1d ftnlz                         85.D      8.74    93.74
197'               lutxmt   VfLllai. S. A.                 1mw. ad  uiAstria Eqsimt                              6.00      -       6.0D
1974               2&ck. de TacLdo Thuq., S. A.                                -                                31.00      -      31.00
19 7511979         q|Swa Cr1ab   !auulm Itd.                                 Cb  Dtk                             6.31     1.19     7.3
1973  N mAsm8. S. A.                               1btm dc.                          3.00        -      10.00
1976               !coa lzwtca - T1tl do tNuwe. S. A.                                                           6.45     l10      7.45
L97611900          krinur S. A. - TaG1 Catarlar  do Nbalaste       db                                           16.2D      -      16.20
1m                  -  . A. ftuk.L- Nhaua-                                   rm  ad APmbn   C,,mmaW             3.00       -      2M00
1977               plo Ea Rdo DNrte S. A.                                    11                                 15.00      -      15.0
1978              ammI nS1d.i a  S. S                                       kB= ad SmD                          7.00     3.00    ID3.
979                ValWo do kasil aL     e Ved4Ig. S. A.                   ft*= Vafrlm                         6.0       5.Zt   6S.27
190        1        z    do Ib2esta S. A. - 2bl.                                                                                   2.0
1961  do IFba SM - D*n= -    hIault ozt.
e ~do  do OIea*ls                                      h1w431                              3.50     10       4.50
1960             VVLlm Idmtrjm de Bae S. A. - VMAS&                         Mm  A Sa          -                 5.00      -       s50
16                 P-   pia liA              de UzlP rqPlem                  azaim     A kmdadmls               15.00     2m      17.00
180                BuClIad  0alrte S. A.                   _ca1a ad _ na                                          -       0.       0.5
198D               S2tain ~da Oalidca e hwas   SYM.               1l                                            35.00     6.00    41.00
19M0                 ziz Stral.dm                                           aChcs a*d wAta                      43.0      5.Co    48.0
D96M                    Wp.                            !                          ad  1td Bmr                    -        1.0      1.50
1961    Q      ~     ida kadleiza ste 4pouada 4_-NE Ibd                      Fald TAFd ftSaa1                    5.50     30       8.50
1961      *O                                                                        ad YctadmUs                 46.00     4.00    50.0D
19l6               Ointo 013ad astfaJm )dL1                                                                     40.00     5.0    45.0
1962               Jpd3aadag S. A.                                           FoL q1Z  ma HIm!                   30M.      OS    3.A5
1983               0* Elpmuiu  de PamticipmaoeaM ((xI 1b   Cqztzal Hrk                                           -        0.3      0.20     
1980kLM Ir1wdflm                                                             Fad ad Fad Pemeulg                 13.0      -       13.00
1DIB                     a - *kb do _   (MOM                                 ?lS OIL                             6.10     -        6W
19Yt                IS'A- *ad de 1Sea S.A.                                   Fp & per Ptaimccu                  47.5D     3.50    51.00
1983               SJL/s.A.                                                  Foal ad Fad Puauug                  3.0      2.50     5.50
19                 a.0 gBe                                                         ad 0uuj luI                  30        -       35.0
TUzul ama  duintn                                                                   85.34    67.74  981.03
la s. ad1_tio.  _bmadass. R           ad Sol"                                      60  n.      a    -9n--3
TaEl atd        lbN HLid by DC                                                     36.30     74.42   3602
2MB.79    12.4   216.2
0Oter 19.198



- 33 -                       ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SECOND ELETROBRAS POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
SUPPLENENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time Taken to Prepare Project:       Approximately 14 months
(b)  Project Prepared by:                 ELETROBRAS with Bank
assistance
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:    May 1982
(d)  Appraisal Mission:                   January/February 1983
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:          November 1983
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:       February 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - SPecial Conditions
1.   (a)  The Federal Government, complying with the terms of the Septez1-2r
1981 agreement and further agreements reached during loan
negotiations will continue to increase power rates in real terms
and to undertake measures to reduce operating costs so as to
attain, for the power sector as a whole, a 10% rate of
return by 1989;
(b)  The Federal Government would ensure that the beneficiaries would
earn a return on renumerable assets at least equal to the average
rate of return for the power sector (para. 45);
(c)  If tariffs for bulk sale of electricity generated at Itaipu were
to exceed the levels now assumed, the Federal Government would
promptly take all seasures required to offset cost increases
arising from higher Itaipu tariffs and ensure that the agreed
rates of return are achieved (para. 48).



- 34 -                      ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d) ELETRoBRAS would assist the beneficiaries in obtaining from State
governments and federal agencies additional financing that might
be needed to carry out the project, and would help in working out
cofinancing arrangements (paras. 72 and 73);
(e) ELETROBRAS would reinvest in the capital stock of the
beneficiaries the dividends received from them; and the States
would reinvest the dividends, and invest the proceeds of the IUEE
tax allocated to them, in the capital stock of the respective
beneficiaries (para. 72);
(f) Substantial changes in the investment programs of the
beneficiaries would only be made with the concurrence of the Bank
and of ELETROBRAS (para. 76); and
(g) The ORTN index which is used in the revaluation of assets of the
sector would accurately reflect domestic inflation. It was
agreed during negotiations that if for three consecutive months
the adjustments made to the ORTN index for the 12-month period
immediately preceeding each month is below the variation in
domestic inflation for the same period by more than 10 percentage
points, commitments and disbursements from the loan could be
suspended (para. 44).
2.   A conditions of effectiveness would be the execution and delivery of
three siabsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and three of the
beneficiaries. The execution and delivery of Subsidiary Loan Agreements
would be a condition of disbursement for the subloans to the other
beneficiaries (para. 85).
s



(VENEZUELA )7.
COLOMB I A r'             BooVisloo
zJ~~~~~~A   Z  (;i; a -
?        -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
A\%   M B O L I V I A
O CEA NV
CHILE?             .
\?~~~AGEN
*'~~-*"i  Rio  m ccnw  of M.
W           I       A R G E N TW Al
w( of. W  o-.a.MM
2 aAM Ei I   C   d_6brh
t wS4oE C  _ _2 



IBRD-17091
a                         (IRENCH           wd                                                              MARCH IM2
~-.t-. )USURINAME9;UIANA,.
Vista        * '
0~~~
'                       I '       A!';M/ IA ,f.~ 
,Macopa
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
L                                                                            -.  .   -,  Belem  .i
Manaus            -                                           U' |                         A  T    A   V    /(
Fortialz
C)A I            SERCilPE0
.1 JA                                                                                               c     1- A )    :     1A52*     dV
A               ARANHAC                            P  .
'I                                                0NatoI )  P    A:
A I  ,rQ Horizonre_  ° der  -1    Z /AR AJR/cife
o~~~ l._ /                                                          .zOPUOjy2
is~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ acei6
A   ''~    J                     Arocaiu               I
SERGIPE
_   A   Ii  I  A
-.          I  ,"'T   CAAIN 
*                                          lA                ;:                 rO Salvador
4      ~~Cuaab6£F'                                  "
y x rIlLOEES  0o A--O  IVR
BRAsILIAL.CI
/  Goidnmco0       
A                                                      L~ _
( jN-                           X         .4s                      (.t5   O  K
* ,~: ¾30        MIN A S   GFR A  IS            -,
/'                 ~~~~CarnpoGrande                                      EPRT    AT
0                            0  ~~~~~~~Belao EPRT   AT
Horizonte-A   viora     A[        AN
/SAO) PAULO                            -
\PARAGUAY                                                                                                           0 ,
V            /                Sao Paulo           la i JANEIRO                          A  N
0        Rio ~~de Janeiro
P AP A N A  tBRAZIL
Curitiba
ELETROBRAS H1 POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
IT  CATARINA
.0ranph                                  LOCATION OF PROJECT AREAS
N   T  A   ~~~~~~~~~S                           INATIONAL CAPITAL
'AA DLU £!,JL e                J                 c    STATE CAPITALS
6N  PortoAlegre0 .         I.              - - - ~~~~~~STATE BOUNDARIES
3                                          -.  -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
N.            ~~~~KILOMETERS 0  ICC 200 300 400 Soo ~  RIER
MILESO6   i60   20   360
(URUGUAY
sir         do.                              30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



