DOCMETSR
LOAN NUMBERZ       BR
Guarantee Agreement
(ELETROBRAS II Power Distribution Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated December l    , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER   2 t 4 BR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December I      , 1983 between FEDERATIVE
REPUBLIC  OF  BRAZIL   (hereinaftet  called  the  Guarantor)   and
INTERNATIONAL   BANK    FOR   RECONSTRUCTION    AND   DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and CENTRAIS ELETRICAS BRASILEIRAS S.A. - ELETROBRAS
(hereinafter called the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to make to
the Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to two
hundred   and  fifty   million   six  hundred   thousand   dollars
($250,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor agree to
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan
as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed so to
guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments being hereinafter called the General Conditions),
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble, to and in Section 1.02 of
the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the


﻿-2-
Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor
and not as surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and
the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the Loan, and the punc-
tual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower,
all as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor
specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to any Beneficiary will be
inadequate to mect the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of   ,e Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory
to the Bank, promptly to provide such Beneficiary or cause such
Beneficiary to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet
such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security       for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto, and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot be
made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of its
political or administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on
other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)  The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-3-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property or
as security for the payment of debt incurred for the purpose of
financing the purchase of such property; and (ii) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange  stabilization  fund, or    similar  functions, for   the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. (a) The Guarantor covenants that it will not
take, or cause or permit any of its agencies to take, any action
which would prevent or interfere with the performance by the
Borrower of its obligations contained in the Loan Agreement or
the performance of the Beneficiaries of their respective obliga-
tions contained in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements and will take
or cause to be taken all reasonable action necessary or appro-
priate to enable the Borrower and the Beneficiaries to perform
such obligations.
(b)  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Guarantor shall: (i) cause
the agency or agencies of the Guarantor responsible for setting
and adjusting the Beneficiaries' rates for the sale of electri-
city and for transfers of funds from the Global Guarantee Fund to
act in respect of any application of any of the Beneficiaries:
(A) for setting and adjusting such rates within a period of not
more than 90 days after receipt of such application, and (B) for
any such transfer of funds at such time as may be required to
supplement the revenues of such Beneficiary, provided that such
Beneficiary complies with the Guarantor's requirements therefor;
and (ii) take, or cause to be taken, upon request, all reasonable
action required for the prompt issuance to the Beneficiary of
such import and other permits and licenses as shall be necessary
for the acquisition and importation of goods and services
required for carrying out the Project in accordance with the
provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
Section 3.03. (a) In the event that the average tariff for
the bulk sales of electricity from Itaipu to the companies of the


﻿-4-
Guarantor's power sector is increased to a level higher than the
average tariff for the bulk sales of electricity charged by
Brazilian  power  suppliers  in  the South/Southeast    region  of
Brazil, the Guarantor shall promptly take all such measures as
shall be required to ensure, in terms satisfactory to the Bank,
that the rate of remuneration for the power sector agreed between
the Guarantor and the Bank for such year is achieved.
(b)    The Guarantor shall promptly provide to the Bank
sufficient evidence that any measures so taken are adequate for
the purposes set forth in paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Ministro da Fazenda of the Guarantor is
designated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70000 Brasilia D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFAZ                           0611142 MFAZ BR
Brasilia
For the Bank
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Brasilia,
Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /6S/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
/7     ~Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of      e 98 
FOR SECRETARY


