CREDIT NUMBER 148 BO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second ENDE Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 28, 1969


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 148 BO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second ENDE Power Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 28, 1969


﻿Drudiaptrut TrrhIit Agurrment
AGREEMENT. dated April 28, 1969, between RE-
PUBLIC OF BOLIVIA (hereinafter called the Borrowe7) and IN-
TERKATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocUIrON (hereinafter called
the Association).
WHEREAS the Empresa Nacional de Electricidad S.A.
(hereinafter called ENDE) plans to expand its facilities in
order to meet the growing power demand of the Borrower's
economy, in accordance with a program which has been
review ed with the Association;
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the said program and in particular
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
WHEREAS the Borrower will make available to ENDE the
proceeds of the credit as provided for herein; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed to make a credit
to the Borrower for the said project upon the terms and
conditions set forth herein and in a project agreement of
even date herewith between the Association and ENDE;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations; Special Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of Development Credit Regulations No. 1
of the Association dated June 1, 1961 as amended February
9, 1967, with the same force and effect as if they were fully


﻿4
set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifica-
tions thereof (said Development Credit Regulations No. 1
as so modified being hereinafter called the Regulations):
(a) Section 6.02 is amended by inserting the words "or
either party under the Project Agreement" after the words
"the Development Credit Agreement".
(b) The following sub-paragraph is added to Section
9.01: "13. The term 'Project Agreement' shall have the
meaning set forth in the Development Credit Agreement."
SOTIoN 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement shall have the following meanings:
(a) The term "Project Agreement" means the agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Association and
ENDE, as the same may be amended or supplemented
from time to time by agreement between the parties thereto.
(b) The term "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
ENDE referred to in Section 4.02 (a) (i) of this Agree-
ment, as the same may be amended or supplemented from
time to time.
(c) The term "Interconnection Agreement" means an
agreement satisfactory to the Association to be entered
into between ENDE and the Bolivian Power Company Ltd.
relating to the interconnection and operation of their re-
spective systems to function as the central integrated power
system in Bolivia.
(d) The term "DINE" means Direccion Nacional de
Electricidad of the Borrower.
(e) The term "Electricity Code" means the Codigo de
Electricidad (Supreme Decree No. 08438) dated 31 July,
1968, of the Borrower.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this De-
velopment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a
development credit in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million four hundred thousand dollars
($7,400,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Agreement
and the Regulations and in accordance with the allocation
of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such allocation shall be modified from time
to time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by
further agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account (i) such amounts as shall
have been paid for the reasonable cost of goods to be
financed under the Development Credit Agreement; and
(ii), if the Association shall so agree, such amounts as
shall be required to meet payments to be made for the
reasonable cost of such goods. Except as shall be otherwise
agreed between the Association and the Borrower, no with-
drawals shall be made on account of (a) expenditures prior
to the date of this Agreement or (b) expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods produced in (includ-
ing services supplied from) the territories of the Borrower.


﻿6
SECTIOiv 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (34 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.05. Service charges shall be paid semi-annu-
ally on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and
December 15 commencing June 15, 1979, and ending De-
cember 15, 2018, each installment to and including the in-
stallment payable on December 15, 1988 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(12%o) of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.07. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
3.02 of the Regulations.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Agree-
ment and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement exclusively to
expenditures on the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, (i) the goods (other than consulting services) to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be pro3ured
on the basis of international competitive bidding as set
forth in the "Guidelines Relating to Procurement under


﻿7
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the
Association in February 1968, and in accordance with such
other procedures supplemental thereto as shall be agreed
between the Association and ENDE, and (ii) any contract
for the procurement of any nf the goods required to carry
out the Project (including ionsulting services) shall be
subject to the approval of the Association.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
in the territories of the Borrower exclusively in carrying
out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to
be taken all action which shall be necessary on its part to
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
to enable ENDE to perform all the covenants and agree-
ments set forth in the Project Agreement and shall not
take, cause or permit to be taken any action that would
prevent or interfere with the performance by ENDE of
such covenants and agreements.
(b) The Borrower shall at all times make or cause to
be made available to ENDE, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources which shall be re-
quired for the carrying out of the Project.
SECTION 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend (i) to
ENDE an amount equivalent to up to seven million three
hundred and forty thousand dollars ($7,340,000) out of the
proceeds of the Credit on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association, pursuant to a loan agreement satisfac-
tory to the Association and (ii) to DINE an amount equiva-


﻿lent to up to sixty thousand dollars ($60,000) out of the
proceeds of the Credit for the purpose of retaining spe-
cialized, competent and experienced consultants (unavail-
able in Bolivia) acceptable to, and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to, th Association.
(b) The Borrower shall not take any action or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending,
abrogating, assigning or waiving any provision of the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement, except with the prior approval
of the Association.
SECTION 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall
furnish to the other all such information as it shall rea-
sonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit
and the maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens t. interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Association to visit
any part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
(d) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably re-


﻿9
quest concerning the administration, operations and finan-
cial condition of DINE.
SECTION 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not permit or cause the Estatutos
of ENDE to be amended.
SECTION 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall, from time to time, take all action
necessary to cause ENDE to be granted and to cause to
be maintained, electric tariffs designed to produce revenues
sufficient to provide ENDE with a rate of return of nine
per cent (9/o) in accordance with the provisions of the
Electricity Code.
SHcTIoN 4.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Government of the Borrower shall not later than
September 30, 1971 take all necessary steps to have the
Electricity Code enacted by the Congress.
SECTION 4.07. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.08. This Agreement and the Project Agree-
ment shall be free from any taxes that shall be imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its ter-
ritories on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraphs
(a) or (c) of Section 5.02 of the Regulations shall occur


﻿10
and shall continue for a period of thirty days, or (ii) if
any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of
the Regulations or in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e)
or (f) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower,
then at any subsequent time during the continuance thereof
the Association, at its option, may declare the principal
of the Credit then outstanding to be dr and payable
immediately, and upon any such declaratio . such principal
shall become due and payable immediately, anything in
this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. The following additional events are speci-
fied for the purposes of paragraph (k) of Section 5.02 of
the Regulations:
(a) ENDE shall have failed to perform any obligation
under the Project Agreement or under the Project Agree-
ment between the Association and Corporacion Boliviana
de Fomento dated July 24, 1964;
(b) The Borrower or ENDE shall have failed to perform
any obligation under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) Any material amendment or repeal of any of the
provisions of the Electricity Code (either before or after
its enactment in accordance with the provisions of Section
4.06 of this Agreement) or of Supreme Decrees Nos. 05999,
06792, 06793, 07591 or 08283 of the Borrower dated Febru-
ary 9, 1962, June 9, 1964, April 20, 1966 and February
28, 1968, respectively, not previously agreed to by the
Borrower and the Association, which adversely affect the
execution of the Project, the purposes of the Credit,
the financial condition of power enterprises operating in
Bolivia, or DINE, shall have come into force;
(d) ENDE shall be unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding sh-ll have been taken


﻿11
by ENDE or by others whereby any of the property of
ENDE shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
(e) The outstanding principal of the credit provided for
in the I)evelopment Credit Agreement (ENDE Power Proj-
ect) between the Borrower and the Association dated July
24, 1964 shall have been declared, or become, due and
payable in advance of the agreed maturity thereof;
(f) The Borrower or any other authority having juris-
diction shall have taken any action for (i) the dissolution
of ENDE or for the suspension of its operations, or (ii) the
acquisition of the ownership, possession or control of any
of the property or assets of ENDE necessary for the proper
and efficient operation of its buisiness; and
(g) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that ENDE will be able to per-
form its obligations under the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following events are specified as ad-
ditional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 8.01 (b)
of the Regulations:
(a) The execution and delivery of the Project Agree-
inilent on behalf of ENDE has been duly authorized or
ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b) The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and ENDE has been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(c) DINE shall have employed consultants acceptable to
the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the


﻿12
Association for the purpose of providing specialized assist-
ance in the carrying out of its regulatory functions;
(d) The execution and delivery of the Interconnection
Agreement on behalf of ENDE has been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(e) ENDE shall have employed a firm of independent
auditors acceptable to the Association to carry out the
provisions of Section 2.08(d) of the Project Agreement.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 8.02(b) of the Regu-
lations, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) That the Project Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, ENDE and constitutes a, valid and binding obligation
of ENDE, in accordance with its terms;
(b) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, the Borrower and ENDE, and constitutes a valid
and binding obligation of the parties thereto in accordance
with its terms; and
(c) That the Interconnection Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of ENDE and constitutes a valid and binding obli-
gation of ENDE in accordance with its terms.
SECTION 6.03. If this Agreement shall not have come into
force and effect by July 15, 1969, this Agreement and all
obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless
the Association, after consideration of the reasons for the
delay, establishes a later date for the purpose of this See-
tion. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower
of such later date.


﻿13
SECTION 6.04. Upon termination of the Project Agree-
ment in accordance with its terms, the obligations of the
Borrower with respect to the Project shall forthwitf ter-
minate.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1973
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Regulations:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia Nacional
La Paz, Bolivia
Cable address:
Mineconomia
La Paz
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address.
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
SECTION 7.03. The Minister of National Economy of the
Borrower is designated for the purposes of Section 7.03
of the Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have


﻿14
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
By /s/ ENRIQUE LARREA H.
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATioN
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿15
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                              U.S. Dollar Equivalent
A. Materials and services for the construction
of the Santa Isabel hydroelectric plant, in-
cluding associated transmission facilities  6,200,000
B. Engineering and consulting services for
ENDE                                      340,000
C. Consulting services for DINE               60,000
D. Unallocated                               800,000
TOTAL           7,400,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the foreign exchange cost of the
items included in any of the Categories A, B or C shall
decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to, and
no longer required (i) for Category A or B, as the case
may be, will be reallocated by the Association to Category
D, and (ii) for Category C will be cancelled by notice from
the Association to the Borrower.
2. If the estimate of the foreign exchange cost of the
items included in any of the categories A or B, shall in-
crease, an amount equal to such increase will be allocated
by the Association, at the request of the Borrower and
ENDE, to such Category A or B, as the case may be, from
Category D, subject, however, to the requirements for con-
tingencies, as determined by the Association, in respect of
the cost of other items in such Category A or B.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists in:
1. The construction of a hydroelectric plant at Santa
Isabel of about 34 MW using tailrace waters from the
Corani plant with associated transmission facilities to con-
nect the plant to the existing power system, including engi-
neering services for supervision of construction and the
study of further extensions.
2. Consultant services for DINE for the purpose of pro-
viding specialized assistance in the carrying out of its
regulatory functions.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31,
1972.


