CREDIT NUMBER 148 BO
Project Agreement
(Second ENDE Power Project)
BETWEEN
*            INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A.
DATED APRIL 28, 1969


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 148 BO
Project Agreement
(Second ENDE Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELECTRICIDAD S.A.
DATED APRIL 28, 1969


﻿AGREEMENT, dated April 28, 1969, between the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIAXIoN (hereinafter
called the Association) and EMPRESA NAcIONAL DE ELEC-
TRiDAD S.A. (hereinafter called ENDE).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even
date herewith between Republic of Bolivia (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, which agreement,
the schedules therein referred to and the Development
Credit Regulations No. 1 of the Association made appli-
cable thereto are hereinafter called the Development Credit
Agreement, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent
to seven million four hundred thousand dollars ($7,400,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that seven million
three hundred and forty thousand dollars ($7,340,000) out
of the proceeds thereof be relent to ENDE and that ENDE
agree to undertake certain obligations to the Association
as hereinafter in this Project Agreement set forth; and
WHEREAS ENDE, in consideration of the Association '.
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations herein-
after s(-t forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Project Agreement,
unless the context shall otherwise require, (i) the several


﻿4
terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement shall
have the respective meanings therein set forth, and (ii) the
term "subsidiary" shall mean any corporation of which at
least a majority of the outstanding voting stock shall be
owned, or which shall be effectively controlled, by ENDE
or by one or more subsidiaries of ENDE or by ENDE and
one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
SECTION 2.01. (a) ENDE shall carry out Part 1 of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and shall at all
times conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with
sound engineering, public utility, administrative, and fian-
cial practices and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management.
(b) To assist ENDE iii carrying out Part 1 of the
Project, ENDE shall employ competent and experienced
consultants satisfactory to, and upon terms and conditions
agreed between, the Association and ENDE.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
ENDE shall cause all works included in Part 1 of the
Project to be constructed by contractors acceptable to the
Association and ENDE.
(d) ENDE shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications and the
construction schedule for Part I of the Project and any
material modifications subsequently made therein, in such
detail as the Association shall from time to time request.
(e) ENDE shall maintain or cause to be maintained
records adequate to identify the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the
Project, to record the progress of Part 1 of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices


﻿5
the operations and financial condition of ENDE; shall
enable the Association's representatives to inspect Part I
of the Project, the goods and any relevant records and
documents and all other plants, sites, works, properties and
equipment of ENDE and shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably
iequest concerning the expenditures of the proceeds of the
Credit, which have been relent to it, Part 1 of the Project,
the goods, and the administration, operations and financial
condition of ENDE.
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association and ENDE shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will
be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall furnish
to the other all such information as it shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Association and ENDE shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and to
the administration, operations and financial condition of
ENDE. ENDE shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit
or the performance by ENDE of its obligations under this
Agreement or the obligations to be performed by ENDE
pursuant to the provisions of the Development Credit
A greement, or which shall increase or threaten to increase
materially the estimated cost of the Project.
SECTION 2.03. ENDE shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under the (i) Subsidiary Loan Agreement and (ii)
Interconnection Agreement, and shall not take any action
or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving any of their
provisions -without the prior approval of the Association.
SECTION 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ENDE: (i) shall use, or cause to be used, all goods


﻿financed out of the proceeds of the Credit exclusively in
the carrying out of the Project; (ii) shall procure such
goods in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth
in Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement and
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; (iii) shall obtain title to all
such goods free and clear of all encumbrances; and (iv)
shall not sell or otherwise dispose of any goods financed
out of the said proceeds, other than such goods as shall
have become worn out or obsolete.
SECTION 2.05. (a) ENDE shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satis-
factory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
public utility practices.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,
ENDE undertakes to insure the imported goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by ENDE to
replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 2.06. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ENDE shall take all steps necessary or desirable to
obtain and maintain electric tariffs designed to produce
revenues sufficient .o provide it with a rate of return of
nine per cent (917 ) in accordance with the provisions of
the Electricity Code.
SECTION 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, ENDE shall not undertake or execute, for its own
account or for the account of any other party or parties,
any power projects or developments exceeding 3 MW of
physical capacity other than the Project.


﻿7
SECTION 2.08. (a) ENDE shall (i) at all times maintain
its existence and right to carry on operations and shall,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, take all
steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business; (ii) operate and main-
tain all its plants, equipment and property and from time
to time make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering, public utility,
administrative and financial practices; and (iii) at all times
manage its affairs, plan its future expansion and maintain
its financial position in accordance with sound engineering,
public utility, administrative and financial practices.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
ENDE shall not sell, lease, transfer or assign any of its
property or assets, except in the normal course of its
business and shall not engage in any activity other than
power generation, transmission and distribution.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree
E.]NDE shall not incur any indebtedness unless the net
consolidated revenues of ENDE and its subsidiaries (if
any) in the twelve consecutive months immediately preced-
ing such incurrence shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated
maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding
twelve-month period following such incurrence on all in-
debtedness of ENDE and its subsidiaries (if any), includ-
ing the indebtedness proposed to be incurred. For the
purposes of this paragraph:
(i) the term "indebtedness" shall include the assump-
tion and guarantee of indebtedness and shall mean
all indebtedness of ENDE and its subsidiaries (if
any) maturing by its terms more than one year
after the date of its incurrence, but excluding any
indebtedness between ENDE and its subsidiaries
(if any) or between such subsidiaries;


﻿8
(ii) indebtedness shall be deemed to be incurred on the
date of execution and delivery of the contract or
loan agreement providing for such indebtedness;
(iii) the term "net consolidated revenues" shall mean
gross revenues from all sources, excluding any rev-
enues arising from the transactions between ENDE
and its subsidiaries (if any) or between such sub-
sidiaries, adjusted to take account of electric tariffs
in effect at the time of incurrence of indebtedness
even though they were not in effect during the
twelve consecutive months to which such revenues
related, less operating and administrative expenses
including provision for taxes, if any, but before
provision for depreciation and interest and other
charges on debt;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" shall mean
the aggregate amount of amortization (including
sinking fund contributions), interest and other
charges on debt; and
(v) whenever for the purposes of this paragraph it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the currency
of the Borrower, indebtedness payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
o-P the prevailing rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
lawfully obtainable for the purposes of servicing
such indebtedness.
(d) ENDE shall have its accounts regularly audited at
least once a year by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association and shall promptly upon their preparation and
not later than five months after the close of the fiscal year
to which they relate, send to the Association certified copies
of such accounts and the auditors report.
SECTION 2.09. The obligations to be assumed by ENDE
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.08 of this Agree-


﻿9
ment shall be applicable to any subsidiary of ENDE as
though such obligations were binding on any such subsidi-
ary, and ENDE shall cause any such subsidiary to carry
out such obligations.
0ECTION 2.10. (a) Any change of the Gerente General
of ENDE shall be made only after prior consultation with
the Association.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
ENDE shall not permit or cause its Estatutos to be
amended.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the Effective Date. If, pursuant to Section 8.04
of the Regulations, the Association shall terminate the
Development Credit Agreement, the Assoiation shall
p)romptly notify ENDE of such termination and, upon
the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obliga-
tions of the parties hereunder shall forthwith cease and
determine.
SECTION 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and all
obligations of the Association and ENDE hereunder shall,
cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 4.01. Any notice, demand or request required
or permitted to be given or made under this Agreement
and any agreement between the parties contemplated by
this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request


﻿10
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it
shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at its address hereinafter specified, or
at such other address as such party shall have designated
by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request.
The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cablegrams or radioorans:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For ENDE:
Empresa Nacional de Electricidad S.A.
Casilla 565
Cochabamba, Bolivia
Alternative address for cablegrams or radiograms:
Enelectric
Cochabamba
SECTION 4.02. ENDE shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ENDE, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or exe-
cuted by ENDE, pursuant to any of the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement or this Agreement and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.


﻿11
SECTION 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original and
all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names by
their representatives thereunto duly authorized and deliv-
ered in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
EMPRESA NACIONAL DE ELEcTRiciAD S.A.
By /s/ ROBERTO CAPRILES
/s/ JULIO SANJINES
Authorized Representatives


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
1. With respect to all contracts for civil works and for the
purchase of machinery, equipment or materials involving
expenditures exceeding the equivalent of U.S.$50,000 the
following procedures shall apply:
(a) Copies of advertisements together with a description
of advertising procedures, invitations to bid, speci-
fications, conditions of contract and all other tender
documents will be submitted to the Association for
review and approval prior to the issuance of any
such document for purpose of invitations to bid.
(b) After bids have been received, analyzed and evalu-
ated, the recommendation of ENDE's consultants
and the proposal for contract award, together with
the documents substantiating the recommendations
and proposals, will be submitted to the Association
for review and approval prior to making an award
of contract or issuing a letter of intent.
(c) If the proposed final contract is to differ substan-
tially from the terms and conditions contained in the
respective documents approved by the Association
under paragraph (a) or (b) above, the text of the
proposed changes will be submitted to the Associa-
tion for review and approval prior to the signature
of the contract.
(d) As soon as a letter of intent has been issued or a
contract signed two copies thereof will be sent to
the Association.
2. For contracts involving expenditures equivalent to
U.S.$50,000 or less copies of all relevant documents, includ-
ing the invitation to bid and the bid analysis and evalua-
tion, and two copies of the signed contract, and any other
related material that the Association shall request, shall
be sent to the Association promptly after execution of any
such contract and prior to the submission to the Associa-
tion of the first application for withdrawal in respect of
such contract.


