Report No. 701a-DA                                                                        IE                  P
Dahomey                                                                                                  àp
Appraisal of a
Rural Education and Training Project
May 23, 1975
Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
Education Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Developrnent
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Croup. IL may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Croup authorization. The Bank Croup does
nlot atcept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USS 1.00 = CFAF 225
CFAF 1,000 = US$ 4.44
MEASURES AND QUIVALENTS
meter (m) = 3.28 ft
square meter (m2) = 10.76 sq ft
hectare (ha)  =  2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



DAHOMEY
APPRATSAL QF A RURAl. RF-inCATTOm ANn TRATNITNC PRD.TFrT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ... .............................. i-iv
I.   INTRODUCTION ..... ....      ................ ......  .....   1
II.   THIE SETTING .......................................   1
A.   General ........................................   1
B.   The Economy .       .................................   2
C.  Human Resources ....................................  3
III. THE TRAINING SYSTEMS ..............   ...... ......................  4
A.   General ........       ..........................  4
B.   Rural Youth Training ...............................   5
C.   Vocational Training ..............*..................   7
D.   The Role of the Project ............................     8
IV.   THE PROJECT ...............................  . .... ...  9
A.   General ......      .................................   9
B.   The Project Components .............................  9
C,   Cost of the Project ................................  17
V.   IMPLEMEMTATION .... ...............................          18
IV.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOIMENDATIONS ........... .....  21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Dahomey in June/July 1974. The mission consisted of Messrs. E. Sawaya (Eco-
nomist), J. Crosnier (Rural Education Specialist), E. Chittleburgh (Techni-
cal Educator) and R. Welter (Architect-RMWA), all of the Bank; H. Buzenet
(General Educator-Unesco) J. Colin (Rural Youth Club Specialist-Consultant)
and A. Chavancy (Agronomist-Consultant).



Table of Contents (continued)
APPENDICES
I.   An Assessment of the Proposals of the Education Reform Com,mission
II.   The Rural Youth Training
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Projected Demand for Skill Upgrading Training, 1975 and 1980
3.   Rural Youth Training: Estimated Target Group and 4-D Club Membership
4.   Organization of the Ministry of Rural Development
5.   Basic Equipment List for a 4-D Club
6.   Organization of the Rural Youth Services
7.   Rural Youth Training:  Technical Assistance Implementation Schedule
8.   Structure of the Regional Development Organization
9.   Rural Youth Training:  Activities to be Completed During Pilot Phase
10.   Summary of Estimated Costs
11.   Summary of Capital Expenditures
12.   Price Contingencies Assumptions
13.   Contingency Allowances
14.   IDA Financing by Category of Expenditure
15.   Implementation Schedule
16.   Schedule of Disbursements
17.   Disbursements by Major Category of Expenditure
MAP IBRD 9552



GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
4-D Club                                Rural youth club where the symbol 4-D
stands for Decision, Duty, Development,
Dahomey.
NSC: National Support Center            A new center (to be established as part
of the proposed project under the
"Direction Générale de ltAction Rurale")
that would be responsible for planning,
supervising, implementing and evaluating
the rural youth training program.
ODA: Opération de Développement        A new regional development agency
Agricole                          recently established in Atacora, res-
ponsible for implementing integrated
rural development programs; a similar
agency will be set up in Atlantique.
RSC: Regional Support Center            Center to be established under the
proposed project within the regional
development organizations in each of
the provinces of Zou, Atacora and
Atlantique to support the 4-D clubs.
SEDES: Société dcEtudes pour le        A specialized consulting firm that
Développement Economique        conducted the pre-investment study of
et Social                       the 4-D clubs under a UNDP-financed
and IDA-executed project.
SONACO:  Société Nationale              A Government agency responsible for
Agricole pour le Coton        promoting the cultivation of cotton
as part of the integrated rural develop-
ment program in the provinces of Zou
and Borgou.






DAHOMEY
BASIC DATA
General
Area                                                 112,600 km2
Population:  (1973) Total                            2.9 million
Density                                26 persons/km2
Rate of growth, 1960-1972              2.8% p.a.
GNP per capita (1972)                                US$110
Education
Enrollments (1971/1972)
% of
Relevant     %     Private
Level                               Total  Age Group  Girls  Education
Primary                                197,851     32.0%    31%       33%
First Cycle Secondary                   23,873       7.4%    32%      35%
Second Cycle Secondary                   4,819      4.1%    24%       40%
Teachers (1970/71)
% Qualified % Qualified    %
%,    in Public  in Private      Ex-
Level                     Total  Women   Education   Education  patriates
Primary                         3,941   28%       91%           26%      negl.
First Cycle Secondary             490    -         64%          12%      15%
Second Cycle Secondary            245    -       100%            -       44%
Finance (1973)
Total public current expenditure on
education                                                CFAF 3.8 billion
as % of total public recurrent expenditure                        29%
Public per capita education expenditure                  CFAF. 1,300






DAHOMEY
APPRAISAL OF A RURAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a training project in Dahomey for which- a
credit of US$4.0 million is proposed.
As Percent of
Total Project Cost
ii.       The project has three parts:
(a)  Buildings and instructional materials for                   18%
a skills upgrading center- in Cotonou
(b)  Technical assistance, buildings and equipment
for improving the effectiveness of an ongoing               76%
rural youth training program
(c)  Preparation of a second project                              6%
iii.      Skills Upgrading Center.  Dahomey has virtually no facilities for
the training and upgrading of industrial workers. The training offered in
the private sector is limited and inadequate. The project item consists of
the construction of a skills upgrading center which would complement equip-
ment and technical assistance being provided for the center by a UNDP/ILO
project costing $780,000. The center would have 190 training places. Since
skill upgrading courses are of short duration, at full capacity the center
would provide training for over 2,000 workers per year in industrial and
commercial subjects. The skills upgrading center is regarded as a first
step in the establishment of a national system of industrial and commercial
training. Its immediate objective is to upgrade the skills of workers who
are already employed.
iv.       Rural Youth Training Program.  In 1967, a rural youth training
program was started to provide to young men and women who have not attended
school or dropped out prematurely, instruction in agriculture, reading,
arithmetic, handicrafts, health, nutrition and child care. Instruction is
provided through voluntary groups called 4-D clubs (Decision, Duty, Develop-
ment, Dahomey) operating at the village level. The broad objectives of the
program are to prepare young people to become productive members of their
communities by the time they are adults, to enhance the attractiveness of
rural life within the framework of rural development schemes by meeting
basic educational needs, and by imparting useful information on factors
which improve rural health standards. Club members are to 'learn by doing"
by engaging collectively in productive activities in a variety of crop and
livestock enterprises. These activities are to be of sufficient profitability
to sustain the material costs of all of the activities of the club including
those which are educational and recreational. Most clubs were started under
the initiative of agricultural extension agents who used the clubs for demon-
stration purposes.



- ii -
v.        Between 1967 and 1973, 235 clubs- were created with a total member-
ship of 3,500 members.  This growth was in excess of the rate at which the
Government could augment its support services for the program. The results
were that many clubs were financially non-viable, did not possess a desirable
mix and quality of training programs and many were unable to link and coordi-
nate their activities with larger integrated regional development efforts.
Vi.       IDA assistance is proposed for this program in order:
(a)  to improve the central and provincial administrations' ability
to plan, administer and coordinate support for clubs at the
village level; and
(b)  to operate a limited number of clubs in selected areas as
demonstration models.
vii.      Specifically, this project item would provide for:
(a)  at the national level, 15 man-years of technical assistance,
buildings and equipment for a new national policy planning and
coordinating body and its executive arm, a National Support
Center (NSC);
(b)  at the provincial level, assistance for training staff, in
addition to buildings and equipment for Regional Support
Centers (RSC) to be located in the provinces of Zou,
Atacora and Atlantique;
(c)  at the village and individual 4-D club level, technical
support and inputs through the above three RSCs to as many
as 45 clubs in each of the provinces mentioned.
It would complement an ongoing M4DP/FAO rural youth settlement project and
a proposed UNICEF project. The UNICEF project is contingent for its imple-
mentation on the establishment of National and Regional Support Centers.
UNICEF proposes to provide equipment and materials for women's activities
in addition to training for "animatrices rurales".
viii.     Provision for the Preparation of a Second Project.  Of the total
credit, about 6% is intended for the preparation of a second project.  Recent-
ly, the education and training systems in Dahomey have been the subjects of
intensive study by a Bank reconnaissance-in-depth mission and by a Government-
appointed Education Reform Commission. After the Government has examined
these studies and determined a course of action, a new project will be desir-
able for the purpose of implementing reforms in formal education. Provision
for the preparation of a second tranche to the rural youth training component
is included as part of the evaluation studies under this project.
ix.       All elements in the project would take five years to complete.
Responsibility of project implementation is assigned to:



- iii -
(a) the Director of Vocational Training in the Ministry of Civil
Service and Labor for the skills upgrading center;
(b)  the "Directeur Géneral de l'Action Rurale" in the Ministry of
Rural Development for the rural youth training program.
Each of these officials will be advised and assisted in the implementation of
the project by a "Chef de Projet", one of whom will be financed by the tech-
nical assistance component of this project and the other by UNDP/ILO. In
addition to providing assistance to those responsible for implementing the
project, the two "Chef de Projet" will provide administrative support to
technical assistance personnel assigned to the project.
x.        The design of facilities and the supervision of construction will
be the responsibility of:
(a)  the Division of "Urbanisme et Habitat" of the Ministry of Public
Works for the skills upgrading center, and
(b)  the "Direction du Genie Rural" of the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment for all construction under the rural youth training component
of the project. In matters of water supply, the "Direction du
Genie Rural" will be assisted by the "Direction de l'Hydraulique"
of the Ministry of Public Works.
xi.       Procurement.  The contract for civil works for the skills upgrading
center (US$600,000) would be ghrough international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Domestic civil works contractors would
receive a 7-1/2% preference in bid evaluation. Because of their small size
and geographic dispersion, the contracts for the civil works components
associated with the rural youth training component of the project (US$800,000)
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding and advertised locally
in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to the IDA; although
the contract may be too small to attract foreign interests, foreign bids
would be accepted if tendered. Contracts for furniture and equipment
(US$800,000) would be let in packages of at least US$20,000 and awarded
following international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines.
Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment will be allowed a preferential
margin equal to either 15%- of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the
total of àpplicable customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower.
Draught animals and small agricultural implements required for the rural
youth training project which are not suitable for competitive bidding or
cannot be grouped in packages of at least US$5,000 will be procured locally
on the basis of quotations following local procedures which are acceptable to
IDA. Tihe total of such procurements may not exceed US$200,000 over the dura-
tion of the project.
xii.      The project cost is estimated at US$4.4 million net of taxes and
the foreign exchange cost at US$3.1 million. The proposed IDA credit of
US$4.0 tiillion equivalent would finance all foreign exchange costs (US$3.1



- iv -
million) and about 69% of local currency costs (US$1.3 million). This would
correspond to about 90% of the IDA project cost, or 75% of the total project
cost including the UNDP/ILO contribution to it.
xiii.     The proposed project forms a suitable basis for an IDA credit to
Dahomey of US$4.0 million equivalent.



DAHOMEY
APPRAISAL OF A RURAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Dahomey's education and training system were examined by an IDA
reconnaissance-in-depth mission in February/March 1973. The following project
items were identified: (i) a rural youth training program as part of inte-
grated rural development schemes, (ii) a skills upgrading center for workers
employed in both the public and private sectors.
1.02      Preliminary project preparation was undertaken with the assistance
of a Unesco mission which visited Dahomey in June/July 1973. Detailed pre-
investment studies (under a UNDP-finanÎced and IDA-executed project) were
carried out by the ILO for the skills upgrading center and by a specialized
consulting firm (SEDES) for the rural youth training program. The two studies
were completed in May 1974 and the project was appraised in June/July 1974
by an IDA mission comprising Messrs. E. Sawaya (Economist), J. Crosnier
(Rural Education Specialist), E. Chittleburgh (Technical Educator), R. Welter
(Architect-RMMA), H. Buzenet (General Educator-Unesco), J. Colin (Rural Youth
Clubs Specialist-Consultant) and A. Chavancy (Agronomist-Consultant).
II. THE SETTING
A.   General
2.01      Dahomey, with an area of 112,600 km2, had in 1973 a population of
2.9 million, growing at a rate of 2.8% per year. Over 45% of the population
was under the age of 15 years. The majority belong to one of six major ethnic
groups and speak mainly the following: Fon, Yoruba, Bariba, Dendi and Adja.
2.02      Although the literacy rate has doubled over the last decade, it is
still only 11% for the entire population. For those over 35, the literacy
rate is only 4% reflecting the extreme inadequacy of primary education facili-
ties in the recent past. A private attempt to develop the Bariba language,
mostly used in the provinces of Zou and Borgou, has been relatively successful
in improving the functional literacy of the adult groups involved. Functional
literacy training based on the results of this attempt has been encouraged
and incorporated in the training program of the integrated development opera-
tion in Zou but not in Borgou. Specialized extension agents visit villages
involved in cotton growing to help the villagers learn how to calculate, read
and write as a part of the process of training the farmers in new agricultural
methods, farm management, marketing and cooperative movements.  The development
of other local languages for use in functional literacy programs is lagging
behind that of Bariba. About half of the youth (4-D) clubs have introduced
literacy and numeracy training in either French or Fon, and in a few areas,
in the Adja, Yoruba and Bariba languages. 4-D clubs are organizations which



are started on local initiative with local resources for purposes of providing
village youths with training, information and activities which, directly or
indirectly, enhance the quality of rural life.
2.03      The general lack of literacy and education together with strong
sociological barriers to migration have rendered the population relatively
immobile. Only 11% of the population lives in towns and subsistence agricul-
ture continues to be the overwhelmingly dominant sector of the economy.
2.04      Administratively, the country is divided into six provinces:  Oueme,
Atlantique and Mono stretching along the coast from Nigeria to Togo; Zou in
the center, and Borgou and Atacora in the north. Each province is further
subdivided into districts and sub-districts. The technical services -- for
example, those of the Ministry of Rural Development -- are organized along
similar lines.
B.   The Economy
2.05      During 1967-71, Dahomey's GDP grew at about 7% p.a. in current prices,
as a result of the coincidence of such factors as favorable world market con-
ditions for Dahomey's export crops, booming transit trade with Nigeria and
increased investments in agriculture and industry. This combination of fac-
tors is unlikely to occur again. Consequently, future growth is expected to
be at a lower rate for the rest of the 1970s. Since 1967, there has been no
significant change in the economy's structure, which continues to be predomi-
nantly agricultural: in 1971, 80% of the labor force was employed in rural
activities and had a share of 39% of GDP, whereas the 20% employed in the
secondary and tertiary sectors accounted for 61% of GDP.
à
2.06      Dahomey's per capita GDP of US$110 places it among the 25 least-
developed countries of the world. The situation of the rural population, whose
per capita GDP is probably about US$50, is aggravated by the slower growth
rate of its income relative to that of the urban population. The latter has
been the main beneficiary of past public spending, including that for formal
education. However, there are recent indications of a redirection of efforts
to restore some balance to the geographic distribution of government expendi-
tures. This is evidenced by the emphasis now being placed on agriculture and
on integrated rural development projects in various parts of the country.
2.07      Agriculture has played an important role in the overall growth of
Dahomey's,economy in recent years. This has been largely due to increases in
the output of some export crops such as cotton (from 4,000 tons in 1965 to
40,000 in 1973) and palm oil (from 31,000 tons in 1965 te 40,000 in 1971) and,
to a lesser extent, to increases in the output of cocoa, groundnuts and coffee.
However, the production of food crops for domestic consumption decreased and,
given the continuing growth of the population (2.8% p.a.), the level of the
people's nutritional standards declined. This adversely affected the popula-
tion's health and productivity, especially in the rural areas. The growing
demand of the urban population is being met by increasing imports of such
foodstuffs as wheat, sugar and rice.



3 3-
2.08      There is considerable scope for expanding the output of both com-
mercial and subsistence crops. This can be accomplished by increasing the
area under cultivation, by increasing yields and by foeussing official efforts
on food crop production. Opportunities for increasing the area under culti-
vation are considerable, although 80% of the country's area is cultivable,
only 12% is under crops mostly by small farmers using low productivity methods.
The promotion of an ox-drawn agriculture will contribute to a more extensive
cultivation. The achievement of increased yields similar to those in the
Zou-Borgou cotton project (Credit 307-DA) will depend upon the selection and
use of improved seeds, better methods of cultivation and the use of fertili-
zers. While the next development Plan is expected to sustain efforts to
increase the production of export crops it will assign priority to food crop
production. Achievement of the Plan's objectives will depend upon training
programs for both extension workers and for farmers. These programs will
emphasize the importance of food crop production and livestock enterprises
for family health; they will provide the information which is necessary for
a more extensive and intensive cultivation of these crops and for an improved
animal husbandry. The effectiveness of these programs will depend upon the
Government's prior attempts to improve the administration and operations of
existing integrated regional rural development organizations.
2.09      Transport, Trade and Public Administration.  One reason for an
expected lower growth rate of GDP is the unfavorable prospect for further
increases in the GDP contributions of transport, trade and public administra-
tion. The contributions of these sectors to GDP are already unusually large
- 49%, and are accounted for by a substantial transit trade with Nigeria and
Niger and by a large public administration. Improvements in internal trans-
portation in Nigeria and efforts to restrain the growth in public administra-
tion mean that the burden of GDP growth must reside in other sectors which
are smaller.
2.10      Manufacturing, together with construction and power account for only
12% of GDP. Manufacturing has grown very rapidly in recent years (by 29%
p.a. during 1967-1971) but from a very small base of CFAF 1.4 billion. While
prospects for growth in these sectors are limited by the small size of the
domestic market and by a lack of raw materials there remains scope for further
growth based upon the processing of agricultural products and import substi-
tution.
C.   Human Resources
2.11      In 1970, wage employment was about 35,000 or 2.5% of the labor
force. An additional 20,000 were self-employed. The relatively small size
of the modern industrial sectors in Dahomey and current prospects for relative-
ly slow rates of growth in both the private and public-modern sectors mean
that the demand for skilled, middle and high level manpower is constrained.
The supply of school leavers Tith a minimum of nine years of education is such
that one half of them are currently unable to find productive employment.
However, the major manpower problem is not quantitative but qualitative --
the production of people with skills which are appropriate for the development
of a society which is predominantly rural. For example, the health services
are urban-oriented and the country has few paramedical personnel to provide
preventive medical services in rural areas including instruction in hygiene



-4 -
and nutrition. There are insufficient numbers of agricultural extension
workers and farm management personnel oriented to the smallfarmer. The de-
mand for personnèl for rural-based occupations and their production will
depend on the outcome of current reform efforts with respect to the institu-
tions of health care, agriculture and education and the government's continuing
commitment to increase the resources available to rural areas.
2.12      Another major qualitative manpower problem stems from the fact that
the country has virtually no facilities for vocational training with the con-
sequence that there are sizeable numbers of artisans, craftsmen and clerical
and secretarial personnel who are only partially trained. The private and
social benefits which will accrue to skills upgrading programs are signifi-
cant. The total number of workers who are currently in need of skill upgrading
are over 19,000, of whom 16,000 are artisans and craftsmen and 3,000 are office
workers. The need for skills upgrading is already substantial and will in-
crease in the future (Annex 2).
2.13      Unemployment and Underemployment.  With the recent rapid growth of
the education system, there have been an increasing number of openly unemployed
school leavers in the towns; their current number is about 15,000. There is
no immediate prospect that urban industrial and public sector employment will
increase at a rate sufficient to provide employment for all who will complete
their education during the next few years. As indicated above (paras. 2.05
and 2.06), a more serious problem still resides with those who are under-
employed with incomes which are not sufficient to sustain the health of family
members. If a low per capita income of US$110 is alreadyan attestation of
economic hardship, indications of inequality in the distribution of income
serve to underscore the nature of rural poverty. Certainly an estimated per
capita income of US$50 in the rural areas places that population among the
most impoverished in the world.  The priority given food,crop production and
the enhanced efforts to improve overall agricultural productivity reflect the
Government's new focus on the relief of severe underemployment. The proposed
assistance to the rural youth program is intended to help with that effort.
111. THE TRAINING SYSTEMS
A.   General
3,01      The formal education system follows the French pattern.  Six years
of primary school are followed by a secondary education consisting of four
years of middle school and three years of Lycee leading to the Baccalaureat.
University follows and is normally of four or more years in duration. The
major problems with the system are that it does not reach very many people
and, what is related, it is costly. The curriculum does not have relevance
for those who will spend their lives earning a living in small-holder agri-
culture. The formal education system consumed 29% of the Government's budget
(1973) but provides education for only 32% of the primary school and 6.5% of
the secondary school age groups. The high per student costs of primary educa-
tion of US$50 per year (1970) provides a serious constraint upon its expansion
into rural areas.



- 5 -
3.02      The need to change the existing formal education system, to reduce
per student costs` and to change the curriculum were recognized by the Govern-
ment and resulted in the formation of a Government appointed Education Reform
Commission which was convened in May, 1973. This Commission submitted a report
with recommendations which are still under consideration by the Government
(Appendix I). The Bank Group should not invest in the formal education system
until the Government has had an opportunity to consider the Commission's report
and has reached decisions on the means which will be used to reduce per student
costs and provide a better access of children in rural areas to an appropriate
learning system. In the interim, Bank Group support should be provided for
training efforts outside the formal system (Annex 3) which have as their
objective the direct improvement in the quality of rural life. Support should
also be,provided for efforts to train skilled artisans and craftsmen in numbers,
of a quality and at a cost which are consistent with the country's economy.
B.   Rural Youth Training
3.03      The rural youth training program (Appendix II) was started in 1967.
It encourages the establishment of clubs which have come to be known as 4-D
clubs 1/. These are intended to be voluntary groups established in villages
to provide illiterate young boys and girls aged at least 13-15 years with
literacy and numeracy, with knowledge of improved agricultural techniques and
the elements of better nutrition, health and hygiene. Each club's program is
designed with the assistance of a rural development agent and implemented under
his supervision. The program aims to meet the particular needs of the club
members and to prepare them to become productive participants in their communi-
ties upon their departure from the club which should be close to the time they
are accepted as adults and full members by their communities. The agricultural
component of the training is supposed to be self-supporting, i.e., the cost
of material inputs is covered by the proceeds from the output.
3.04      Specifically, the objectives which the Government has set for the
clubs are: (i) to develop among its members an attitude favorable to rural
life and an understanding of its vital aspects; (ii) to ensure that its members
are practically trained and functionally literate; (iii) once their training is
completed to assist in their establishment either as independent farmers or as
members of a cooperative; and (iv) to serve as a focal point for all the de-
velopment and modernization activities undertaken at the village level by the
local or national authorities.
3.05      The 4-D club movement enjoys considerable popularity; by the end of
1973, there were 235 clubs with a total membership of about 3,500. However,
the pre-investment study conducted by SEDES has revealed, and the appraisal
mission has confirmed, that the 4-D club movement in Dahomey has four major
weaknesses and deficiencies which need to be corrected.
3.06      Firstly, rural youth training is suffering at the national level
from organizational and administrative problems. The existing Rural Youth
Service, with only two professional staff members, and an inadequate operating
1/   The 4-D stands for Decision, Duty, Development, Dahomey.



- 6 -
budget, cannot properly administer the 4-D club movement. It has planned
neither for the movement's expansion nor for the support of training activities.
It has not adequately coordinated its activities with those of the other
national and international agencies involved in rural development. It has
allowed the number of clubs to expand at a rate far in excess of the growth
of complementary services. Furthermore, this Service, because of its loca-
tion within the structure of the Ministry of Rural Development, is not
empowered to call upon other technical services to give assistance and advice
to the clubs (Annex 4). At the provincial level, the agents of the central
Rural Youth Service delegated to the regional development organizations (para.
2.04) have been hampered by the paucity of resources put at their disposal
and are forced to perform in an advisory capacity only. During appraisal,
it was verified that only those clubs which had been well-planned and provided
with adequate technical support and inputs managed to become solidly estab-
lished. Consequently, improving the rural youth training program requires
that its organizational, managerial and logistical problems, at both the
national and regional levels, be solved.
3.07      The second major deficiency is the lack of coordination between the
activities of the 4-D clubs and those of the regional development organiza-
tions at the village level. While the latter have used the "Groupement
Villageois" -- a pre-cooperative movement for adults -- as one of the prinzipal
vehicles for implementing their regional programs, they have largely ignored
the clubs. The clubs have not received adequate support in terms of know-how
and agricultural inputs and this has weakened their ability to prepare rural
youths and assist in their establishment as farmers once their training is
completed. The regional organizations are thus neglecting the potential of
4-D clubs as an effective and economical way of properly preparing the youths
(who are more readily trainable than adults) to join the "Groupement Villageois".
3.08      Thirdly, the training being offered is far from balanced and compre-
hensive. The emphasis is being placed upon one or two agricultural products,
seldom using improved methods and adequate inputs. Furthermore, it is
generally the responsibility of extension agents who have not been properly
trained to deal with youths and to teach literacy and health skills. More
emphasis should be placed upon literacy and numeracy, training in crafts and
in nutrition, health and hygiene, which are essential for the improvement of
living conditions in rural areas.
3.09      Finally, the clubs have not been designed to be financially viable
as production units. Often they lack suitable land, are not provided with
improved and higher-yielding seed varieties and are not adequately diversify-
ing their activities. The net result has been poor production performance
and an inability to become self-sufficient and to retain their members'
interest and motivation (Appendix II, para. 9).
3.10      The total recurrent cost to the Government of bringing an improved
service to rural youth is expected to be CFAF 10,000 per club member in 1985
(at 1974 prices). This is 40% of the projected per-student cost of primary
education. Of course, the rural youth training program is not a substitute
for a reformed system of primary education. Although it contains elements



-7 -
which should fînd their way into a reformed primary curriculum, the program
is, to a large extent, compensatory at this point in time. It attempts to
compensate for the lack of formal institutions which would normally provide
youth with literacy, numeracy and the essential information on health and
nutrition which would improve their lives.
3.11      To improve rural youth training, Government needs and has agreed to
concentrate its efforts on a consolidation program during which it would:
(a)  plan the systems' future development and strengthen the administra-
tion of the rural youth training program at both the national and
regional levels;
(b)  develop model 4-D clubs and provincial administrative units in a
few areas where the preconditions of success may be more readily
satisfied.
3.12      The first stage of this program would consist of:  (a) overhauling
the existing Rural Youth Service, within the Ministry of Rural Development
(Annex 4) and establishing an effective central organization responsible for
the planning implementation, supervision and evaluation of the rural youth
program; (b) training the necessary staff, and (c) developing, concurrently,
and as a part of the training process, a phased, long-term plan for the
development of the 4-D clubs. This long-term plan would have clearly defined
targets in terms of the regions to be covered during each phase, the number of
clubs to be assisted and the number of youths to be trained and settled as
farmers, together with estimat,es of the resources required for implementation.
At the regional level, the aim would be: (i) the full integration of the
regional rural youth services within the regional organizations starting with
regions with the greatest potential for success such as Zou, Atlantique and
Atacora; and (ii) the reinforcement of the regional services by improved
staffing both in number and quality, the provision of facilities, and the
improvement of their day-to-day administrative practices.
3.13      The second stage of the program would consist of tasks that are the
joint responsibility or the national and regional services and would con-
centrate upon: (i) the design of the model training programs for the clubs
of each pilot region, (ii) the training of "encadreurs", or club training
personnel, (iii) the development of criteria for the selection of clubs to
be assistbd, (iv) the identification of clubs to be assisted, (v) the esti-
mation of their particular requirements, and (vi) the development of a program
for the settlement of club members whose training is completed. The third
stage would involve the actual replication of model programs in selected
clubs. A fourth and final stage would evaluate the programs' effectiveness
and costs.
C.   Vocational Training
3.14      The Ministry of Civil Service and Labor is responsible for vocational
training. However, it does not operate any training facilities other than a
center to upgrade the skills of office workers, mainly in typing. Even this



center, established in 1967 with ILO assistance, does not have the full confi-
dence of employers. The major reason has been the lack of support by the
authorities as reflected in the shortage of funds msde available to the center
to meet the recurrent costs of an adequate training program. The center had
to close down in 1968-69 and, after it reopened in 1970, its principal user
has been the civil service.
3.15      The Government does not have facilities for the vocational training
of industrial workers and the upgrading of their skills. The training that
is offered by the private sector is conducted on a very limited scale, mostly
by branches or agents of foreign companies, particularly car dealers, who in
many cases, send the trainees abroad for a short period. This deficiency,
combined with the limited qualifications of technical education graduates,
accentuates the problems of poorly trained manpower and low industrial produc-
tivity and underscores the need for more systematic upgrading training.
3.16      The preconditions for the success of an institution specifically
designed to meet the training needs of already employed industrial and office
workers are: (i) it should establish and maintain employers' confidence in its
ability to provide the required kind of training, and (ii) have a management
structure that ensures cooperation between employers, workers and Government.
3.17      Available information indicates that the starting point for the
development of an industrial vocational training system in Dahomey should be
at the semi-skilled and skilled worker levels. That is where the greatest
need exists and where the greatest potential for making a contribution to
the improvement of Dahomey's industry lies. In terms of occupations, the
order of priority is: (i) mechanics, both specialized and general; (ii) metal
workers, particularly welders; (iii) electricians; and (iv) building tradesmen.
In the training of office workers, the emphasis should be on bookkeeping,
shorthand and typing.
D.   The Role of the Project
3.18      Bank group assistance should thus aim at supporting the Government's
efforts to improve the training of rural youth and to develop a rational system
of vocational training:
(a) With respect to the rural youth training program, the proposed
project would:
(i)  reinforce the national administration in its planning,
implementation and regional and 4-D club support activities;
(ii)  assist with the integration of the regional rural youth
services with the regional rural development organizations;
(iii)  enhance the effectiveness of the regional rural youth services
through the provision of technical advice and inputs,
and



-9 -
(iv) provide the 4-D clubs with more balanced and comprehensive
training programs, improve their efficiency and make them
more self-supporting.
(b)  With respect to vocational skills upgrading the project would
provide buildings and teaching materials for the establishment
of a new institution to absorb existing programs for training
clerical personnel and introduce new ones for industrial skills
to benefit industry, commerce and Government.
3.19      The success of both components of the project will depend upon
special actions on the part of Government. With respect to the skills up-
grading center, it is essential that the Government earmark the revenues from
the training tax for the purposes of meeting the centerts recurrent costs and
providing it with the autonomy required to adopt policies consistent with
employer needs. With respect to the rural youth program, the Government
should give priority to improving the quality of national and a limited
number of regional support services and the efficiency of operations of
existing 4-D clubs before promoting a continued rapid expansion in the
number of clubs.
IV.  THE PROJECT
A.   General
4.01      The proposed project would finance:
(a)  the construction, equipment and technical assistance for a new
National Support Center of the 4-D clubs to be located in Cotonou
and for the regional rural youth services and clubs in the pro-
vinces of Zou, Atlantique and Atacora;
(b)  the construction and initial stock of training materials for a new
skills upgrading center in Cotonou; and
(c)  the consulting services required for the preparation of a second
project.
B.   The Project Components
The Rural Youth Training Program
4.02      The proposed project would provide the 4-D club movement with the
following:
(a)  15 man-years of both long- and short-term technical assistance
services consisting of specialists in management and administration,
project evaluation and training specialists in agro-pedagogy,
animal health and husbandry, literacy, rural crafts, health and
nutrition;



- 10 -
(b) building and equipment for the central organization and for the
regional rural youth services in the provinces of Zou, Atlantique
and Atacora. The facilities for each region would consist of
office space, workshops and warehouses for the storage of equip-
ment and materials. In addition, the facilities in Zou would
include an annex for the training of "encadreurs" or club training
personnel;
(c) equipment and other necessary material inputs, to be purchased by
the central organization and distributed to the clubs by the
regional services to permit the development and replication of
model training programs (for details on the equipment and materials
see Annex 5).
4.03      The main thrust of this project component would be to help establish
an effective administrative structure through which the Government, IDA and
other organizations can assist the development of rural youth training and
the expansion of the 4-D club network. At the national level, the structure
would consist of a national governmental body responsible for setting policy
and a National Support Center.
4.04      The National Governmental body (Annex 6) which would be newly created
would ensure the necessary cooperation and coordination among all the concerned
national and international agencies. It would be responsible for setting
policy and approving long-term plans, the implementation programs and the
formulation of budget proposal. The Minister of Rural Development would
be its chairman and it would include representatives from the Ministries of
Planning, Education, Finance, Interior and Health as voting members and
representatives of the regional organizations as observers.
4.05      The National Support Center (NSC), in accordance with the general
policies and instructions of the national governmental body, will be responsible
for the following major functions: the preparation of a phased long-term
development plan for the 4-D clubs, the design of implementation programs,
the preparation of budgets, the supervision of implementation of all aspects
of the rural youth training program as well as the evaluation of the progress
being achieved. During the period of the proposed project, the NSC would
place particular emphasis upon the following specific tasks:  (i) reinforcing
the region'al services, (ii) training of specialized "encadreurs", "animatrices
rurales" and other rural development agents, (iii) strengthening and subse-
quently evaluating the 4-D clubs in the provinces, and (iv) establishing club
graduates as farmers. For this purpose, the NSC would be assisted by a team of
technical experts (including a "Chef de Projet", an administrator/tplanner,
an agro-pedagogue, a veterinarian and short-term consultants) whose services
would be financed under this project until a team of counterparts has been
properly trained. The NSC will be under the "Directeur General de l'Action
Rurale" (Annex 6). This will facilitate the NSC's access to the other
technical services of the Ministry of Rural Development at the national level
and will result in a better integrated rural youth training program. The



- il -
existing national Rural Youth Service would continue to be responsible for
administering the Government's assistance to 4-D clubs outside the scope of
the project and will benefit from the results of NSC's planning and programming
work.
4.06      The establishment of the central organization of the rural youth
training program is the first and most essential step in the consolidation
process. The Government has agreed to the reorganized central administration
(paras. 4.03-4.05). The official enactment of appropriate legislation or
regulations for the new administrative structure will be a condition of
disbursement for this component of the project. Also, during negotiations
the Government gave an assurance that it will select counterparts to the
technical experts with qualifications acceptable to IDA, prior to the start
of work by the latter (Annex 7).
4.07      The nationwide impact of the NSC would be complemented at the pro-
vincial level by Regional Support Centers (RSC) to strengthen the regional
rural youth services which are now affiliated with the regional development
organizations (Annex 8). The project would provide the construction, equip-
ment and the staff training for the RSCs to be created in the provinces of
Zou, Atlantique and Atacora. Training would be performed with the assistance
of the experts at the NSC. The equipment would consist of varied kits of
tools for the 4-D clubs as well as vehicles for the transport of materials and
staff to the clubs.
4.08      The RSC would form a part of an integrated regional development
organization. The latter normally includes a training unit (Annex 8) that
at present deals mostly with adult farmers. The integration of the RSCs with
regional development organizations would facilitate the coordination of
youth and adult training in terms of: (a) consistency and complementarity
of training programs; (b) coordination of the timing of their implementation;
and (c) more effective staff utilization. In fact, youth training would be
preparatory for participation in adult farmer training. An integrated regional
development organization called SONACO ("Societe Nationale Agricole pour le
Coton") has existed for some tine in Zou, another ODA ("TOperation de Developpe-
ment Agricole" has been newly established in Atacora; and the Governnent
intends to establish very soon a similar organization in Atlantique. During
negotiations the Governnent gave assurances that it will integrate the RSCs
in Zou, Atacora and Atlantique within regional development structures to be
acceptable to IDA.  These regional development structures may be SONACO or
ODA or their successor organizations in the provinces where these organiza-
tions operate. The completion of administrative measures for such integration
in at least one province will be a condition of disbursement for the funds
related to the RSCs and 4-D clubs, i.e., for items 1B and 1C of the table in
paragraph 4.21.
4.09      At the 4-D club level, the project would not increase the number of
clubs. Rather, it would assist in the consolidation and improvement of what
already exists in Zou, Atacora and Atlanqtiue. Project execution would be
in two phases: (a) a pilot phase involving a small number of clubs in each



- 12 -
of the three provinces (up to 10 clubs), which are within easy reach of the
RSCs. The purpose of this phase will be to work out the details of club
programs, their staffing and their input requirements; and (b) a phase which
tests the replicability of the pilot clubs. The clubs in which the model
programs will be replicated will be selected in advance by the RSCs on the
basis of set criteria developed by the NSC. What each club will receive
will depend upon results of a survey of the equipment, materials and infra-
structure it already has and the minimum it needs to carry out its program.
It is estimated that this project item (namely the pilot phase and its
expansion) would ultimately assist a total of about 135 clubs in the three
provinces (corresponding to a total value of supplies and implements of about
US$ 1 million) with a membership of about 2,000 youths--an average of about
15 youths per club.
4.10      The training program that a club would follow would be designed
along broad lines recommended by the RSC with the assistance of a general
training specialist and would be implemented under the latter's supervision.
It would include elements of agricultural training in improved methods and
techniques which have been developed under IDA's as well as other agencies'
agricultural projects. The agricultural component of the training program
would focus mainly upon cash crops for the generation of money income but
would also aim at demonstrating the need for the balance between cash crop
and subsistence Soodcrop production. The club's earnings would be supplemen-
ted where needed and feasible by other income-earning activities such as
animal husbandry and craftwork. The literacy component of the training
program would be conducted in the main local languages with the help of
properly trained literacy trainers. In addition, the program would include
elements of nutrition, health, hygiene and handicrafts. The 4-D clubs
would be assisted by specialized trainers of two types: (i) a polyvalent
type who would assist 4-D clubs along with the neighboring "Groupement
Villageois" and who would be responsible for the agricultural component of
the program; (ii) trainers who would visit various clubs at regular intervals
to assist, for example, in training the club members in literacy or in
handicrafts. To the extent feasible, the trainers would be chosen from the
same region and would speak the same local language as the members of the
clubs they are assisting.
4.11      The practical agricultural component of the training in each 4-D
club would be designed to be self-supporting and thus serve as a demonstra-
tion of the financial potential to be derived from agriculture. It is esti-
mated that clubs could realize an average annual surplus of total recurrent
revenues over recurrent costs as follows:



- 13 -
Manual         Ox-Drawn
Clubs la                    Cultivation      Cultivation
CFAF           CFAF
Borgou, East Atacora (Type 1)                        64,000         95,000
Zou, South Atacora, North Mono,
North Oueme (Type Il)                          75,000 /b      108,000
Atlantique, South Mono, South Ouéme (Type III)    79,000 /b          n.a.
North-East Atacora (Type IV)                         70,000          n.a.
/a   Program types refer to the climatic and agricultural attributes of
regions (See Appendix Il).
/b   Includes an expected surplus from other activities such as craftwork
and animal husbandry of CFAF 15,000 in Type Il clubs and CFAF 20,000
in Type III clubs.
These estimates are based upon conservative assumptions with respect to the
productivity of club members. For example, it,is assumed that club members
are only half as productive as adults and would work for only three days per
week on the club's agricultural enterprises. Nevertheless, in order to
provide conditions for the achievement of these minimal levels of productivity,
the Government gave assurances that it will:
(a)  restrict the club's membership to those youths who are 13 years
of age or over, so that they would be physically able to contribute
to the club's work programs and would complete their learning
about the time they are adults;
(b)  ensure for each 4-D club the availability of:
(i) a minimum area of suitable land on a permanent basis;
(ii) all inputs, particularly seeds, fertilizers and insecti-
cides on the same terms and conditions as the neighboring
"Groupement Villageois".
4.12      The proposed project represents only one element in the total conso-
lidation effort of the rural youth movement. This effort also includes
ongoing UNDP/FAO projects, particularly the rural youth settlement project,
and a proposed UNICEF project. The former is specifically designed to assist
in the settlement of 4-D club graduates. The UNICEF project is intended to
finance the cost of equipment and materials required for the specialized
activities of women in their own or in mixed clubs in the same region as the
proposed IDA project. UNICEF will also finance the training costs of the
"animatrices rurales". Given the high complementarity among the proposed IDA
and UNICEF projects and the ongoing UNDP/FAO project, coordination among them



- 14 -
is essential. Therefore, it is recommended that the NSC, in view of its
overall responsibility for the rural youth training program, be given the
responsibility of supervising the implementation of all three projects in
accordance with guidelines to be established by the national governmental
body of the rural youth training program. The completion of a formal agreement
acceptable to IDA, UNDP, FAO and UNICEF, to the effect that the NSC would be
responsible for coordinating the work of these agencies in the areas of rural
youth training and settlement will be a condition of disbursement of the rural
training component of the project.
4.13      Before moving from the pilot phase (corresponding to the first two
stages identified in para. 3.12) in the assistance to the clubs which is ex-
pected to last about 36 months, to the larger scale replication phase at
regional level (para. 4.09) the Government and IDA must be satisfied that the
central organization and the RSCs have become fully operational (Annex 9).
This will be determined by an interim field evaluation, performed by IDA.
As a condition of disbursement for the second or replication phase in each
province, IDA would have to be satisfied that the results of the interim
field evaluation are positive. If the results are negative in all three
regions, the Government and IDA would have to agree on whether the undisbursed
funds should be (i) allocated for further assistance to the central and
regional youth services and/or for further testing or programs, or (ii) can-
celled. If the results are positive in some but not all the provinces, a
decision would have to be made on whether to allocate all undiabursed funds
to that region, or to pursue in parallel the reinforcement of the other
organizational units. If the iqterim evaluation leads to a continuation of
IDA assistance for a second phase, a further decision on whether support
should be extended to provinces other than the three assisted by this project
will have to await the results of a later evaluation by a team of project-
financed specialists towards the end of the project implementation period. If
the results of this final evaluation prove that the program is successful, the
approach is suitable and that the NSC is adequately prepared to undertake the
task of planning and monitoring the application of a larger program, then
intensive support may be extended to the other provinces, e.g., under a
second IDA project.
The Skills Upgrading Center - Cotonou
4.14      This center is to provide needed training to upgrade the skills of
industrial workers and clerical personnel already employed.mainly in the
private sector. The center's program will incorporate the existing program
for training clerical personnel and introduce new ones for industrial skills.
It will be organized on a flexible basis with course durations varying from a
few days to a few months and will be designed on a modular basis wnereby
each module will consist of a small specific package that enables the trainees
to become immediately more useful in a specific task to their employers. The
modules will also be complementary so that a series would add up to an entire
skill profile. Initially, the center will concentrate on skill upgrading
but later, and as the needs arise, it will introduce training courses for



- 15 -
newly recruited personnel who will be sponsored at the center by their employer.
Ultimately, the program will offer training in general mechanics, metal-work,
auto-mechanics, electricity, building construction and business and commerce.
The introduction of the upgrading training will begin with general mechanics
and metal-work and business and commerce, followed by auto-mechanics,
electrician training and the building trades, provision for all of which is
included under this project.
4.15      The center will be under the Directorate of Vocational Training of
the Ministry of Civil Service and Labor, but will enjoy a high degree of
administrative and financial autonomy and will cooperate with the Ministries
of Planning, Finance and Education. To ensure that it will have effective
and close cooperation with employers, it should have an Administrative
Council to include representatives of the concerned Government agencies,
employers and workers organizations. The center would be located in the
industrial area of Cotonou, the main urban center, where most future indus-
trial expansion is expected to take place.
4.16      The center's capacity will be 190 places, but given the part-time
nature of the programs and the brief duration of most training modules, the
center will accommodate about 500 workers per week. It is estimated that
during the first few years of its operation, the center would annually offer
each of about 2,200 workers with an average of 2.7 training modules. A
center of this size may seem small in view of the 1975 estimated need for
skill upgrading training (para. 2.12).  However, given industry's limited
ability to release workers for,training, a larger center may not operate at
an optimum rate of utilization. The working groups will consist on average
of about 14 trainees in the industrial courses and about 20 in the business
classes.  The trainees will be selected from among workers proposed by
employers on the basis of set criteria and aptitude tests, taking into
consideration such factors as age, educational background, work experience and
present level of skill. The groups which will meet at appropriate times,
including evenings, will consist of workers of equal abilities and having
similar needs. The center's facilities will include three workshop blocks
with storage space, one classroom and administrative offices. The workshops
will be designed in a manner that will permit flexibility in organizing
courses. Equipment lists for the training programs have already been prepared
with ILO assistance. When completed, the center will require nine industrial
instructorb. Initially, these will be experts provided by ILO and, in addition
to setting up and operating the center, they would be responsible for training
the local counterparts; some of the latter will also have to be sent abroad
on fellowship for part of the training period.  When in full operation in 1979,
the center's annual operating cost is estimated at CFAF 45 million.
4.17      In order to satisfy the preconditions for the success of the center,
namely, that it is fully funded and that it has the full support and participa-
tion of employers, the Government has agreed, as a condition of disbursement of
funds allocated in the proposed credit to the center, to earmark the revenue
from the existing "training tax" (which has so far formed a part of the general



- 16 -
budget revenue) to the extent required for vocational training. The revenue
from this tax is expected to increase from CFAF 22 million in 1973 to CFAF
45 million for 1978. Employers who pay the tax will be entitled to use 'the
center for the skill-upgrading of their employees at no additional cost for
training services. Since careful planning will be crucial for the center's
success, the Government gave assurances that it will complete:
(a)  within one year of credit signing and submit for IDA's review
and comment a comprehensive development plan for the center with
particular emphasis upon the financial implications of such a
plan and how the Government proposes to finance the center's
recurrent costs;
(b)  within three years of credit signing and submit for IDA's review
and comment a study of the training tax with a view to determining:
(i) its role in promoting vocational training in
public and private sector enterprises;
(ii) its impact upon employment;
(iii)  its incidence and how it is related to the benefits from
the center; and
(c)  by June 1, 1978, the establishment of a tracer system acceptable
to IDA to follow up on trainees after their work at the center.
This would provide data on changes in employers, in income, and
in type of job performed.
4.18      As a condition of disbursement the Government will enact legisla-
tion or regulations establishing a Skills Upgrading Center with an adminis-
trative council. The administrative council would be the governing body of
the center and would have autonomy with respect to recruiting practices and
standards, programs and testing and certification rules. The participation
of the Government, employers and workers in the council will be assured in
a manner acceptable to IDA.
4.19      The cost of equipment and technical assistance for the center of
about US$780,000 will be financed by a UNDP/ILO project of which US$380,000
is already included in UNDP's current Country Program for Dahomey ending in
1976 and the remainder will be included in the next five-year Country Program.
The IDA credit would finance the cost of construction of facilities and of
training materials for the center's first year of operation. The conclusion
with UNDP and ILO of legal arrangement acceptable to the IDA, concerning the
contributions of these parties to the center, will be a condition of
effectiveness of the credit.



- 17 -
Preparation of a Second Project
4.20      The rural youth training component described above includes pro-
vision for follow-up evaluations and the preparation of its expansion under a
second education project (para. 4.13). The objective of this particular
component is to provide US$220,000 for financing consultant services for the
detailed preparation of those other items of a second project that would be
in both the informal and in the formal system.
C.   Cost of the Project
4.21      The total cost of the project is estimated at about CFAF 1.2
billion or about US$5.3 million, including taxes and customs duties. The
breakdown of gross project costs by major category of expenditure is given
in Annexes 10 and 11, and the distribution by item is as follows:
CFAF (million)           US$ (thousands)         %  of
Local  goreign  Total    Local  Eoreign  Total   Total
1. Rural Youth Training
Program             180.0   461.4   641.4        800   2,051   2,851   75.9
A. National Support ( 39.7) (175.0) (214.7)    (176)  ( 778)  ( 954) (25.4)
Center-Cotonou
B. Regional Support ( 76.6) (119.6) (196.2)    (341)  ( 531)  ( 872) (23.2)
Centers
C. 4-D Clubs         ( 63.7) (166.8) (230.5)    (283)  ( 742) (1,025) (27.3)
2. Skills Upgrading      64.0    90.0   154.0        284      400     684   18.2
Center-Cotonou
3. Preparation of a       5.0    44.5    49.5         22      198      220    5.9
Second Project
Sub-total 1          249.0   595.9   844.9    1,106   2,649   3,755  100.0
Physical Contin-      26.1    56.0    82.1        116      249     365    9.7
gencies
Price Contingencies 102.4   209.7   312.1        _455      932   1,387   36.9
Sub-total 2          128.5   265.7   394.2        571   1,181   1,752   46.6
TOTAL GROSS COSTS       377.5                 ,861.6  5  67
(Sub-total 1 and 2)
N.B. Rate of exchange: US$ 1 = CFAF 225
Base line costs: April 30, 1975



- 18 -
4.22      The total project cost, net of taxes and customs duties, is esti-
mated at about 990 million or US$4.4 million. Cost estimates are based on
recent work undertaken by public and private enterprise, the regional
services and the Ministry of Public Works. Estimated average unit costs per
square meter of gross area at the end of April 1975 are CFAF 50,000 (about
US$220) for classrooms and administrative blocks and CFAF 38,000 (US$170) for
workshops in Cotonou. The rural youth component cannot be compared to other
projects due to its specialized nature, but because of the simpler construc-
tion, costs are lower than in Cotonou despite the higher cost of transport
of materials. Site development has been estimated at 12% of building costs
while furniture varies from 5% to 15%, according to the type of facilities
provided. Local costs have been adjusted to take into account the distance
from Cotonou and the condition of roads. The cost of equipment for the 4-D
clubs is derived from that now being provided by the regional services. To
insure the proper application of the program at the skills upgrading center,
the project contains the cost of one year's supply of training materials.
4.23      Contingencies.  The cost of the project includes an allowance for
physical contingencies estimated at 5% for technical assistance, 10% for build-
ings, site development, furniture and equipment, and 15% for water wells where
the exact depth will have to be determined. The contingency allowance for both
local and foreign price escalation based on the estimated project cost as of
April 1975 varies from 16% to 7% p.a. except for technical assistance where it
drops to 4% p.a. in 1980 (Annex 12). All contingencies amount to 32% of the
total estimated costs or about 47% of the total cost before contingencies
(Annex 13).
;
4.24      Foreign Exchange Component.  This amounts to approximately US$3.1
million equivalent, or about 70% of the total project cost of US$4.4 million,
net of taxes and duties. This has been estimated as follows: (i) 55% for
site development and buildings, (ii) 60% for furniture, (iii) 80% for equipment,
(iv) 70% for water wells, and (v) 85% for technical assistance.
4.24      Project Recurrent Costs.  In 1979, the first year of the project's
full operations, the recurrent costs are estimated (at mid-1974 prices and
salary scales) to be CFAF 45 million for the skills upgrading center and
CFAF 55 million for the rural youth training program. The latter would
represent about 5% of the projected budget of the Ministry of Rural Develop-
ment.
V. IMPLEMENTATION
5.01      Project Administration.  The implementation of the skills upgrading
center and the rural youth training project items are independent of each other
even in terms of procurement. Therefore, a special project unit with overall
supervision duties will not be set up and responsibility for execution will be
given to: (i) the Director of Vocational Training in the Ministry of Civil



- 19 -
Service and Labor for the skills upgrading center; he will at the same time
coordinate the UNDP/ILO technical assistance and equipment contribution to
this center with that of IDA; and (ii) the "Directeur Général de l'Action
Rurale" of the Ministry of Rural Development, under whom the NSC would be
placed and who already supervises the work of the Rural Youth Service; he
would be assisted by the Director of NSC when he is appointed and the admin-
istrators of the integrated regional development organizations in Atacora,
Atlantique and Zou. Responsibility for the third component, preparation of
a second project, would be determined at the time of discussion of its compo-
sition between IDA and the Government. Two independent special funds, one
for the skills upgrading center and another for the rural youth trainîng
program, would be established by the Government to meet the expected quarterly
expenditure of each project component, including the current expenditures of
each project unit, and would be replenished on a quarterly basis. The estab-
lishment and initial endowment of these two special funds will be conditions
of credit effectiveness.
5.02      Each of the Directors will be responsible for:  (i) supervision of
implementation, (ii) liaison with IDA, and (iii) coordination with the other
national and international agencies involved. Each will be advised and
assisted by a full-time "Chef de Projet" (one to be financed by UNDP/ILO and
the other by the project) who, at the same time will provide professional and
administrative support to the technical assistance team for each component,
and by a full-time administrator/accountant and other support staff. The
appointment of the "Chef de Project" for the skills upgrading center will be
a condition of credit effectiveness and that for the 4-D clubs a condition of
credit disbursement for this project component.  The counterpart for the "Chef
de Project" for the 4-D clubs wîll be selected within one month of the latter's
arrival.
5.03      Professional Services.  Design of facilities and supervision of
construction will be: (i) for the skills upgrading center, the responsibility
of the Division of "Urbanisme et Habitat" of the Ministry of Public Works and
(ii) for the rural youth training component, the responsibility of the
"Direction du Genie Rural" of the Ministry of Rural Development assisted in
matters of water supply by the "Direction de l'Hydraulique" of the Ministry
of Public Works. The terms of reference of the technical experts for the
skills upgrading center would be acceptable to IDA. Also, the qualifications,
terms of reference and conditions of service of experts engaged for the rural
youth training program would be acceptable to IDA. Periodic or special re-
ports prepared by them would be submitted to IDA for review.
5.04      Sites.  Except for the site of the NSC in Cotonou which is not yet
selected, the sites for all other project institutions have been chosen and
acquired. The Government gave an assurance that the site for the NSC
would be acquired in time for the scheduled start of construction.
5.05      Procurement.  The contract for civil works for the skills upgrading
center (US$600,000) would be through international competitive bidding in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Domestic civil works contractors would receive



- 20 -
a 7-1/2% preference in bid evaluation. Because of their small size and
geographic dispersion, the contracts for the civil works components associated
with the rural youth training component of the project (US$800,000) would be
awarded on the basis of locally advertised competitive bidding in accord-
ance with local procedures which are acceptable to the IDA; although the
contract may be too small to attract foreign interests, foreign bids would
be accepted if tendered. Contracts for furniture and equipment (US$800,000)
would be let in packages of at least US$20,000 and awarded following inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Local manu-
facturers of furniture and equipment will be allowed a preferential margin
equivalent to either 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or to the
total of applicable customs duties and import taxes, whichever is lower.
Draught animals and small agricultural implements required for the rural youth
training project which are not suitable for competitive bidding or cannot be
grouped in packages of at least US$5,000 will be procured locally on the
basis of quotations following local procedures which are acceptable to IDA.
The total of such procurements may not exceed US$200,000 over the duration
of the project.
5.06      Financing.  The proposed IDA Credit of US$4.0 million equivalent
would cover 90% of the estimated total project cost of US$4.4 million, net of
taxes, and would finance 100% of the foreign exchange expenditures and 69% of
local expenditures net of taxes. Adding to the total cost of the project
the technical assistance and equipment provided under the ILO project, IDA
financing would represent 75% of total project costs, net of taxes.
5.07      Disbursements (Annex 14).  The funds of the Credit Account would
be disbursed for:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures (c.i.f. costs) for imported equip-
ment and materials, or 80% if these are purchased
locally,
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for consultants and teclnical
assistance experts;
(c) 85% of total expenditures for civil works including water
wells;
(d) 80% of total expenditures for furniture.
All disbursements would be fully documented and all remaining funds at comple-
tion of the project would with IDA's prior agreement, either be used for
preparing a second project or cancelled. The estimated schedules of imple-
mentation and disbursements are shown in Annex 15 to 17. Standard documen-
tation would be required for all disbursements of the IDA Credit funds.



- 21 -
AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  For the skillæ upgrading center, the Government will complete a
development plan for the center (para. 4.17 (a)); undertake a
study of the training tax (para. 4.17 (b)); and establish
an acceptable tracer system (para. 4.17 (c));
(b)  For the Rural Youth Training Program, the Goverament will:
(i)  integrate the RSCs in Zou, Atacora and Atlantique within
regional development organizations acceptable to the
Association (para. 4.08);
(ii) restrict 4-D clubs membership to those youths who are 13
years of age or over (para. 4.11); and
(iii) ensure for each 4-D club the availability of suitable land
and other inputs (para. 4.11).
6.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness will be:
(a)  the signing of an agreement between the Government, UNDP
and ILO, acceptable to IDA, ensuring the financing of the
required technical assistance and equipment for the skills
upgrading center (para. 4.19);
(b)  the establishment and initial endowment of two independent
revolving funds to meet the expected quarterly expenditures
of the two project components (para. 5.01); and
(c)  the appointment of a "Chef de Projet" for the skills upgrading
center (para. 5.02).
6.03      Conditions of disbursement vill be:
(a)  for the whole of the rural youth training component
(i)  the Government's enactment of laws and/or decrees to
establish the new administrative structure (paras.
4.03-4.10);
(ii) the conclusion of a formal arrangement which designates
the NSC as the agency responsible for coordinating the
work of UNDP, FAO, UNICEF,and IDA in matters related to
rural youth training and settlement in the project area
(para. 4.12);



- 22 -
(iii) the appointment of the "Chef de Projet" for the rural
youth program (para. 5.02);
(b) for the RSCs and 4-D clubs (i.e., items 1B and 1C of the
table in paragraph 4.21) the completion of all the necessary
measures to integrate at least one RSC within the structure
of a regional development organization (para. 4.08);
(c)  for the second or replication phase in each province,
achievement of results satisfactory to IDA during the
pilot phase (para. 4.12 and Annex 9); and
(d) the passage of legislation or regulations establishing
for the skills_upgrading center an appropriate administ-
rative council, with adequate autonomy (para. 4.18); and
the earmarking of the training tax to the extent required
for its operations (paras. 4.17-18).
6.04      The project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of
US$4.0 million equivalent to Dahomey.



APPENDIX I
Page 1
DAHOMEY
AN ASSESSMENT OF THE PROPOSALS OF
THE EDUCATION REFORM COMMISSION
A.   Background
1.        Dahomey's formal education system was reviewed by a Unesco Identifi-
cation Mission (March/April 1971), and IDA Economic Mission (June 1972) and an
IDA Reconnaissance-in-Depth Mission (February/March 1973). The present system,
according to the findings of these missions, can be characterized as unproduc-
tive, costly and inefficient. If consists of a six-year primary education, a
four-year lower sécondary and a three-year upper secondary (Appendix I, Chart
1). The following table shows total enrollments in 1971/72:
Z of Relevant        X of Girls
Level                Enrollment         Age Group           Enrolled
Primary                 197,851            32%                  31%
Lower Secondary          23,873            7.4%                 32%
Upper Secondary           4,819            4.1%                 24%
Higher                    1,600            n.a.                 n.a.
The above information, however, disguises marked differences between the var-
ious provinces of the country- and between the urban and rural areas of each
province. Furthermore, the rapid increase in enrollments has tended to aggra-
vate these differences.
3.        The inefficiency of the present system is reflected in high rates of
repeaters and dropouts. The system is also costly: despite the low enrollment
ratios, education's share in the budget was about 29% and in the GNP about 5%.
During 1966-71, expenditure on education almost doubled while the Government's
budget increased by 44% and GNP by only 16%. Unit costs are high: in 1970,
they were US$53 for primary, US$197 for general secondary, US$1,600 for primary
teacher training, and US$2,100 for higher education. Even assuming that (i)
present trends in enrollment expansion slow down somewhat, which is highly un-
likely unless the authorities exercise more effective entry control, and (ii)
unit costs remain at their 1970/71 level, the education sector would still
claim about 45% of the Government's budget projected for 1981. Obviously, this
would not only exert excessive pressure on public resources and constitute in-
appropriate utilization of Dahomey's very scarce resources, but would also
exacerbate the already serious problem of unemployed school graduates, of whom
there were about 15,000 in 1970. It would also lead to a greater imbalance
between education and the other sectors and between the urban and rural areas.
B.   The Reform
3.        A first attempt to remedy the situation and reform the system was
made in 1971, but due to lack of popular support it was abandoned. A second



APPENDIX I
Page 2
attempt was made in May 1973 when the Government convened a National Commission,
consisting of 162 persons representing the various groups in the country inter-
ested in education. The Commission produced a document that contains cértain
conclusions and recommendations that are still under consideration by the Gov-
ernment. The appraisal mission reviewed the document and discussed the recom-
mendations of the Commission:
(a) It declares a "new objective" for the education system, namely, the
schools should spearhead the country's socio-economic development
and unity. It also insists upon the use of local languages in all
education and training programs and on the necessity of combining
theory with practice to prepare productive citizens.
(b) It proclaims the Ministry of Education as the sole authority respon-
sible for all matters related to education and training.
(c) It designs a new structure for the system (Appendix I, Chart 2) that
consists of:
(i) a first level, which includes maternal education, basic educa-
tion, intermediate education and polytechnical institutes;
(ji) a second level, which is now called "higher" education; and
(iii) centers for popular education and upgrading ("centre populaire
d'education, de perfectionnement et d'initiation a la produc-
tion")).
4.        Maternal education would consist of two years, given to 3 and 4 year
old children, and would use local languages. Basic education would consist of
five years (ages 5 through 9), in the first three years using local languages
vith French introduced as a working language. Each school vould be organized
so as to perform as a "unit of production".  Students would be allowed to re-
peat and would always be under continuous observation and testing to decide
whether they should proceed toward intermediate education or a polytechnical
institute. The latter would be divided into two cycles of three years each.
The first cycle would receive students from basic education, age 10 or i1; and
adults, regardless of age, from the "centers for popular education". The Com-
mission believes that any problem posed by such vide diversity in the ages
of the students could be resolved without much difficulty because they would
be "taught" a trade and upon completing their training they would enter active
vork life. The other problem of having to train 10 or 11 year olds and then
put them on the labor market at the age of 13 or 14 does not seem to have con-
cerned the Commission. The second cycle of the polytechnical institutes would
provide trade training of a higher level than that given in the first cycle
and each institute would function as much as possible as a unit of production.
All the specialized schools which train middle-level personnel would be re-
grouped in this cycle and at its end a "guidance council" would determine who
among the students would enter the labor market and who would proceed to
higher-level education. In contrast to these polytechnical institutes, there



APPENDIX I
Page 3
is no description of intermediate education institutions in the Commission's
document, except for mentioning that they would be organized as units of pro-
duction.
5.        The centers for popular education would concern themselves with work-
ing adults by taking action through:
(i) functional literacy in local languages;
(ii) correspondence and upgrading courses to provide "lifelong edu-
cation", using a structure parallel to basic and inter-mediate
education as well as to the polytechnical institutes; and
(iii) educational recreation and sports.
6.        The Commission also recommends the creation of a National Council
for Education, Training and Research, which would have the following main re-
sponsibilities:
Mi) oversee the execution of educational policy;
(ii) coordinate the education systew by taking account of the prior-
ities and needs of other Ministries; and
(iii)  control scientific research.
7.        The secontion of the Commissions's report dealing with methods, pro-
grams and curricula contains general considerations that recommend opening
the schools to the socio-economic environment and devoting a certain portion
of the available time to theoretical studies and to politics and civics on
the one hand and military training, physical education and sports on the other.
The section on finance and costs has a brief analysis of the 1972 budget and
concludes that salaries which accounted for 95% of the expenses are the major
obstacle to expanding and improving the system's infrastructure.
C.   Evaluation of the Commissionts Proposais
8.        The proposals of the Reform Commission are in sharp contrast to
those of the various missions that reviewed Dahomey's formal education system
(para. 1), particularly the main proposals of the reconnaissance-in-depth
(RID) mission, which are summed up below:
(a) the need for the system's objectives to better take into considera-
tion the needs of the predominant rural population;
(b)  a reallocation of the resources devoted to education in favor of the
rural sector, not only to redress previous neglect and imbalances
but also to ensure greater consistency with the country's socio-eco-
nomic development;



APPENDIX I
Page 4
(c) integration of education and training within the framework of com-
prehensive and integrated community development programs; and
(d) identification of a new system that includes a more adapted and
lower-cost basic education (i.e., determine the structure, length of
cycles and contents) and that vill permit Dahomey to achieve an
appropriate universal education around the turn of this century.
9.        The strategy recommended by the RID mission to achieve the above con-
sists of a short four-year basic education with entry at the age of 9 or 10,
strict control of enrollment expansion at subsequent levels, the use of local
languages, and a purposeful effort to reduce unit costs. The proposals of the
lowering of entry age 4 or 5, and unlimited expansion of enrollment at levels
following basic education.
10.       The non-feasibility merely on financial grounds of the Commission's
recommendations should be apparent from its own projections of the recurrent
costs of the system in 1984, which were estimated at about CFAF 40 billion.
This figure, in the opinion of the appraisal mission, amounts to at least twice
the total government revenue projected for 1984, even when the latter is pro-
jected on the basis of fairly optimistic assumptions concerning the grow'th of
GNP and of Governnent revenue.  Furthermore, the system recommended by the
Commission is a complex one that requires a fairly developed and efficient
administration to implement.
11.       In view of the serious implications of the report and recomuenda-
tions of the Reform Commission, it is recominended that the Government evaluate
their appropriateness for Dahomey at this stage of its development.



STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATION SYSTEM, 1972
Primary--                         -- eSccondary1                                                               Higher
First Cycle                    Second Cycle      I
C.E.S.                                         I
L cee
Gi     G2      G3      G4      G5      G6           G7      G8      G9    G10           G11    G12    G13
Polytechnic Institute
r   rrn r-1
*              tl ub-~~~~~~2 j43--I5_
C.E.T.                              Lycee technique
Ph.sng out
r- i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
Proposed New Institution                                    _
o  Cc PE
*  Baccoleursat (BAC>                                                                           CAP  OM
()  fls.caI^sureu tochnIquOJ
0   DUES, DUEL                                Cooperatives
)  CAP                                           Schools
Il Jobs                                           :                                       -                                                       1.
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION SYSTEM   | _
Rural Training Centers                  gricultural 1-Vcee
MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM
Practicai Agricitu.-e rraining scooois                                     e
AGt                                                                                                    L._J 
6      7       8       9       0i     l            12     13      14      15           16       17     18      19       20      21
World Bank  7b72



Ages /Age`                          DAHOMEY
(<ève,3 accouiplissant                                                       APPE}DIX I
cyUles normaux           Pl'POSED STRUCTURE OF EDUCATTON SYSTEM          Chart 2
ftude3)
20 +
tg +
1.8 +           Second degré
17 +f-          Second Level
Education
16+
15-.-
Enseignement                                               E-
14 +                         moyen                   C.P.2
I  II         Polytechnical  
1) +    z                Intermediate          Institutes
Education II               II
12 +
Enseignement
il +                        moyen                   C.P.1
I             Polytechnical
10 +        l     l Intermediate               Institutes
I0                  Education II I  
9 +
8 +      Education              6                   CPEPIP/Centers for
Popular Education
Enseignement 
7 +        de  base                   i
6+4
5+
' +      Enseigneipent          21
maternel
Maternal         |
Education 



APPENDIX Il
Page 1
DAHOMEY
THE RURAL YOUTH TRAINING
A.   Background and Ristory
1.        The first rural youth clubs were started in Dahomey in 1967 as an
experiment with the assistance of an FAO expert. As originally conceived,
they were to provide a system of local support to rural youths who would have
been already trained in an agricultural training center. After sensing that
this type of rural youth training was promising, the Government decided to
encourage their development. The training is done at a 4-D club. The 4-D is
derived from the motto: We, the youths, have taken the DECISION to perform
our DUTY for the DEVELOPMENT of our DAROMEY.
2.        The 4-D clubs have an important role to play in the strategy of
rural socio-economic development: (i) they provide rural youths with a rele-
vant training, (ii) they are agricultural practice centers, and (iii) they
serve as a means of demonstrating the improved agricultural methods and tech-
niques. To do so they engage in the following activities:
(a) productive activities - agriculture, livestock (mainly poultry
and sheep raising), horticulture and fruits cultivation;
(b) educational activities - functional literacy, civic education, handi-
crafts, self-help construction, rural radio programs, and for the
female members home economics, child care and nutrition; and
(c) recreational activities - sports, folk dances, etc.
3.        Although the training program should be comprehensive and balanced,
the agricultural component seems to be the most developed at present. Agri-
cultural activities vary among the clubs depending upon their location, and
crops are selected upon the recommendations of the extension agent. The crops
are, for instance, in Zou: they grow cotton, corn, groundnuts, cassava and
beans; in Atlantique: corn, groundnuts, and cassava; in West Atacora: sor-
ghum, groundnuts and rice. In addition, all clubs have a graden for vegeta-
bles. The results are supposed to demonstrate the correct balance between
cash crope to increase the income of club members, and food crops for their
consumption.
4.        The club's members are required to participate in collective acti-
vities so that they "learn by doing". Thus a club would typically consist of
about 15 youths who clutivate collectively 2 or 3 hectares of land. The pro-
fit derived from the sale of crops is used to finance the cost of the socio-
educative program. The club members also participate in the village develop-
ment activities, and their parents assist them at the club in land clearing,
well digging and shed or barn construction.



APPENDIX Il
Page 2
5.        A club usually has a president, a treasurer and a secretary who are
elected by the members. Some clubs in addition have specifie committees for
marketing or entertainment. It is given a piece of land though not always
permanently. This land is used mostly for cultivation and the members usually
build warehouses, sheds, barns, etc. A club also has some agricultural equip-
ment, gardening tools and in the mixed and feminine clubs there is some home
economics equipment. Some clubs even have handicraft tools for woodwork and
for construction.
B.   Pre-Investment Study Findings
6.        The "Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement Economique et Social"
(SEDES) carried out under a UNDP-financed and IDA-executed project, and com-
pleted in May 1974, a pre-investment study of the rural youth training program.
The study's major findings are the following:
(a) Clubs and their membership: By the end of 1973 there were 235 clubs
with 3,469 members. The clubs were not distributed equally among
the regions; the density was highest in the south, particularly in
the province of Atlantique, and lowest in the north, except in West
Atacora. Mixed clubs (i.e., including both male and female memb2rs)
comprised 10% of the total; feminine clubs 7%; and masculine clubs
the remainder. The literacy rate of the members reaches a maximum
of 63% in some clubs in the south and is only 23% in the north.
About 27% of the members were older than 17 years, 42% were between
13 and 16 years, and 30% were 12 years old or younger. About 95%
of the members' paredts were farmers and 5% were non-farmers.
(b) The club organizations: About 75% of the clubs had been created at
the initiative of extension agents. The clubs' activities are gen-
erally carried out four days per week (three days in the north, and
five in the Atlantique region). Most of the assistance and coaching
is provided by the field agents of the Directorate of Agriculture.
More than one-third of the clubs are located in villages that have
primary schools and another one-third are vithin 5 km of a primary
school.
(c) The club resources: The average area of cultivable land available
to a club was about 3 hectares, just sufficient for 15 members
working manually. In the south, there is a problem of land avail-
ability for the clubs, and in Atacora, clubs have difficulty in
obtaining land permanently. Lack of water is also a problem for
agricultural production. Clubs, in areas where wells are not
available, use the village well. Half of the clubs have facilities
such as storage sheds, offices, barns, etc. Most of these have
been constructed with the parents' participation. Equipment, espe-
cially agricultural tools, is rather scarce; e.g., no club has a
scale. Thirty percent of the clubs have two tools per member and
30% only one tool per member.
(d) A



APPENDIX II
Page 3
(d)  Agricultural activities:  According to the survey, the main crops
are corn (56.75 of the land cultivated), groundnuts (16.3%), beans
(8.7%) and cotton (8.4%); but these percentages vary by region. The
statistics show an increase of cotton and groundnut cultivation.
Crop yields are roughly those obtained by adults cultivating under
the same conditions. Sixty-five percent of the clubs use selected
seeds, fertilizers and insecticides but not in adequate quantities.
Vegetables are cultivated by one-third of the clubs, and the average
cultivated area per club is 500 sq.m. Lack of water prevents in-
creased gardening.
(e)  Animal husbandary:  Cattle breeding is limited to the north, due to
the presence elsewhere of trypanosomiasis, transmitted to cattle by
the tse-tse fly. Some clubs have successfully experimented with ox-
drawn cultivation ("cluture attelee"). Many clubs in the south
raise poultry but the flocks are plagued with contagious diseases
(mainly Newcastle disease). Sheep and hogs are also raised.
(f)  Other activities:  About 50% of the clubs engaged in construction
and maintenance of buildings, cisterns, wells and in road-upkeep and/
or handicrafts (e.g., basket weaving, pottery, etc.) Meanwhile,
one-third of the mixed and feminine clubs are interested in home
economics, e.g., cooking, child care, sanitation and sewing. In
addition to production activities, some clubs have socio-educative
activities.
(g)  Training:  The initiative here is left to the agricultural extension
agent. About 41% of the clubs gave functional literacy courses in
either French or Fon, and in a few areas in Adja, Yoruba and Bariba,
(h)  Nutrition and health education:  This is provided through the
"animatrices rurales" (mainly in mixed and feminine clubs), rural
radio broadeasts and through the World Food Program (WFP). About
70% of the clubs have a canteen. Food comes from WFP products
(especially fat and protein-rich food) and from the crops produced
by the clubs themselves.
(i)  Athletics:  About 30% of the clubs engaged in various athletic acti-
mities (soccer, volleyball, basketball, etc.).
(j)  Finance:  Self-financing of investments and recurrent costs is the
principle underlying the 4-D club movement. About 80% of the re-
ceipts come from cash crops. Expenditures were made for building
maintenance and construction (25%), for inputs (25%), social acti-
vities (23%), and benefit distribution to members (27%).
7.        On the basis of the data it collected and according to criteria that
take into consideration a club's past performance and its future potential,
SEDES selected some clubs to receive assistance under the IDA project. If the



APPENDIX II
Page 4
criteria listed in the Government's request were to be applied strictly, only
24 of the 235 clubs surveyed would have been chosen. However, by slightly re-
laxing the criteria, this number increased to 87.
C.   Findings of the Appraisal Mission
8.        As a result of its extensive field visits, the appraisal mission,
in its attempt to verify the conclusions of the pre-investment study, found
that the 4-D club movement is subject to a marked degree of instability as
demonstrated by the drastically changed situation of 4-D clubs in the short
period between the SEDES Survey (March 1974) and appraisal (June/July 1974).
Briefly,` the findings of the appraisal mission are the following:
(a) many clubs are unstable and their prospects change quickly;
(b)  the training program concentrates on the agricultural component and
neglects the other components as well as the particular needs of
female members;
(c) the extension agent is the crucial factor in a club's performance,
particularly with respect to agriculture;
(d)  specialized "encadreurs" and "animatrices" are very few;
(e) many of the clubs' membership are too young to be able to participate
meaningfully in the training programs, i.e., their ages are less
than 13 years;
(f) both the shortage and the impermanence of land are limiting the
clubs' ability to carry out a realistic program effectively;
(g) water is not available in many clubs;
(h) equipment is not sufficient;
(i) revenues from productive activities are too low and are not always
utilized effectively.
9.        The necessary preconditions that should exist to ensure that a 4-D
club would be permanently established are the following:
(a) it should be located in an area where an approved expansion program
has already made provision for increasing the supply of material in-
puts;
(b) there must be an integrated regional development organization that
is interested, well-managed, qualified and equipped to assume the



APPENDIX Il
Page 5
responsibility of assisting the clubs in its region; it should in-
clude on its staff the required number of qualified and properly
trained "encadreurs" of rural development agents with the apprbpri-
ate range of specializations;
(c)  there-must be community support as reflected, for example, by the
assistance furnished by the village and parents for its organiza-
tion, the size'of the club's membership, and the number of working
days/week the youths are permitted to devote to the club instead of
working vith parents;
(d)' a minimum amount of land suitable for agricultural production must
be available to the club on a permanent basis. This minimum depends
upon whether ox-drawn agriculture is used or not;
(e)  a properly staffed and equipped regional support center must be near-
by and readily accessible;
(f)  there must be diversification of each club's activities as appropri-
ate in each region to include, e.g., animal husbandary, horticulture,
crafts, etc., to ensure its financial self-sufficiency;
(g) there must be a readiness on the part of the regional organization
to support the establishment of trained youths leaving the clubs
either as independent farmers or as members of a cooperative.
D.   Agricultural Programs for 4-D Clubs
10.       One of the major conclusions of appraisal is that the future of a
4-D club is closely linked to the outcome of the agricultural component of its
training program. If the agricultural program succeeds, a club succeeds; and
if it fails, a club fails.  Consequently, it was concluded that:
(a) the agricultural program of 4-D clubs should reflect the orientation
of the agricultural policy of the province in which they exist and
should be a part of it;
(b) the practical methods of a club should be, to the extent possible,
the same as those being advocated by the local extension services;
(c) the extension agents responsible for a club should be, to the extent
possible, the same as those of the neighboring "Groupement Villageois";
(d)  the "encadreur" should not feel that he is isolated and should be
closely supervised.
11.       For the purpose of developing typical agricultural programs for the
clubs, the latter were classified into four types depending upon the climatical
and agricultural attributes of the regions where they exist:



APPENDIX Il
Page 6
Type 1:   Borgou and East Atacora
Type Il: Zou, South Atacora, North Mono and North Oueme.
Type III: Atlantique, South Mono, South Oueme.
Type IV: North West Atacora.
Clubs of Type I and IV can only have one agricultural season per year and those
of Type II and III could have two crops every year on the same land. The pat-
tern of crop rotation that has been assumed for each type of club is shown
in Table 1 and assumptions concerning inputs, yields and the prices of inputs
and outputs are in Table 2. The crops and areas to be planted by each type
of club are shown in Tables 3 through 6. The clubs' budgets by Type are shown
in Table 7 through 10. Furthermore, Tables 11 through 15 show the area of
land required by a club graduate to start his farm and the budgets depending
upon the region where he is settled.
12.       Since the clubs to be assisted by this project would be either of
Type Il or Type III, it is estimated that the annual average earnings per club
member in manual cultivation would amount to about CFAF 5,000 or about 40% the
estimated average per capita income in rural areas as a result of only three
days of work per week which is the amount of time each youth is expected to
devote to the club. Furthermore, it has been assumed that a youth's effort
produces only a fraction of an adult's effort (50% on average and varies in
direct relation to age) and that some of the available time would be devoted
to agriculturally non-productive activities. These assumptions form a part of
the explanation of the relatively modest per capita financial results of a
club. However, these financial results (i) are not the sole objective of a
club and should not be the only criterion for evaluating its contribution or
success; (and (ii) are indicative of a more promising future since a club
graduate could be expected on that basis to earn around CFAF 64,000 annually
once he is established as a farmer. The above computations are based on the
assumption (which does not apply today, paras. 3.12-3.15) that the provision
of agricultural inputs to the 4-D clubs and their graduates would be on the
same terms and conditions as those from which the "Groupement Villageois" and
their members benefit.



APPENDIX II
Table 1
DAHOMEY
RU.RAL YOUTH CLUBS   CIF)P ROTATION PATTERNS*
eof                              II                 III                 IV
club     Borgou/              Zou (1)            Atlantique      West Atacora(2)
,er    _East Atacora
S   and clearing    S1 maize
First         cotton                                                     sorghum
St- cotton           S2maize
Si  maize            S, groundnuts
Second        ezotton                                                    sorghum
S2  cotton           S2 maize
.   maize            Sl manioc
Third         sorghum                                                    groundnuts
S2  cotton           S2 manioc
S1  maize            Si manioc
Fourth        fallow                                                     fallow
S2  ground nuts      S2 fallow
si
Fifth         fallow               fallow              fallow            fallow
Sixth                              fallow              fallow
*-Assuming manual cultivation                  /a S,  first season
(gardening not included)
/b S2 is second season
(1) ideal rotation = cotton - sorghum - cotton - sorghum
plus in the end of rotation
stylsaltes, andropopogon for cattle
(2) or sorghum - groundnuts - sorghum



APPENDIX II
Table 2
AGRICULTURE ESTIMATES
Inputs
Cotton: fertilizers 150 to 200 kg/ha(end of project) for Atacora
130 to 150 kg/ha (end of project) for Zou at 45 kg
subsidized
price (to become 78 at the end of the project)
insecticides 7 sprays ( for Zou) at 500 F/liter (or at 10 F/kg of
cotton produced in Zou and Atacora
varieties BJASM 67 for Atacora, HAR 444-2 for Zou and Atlantique
Corn:   fertilizers  50 kg area/ha at 45 F/kg after cotton
seeds        30 kg/ha  VarIety MHNI for Zou at 50F/kg
and CJI for Atacora at 40 F/kg
Groundnuts seeds 100 Kg/ha at 30 F/kg (25F to 40F/selected seeds)
Beans seeds 30 kg to 60 kg/ha at 45 F/kg
Sorghum  7 kg/ha at 15 F/kg                s
Rice 100 kg/ha + fertilizer 100 kg of SO4(NH4) 2
Crop Price Estimates (in CFAF)
Cotton seeds 40 F/kg to 48 F/kg in 1978
Groundnuts 25 F/kg without shells
Sorghum 18 F/kg
Corn 16 F to 20 F/kg
Beans 35 F/kg
Cassava 14 F/kg
Rice   35F/kg
Yield estimates per hectare for clubs of type II or III under improved techniques.
Cotton - type II 900 kg to 1000 kg at year 5
Cotton - type III 1100 to 1500 kg at year i
Sorghum - type II 800 kg/  type IV 1200 kg  /
Groundnuts - type II 500 kg Type III lst season 800 kg
Cassava - Type III 6400
Beans   400 kg
Rice 1700 kg
Corn 600 kg
1/Agri. project (1975-1978) cotton 1100 to 1325 (year 3)
U/Agri. project (1975-1978) sorghum 1025 to 1500 (hybrid seeds)
J/Agri. project (1975-1978) groundnuts 825 to 1250 (improved seeds)



APPENDIX II
Table 3
PROGRAMME CULTURAL TYPE 1
|    -        CULTURE MANUELLE                           CULTURE ATTELEE
Sole       Culturc      _ ruperfie      Sole          Culture      Supe r ficie
1          coton         0, 65 ha       1            coton          1, 15 ha
2          coton         0, 65 ha       2            sorgho         1,15
3          sorgho        0, 65 ha       3            coton          1,15
o       4           jachère                     4             sorgllo        1,15
5          jachè re                     5            jachère
6            jachère
Superficie cultivée          1, 95       Superficie cultivée            4, 60
<   Superficie géographique      3, 25       Superficie géographique        6, 90
E4                                                     _
<o                  Riz          0,40                        Riz            0, 20
ho                  Haricot      0, 40                       Haricot        0, 20
Sorgho       0, 25
.    Stuperficie cultivée         3, 00 ha    Superficie cultivée            5, 00
Superficie géographique      4, 30       Superficie géographique        7, 30
Il vient annuellement
Culture manuielle    Culture attelée
Sorgho           0, 90 ha             2, 30 ha
Coton            1,30                 2,30
Riz              0,40                 0,20
lIaricot         0, 40                0, 20
Potager           PM                   PM
Total         3, 00 ha             5, 00 ha



APFENDIX II
Table 4
PROGRAMME CULTURAL TYPE II
S1 = 1ère saison.culturale
S2 = 2ème
CULTURE MANUELLE                       CULTURE ATTELEE
Sole             Culture             S verficie           Suiperficie
1      <S1 défrichement
(S2 coton                      0, 3 ha              0,6 ha
2      (Si maIcs                       0,3                 0,6
mS2 coton                      0,3                  0,6
3      sSI mats                        0,3                 0, 6
o             iS2 coton                       0,3                  0,6
(O3
<4     4      (S 1 mars                       0, 3                 0,6
.Î       iS2 arachide                   0,3                  0,6
5         jachère
6         jachère
Superficie cultivée            2,1                  4,2
Superficie géographique        1,8                  3,6
o             Riz                             0,1                  0,1
(n
n             I-laricot                       0, 4                 0,4
Manioc                         0, 25                0,25
h             Sorgho                         0, 15                0,15
Potager                         PM                   PM
Superficie cultivée            3 , O                5,1
Superficie géographique        2,7                  4,5
Il vient annuellement
Culture manuelle        Culture attelée
Mars                0, 9 ha              1,8 a
Coton               0,9                  1,8
Arachide             0, 3                0, 6
Piaricot             8.
Manioc              0,25                 0,25
Sorgho               0,15                0,15
Potager              PM                   PM
3, 0 ha             5, 1 la



PROGRAMME CULTURAL TYPE III                 A?ENIX. II
Table 5
CULTURE MANUELLE                              CULTURE ATTELEE
Sole             Culture               Superficie
1       Si rmats                         0, 4 ha
S2 mars                         0,4
2       SI arachide                      0,4
SZ mars                         0, 4
3       SI manioc                       0, 4
{S2 manioc                     ) "
o      4      (S1 manioc
¢         .   ( S2 jachère
5         jachère
6         jachère
Superficie cultivée                  2, O.
Superficie géographique              2, 4
Arachide                              0, 3
Haricots                              0. 4
o          Mai-s                                 0. 3
Potager                               PM
Superficie cultivée                  3, 0
Superficie géographique               3, 4
Il vient annuellement
Mals         1, 5 ha
Arachide      0, 7
:Manioc      0,4
Ha1ricots     0, 4
Potager      PM
Total:      3, 0 ha



APPENDIX II
Table 6
PROGRAMME CULTURAL TYPE IV
CULTURE MANUELLE                            CULTURE ATTELEE
Sole            Culture               Superficie
1               Sorgho                  0, 8 ha
2 Sorgho                               0,8
3               Arachide                0,8.
o      4                Jachère
5               Jachère
Superficie cultivée                     Z, 4
Superficie géographique    -            4, 0
Riz                                     0,5
0 o      Haricots                                 0,1
Superficie cultivée                     3, 0
Superficie géographique                 4, 6
Il vient annuellement
Sorgho         1, 6 ha
Arachide       0, 8
Riz            0,5
Haricots       0, 1
Total       3, 0 ha



APPENDIX Il
Table 7
BUDGET D'EXPLOITATION TYPE I
en F CFA
CULTURE MANUELLE                  CULTURE ATTELEE
Price
COTON           |     ia   kg per kg
Semences       . . . . . . . . . . .    PM                               PM
Engrais        1,30 x igO x            8 775        2,3 x 150 x 45.  15 525
Pulvérisation insecticide
17,50 x 1,3 x 500      11 375        17, 5 x 2,3 x 50  20 125
Total    20 150                          35 650
SORGHO
Semences       0, 9 x 7 x 20            125         2, 3 x 7 x 20        32Z
RIZ
Semences       0, 4 x 80 x 50          1 600        0,2 x 80 x 50        800
Engrais        0, 4 x 150 x 30         1 800        0, 2 x 150 x 30      900
Z                                       Total    3 400                             1 700
HARICOT             ha   kg Price
Semences       0, 4 x 60 x 45          1 080        0,2 x 60 x 45        540
OUTILLAGE          3, 0 x 250                750           5 x 250          1250
P.R. Matériel
attelé       . . . ............ ......... ... .                    . 3000
PHARMACIE B VINS ........   . ........ .......... .   600
E-t                       TOTAL input            25-506                           43 06?
COTON              1, 3 x 1 000 x 40      52 000        2, 3 x 1 000 x 40 92 000
O     SORGHO              12(0,65x1200x025x8800)11760          Z,3 x 1 ZOO x 12  33 120
RIZ                0, 4 x 1 700 x 32      21 760        0,2 x 1 700 x 32  10 880
HARICOT            0,4 x 300 x.35          4 200        0,2 x 300 x 35      2 100
TOTAL                89 720                         138 100
SOLDE                   64 214 j                      95 043



APPENIEX Il
BUDGET D'EXPLOITATION TY-PE ITa
Culture manuelle, culture attelée
t MAI.ÏS      kg Price  Ha
Seniences 20 x 35 x 0,9            630             20 x 35 x 1,8        1 260
Engrais   50 x 45` x 0, 9        2 025             50 x 45 x 1,8        4 050
Total:          2 655                                 5 310,
COTON
Semences                           PM                                     PM
Engrais l50 kg x 45 x 0, 9       6 075           150 x 45 x 1, 8       12 150
Insecticides Z0 x 500 x 0, 9     9 000            20 l x 500 x 1, 8    18 000
Total:         15 075                                 30 150
ARACHIDE
Semences ! 00 x 30 x 0, 3          900           100 x 30 x 0,6         1 800
RIZ
Semences 0, 1 x 80 x 50            400           0,1 x 80 x 50            400
Engrais   150 x 30 x 0, 1          450           150 x 30 x 0, 1          450
Total:            850                                    850
HARICOT
Semences 0, 4 x 60 x 45          1 080            0,4 x 0, 6 x 45       1 080
SORGHO
Semences 0, 15 x 7 x                20            0, 1i x 7 x 20           21
OUTILLAGE  3 x 250                    750            5,1 x 250             1 275
Frais culture attelée                  -             3 000 + 600           3 600
TOTAL INPUTS           20 430                                42 285
HaY',eld   Price
MAIS           0A9 x600 x 20          10 800             1, 8 x   600 x 20   21 600
COTON       0, 9 x  900 x 45       36 450            1, 8 x  900 x 45    72 900
ARACHIDE 0, 3 x  500 x 25           3 750            0, 6 x  500 x 25      6 500
RIZ         0, 1 x1 700 x 32        5 440            0,1 x1 700 x 32       5 440
HIARICOT   0, 4 x   300 x 35        4 200            0, 4 x  300 x 45      4 200
M4ANIOC    0,25x5 000 xl14         17 500            0,25x 5000 xl14    17 500
SORGHO    0, 1 5x  800 x 1l         2 160            0, 1 5x  800 x 18     2 160
TOTAL OUTPUT           80 300                               130 300
SOLDE:   (BALANCE)              59 870                                88 015



APPENDIX II
Table 9
BUDGET D'EXPLOITATION TYPE III
Culture manuelle
MA IS          JHa    kg  Price
Semences   1,5 x 30 x 50  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .               2250
Engrais      1,5x 150x 30   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              6750
Total             9 000
ARACHIDE
1-       Semences   0,7 x 100 x 30   . . . . . . . . . . . ... .               2 )00
HARICOT
Semenceg  0,4 x 60 x 45                                              1 080
MAN1OC    .      .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  -
OUTILLAGE   250 x 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 750
TOTALINPUTS              12930
MAAIS    S1   0,7 x 1)00 x 16  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           12 320
S2   0,8 x  900 x 16  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          )] 520
Total            23 840
ARACHIDE
E-'f
Z          SI 0,4 x 800 x 25           ........    8000
H                    0,3 x   500 x 25 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           3 750
O                                                                            11 750
MANIOC        0,4 x  6500x 14 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            35 840
HARICOT    0, 4 x    400 x 35.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             5 600
TOTAL OUTPUTS            77 030
SOLDE:               64 100 FCFA



APPENDIX II
Table 10
BUDGET D'EXPLOITATION TYPE IV
Culture manuelle
SORGHO          ha  kg Price
Semences  1, 6 x 7 x 20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    224
Engrais   0, 8 x 150 x 30 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2 400
Z 624
ARA CHIDE
Semences  0, 8 x 100 x 30 ...... ........ ....    2 400
RIZ
Semences  0, 5 x 80 x 50 .................                   1 000
HARICOT
Semences 0,1 x 60x4.                                         1080
OUTILLAGE   250 x 3 ....................                           750
TOTAL INPUTS             7 854
Ha   Yield Price
SORGHO         1, 6 xZ1 200 x 18 . . . .. . . . .- . . . . .    34 560
ARACHIDE       0,8 x  600 x 25 ............. .. .    12 Oo0
H> ~ RIZ            0, 5 x1 700 x 35  ...............          . - 29 750
O HARICOT           0, 1 x   400 x 35 ... .. ..... ..1. . . .        1 400
TOTAL OUTPUT            77 710
SOLDE               69, 956
Remarque: La fumure du sorgho n'est appliquée que sur la première sole,
la seconde bénéficiant de l'arrière effet.



APPENDIX II
Table 11
TYPES DE CULTURE EN INSTALLATION INDIVIDUELLE
Tyje I (culture attelée)           Type II (culture attelée)
Coton       2, 0 ha                 Coton         1, 50 ha
Sorgho      2, O ha                 Mais          1, 50 ha
Riz          O, 3 ha                Arachide      0, 50 ha
Haricot       0, 30 ha
Total:      4, 3 ha                 Manioc        0, ZS ha
Riz           O,10 ha
Sorgho        0,15 ha
Total         4, 30 ha
TyRe III (manuel)                   TyeIV  (manuel)
Mats         1, 5 ha                Sorgho        1, 2ha
Arachide    0,7 ha                  Arachide      0, 6 ha
Manioc       O, 4 ha                Riz           O, 4 ha
Haricot      0, 4 ha                Haricot       0, 1 ha
Total:       3,O ha                 Total:        Z, 3 ha
Les budgets d'exploitation correspondant s'établiraient comme suit
pour ce jeune couple:



APPENDIX II
Table 12
B U D G E T
Type I - Résultat: 121 315 F CFA.
INPUTS                                OUTPUTS
Coton (2, 0 ha)                           Coton
Engrais 2, 0 x 150 x 45        13 500      2, 0 x 1 100 x45 =99 000
Insecticide 17, 5 x 500 x 20 = 17 500
Sorg&ho (2, 0 ha))                        Sor gho
Serences 2, 0 x 7 x 20          480       2, 0 x 1200 x12.  43 200
Riz                                       Riz
Semences 88 kg x 50 x 0, 3      1 200      0, 3 x 1 700 x 35   17 850
Engrais 150 kg x 30 x 0, 3      1 350
Outilla g
-4,3x250   .... .  .  .  .   .   1075
Pièces rechenge . ...... .   3 000
Médicarnents boeufs . . . . . .    600
*38 705                      160 050



APPENDIX II
Table 13
TYPE Il - Résultat: 81 925 FCFA
INPU TS                            OUTPUTS
Coton                                      Coton
Engrais 1, 5 x 150x5 =    10 125          1, 5 x l oo  x 45=  67'500
Insecticides 20 x 500 x 1, 5 =15 000
Mats                                     Mars
Semences 1, 5 x 20 x 35 =    1 050        1, 5 x 900  x 16 =  21 600
Engrais  1, 5 x 50 x 30       2250
Arachide                                 Arachide
Semences 0, 5 x 100 x 30=    1 500    0, 5 x 500 x 25=         6 250
Haricot                                  Haricot
Semences 0, 3 x 60=                       0, 3 x 400 x 35     4 200
Riz                                       Manioc
Semences 0,1 x 80 x 50         400        0, 25 x 5 000 x 5    6250
Engrais 0, 1 x 150 x 30 =    450
Sor&ho                                   Riz
Semences 0,15 x 20 x 45        135        0, 1 x 1 700 x 35=   5 950
Outillaeg                                 Sor ho
250x4,3=                      1075        0,15x800x 18         2160
31 985                         113 910



APPENDIX II
Table 14
BUDGET D'EXPLOITA[ION TYPE III
Culture manuelle
Resultats: 64 100 FCFA
MA IS
Semences  1, 5 x 30 x 50 .  ......... .                    2 250
Engrais    1, 5 x 150 x 30   ..........  .. . .             6 750
Total          9 000
ARACHIDE
Semences  0,7 x 100 x 30  ........... . ... .              2 100
HARICOT
Semences' 0, 4 x 60 x 45                                   1 080
MANIOC.-
OUTILLAGE  250 x 3 ...........  .  ...7....  .                  750
TOTAL INPUTS          12 930
MAi                               ... ....  .  . .  .  . .  ...1   2
MdAIS S1 0.7 x1 100x16 ......... 12 320
S2  0,8x  900x16 ...............                    .11 520
Total         23 840
A RA C=HIDE
SI  0,4 x  800 x25ç  .............                    8 000
0,3x  500x25. ...............                    3 750
O                                                                  ll 750
MANIOC    0° 4 x640  X 14 . .......... .. . .                 35 840
HARICOT   0, 4 x 40Q     x 35 . .............. .              5 60
TOTAL OUTPUTS         77 030
SOLDE:            64 100 FCFA



APPENDIX II
Table 1l
TYPE IV -  Résultat   L2 202 FCFA
.INPU TS                                 OUTPUTS
Soryho        ha  kg  price                    Sorgho
Semences 1, 2 x 7 x 20 =           168         1, 2 x 1 200 x 18 = 25 920
Engrais   1 , 2 x 150 x 30 =     5 400
.Arachide                                      Arachide
Semences 0, 6 x 1 O0 x 30 =      1 800         0, 6 x 600 x 25     9 O
Riz                                            Riz
Seemences 0,4 x 80 x 50 =        1 600         0,4 x ] 700 x 35   23 800
Engrais l 50 x 30 x 0, 4  =        800
outii!age
Z,3x250                         5750
16 518                            58 720






4.,117.Oî97                                                                              )ldlz
1004120.9469901,934003~~~191    20 9 0 0 210009                                          31.32I                                                         o1.a
0>p>loîloo   42           8o9o~~~13  Oat,))30       00010         9)7  t-(I o>~~~                                        3tl)09         III         Olooîîfo
03.0           oaok,î ooloa   3~~~~9 o       o   ooo        (314,.p>(to                 (~1o.              0        9î ~ ~           2 9 o h o               394î1(0 ~ >3
101111o003  73193  43>4103  3tlaolo  poo.Illo.9o.  39421,240      0401909                     4a,3,.499   0391-39.00         00)2            113,41
Ooloa  491 2241  3001100                                             93(910       0349039)9        4>942017         03îOoi3
333     (1                                                                                                                                           ...33 (3  6  [3 (e  03 (07 39
>000,0.(9499,.4091t 3o0oa4o20902)300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1I                                                                                        l
Il0000019007 70..09                     301017                                      7..            t100           t             1)            13             03             9            0             1(49297
-).oî.o3   ,'1    ,t I.499.                            191             10             340                          22              .           4.               49          24Il..                                    09 
oOdaaoooîOoîîOoO               ob)  73.to.                 90            1.9                00         0               19           1.           1.0              h             3           9130                 ~                       9               1
oo.0000d la 910 0,11>001>01,4100  t17o3 togd..     3970           30O            2900           9              13           45.9             1,  19.      71            20           3              4.           01                               3 
1000- o.2.dOtotodOOaO                    . 4 000                     91             .               ,404         8               7              .            .              99I          Il3  O        40           1)           91                1               O
î1.îoo,Loo)ookîlOO>îtt047  Otool>   ~~~~~~~I1670                 339               ,0)          30              2             .           11.50           Il            3             902                        0o
tO) oh. dat.                                                                                                                                                                             Il9.4boil
toto. po321ooooolyo,llh         21.0gîo13                                    23-09                         20               7          90 19,9F,£3                                34           431                        23                9 4
.1293.  3.ralot39                   1072           92                .12          1)9            ~~~          ~~~~~       ~~~~~      ~     ~~~~         ~~~           ~~~           ~~aî  7.32  29.02  '94  19  9133
(31'0d>9o11oo~~~~'3o  3.aa>o2(o  7.03100030  1070  >9.1              (99           7              7           3.8          20.0            13           93             3                         33              10111  I':   I 
lotladoaOtlOda        8~~.003                     14301          39                  0         .               0            34           2.0             .              6            0             0            1
îboooblo  3.13000               9)7)            91))             5449        ...             19           ~~~~        ~~~~~~ ~~1.7  Il71 7            9            2                          21019
000a0000202(90030003,2300001  1)). (90991220>  0072  349             3339         31.            093           0.95        23.70           92           44           40              9           29             .. I
.ad 0000-940,0)1      11. 9.o>yt~ ~~~~~~~~ 1970                                      0 9       9     4                       .            3.              4            3             3                          3203
.....             147oo>oo190                                  0924              340          29                                                                                                Il.9 1.    $1    Il                             7
t)toO-.3000031(9740000  00. 00>4..,                40~~~~170      -30                           3                            45           2.               90          4$             O3                         299
90000910900000.0. ~~~~~~~~~  20.300730         1)70                               324 I  41  274l                         l4.0        013               40)         1              9           (             l1
o  23.127o92420a  1392  4  4             t           9.2           37.0            30           19            3             1           t                 (9             1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
0.91390.0314  b  100909(99.  27  0013,  (323          I         99              0            0.79)        00(9.30         78 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  O            20          21               29               9e~41 
0.20(980090 2o01,100ta o)  29. 0229,0              1~~~Il93        3(9              903         43              20           90           1.                9          47            324I 
oaooatoootîy( ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
3933 "PobtOoOopoîîIîbttlO  1007001 303207(92 .02 2192)009000 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~1
02000.09004> (Cal.. 3 t>3 61 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~4
9o90,oOot(1o.0719010042  1.90010(9140  3)71  193          0,32        39             34            1.0          33.0            31           30            14             9           24               Il~~~'14  l
000000,01o020022(99000  3t04)02  2. DoaltO,.> Rptîlîl  tOOl  3        5o              >4           1.3           3.3             3>          49            10             7           Ol 40
100 0300100920 69 39730> oaa  3. 84 001,o>oo 3501  105094            0            5.2          34.49           90           17           19             10-.-. .                     9






DAHOMEY
PROJECTED DEMRND FOR SKILL UPGRADING TRAINING, 1975 AND 1980
Total Workers Needing Upgrading Training
Sector                                                                                    1970a/             1975_r/          1980c/
A. Industrial Skilld/
Private sector                                                                        3,500               4,000             4,800
Public sector                                                                         3,000               3,500             4,300
Artisanat                                                                              7,500              8,700            10,600
Self-employed                                                                   t 3,500)                -
Apprentices                                                                     ( 4,000)                -                -
Sub-Total                                                                  14,000              16,200            19,700
B. Office Skills
Private sector                                                                       1,500               1,700             2,000
Public sector                                                                         1,500              1,600             1,900
Sub-Total                                                                   3,000               3.300             3,900
Total                                                                      17,000              19 500            23 600
a/Actual.
b/Estimate.
L/Projected.
d/The following assumptions have been made about the rate
of increase in the demand for upgrading training:
Annual Rate of Growth
A. Industrial Skills                                        1971-1975           1976-1980
Private sector                                              2.57,              3.5%
Public sector                                               3.07%              4.0%
Artisanat                                                   3.07               4.0%
B. Office Skills
Private sector                                              2.5%               3.5%
Public sector                                               2.0%               3.5%
e/Including a very large proportion of temporary
employees.
Source: ILO, Progress Report No. 1, Dahomey Pre-Investment Study of Skills Upgrading Center.
IBRD Mission.



DAHOHEY
RURAL YOUTH TRAINING: ESTIMATED
TARGET GROUP /a   AND 4D CLUB MEMBERSHIP
1970       1973        1975        1980       1985        1990        1995        2000
Age Group (13-15 years)                                     180,000    194,000    204,000    241,000    283,000    330,000    381,000    437,000
Alternative 1 L
Target Group:
As % of age group                                         93.2%       90.3%       89.7%       89.2%      88.0%       87.0%       85.3%       83.7%
Total number                                            167,700    175,200    183,000    215,000    249,000    287,000    325,000    366,000
4D club membership                                                    3,500       4,500       5,800      7,400       9,500      12,200      15,600
Alternative II /c
As % of age group                                                                 89.1%       87.1%      84.1%       79.7%       74.3%       67.0%
n.a.       n.a.
Total number                                                                    183,000    210,000    238,000    263,000    283,000    293,000
4D club membership                                                                4,500       7,900      13,900     24,500      43,100      76,000
Alternative III /d
As % of age group                                           n.a.       n.a.       89.7%       88.0%       86.2%      83.6%       80.6%       76.7%
Total number                                                                    183,000    212,000    244,000    276,000    307,000    336,000
4D club membership                                                                4,500       6,000       9,300     19,800      29,300      33,600
/a Assumed to be the difference between the total of the 13-15 year age
group and the total out of this age group in formal education.
/b Alternative I assumes that formal education will not be reformed, and
as a consequence each of both school enrollments and 4D club membership
would increase at a rate of 5% p.a. during 1976-2000.
/c Alternative II assumes that a fundamentally reformed formal education
with lover unit costs would be put into application in 1976, thereby
allowing the school enrollment of the 13-15 year olds ta increase at
ah average rate of 8% p.a. and 4D club membership at an average rate
of 12% p.a. during 1976-2000.
/d Alternative III assumes that a reformed formal education with lower
unit costs would be put into application in 1980, thereby allowing
the school enrollment of the 13-15 year olds to increase at an average                                                                                      l
rate of G.5% p.a. anid 4D club membership at an average rate of about                                                                                       °Q
8.07% p.a. during 1976-2000.
Source: IDA Mission
ab



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2 Pages
RURAL YOUTH TRAINING PROJECTIONS: COMMENTS
Non-formal training of rural youths should be a permanent feature
in Dahomey for the next three to four decades at least, because the high cost
and the expected continuation of severe limitations on public resources will
drastically curb the expansion of formal primary education. If present trends
continue, primary school enrollment will reach about 50% of the relevant age
group by 1985 only if education's share in the budget is allowed to exceed
40%. Even assuming a major restructuring of the education system (e.g.,
primary education limited to a four-year cycle with entry at the age of 9 or
10) this sector will still claim about one-third of the national budget, about
half of which will be needed to enroll 75% of the relevant age group in primary
education. The size of the target group for rural youth training (i.e., youths
13-15 years of age) will vary depending upon the future course of the reform
of formal education, and the size of the program's membership will in addition
depend upon the resources made available to it as well as on the rate of
expansion of integrated rural development projects. The target group will be
largest if the formal system is not reformed and smallest if reform, e.g.,
along the lines mentioned above, is adopted immediately (page 1). Assuming
for illustrative purposes that the implementation of such a reform will begin
about 1980 and taking into consideration future financial constraints, the
membership of the rural youth training program will increase from the present
3,500 to about 6,000 by then and to about 9,000 in 1985. The cost of this
progran in 1985 will be about CFAF 90 million (at 1974 prices), or about 7.5%
of the budget of the Mînistry of Rural Development in that year. This will
represent an annual recurrent unit cost of CFAF 10,000 per member, which will
decrease as the program expands because of the large initial component of
fixed recurrent cost. Even so, and to the extent any comparison is per-
missible or meaningful, the above unit cost will be only 40% of that in primary
education in 1985.
Rural youth training in Dahomey is not a substitute or alter-
native to the existing primary education or to a reformed basic education
system because it addresses the needs of a different target group. It is
rather complementary in its role and objective. Consequently, the urgency
of reforming the formal education system, particularly at the primary level,
with the objective of reducing unit costs and increasing enrollments without
increasing the resources required by the education sector should be recognized
and dealt with immediately. Furthermore, the nature and role of rural youth
training will change as a function of the reform of primary education. Over
the long transitional period which would extend until the present primary
education has become a universal basic education, a proportion of the youths
who are 13-15 years old would belong to rural youth clubs while another
proportion would be enrolled in basic education institutions. However, once
aLl children and youths receive a basic education, rural youth training would
become a follow-up training stage. Also, the content would be different
because basic education would have equipped the youths with such skills as
literacy and numeracy and greater emphasis could then be placed upon agri-
cultural training and the duration could be made shorter.



DAHOMEY
ORGANIZATION OF THE MINISTRY OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
_ °»GOVENETLRRL                             __
O _
DEVELOPMENR
,                                                        | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~AND COOPERATIVES
General Directorate                                                                                                                                                                           GnrlDrcoaeu
of Environrent Wat- r                                    General Dîrectorate                                                        General Directorate of                                  GA-ral Direct-ote 
of  Porests                                              of Rral Action                                                             Animal Producti nA& i.stura Educion
and Foros                                                                                                                             um                                                      & Resea-h
IlL 
Pr- rm S;udies               Apie ed                          -tt                                 of                Directoratof f            Directorate ot                     r rte                    Drctoa  0Directorate
|    Pstt ti.  Nut,til .P          CouPnI                             ltNe          I       Agriculture               Animal Huebandr|y                 of Pisterieh              A Ericutural                  Of Research
and Statisice   I   Neron ad                       nseto                                            IEducaion
Rural                       Rural                   Pak   dA,~1Market Production
Yooth                       Radio                   PPra nd grcuturalS io
Smi-       G.,de- S-we ~           ~     Prduto                     tric
Il.-rotue  prPoSe~d by the proiecect~ 
Wrld Bnk-9551 <R)              -



DAHOMEY                                ANNEX-5
BASIC EQUIPMENT LIST FOR A 4-D CLUB
Self-help Construction Materials
Cement
Wood
Metal sheets to build sheds, barns and water tank
Agricultural Collective Equipment
Plough and harrow
Insecticide sprayer
Cereal dryer (hand-made)
Drawn cultivator set (where applicable)
Individual Agricultural and Gardening Tools
Hoes, shovels, spades, picks and rakes
Wheelbarrows
Watering cans
Wire netting
Non-agricultural Equipment
Iron sheets
Ironworks
Press
Work bench
Water tank or cistern
Manual waterpumnp
Individual equipment sets for woodwork (screwdrivers, hammers, etc.)
Parpen molds
Weights and Measures Instruments
For land measurement and weighing of crops
Teaching Equippment
Blackboard and chalk
Slates
Laimp
Poster paper
Functional literacy and numeracy kit
Portable cassette tape recorder
Flannellograph
Home Economics Equipment
For cooking, serving and storing food
Water filter
Health kit
Laundry and cleaning equipment



DAHOMEY
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE RURAL YOUTH TRAINING PROGRAM
GENERA.L
DIRECTORATE OF                                                    NATIONAL SUPPORT CENTER                                                     GOVERNMENTAL RURAL
RURtAL ACTION                                                                                                                                   YOIUTHZL POLICYBODY_
RURAL YOUTH SERVICE                                                          NSC DIRECTOR                                                                                        NATIONAL LEVEL
I 
FUNCTIONAL
LITERACY                                           VETERINARY                                              ADMINISTRATION &            COOPERATIVE                WOMEN'S
PERUAGGCAL                                         ZOOTECIINICIAN                                          MANAGEMENT                  SPECIALIST                 MOVEMENT
REGIONAL LEVEL
i      CARDER                      TENG UNITU                                                                                                                            SONACOKOU
I      ATLANTIDUE                                                                                                                                                        ODIZ
- _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _       CRAC                          CRAC                          CRAC
l                                          ~~~~~~~~~      ~       ~       ~~~~~Atlantique  Atacora      20u
|                                                   RSC director                 RSC diirr                     RSC     tor
Functional literacy & rural  Furctional literacY h rural  Functional literncy & rural
i                                                   pedatogie specialist         pedegogie specialiat         pdggi specialis
LOCAL LEVEL
g                                    | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Veterinary nechrniclan  | |Veterinary technicianr |    Veteninary technrician 
I                                                 | CraTtwork spe.nist     |    Craftw-rk sperielit     |     Craftwork specialist
| Fenmale rural extensionist                                                    Female rural extensionist     Female rural axtensionist
I
I ---- --- ----- - -- . ~ _ *CLUBS ( ® ®
Centre D'Action Regionaln pour le developpeme-t rural
NSC: Natirnal Support Cer,
World Bank-9550(R)
RSC: Regional Support Cenner



DAN(IHEY
RU8AL YOUTH TRAINING: TEChNICAL ASSISTANCE IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Teeboical   Local
Number  Assistance Trainilm Ipleentation Period (Years)                                              Costa
Post/Profession                                                  o       (nan-      <a-(ni»
Ferso..    -Cohs     msntha)
Fer60s  monhs)    Qnths) 0*          1            2           3           4           5,
National Support Center
Technical Assistance
Director (coordiinator/.manager)                                    I       48                       ODO    DXXX XXYVLXXXXXXXXX    =XXXXXXXX CXXXXXXXXXM  LLLLULLLLU    255.000
Admi intrator                                                       I       42                                  eDXXXXXXXXXX XXXXXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXXXOX XXXXXLJLLLI   128,000
Agro-pedagogical specialist                                         I       36                                        XXXXS  XXXXXXXXXX  XXXXXXXXXX XXXXXLLLLL    140,000
VeterInarian/Zoo-technician                                         I       36                                        XXXXX  SXXXXXXXXXX iXXXXXXXXXX CXXXXXLLLLL    140,000
Consultants:
Implementation  osul tant/a                                         I        2                   XX
Functional litaracy                                                 I        2                            XX
Rural craft training                                                1        2                                   X                                                 )106,000
Nealth and rutrition                                                1        2                                    XX
Evaluation consultants                                              I        6
Local Staff:
Coordinator / .mager ( coun terpart)                                1                     48         L     LTLLTLTLTLTLTL'  TLTLTLTLTL LTLTLTLTLTL'
Pedagogical designer                                                1                     60        LLLLLLLLLLL LLLLLLLLLLL  LLLLLLLLLLI LLLLLLLLLL LLLLLLLLLLL
Other support staff                                                 1                    n.a.       LLLLLLLLLLLI LLLLLLLLLLL  LLLLLLLLLLI LLLLLLLLLLLI LLLLLLLLLLL
Sub-Total                                         12      176          108                                                                         $769.000
Regional Support Centera
Local Staff:
Assistant director                                                 1                     60        LTLTLTLTLTL LTLTLTLTLTL LTLTLTLTLTLT TLTLTLTLTL LTLTLTLTLTLT
Functional literacy                                                I                     60        LTLTLTLTLTL LTLTLTLTLTL LTLTLTLTLTL  TLTLTLTLTL LTLTLTLTLTL'
Craft technician                                                   I                     60        LTLTLTLTLTL' LTLTLTLTLTL LTLTLTLTLTL  TLTLTLTLTL' LTLTLTLTLTL
Veterinary technician                                              1                     60        LTLTLTLTLTL LTLTLTLTLTL LTLTLTLTLTL' TLTLTLTLTL LTLTLTLTLTL'
"Animatrice rurale"                                                1                     60         TLTLTLTLTL  TLTLTLTLTL  TLTLTLTLTL  TLTLTLTLTL  TLTLTLTLTL
"Encadreur opecialiae"                                             I                     60         TLTLTLTLTLT LTLTLTLTLTL LTLTLTLTLTL  TLTLTLTLTL
TOTAL                                        18      176          644                                                                         5769,000
Symbols:             *:  Date of credit emf-ct.ve..ss
X: Technical assistance expert
L:  Local staff
LT: Local counterpart being trained on the job
/a  Vill be financed out of surplus funds in
the UNDP/IDA Pre-investment Study of Rural Youth Clubs.
/b  The local counterpart Coordinator/sanager will tLka
over the responsibility of managing the NSC.
Soarce: IDA Mission



ANINEX 8
DAHOMEY
STRUCTURE OF THE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT ORGANIZATION
DIRECTOR
Tehdi.al Asistan
rz~~~~~~~~~~_ C__ rm .--                                                        DSiton |i
Techaical Diniaine              ~~~~~~~~T,im a  O   o-                            Admi.istration
Ri..           Anima1 H.sla-dry          CoprtcsWnsMov~emet               I
E | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
F.od l~~d-t,i..  Su,enys antd          Traninig         Functi-3a1 Lit,teOy I
E}{H3  3{3~~~~~~ut.tc
Rural Z...l 
o            PNwstres p d bS tht pojtect
| E.tensioffist  %,  Y.t    X.~~
| Vil4ge pre-cooPeratiVes ~~~~~~~~~W.,Id Ba.k-9E49
I                1-..Op.,.ti.~



ANNEX 9
DAHOMEY
RURAL YOUTH TRAINING: ACTIVITIES TO BE
COMPLETED DURING PILOT PHASE
(a) The National Rural Youth Council has (i) defined the policies linking
the rural youth training to the other national, bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies involved in rural development; (ii) reviewed the
long-term plan to be prepared by the NSC; and (iii) approved the NSC's
implementation program and budgets for 1976 and 1977;
(b) The NSC has:
(i) recruited all the staff it requires, local and/or expatriate
and implemented the training program for the national staff;
(ii) developed a long-term plan for the development of the rural
youth clubs;
(iii) designed the specific programs (para. 4,08);
(iv) requested and obtained the required resources for its 1976
and 1977 budgets and the cooperation of the other technical
services in the Ministry of Rural Development; and
(v) helped to establish at least one properly organized RSC;
(vi) investigated the possibilities of reducing unit costs and
took that into consideration when designing the pilot and
larger-scale experiment;
(c) The RSC in at least one of the three provinces has:
(i) become an integral part of a regional development organi-
zation;
(ii) recruited and trained all the staff required for its own
operation;
(iii) established and used workable administrative procedures,
including bookkeeping and inventory control;
(iv) surveyed the clubs in its province, developed model training
programs for them and estimated their specific requirements
for equipment and other material inputs;
(v) trained the required number of "encadreurs" and "animatrices";
(vi) tested, for a period of at least one year, the model
training programs, and determined their financial impli-
cations in about 10 pilot clubs;
(vii) evaluated the results of (vi) above and advised the NSC
of the necessary adjustments it intends to make if any;
(viii) designed the logistics for the implementation of the second
stage of the experiment.



DAHOMEY
SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED COSTS*
(in Million Frs.CFA)
Gross Area  Building  Sitework  Furniture  Equipment  Water Supply  Technical !Total    Total
in m2         Cost       Cost        Cost        Cost         Cost       Assistance million   US$
jCFA      000's
Total Rural Youth Training                     2,990       142.1       16.1        16.2      118.0          176.0         173.0 J 641.4   2,851
1A. National Support Center - Cotonou               400        17.5        2.1         2.6       19.5            -            173.0    214.7       954
1B. Regional Support Centers -
i. Zou                                   1,580        85.0       10.0         7.4       21.0            -                      123.4      549
ii. Atacora                                 360        11.6        1.3         2.2       10.8            -                       25.9      115
iii. Atlantique                              650        28.0        2.7         4.0       12.2            -                       46.9      208
1c. 4-D Clubs
i. Zou                                      -          -           -           -        17.0            56.0                    73.0      324
ii. Atacora                                  _          -            -           -       21.0            67.0                    88.0      392
iii. Atlantique                                           -           -           -        16.5           53.0                    69.5      309
2. Total Skills Upgrading Center - Cotonou    2,214            93.2       31.8         10.0       19.0           -            -         154.0      684
3. Total Preparation of a Second Project             -          -           -           -         -              -             49.5      49.5      220
Total of 1, 2 and 3 in CFA                        _        235.3        47.9       26.2      137.0          176.0          222.5    844.9   3,755
Total of 1, 2 and 3 in US$000                                   1,259             116        609            782            989               3,755
Contingencies (US$ '000)
(Unforeseen:and price escalation                               671             56        293             527           205                1,752
Total Gross Cost (US$ '000)                                     1,930             172        902          1,309          1,194                5,507
Total Taxes        (US$ '000)                                     463              46        271            327            -                  1.107
Total Net of Taxes (US$ '000)                                    1,467            126        631            982          1,194   j            4,400
>
*Includes local taxes                                                                                                                                      o
Source: IDA Mission



DAHOMEY
SUMMARY OF CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
(in US$'000)
Civil Works
Buildings                                                             Total       Total
and                                  Water      Technical          CFAF         US
Sitevorks    Furniture   Equipment    Supply        Assistance     Millions       000's
Total Project Cost              434.3         38.7         203.0        294.5        268.6         1,239.1        -
(in million Fr. CFA)
(in 000'US$)                  1,930          172           902        1,309         1,194                     5,507
Taxes (incl. Customs) %         24%           27%          30%           25%          -                       20.1%
Taxes amounts                  463            46           271          327                                    1,107
Cost net of taxes             1,467          126           631          982         1,194                     4,400
Foreign Exchange
Component %                  55%           60%          80%           70%          85%                     70,2 %
Local - Foreign                L    F        L   F        L   F        L   F        L    F                    L     F
Cost net of taxes (incl.      660  807       50  76      126 505      295 687      179 1,015                1,310 3,090
contingencies)
April, 1975
N.B. US$1 = 225 CFAF
Source: IDA Mission



ANNEX 12
DAHOMEY
PRICE CONTINGENCIES ASSUMPTIONS
(in percent)
1975     1976       1977-79      1980
Civil Works              Local             16       14          12          10
Foreign          16        14          12          10
Furniture                Local             12        10          8           7
Foreign          12        10           8           7
Equipment                Local             12       10           8           7
Foreign          11        10           8           7
Water Supply             Local             16        14          2          10
Foreign          16        14           2         10
Technical Assistance    Local               8        8           6           4
Foreign           8         8           6          4
Source: IDA Mission



DAHOMEY
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCES
(US$ 000)
Technical
Civil  Works        Furniture            Equipment         Water Supply           Assistance           Sub-Total             TOTAL
Description                                                                                                                                      Local and Foreign
L      F            L      F            1L     F             L      F            L     F              L      F          Currencies
Local/Foreign Percentages      45%      55%         40%    60%          20%    80%           30%    70%          15%   857.
I. Total Cost Befoye           567     692          46     70          122    487           235    547          148   841            118   2,637            3,755
Contingency-
Il. Contingencies in %.
(a) Unforeseen factors    10%       10%         10%    10%          10%    10%          15%    15%            5%    5%
(b) Price escalation       39.3%   39.4%        33.3%  35.07        32.6%  34.5%        45.6Z  45.6Z         14.8% 15.1%
III. Contingency Amounts
(a) Unforeseen factors    57        69           5      7           12     49           35      82            7    42           116      249              365
(b) Price escalation      245      300          17     27           47    185          123    287            23   133           455      932            1,387
IV. Total Contingency
Amounts               302      369          22     34           59    234           158    369           30   175            571   1,181             1,752
V.   Total Project Cost
(I + IV)               869   1,061           68    104          181    721          393    916           151 1,043         1,662   3,845             5,507
1/Includes site development
2/Includes local taxes
N.B. US$1 = CFAF 225
April 1975
Source: IDA Mission
t-



ANNEX 14
DAHOMEY
IDA FINANCING BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
(incl. contingencies)
(US$ '000)
(US$ 1 = 225 CFAF)
Cost Net of Taxes
A. Expenditure Net of Taxes
Total        Local       IDA       % IDA
Expenditure Financing Financing Financing
Construction                             1,544      232         1,312        85
(Buildings, siteworks and
water supply)
Furniture                                   85        17            68       80
Equipment                                  426        21          405        95
Technical Assistance                       989         0           989      100
Unallocated (Contingencies)              1,356       130         1,226       90
TOTAL                                        400         4            90
B. Expenditure Including Taxes
Construction                            2,041       729         1,312        64
(Buildings, siteworks and
water supply)
Furniture                                  116       48             68       59
Equipment                                 *609      204           405        67
Technical Assistance                       989       0             989      100
Unallocated (Contingencies)              1,752      526          1,226       70
TOTAL                            5 507                   4000         73
April, 1975
Source: IDA Mission



DAHOMEY
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Year                                                First           Second           T ird             Fourth            Fifth
Quarter                             2 3         1 2 3 4 1    2   3   4 1 1   2 1 3   4   1   2   a                         2   1
1.    Skills Upgradin& Center
Cotonou
Civil Works                                S  ** * / //    r TTT cCC CCC CCC CCC CCC CCc CCC YmY YYY YYY YYY YYY
Furniture                                                           L LL  TTT  00 000 000 000
Equipment                                                 LLL TTT          000 000 000 000 000
2 A. National Support Center
Civil Works                                S  **(///  TT.TT  CCC CCC CCC CCC YYY YYY YYY YYY
Furniture                                            LL |TT  000 0OOO
Equipment                                _   _   _  LL  TT  OOO oOolooo  _   _   _   _   _   _000 0001000
2 B. National Support Center                                                                                                       .
(Zou, Atacora and Atlantique)
Civil Works                                      SS  ***  I/ III  TT TC  CCC CCC CCC CCC CCC mYY  YYY YYY YYY
Furniture                                                         LLL LT  T   000 000 000
Equipment                                                 LLL  TT T   000 000 000 000 000
2 C. 4-D Clubs
(Zou, Atacora, Atlantique)
Water Supply                                                                   CCC CCC   ccc ccc ccc ccc ccc CC
Equipment                                                                                        000 000 000 000 000 000 000
3.   Preparation of a Second Project                                                                                    PPP PFF PPI
Civil Works Schedule                                      Furniture and Equipment Schedule         Preparation of a Second Project
SSS - Site surveys                                        LLL - Furniture and Equipment Lists   PP - Funds made available
- ?reliminary architectural drawings                 TTT - Tendering - Awards
/// - Preparation of construction drawings                000 - Procurement
TTT - Tendering - awards                                  YYY.- Guarantee Period
CCC - Construction
YYY - Guarantee Period



ANNEX 16
DAHOMEY
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Thousands)
Accumulated     Undisbursed
Quarter               Disbursements   Disbursements       Balance
0*                                                    $ 4,000
1                        45               45            3,955
2                        45               90            3,910
3                        60              150            3,850
4                       126              276            3,724
-                       192              468            3,532
6                       247              715            3.,285
7                       266              981            3,019
8                       384           1J365             2,635
9                       366            1,731            2,269
10                       469            2,200            1,800
il                       359            2,599            1,1441
12                       254            2,813            1,187
13                       236            3,049             951
14                       264            3,313              687
15                       267            3,580              420
16                       210            3.,790             210
17                       132            3,922                78
18                        78            4,000                 0
*Date of effectiveness
Source: IDA Mission



DAHOR4E
DIS BURSEMENTS BY MAJOR CATWGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Expenditures in US$ (000's)
Year                          First                     Second                  Third                   Foutth              Fifth
xx        x
Expenditures            Quarter -2   -3   -4    1    2        3     4      1     2      3     4    1      2      3     4    1    2    3    4        1    2
US$
Civil Works              i,2SS                               -      17     71   145   170   235  175   26S   175   -
Furniture                  116                                      19      i           2M0    201  40    14
Equipment                  609                                      10     40    4d    30    55   70   105    90   35   35  35  -35    35    7    7
Water Supply               782                                                                 40   4<)    80    80  120  120  120  120    62
Technical Assistance       989                    40   40    4M)   40      40    40    50    50   5)    50    50 -     G   50   9n   90    90   90   39
Sub-Total                3,755                    40   46    40    77    169  -245   270   4   -375   514   355  205  205  245  245   187   97   46
Unallocated
i(Contingencies)        1,752                           '   '  2    10'   lfi)  1ido   I00    150  150   is50   150  150 '125  125   129     105   55   35
Project Total            5,507                    45   45   10    fIl,   t69   345   370   550 1525   664   M03  355 '330  370  374   292  152   81
Local Taxes              1,107                     o    o      °    37      56    71    76   124  i19   143   104   73   68   77   77    59   20    3
Cost Net of Taxes        4,400                    45   45    60   140    213   274   294   426  406   521   399  282  262  293  297   233  132   78
Local Financing            400                     o    °      °    14      21    27    28    L2  o40    52   ),O   28            29   30    23
IDA  Financing    4        0oon              1 4      5       60   126 i1092   247   266   384-h 366   ls6Q  '15Q  ?h'    ?K , , ^6,    210  132   78
x   Date of Effectiveness
xx * Date of Negotiations
Source: IDA Mission






DAHOM EY
RURAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
V             ~~~~~Malanvel
Banikoara                    J
Kandi
j' -ceou .1 . >    .                              Segbana Q
t   :Ieg                'O ` 
1 ~~~~~~~~~---  `Q'-  , - --- ----)--
\flatI' a      /  Otouadê                            CD tJ'` 
Bimbéréké
Boukombe .                                           O
_   -        4         !~~~~~----- '       Nikki 
OOs -u o ,.u_J          ParakPu
Provinces covered by the rural
youth training component
A  Skills upgrading center
i*  National Support Center
for rural youth training
Q  Regional Support Center for
rural youth training
ag\;W                                     Banak92(
LoOossa   y    K      |     OE
W       T       O   ~~~NOVO
World Bank-9552(R)



