CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 583 DA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rural Education and Training Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF DAHOMEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 3, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 583 DA
Development Credit
Agreement
(Rural Education and Training Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF DAHOMEY
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED SEPTEMBER 3, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 3, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF
DAHOMEY      (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)  and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to thi.; Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)  The Borrower has requested     the United Nations Development
Programme (hereinafter called UNDP) and the International Labour Organisation
(hereinafter called ILO) to provide assistance in respect of the skills upgrading
center included under Part A of the Project, and the UNDP and the ILO have
agreed to provide such assistance;
(C)   The Borrower is currently receiving assistance fromn the UNDP and
the Food and Agriculture Organisation (hereinafter called FAO) inter alia in respect
of a rural youth settlement project, and has requested the United Nations Children's
Fund (hereinafter called UNICEF) for assistance inter alia in respect of a project
to finance equipment, materials and training for rural women, which projects are
complementary to the Borrower's rural youth trai.,ing program inCluded inder Part
B of the Project, and are intended to be carried out on a coordinated basis; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, oii the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   the letters "NSC" mean the National Support Center, to be established
under Part B.1(i) of the Project;
(b)   the letters "RSC" mean any of the Regional Support Centers, to be
established under Part B.2(i) of the Project;
(c)   "4-D Clubs" mean any of the voluntary groups known by that name,
established in villages of the Borrower to provide adolescent boys and girls with
comprehensive training in functional literacy and numeracy, in improved agricultural
techniques and in nutrition, health and hygiene, within the framework of integrated
rural development schemes. 4-D stands for Decision, Duty, Development, Dahomey;
(d)   "Groupement Villageois" means any of the voluntary pre-cooperative
or cooperative groups of farmers known by that name, established in the villages
of the Borrower;
(e)   the letters "SONACO" mean the Socih Nationale Agricole pour le
Coton, a "Societ* d'Etat" existing under the laws of the Borrower pursuant to
Borrower's Decree No. 71-238 of December 6, 1971;
(f)   the letters "MRD" mean the Borrower's Ministry of Rural Development
and Cooperative Action;
(g)   the letters "ODAA" mean the Operation de Developpement Agricole
de l'Atacora, a regional development organization for the Province of Atacora
established and existing under MRD, pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 72-22
of February 8, 1972;
(h)   the letters "ODIZ" mean the Operation pour de Developpenent Integre
du Zou, a regional development organization for the Province of Zou, established
and existing within SONACO;
(i)   the term  "regional development organization" means an integrated
regional development organization of the Borrower, and shall be deemed to refer,
unless the context otherwise requires, to ODIZ in relation to the Province of Zou,


﻿5
to ODAA in relation to the Province of Atacora, and to a similar organization
established pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 74-273 of October 21, 1974 for
the Province of Atlantique;
(j)   "Chef de Projet for Part A of the Project" means the person appointed
to the position referred to by that name in accordance with Section 3.02(a) of
and Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(k)   "Chef de Projet for Part B of the Project" means the person appointed
to the position referred to by that name in accordance with Section 3.02(b) of
and Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
(1)   "Project Account A" and "Project Account B" mean, respectively, the
accounts referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement;
(m)   "Skills Center" means the skills upgrading center referred to under
Part A.l of the Project; and
(n)   The letters "CFAF" mean the Franc de la Communaute Financidre
Africaine, the common currency of the Borrower and the other members of the
West African Monetary Union.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to four million dollars ($4,000,000),
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿I
6
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 1 and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
October 1, 1985, and ending April 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial,
educational and technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
mutually agree, Part A of the Project shall be carried out under the direction of
the Director of Vocational Training of the Borrower's Ministry of Civil Service
and Labor, supported by such organization and staff, and in accordance with such
operating policies and procedures, as are set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise mutually
agree, Part B of the Project shall be carried out under the direction of the "Directeur
Gen6ral de l'Action Rurale" of the MRD, supported by such organization and staff,
and in accordance with such operating policies and procedures, as are set fortlh
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿7
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants and specialists whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be mutually satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
3.03, candidates for appointment to the positions of Chef de Projet for Part A
of the Project and Chef de Projet for Part B of the Project, shall have qualifications
and experience, and shall be employed upon terms and conditions, mutually
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.04. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
mutually agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure that for each
specialist appointed for the National Support Center under Part B. (iii) of the
Project, there shall be appointed, prior to the time such specialist shall take up
his duties, a Dahomean counterpart with qualifications acceptable to the
Association; provided, however, that the counterpart to the Chef de Projet for
Part B of the Project shall be appointed not later than one month after the Chef
de Projet shall have taken up his duties.
Section 3.05. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
mutually agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure that the
Regional Support Centers to be established under Part B.2(i) of the Project, will
be fully integrated in the respective regional development organizations of the
Provinces of Zou, Atacora, and Atlantique, and that in the case of Atlantique,
said regional development organization will be mutually acceptable to the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 3.06. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
mutually agree, the Borrower shall restrict entry in each of the 4-D Clubs
participating under Part B.3 of the Project to youths who are normally 13 years
of age or over.
Section 3.07. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
mutually agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure that each
4-D Club participating under Part B.3 of the Project will have available to it (i)
an appropriate area of suitable land on a permanent basis, and (ii) all necessary
agricultural inputs (in particular, but not limited to, seeds, fertilizers and
insecticides) on terms and conditions not less favorable than such inputs are
available to the neighboring "Groupement Villageois".
0


﻿8
Section 3.08. Without limitation upon the Borrower's obligations referred
to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise mutually agree, the Borrower shall (i) establish and thereafter
maintain in a banking institution or institutions acceptable to the Borrower and
the Association, during the implementation period of the Project, two separate
revolving accounts, for the purpose of channelling to the respective departments
and agencies concerned, the amounts required to be provided by the Borrower
from time to time for the purposes of Part A of the Project and Part B of the
Project, respectively (said accounts are called hereinafter Project Account "A" and
Project Account "B" respectively); and (ii) deposit in Project Account "A" and
Project Account "B", on or before January 1, April 1, July 1 and October I
in each year until the Project is completed, such amounts as shall have been
requested by the Chef de Projet for Part A of the Project and the Chef de Projet
for Part B of the Project and approved by the Borrower in consultation with the
Association, and as shall be necessary during the next three months for the carrying
out respectively of Part A and Part B of the Project including but not limited
to the recurrent expenditures to be incurred by the administrative units responsible
for implementing respectively Part A and Part B of the Project, exclusive, however,
of all such amounts as the Association may from time to time agree to pay during
such period out of the proceeds of the Credit directly to suppliers, contractors
or consultants employed for purposes of the Project, and except for the initial .
deposit required for purposes of Section 6.01(c) of this Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise mutually
agree, all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation (i) for approval, the plans, specifications, contract documents
and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request; and (ii) the periodic or special reports prepared for the Borrower by the
specialists employcd for the purposes of the Project.


﻿w                                  9
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project.
Section 3.12. (a) Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
mutually agree, the Borrower shall submit to the Association for its approval, on
or before June 1, 1978, plans for the establishment of a "tracer system" for Part
A of the Project, designed to evaluate the effectiveness of the training programs
included under Part A of the Project, by providing, inter alia, data on changes
in employers, income, and types of jobs performed, and shall thereafter carry out
such plans as shall have been mutually agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Association.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall (i) evaluate the progress made
under Part B of the Project about 18 months after the date of this Agreement,
and (ii) carry out a final evaluation of Part B of the Project in or about January,
1980, each in such scope and detail as shall be mutually agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.13. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
mutually agree, the Borrower shall within one year of the date of this Agreement,
prepare for the Association's review and comment a comprehensive development
plan for the Skills Center, including, inter alia, an analysis of the financial
implications of such plan and proposals for the financing of the Center's recurrent
costs.
Section 3.14. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
mutually agree, the Borrower shall (i) within three years of the date of this
Agreement, prepare for the Association's review and comment a study of its
"training tax" with a view to determining (A) its role in promoting vocational


﻿10
training in public and private sector enterprises; (B) its impact on employment;
and (C) its incidence and its relationship to the benefits provided by the Skills
Center; and (ii) thereafter adopt such measures in relation to the foregoing as are
suggested by the findings of said study and as shall be mutually agreed between
the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the institutions included in the
Project to carry out their operations and manage their affairs in accordance with
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and educational policies and
practices, and so as to promote the Borrower's training objectives, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) cause the buildings, furniture and equipment
of the institutions included in the Project to be adequately maintained and shall
cause all necessary renewals and repairs thereof to be made; and (ii) establish
appropriate administrative and financial procedures for the purpose of such
maintenance.
(c)   Without limitation of the obligations of the Borrower under paragraph
(a) of this Section the Borrower shall ensure that staff in adequate numbers and
with appropriate skills are made available to operate the facilities and perform
the services required for Parts A and B of this Project.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   Any of the laws and/or decrees adopted for purposes of paragraph
4(ii) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, shall have been amended, suspended,


﻿-                                  11
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect
the operations of the Skills Center;
(b)   Any of the laws and/or decrees adopted for purposes of paragraph
4(iii)(A) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect
the operations of the National Support Center established under Part B of the
Project, or the Borrower's rural youth training program administered through the
NSC; and
(c)   (i)         Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or Jn part,
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor, or
(B)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)        Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
to perform any of its obligations under such agreement,
and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof,
namely, any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c)(i)(B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿12
(a)   The Borrower, UNDP and ILO have entered into an agreement, in
form and substance acceptable to the Association, providing for the financing by
UNDP of specialists under terms of reference acceptable to the Association and
equipment required for Part A of the Project;
(b)   The Borrower has appointed the Chef de Projet for Part A of the
Project, with qualifications and experience, and upon terms and conditions,
mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Association; and
(c)   The Borrower has established Project Account "A" and Project
Account "B" referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement, and has deposited
in each such account at least CFAF2,000,000 and CFAFI,000,000, respectively.
Section 6.02. The date January 5, 1976 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.05, 3.06,
3.07, 3.10(b), 3.11 and under Article IV of this Agreement and the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VH1
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for
Finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Cotonou
Da homey
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
COTONOU


﻿13
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
WASHINGTON, D. C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF DAHOMEY
By /s / Adjibade Tiamiou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Xavier de la Renaudiere
Director, Country Programs Departient
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿14                                          w
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)   Skills Upgrading
Center - Cotonou
(Part A of the
Project)
(a)   Civil Works               360,000           85%
(b)   Equipment and              55,000
materials
(other than
furniture)
(i)  locally                                80%
procured
(ii)  imported                               100% of foreign
expenditures
(c.i.f. cost)
(c)   Furniture                  25,000           80%
Subtotal       440,000
(2)   Rural Youth Train-
ing (Part B of the
Project)
(a)   Civil Works               950,000           85%


﻿15
Armount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(b)   Equipment and             350,000
materials
(other than
furniture)
(i)   locally                                80%
procured
(ii)  imported                               100% of foreign
expenditures
(c.i.f. cost)
(c)   Furniture                  45,000            80%
(d)   Consultants'              770,000            100% of foreign
Services                                     expenditures
Subtotal     2,115,000
(3)   Consultants' Ser-               220,000           100% of foreign
vices for Part C                                   expenditures
of the Project
(4)   Unallocated                   1,225,000
TOTAL        4,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than the
Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that
of another country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".


﻿16
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(i)         expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(ii)        expenditures for goods or services included under Category (1)
of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit, until all necessary
measures, in form and substance mutually satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Association, have been taken:
(A)   for the establishment of the Skills Center, with an          W
appropriate administrative structure, including provision
for a governing body (Administrative Council) in which
the representation of Government, employers and workers
will be reasonably assured in a manner satisfactory to the
Association, and with adequate autonomy, including the
power to establish recruitment standards, programs and
testing and certification rules; and
(B)   to provide that all revenues from the Borrower's "training
tax" shall be allocated to support the operations of the
Skills Center, to the extent required to enable the Skills
Center to carry on its operations.
(iii)       expenditures for goods or services included under Category (2)
of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit:
(A) until all necessary measures, in form and substance
mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association,
shall have been taken for the establishment of the
administrative structure described under Part B. 1(i) of the
Project;


﻿17
(B)   until the Borrower has appointed the Chef de Projet for
Part B of the Project, with qualifications and experience,
and upon terms and conditions, mutually satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association; and
(C)   until an   agreement or agreements shall have been
concluded, in form and substance mutually satisfactory
to the Borrower and the Association, among the Borrower,
UNDP, FAO, and UNICEF, by which the National
Support Center to be established under Part B.1(i) of the
Project shall be designated as the institution having overall
responsibility for coordination of rural youth training and
settlement programs financed by said agencies in the areas
covered by the Project;
(iv)        expenditures in respect of goods and services for Part B.2 or
Part B.3 of the Project, until all necessary measures shall have
been taken, to integrate at least one of the three Regional
Support Centers to be established under Part B.2(i) of the
Project, within its respective regional development organization;
or
(v)         expenditures in respect of goods and services required for the
second phase referred to under Part B.3 of the Project, until
the Borrower and the Association shall have completed an
interim field evaluation of the results achieved during the first
phase in each of the three Provinces, and shall have agreed that
the results justify proceeding with the second phase in such
Province.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an     amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures;
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
.        shall have been made.


﻿18
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in Section 2.03 and Schedule 3 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Mw


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of the Borrower's program to help meet its most
fundamentl non-formal training needs. In the urban sector, it includes the
establishment of a skills upgrading center which will incorporate existing vocational
training programs and provide new programs for employed industrial and clerical
workers in the private and public sectors. In the rural sector, it consists of the
strengthening of the existing rural youth training program carried out through the
Borrower's 4-D Clubs.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A.     Skills Upgrading Center at Cotonou
1.    The construction of, and the provision of ai initial stock of, training
materials for a skills upgrading center at Cotonou, including workshops,
a classroom and administrative offices, and designed for a capacity
of about 190 places.
2.    The incorporation by the Center of existing programs for training of
clerical personnel, and the design and implementation by the Center
of new vocational training programs for development of industrial
skills, including initially, programs in general mechanics, general
metalwork, and business and commerce (mainly bookkeeping,
shorthand and typing), and to be followed by programs in auto
mechanics, electricity, and the building trades. Following completion
of construction, it is estimated the Center will accommodate about
500 workers per week and at full operation will offer training for
about 2,200 workers annually.
3.    The provision of technical assistance and equipment for Part A.1 and
Part A.2 of the Project.
Part B.     Rural Youth Training
The reorganization and strengthening of the rural youth training program
of the Borrower carried out through its 4-D Clubs, including:
1.    At the national level:
(i)         the establishment of a new central administrative structure
consisting of (A) a national governmental body, with a


﻿20
composition mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association, which shall be responsible for setting the
policy for rural youth training and approving the
recommendations for the implementation thereof of the
National Support Center; and (B) a National Support
Center to be located in Cotonou, responsible, subject to
the general policy directions of such body, inter alia, for
the preparation of a phased long-term development plan
for the rural youth training program, the design of
implementation programs, the preparation of budgets, the
supervision of implementation of rural youth training
programs, the evaluation of progress achieved, and the
provision of supporting services to the Regional Support
Centers;
(ii)       the construction of buildings and other facilities and the
provision of equipment for the National Support Center;
and
(iii)       the provision of about 15 man-years of technical assistance
for the National Support Center, consisting mainly of
specialists  in   management     and    administration.
agro-pedagogy,   veterinary/zoo-technology,  functional
literacy, rural crafts, health, nutrition  and  project
evaluation.
2.    At the provincial level:
(i)         the establishment of a Regional Support Center, integrated
within its respective regional development organization, in,
each of the Provinces of Zou, Atlantique and Atacora,
to strengthen the regional rural youth services presently
provided through the regional development organizations,
with responsibilities inter alia for- (A) assisting the NSC
in developing specific regional programs, (B) implementing
these programs, (C) developing training and budget models
for the 4-D Clubs in its respective province, (D) providing
the 4-D Clubs with the necessary inputs and specialized
technical assistance, (E) assisting youths leaving the 4-1)
Clubs in starting their own farms or in joining existing
cooperatives, and (F) upgrading the training of extension
agents;


﻿I
21
(ii)        the construction of buildings and other facilities and the
provision of equipment for each of the Regionai Support
Centers including in the case of Zou, a training annex for
"encadreurs" at Logozohe; and
(iii)       training for the staff of each of the Regional Support
Centers and for the "encadreurs" with the assistance of
experts of the National Support Center.
3.    At the 4-D Club level:
A program to consolidate the 4-D Club networks in the provinces of Zou,
Atacora and Atlantique, to test the operation of the NSC and the RSCs in relation
to the 4-D Clubs, and to test training models. This Part of the Project includes
the provision of necessary technical and material inputs to test and apply model
training programs in about 45 Clubs in each of the Provinces of Zou, Atacora
and Atlantique, involving in the aggregate about 2,000 youths, to be carried out
by the respective RSC over a period of about five years, in two phases: the first
phase to consist of the testing and application of training programs for about ten
4-D Clubs in each Province, to develop and test complementary programs and
staffing and material requirements; the second phase to consist of the testing and
application of training programs for about 35 additional 4-D Clubs in each Province,
to test logistical and administrative arrangements developed during the first phase
and to assess the cost implications (both capital and recurrent) of the rural youth
training program as a whole.
Part C.     Follow-up Project
The preparation, with the assistance of consultants, of an education and/or
training project, under terms of reference to be agreed between the Borrower and
the Association.
*           * P                       e   r
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿I
22                                            W
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (i)         Bidders for civil works contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $100,000 or more, or for which it is intended to afford a domestic preference
in accordance with Part C of this Schedule, shall be prequalified as described in
part 2.2 of the Guidelines;
(ii)        Civil works contracts for Part B of the Project may be awarded
on the basis of local advertising only; and
(iii)       Contracts for transport, office and instructional equipment shall
be grouped insofar as practicable in packages having a value of at least $20,000
equivalent.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 under this Part A, contracts
for draught animals, and for small agricultural implements required for Part B of
the Project and which cannot conveniently be grouped in packages having a value
of at least $5,000 equivalent, may be procured locally on the basis of quotations
and in accordance with the Borrower's normal procedures; provided, however, that
the aggregate value of all items procured in accordance with this paragraph 3 shall
not exceed the equivalent of $200,000 over the duration of the implementation
period of the Project.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bids the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿23
2.    Goods manufactured in Dahomey may be granted a margin of preference
in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Dahomey if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Dahomey equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in
Dahomey.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿24
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences for Domestic
Contractors
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category I of
the table set forth in Schedule I to the Credit Agreement, the Borrower may
grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part A of
this Schedule and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the folk ving groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part C. 1
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of lists of civil works contracts and items of materials, furniture
and equipment. Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the


﻿25
Association, for its approval, (i) a list of all contracts for civil works indicating
the estimated value of each contract and the forecast timetable for bids and awards
of such contracts, (ii) a list of all items of materials, furniture and equipment,
indicating their specifications and estimated unit and total prices, indexed, coded
and numbered to identify the institutions and spaces for which they are required.
3.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for (i) civil works estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (ii) materials, furniture and equipment
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Procurement of materials, furniture and equipment shall be limited
to the items specified in the lists mentioned in paragraph D.2 above and identified
in contract documents by such indexes, codes and numbers as appear in such list.
(c)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the
bids.
(d)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(e)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited, provided that any proposed change in a contract
involving a price increase of less than 1 0% of the contract sum or less than $20,000
equivalent, whichever is less, shall not be deemed to be a material change for
purposes of this paragraph (e).


﻿26
(f)   A certificate signed by the Project Director shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after the execution of a contract for materials, furniture and
equipment confirming that the goods contracted for are in accordance with the
quantities and specifications set forth in the list mentioned in paragraph D.2 above.
(g)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
4.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds. of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿27
SCHEDULE 4
Organization and Operating Policies and Procedures
for Part A of the Project
1.    The Director of Vocational Training will be assisted by a group of specialists
headed by a Chef de Projet contracted under the technical assistance provided
by the International Labor Organization and the United Nations Development
Programme for purposes of Part A of the Project. The Director of Vocational
Training will be assisted by a full-time administrator/accountant and appropriate
clerical and technical staff. In addition to having overall responsibility for the
technical assistance and other personnel assigned to Part A of the Project, the
Director of Vocational Training will be responsible for all materials and equipment
provided for Part A of the Project under agreement with the International Labor
Organization and the United Nations Development Programme in conformity with
the Plan of Operations between the Borrower and UNDP/ILO.
2.    The Chef de Projet will serve as the principal advisor and assistant to the
Director of Vocational Training on all matters involving Part A of the Project,
including technical assistance, personnel recruitment, the formulation of training
programs, the disposition of materials and tools and the layout of paysical plant
and equipment.
3.    The design and supervision of construction of the facilities included under
Part A of the Project will be the responsibility of the Division of "Urbanisme
et Habitat" of the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works.
4.    The Director of Vocational Training and the Chef de Projet will be responsible
more specifically as follows:
(a)   The Director of Vocational Training
The Director of Vocational Training will be responsible for directing
all aspects of the implementation of Part A of the Project. He will be
responsible to the Minister for Civil Service and Labor, inter alia, for:
(i)         monitoring the design and construction of facilities in order to
ensure that the facilities are in accordance with specifications
agreed upon by the Borrower and the Association on the basis
of the ILO report dated March, 1974, and that construction
schedules are adhered to.


﻿28
(ii)        overall supervision of the Chef de Projet;
(iii)       the timely selection and recruitment of staff to assist in the
implementation of Part A of the Project;
(iv)        liaison with the Association on all technical matters relating to
Part A of the Project;
(v)         coordinating the activities of the Borrower with those of the
private sector and of the agencies which are participating in Part
A of the Project;
(vi)        taking whatever administrative actions are necessary for the
establishment of an Administrative Council for the Skills Center;
(vii)       providing   the   Administrative  Council   with   information,
documents and such administrative support as it requires in order
to perform its functions;
(viii)      implementing the policies of the Administrative Council;
(ix)        preparing a development plan for the Skills Center (referred to
in Section 3.13 of this Agreement), organizing and supervising
a study of the "training tax" (referred to in Section 3.14 of
this Agreement) and ensuring the establishment of a tracer
system of the Center's graduates (referred to in Section 3.12
of this Agreement);
(x)         preparing all reports and documents which are required by the
Association, including quarterly progress reports;
(xi)        preparing for submission to the Association through proper
channels of application for withdrawals from the Credit Account;
(xii)       ensuring  that quarterly   project expenditure    estimates are
prepared in time for replenishment of the revolving account
which will be established in accordance with Section 3.08 of
this Agreement; and
(xiii)      overall supervision of the administrator/accountant and other
support staff.


﻿29
(b)   The Chef de Projet
The Chef de Projet will be responsible, inter alia, to the Director of
Vocational Training for:
(i)         providing advice and assistance on all matters concerning Part
A of the Project and the operation of the Skills Center;
(ii)        administering the technical assistance provided to the Skills
Center;
(iii)       assisting  the  division  of  "Urbanisme et Habitat" of the
Borrower's Ministry of Public Works with the design of the Skills
Center to ensure that it conforms to sound pedagogical
specifications and is reasonable in terms of price;
(iv)        providing the Director of Vocational Training with assistance for
preparing the reports required by the Borrower, the International
Labor    Organization,  the   United    Nations   Development
Programme, and the Association;
(v)         ensuring that procedures acceptable to the Association are
followed in the prequalification of contractors, and in preparing
master lists of furniture and equipment to be procured for Part
A of the Project;
(vi)        making arrangements for inviting bids and awarding contracts;
(vii)       taking necessary steps to ensure that items procured are delivered
and stored safely at the locations and on the dates specified;
and
(viii)      acting on behalf of the Director of Vocational Training on
matters concerning contracts, bidding and disbursements relative
to Part A of the Project.


﻿30
SCHEDULE 5
Organization and Operating Policies and Procedures
for Part B of the Project
1.    The "Directeur General de l'Action Rurale" will be assisted by a group of
specialists headed by a Chef de Projet contracted under the technical assistance
provided for Part B of the Project. The Directeur General will be assisted by a
full-time administrator/accountant and appropriate clerical and technical staff. In
addition to having overall responsibility for the technical assistance and other
personnel assigned to Part B of the Project, the Directeur General will be responsible
for ensuring that the technical assistance, buildings and materials provided for Part
B of the Project are coordinated with that provided by the UNDP, FAO, UNICEF
and other organizations which provide assistance for purposes of Part B of the
Project.
2.    The Chef de Projet will serve as the principal advisor and assistant to the
Directeur General on all matters involving Part B of the Project, including technical
assistance, personnel recruitment, the formulation of training programs, the
establishment of lists of materials, furniture, equipment and tools, and the layout
of physical plant and equipment.
3.    The design and supervision of construction of the facilities included under
Part B of the Project will be the responsibility of the "Direction du Genie Rural"
of the MRD, assisted in matters of water supply by the "Direction de 1'Hydraulique"
of the Borrower s Ministry of Public Works.
4.    The Directeur General and the Chef de Projet will be responsible more
specifically as follows:
(a)   The Directeur General
The Directeur General will be responsible for directing all aspects of
the implementation of Part B of the Project. He will be responsible, inter
alia, to the Minister for Rural Development and Cooperative Action for:
(i)         the recruitment and the supervision of the work of the Director
of the National Support Center;
(ii)        coordination  of   all  project-related  activities  with  the
administrators  of   the  integrated  regional  development
organizations in Atacora, Atlantique and Zou;


﻿31
(iii)       the selection, recruitment and supervision    of the Project
Coordinator and other specialists;
(iv)        ensuring the timely selection of an appropriate site for the NSC
in Cotonou;
(v)         expediting the adoption of appropriate legislation or regulations
for the national governmental body referred to in Part B.1(i)
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and the National Support
Center and their effective operation;
(vi)        ensuring the coordination by the NSC director of the assistance
and other support received from UNDP, UNICEF, the FAO and
the Association;
(vii)       arrangements for recruiting and training staff for NSC;
(viii)      preparing a long-term plan for the development of the 4-D Clubs
with clearly stated targets, instruments and costs;
(ix)        ensuring that regional youth services are fuily integrated with
regional development organizations acceptable to the Association
in the Provinces of Zou, Atlantique and Atacora;
(x)         ensuring that regional youth services in the areas covered by
Part B of the Project are provided with staff in appropriate
numbers and of sufficient quality;
(xi)        supervising the work of the national and regional services in
training personnel, selecting 4-D Clubs to be assisted, and in
providing services to the 4-D Clubs;
(xii)       assisting in the performance of field evaluations of the rural
youth program in the Provinces of Zou, Atacora and Atlantique;
(xiii)      liaison with the Association on all technical matters relating to
Part B of the Project;
(xiv)       preparing all reports and documents required by the Association,
including quarterly progress reports;


﻿32
(xv)        ensuring  that quarterly  project expenditure estimates are
prepared in time for the replenishment of Project Account "B"
to be established in accordance with Section 3.08 of this
Agreement;
(xvi)       overall supervision of the administrator/accountant and other
support staff;
(xvii)      the formulation and monitoring of a plan and schedule for
implementation of Part B of the Project;
(xviii)     drawing up, signing and administering of short-term contracts
of up to two man-years for the use of specialist services necessary
for Part B of the Project, after consultation with the Association
and with its approval; and
(xix)       preparing for submission to the Association through proper
channels of applications for withdrawals from the Credit
Account.
(b)   The Chef de Projet
The Chef de Projet will be responsible, inter alia, to the Directeur
General for:
(i)         providing advice and assistance on all matters concerning Part
B of the Project;
(ii)        administering the technical assistance provided for Part B of the
Project;
(iii)       assisting the "Direction dut Genie Rural" of the MRD to ensure
that the designs of buildings are appropriate for purposes of Part
B of the Project;
(iv)        providing the Directeur Gen6ral with assistance for preparing the
reports which are required by the Association;
(v)         ensuring that procedures acceptable to the Association are
followed in the prequalification of contractors;
(vi)        assisting in the recruitment of technical assistance personnel and
in the recruitment and training of other personnel;


﻿33
(vii)       ensuring that the technical assistance personnel recruited for Part
B of the Project carry out appropriate training for their
Dahomean counterparts;
(viii)      preparing detailed lists of all material, furniture and equipment
to be provided for Part B of the Project;
(ix)        ensuring that bidding procedures followed for civil works,
furniture, materials, equipment, tools and transport are in
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement; making
arrangements for inviting bids and awarding contracts relating
to Part B of the Project;
(x)         taking necessary steps to ensure that items procured are delivered
and stored safely at the locations and on the dates specified;
and
(xi)        acting on behalf of the Directeur General on matters concerning
contracts, bidding and disbursements relative to Part B of the
Project.


