Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7236
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1041-CE)
May 6, 1988
Asia Country Department 1
Infrastructure Division
Asia Regional Office
This document has a resricted distibution and may be used by reripients only In the performance of
t   r             *   h   -             h b  v W   i  ,, , '  it  W   j   4      I



AURUsU  al aND
ADS      -   Asian Developmnt Bank
Ci1      -   Cost Insurance and Freight
CHC      -   Colombo Municipal Council
DANIDA   -   Danish International Development Agency
FEEC     -   Foreign gxchange Entitlement C*Ftificate
WDWSSD   -   International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation
Decade
FINIDA   -   Finnish International Development Corporation Agoncy
GSL      -   Government of Sri Lanka
LAS      -   Local Authorities
MC       -   Municipal Council
MLGHC    -   Ministry of Local Government Housing and Construction
NIH      -   National Institute of Management. Sri Lanka
ODM      -   United Kingdom Ministry of Overseas Development
RDA      -   Road Devolopment Authority
SFD      -   Saudi Fund for Development
tC       -   Town Council
UC       -   Urban Council
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Program
UNICEF   -   United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
USAXLI    -   United States Agency for International Development
WDB      -   National Water Supply and Drainage Board
WHO      -   World Health Organisation
RS      -     Sri Lanka Rupee
SR      -     Saudi Riyal
SAR     -     Staff Appraisal Report
Ganga   -     Major River
MRAS=S ANlD            
-   millimeter (3 millimeter a 0.039 inches)
m        a  meter (1 metor a 3.28 feet)
km       -   kilometer (1 kilometer - 0.62 miles)
kmz      *   square kilometor (1 kma  a 0.368 square miles)
ha       -   hectare (I hectare - 10,000 square metere - 2.47 acres)
1        a   liter (0.22 Imperial gallons or 0.264 US gallons)
lcd      -   liters per capita per day
M3           cubic metors (220 Imperial gallons or 264.2 US gallons)
ml       a   million liters or 1,000 cubic meters
mid      a   million liters per day (0.220 million Imperial gallons
per day or 0.264 million US gallons per day
mgd      .   million gallons per day (1 mgd a 4,545 mI/day)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



Ka OFflCIL UK OOLT
TIE WOtLD BANK
Wash.Von, D.C. M33
U.S.A.
Oie o wutm G~ahhI
May 6, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka
Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 1041-CE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka Second Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Credit 1041-CE)" prepared by the National Water Supply and Drainage
Board of Sri Lanka and reviewed by the Asia Regional Office. Further
evaluation of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not
been made.
Attachment
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipitnts only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorintion.



FO  OFFICeL USE ONLi
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1041-CE)
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA SHEET .............................................. .ii
HIHIGHTH.............                                                  v
I.      INTRODUCTION ....................1
II.     PROJECT PREPARATION & APPRAISAL ................................7
Preparationeos*......, , ....^                                         7
Principal Objectives and Descriptionri.ptio..........on...... 9
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............
Credit Effectiveness4...... . ..... ...e...* . o4..4.....*o**         12
¢ ~~~~Project Soe1
Project Start Up...... .. . .........................***..**  * a.13
Project Costs and Disbursements. ...23
Performance of Consultants, Contractors, Suppliers, Borrowerso.25
IV.     OPERATION PERFORMANCE   ..............30
Water & Sewerage Service Demand and Market Potential ..........30
Consumer Metering.34
Billing and Collectione.4.4. .. .. .4.4.37
Leak Detec:ion Programme in Greater Colombo Areae..............38
V.       FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE       ...............     .....................
Financial Covenants..... o.        *               ............... .44....40
Operating Results and Rate of Returno48
Financing Plan ......48
VI.     INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ...........50
Organization and Management..............e....  .............. .50
Staff Recruitment and Training............................  .55
VII.    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ..............
Projection Objectives ...58
This document hasarestricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
oftheirofflcialduties its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Clnt'd)
Page No.
Project Achievements.. .e..o.... ......... ...................... .58
Service Levels in Greater Colombo Area.........................58
Consumer Metering/Meter Rectification..........................S9
Billing and Collection of Water and Sewer Service..............60
Institutional Development ........o..o..... o...... oo.. o.. o...... ... . . .60
VIII.   CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED.......................o......o.64
FIGURES
1.1   Location of the Project Area.....**o**e***ee*oo* .oo.o*.* ..o.o. .67
2.1   Greater Colombo Area Water Sources Transmission and Treatment
Facilities.o.oo............... *o.o,..oe.o.......o...  oe    68 
2.2   Sewerage works in CMC Areao...o. ..    oo................... ..o..69
2.3   Sewerage works in Mattakkuliya within CMC Areao...o.o**o..o..oo.o70
2.4   Sewerage works in Kolonnawa Urban Council Area**.oo...e.o..o...oo71
2.5   Sewerage works in Dehiwela-Mount Lavinia Areao.*o..o............72
3.1   Construction Schedule.oo...  .o. o   ..o.73
ANNEXES
1A    WDB Organization chart at the time of Appraisal*.***....o........74
1B    WDB Present Organization Chart ..oo...............o.. ..... .. ...o.o..... o75
2     Project Elements..................................................76
3     Completion Dates for Major Project Components ....................o80
4     Schedule of Contracts..o..o. oooo. oo.o.o. oo ......................82
5     Estimated and Actual Project Cost  .o................o.o..e.oo.o.o85
6     Details of Disbursements......o .o....o...o.o...................o... .92
7     Details of TeLhnical Assistance Programme. .......................94
8     Details of Metering Programme...... ...ooo.. o.o...... o......... . 97
9     Details of Water Production, Billing & Collection
in Project Area .o..*o...o ....................................98
10    Details of Leak Detection Programme...............................99
11    Annual Revenue and Loan Repayments of LAS........................100
12    Annual Budget of Operation and Maintenance Cost of the
Greater Colombo Sewerage System................................102
13    Income  Statement ... *o.ooooo*.ooe          oo.......o.................oe........l 14
14    Balance Sheet.............o.....oo.o...o.o..o.....o.o...o.....105
15    Training of Officers.....o........o.....           ,ol06



SRI LANKA
CREDIT NO. 1041-CE
SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This report presents the results of a performance review of the
Second Sri Lanka Water Supply and Sewerage Project for which Credit
No. 1041-CE of US$30.0 million equivalent was made to the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in June, 1980. The Credit became effective
in February 1981 and was closed in March 1987. The implementing agency was
the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB).
The Project Completion Report was prepared by WDB in February 1987.
It is based on information obtained from a review of the Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 2904-CE), the Project and Oredit Agreements, the Sri Lanka Water
Supply and Sanitation Sector Study R -rt (No. 4190-CE) and WDB's project
files.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff.
OED sent copies of the draft report to the Borrower for comments;
however, none were received.



JA.&
SRILAK
CRNDIT 1041-CU 6 SID 1tI30
SECOND SRI LANKA WATUR SUPPLY AND Smt!RAGR PROJECT
PROJECT CCOPLWTION   PoRT
BASIC DATA SHU3T
KE PROJECT DATA
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE      ACTUAL OR
CURRENT ESTIMATE
Total Project Cost                   94.0               96.07
(US$. Million)
Over Run (%)                          --                 2.2%
Loan Amount (US$. Million)           30.0               30.0
Disbursed                               30.0
Cancelled                                Nil
Completion of Physical Components   3/85                9/87
Time Over Run (%)                                       148%
Financial )
Performance)                                       Poor
Institutional)
Performance)                                       Fair
Agreement over of 2.2% is due to variation in exchange
rate, through the project.  Actual over run of 58.3%
in local currency and under run of 14.3% in foreign
currency costs occured.



CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
(USS. million)
FISCAL YZAR           APPRAISAL ESTIMATS            ACTUALS
FY 1981                     3.4                    0.0867
FY 1982                    14.9                    1.493
FY 1983                    24.8                    5.828
FY 1984                    29.4                   11.035
FY 1985                    30.0                   17.021
FY 1986                      -                    20.552
FY 1987 (March 31)           -                    30.000
OTHER PROJECT DATA
COMPONENT          APPRAISAL         REVISIONS        ACTUALS
ESTIMATE
i.     First mention in
time table
ii.    Government. appli-
cation                                                Mar., 1979
iii.   Negotiations           ---               ---      25 April, 1980
iv.    Board approval         ---               ---      10 June,  1980
v.     Loan agreement
date                                              24 Sept., 1980
vi.    Effective date      23 Dec., 1980                 26 Feb.,  1981
vii.   Closing date        30 Sopt.,1985 30 Sept., 1986 31 March, 1987
viii.  Borrower and
Grantor            DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
ix.    Executing agency   NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINACE BOARD
x.     Follow on projects THIRD SRI nIATER SUPPLY AND
SANITATION REHABILITATION PROJECT



a
MISSION DATA
month     no. of    so. of                   Date of
Year       Da       person      Kbanweeks     Report
Supervision           11/80          3        2         1.0         11/17/80
Supervisi3n           01/81         11        2         3.0         01/27/81
Supervision           11/81          7        2         2.0         11/13/81
Frpervisinn           02/82         10        2         3.0         02/01/82
Supervimion           08/82          6        1         0.9         08/21/82
Supervision           11/83         12        3         5.0         10/24/83
supervision           02/84          5        1         0.8         02/12/84
Supervision           04/J4         18        3         5.2         03/20/84
Supervision           10/84         14        2         4.0         08/03/84
Supervision           10/84          7        1         1.0         10/20/84
Supervision           07/85          5        1         0.7         07/07/85
Supervision           09/85         13        2         1.9         09/01/85
Supervision           03/86          4        2         1.2         02/27/86
Supervision           05/86         10        1         1.4         05/20/86
j              S.upervision           08/86         14        3         6.0        08/11/86
Supervision           11/86          5        3         2.1         11/19/86
STAFF INPUT
(Staff-weeks)
Bank FY      1977    1979   1980   1981   1982   i983   1984   1985   1986   1987   TOTAL
a       Preappraisal   .1      7.7   23.2                                                       31.0
Appraisal                   28.8                                                       28.8
Negotiation                   9.4                                                        9.4
Supervision                   1.4   23.3   19.4    7.6   19.5   13.9    5.4    s.0    95.4
Other                   .3    2.3     .2     .5     .3                                   3.6
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES
Currency unit               SRI LANKA RUPEE (SLRS.)
Appraisal Year Average (1980)          USS. 1.0 - SLRS. 16.5344
Averago Over Project period
(1980 - 1986)                          US$. 1.0 - SLRS. 22.9619
Completion year average (1986)         VSS. 1.0 - SLRS. 28.0173
Exchange Rates s-
1980       1981       1982       1983        1984       1985        1986
16.5344   19.2401   26.8124   23.5226   25.4380   27.1626 28.0173



SRI LANKA
CREDIT NO. 1041-CE
SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
HICHLIGHTS
1.      The National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB) was created in
1975 from the Department of Water Supply and Drainage. Initially WDB was
responsible for design and construction supervision of water supply and
sewerage works and distribution and operational responsibilities were left
with the local authorities. The local authorities were found not to be
capable financially, technically or institutionally to continue in that role.
Therefore, in 1981, WDB was given responsibility for operation and main-
tenance of a number of water supply and distribution systems outside of
Colombo and for the water distribution and sewage collection systems in
Colombo municipality area.
2.      The second project was conceived by WDB and its consultants to
respond to urgentlv needed water supply and sewerage facilities in the
Greater Colombo area and to support the Government's goals within the United
Nations International Drinking Water and Sanitation Decade plan. The physi-
cal works of the project were identified in 1972 master plan which was
updated in 1979. The project also included components to strengthen WDB's
financial and institutional performance, prepare designs for future implemen-
tation and provide technical assistance and training.
3.      The project was appraised in January 1980.  The estimated project
cost was US$94 million and an IDA credit for US$30 million was approved in
mid 1980. Co-financing was provided by a US$30 million loan from the Saudi
Fund for Development. Originally expected to be completed in 1985, the
projec:t was completed (eccept for some sewerage works) in 1987. The remain-
ing sewer work is expected to be completed in late 1987. Actual project
costs totalled US$96 million. The total credit of US$30 million has been
disbursed (paras 3.16-3.18)
4.      With the commissioning of most of the major water supply works the
quality and quantity of water improved. The new works at Ambatale treatment
plant are yet to go into service. The sewerage system improved significantly
with the commissioning of the rehabilitated pumping stations and the two sea
outfalls. Sewers were installed in several new areas during the project but
connections are not yet being made pending a Government decision on connec-
tion charges and tariffs to beneficiaries (paras 7.03 - 7.06). Many meters
installed in the first project (Credit 709-CE) were defective. Public



protests and resistance to pay grew to a point that Government intervened -
ordering WDB to charge a maximum Rs 150 flat rate to domestic consumers until
the meters were rectified. The rectificatior. program is continuing under the
third IDA project and the Rs 150 cap remains in place (para 7.07).
5.      Revenue from water tariffs increased considerably under the project
until the institution of the Rs 150 cap. The revenue increase was due to a
more aggressive disconnection program and WDB's improved billing and collec-
tion performance. However WDB's deficit for FY86 was in the order of Rs 288
million (para 7.11).
6.      Strengthening of WDB's institutional, financial and managerial
capability was a key project objective. WDa benefitted from training and
technical assistance, especially in the areas of project appraisal, implemen-
tation, finance and construction management, and operation and maintenance.
During the latter stages of the project WDB also received institutional
strenghthening assistance from the US$19.6 million USAID project (para 7.13).
7.      As with the first project, the second project was adversely affected
by cost overruns, an overly ambitious implementation schedule, less than
satisfactory performance of contractors, small size of civil works contracts
and less than adequate coordination and planning. IDA's major concerns were
the project finances and the continued poor financial performance of WDB
(8.01-8.14).
8.      WDB and its consultants prepared a US$155 million investment program
for urban water supply sewerage, drainage, sanitation and technical assis-
tance. The US$65 million third IDA-financed project was identified from that
program. In July 1986 a Credit of US$37 million was approved by IDA.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
bRI LANKA
SECONDI SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1041-CE)
I.      INTRODUCTION
Background
1.01    Sri Lanka is an Island in the Indian Ocean and
approximately 225 km wide by 433 km long (fig. 1.1).
Its capital city Colombo, located in the South West
coast is the principal sea port and center of industry
and commerce.
1.02    The pipe borne water supply system in Colombo has
been in existence since early 19th century when the city
obtained it's water supply from wells and canals. The
first impounding reservoir and treatment facilities were
built in 1886 at Labugama and an additional similar
facility was built and put into commission in 1960 at
Kalatuwawa. These sources of supply are located about
44 km from Colombo and have been fully developed to supply
135 mld(30 Imgd) to the city of Colombo under gravity.
1.03    The above sources of supply were supplemented
subsequently in 1966 by a treatment plant at Ambatalo with
direct intake pumping station at Ambatale on the bank of
Kelani Ganga. This source is located about 11 km from
Colombo. The original capacity of the facility at Ambatale
was 91 mld (20 Imgd) and was subsequently upgraded to
supply 182 mld (40 Imgd) under a rrenchline of credit in
1976. The facilities required to convey the additional
quantity of water improvement to the distribution area
including  the construction of reservoirs, pump houses and
scraping and lining of mains were accomplished under the
First Water Supply Project (IDA Credit 709-CE).



1.04    The sewer system in the city of Colombo was in
existence since early 20th century. The system constructed
between 1906 and 1913 had been sub divided into a large
Northern zone draining to the Kelani Ganga, near Madampitiya
serving approximately 2270 ha through a sewer network and
pumping stations at Madampitiya, Vystwyke, Polwatte, Slave
Island, Borella, Wanathamulla, Maligawatte and Kotahena
(near Colombo Harbour) and a comparatively smaller Southern
zone draining to the ocean near Wellawatte serving approxi-
mately 750 ha through a network  of sewers and pumping
stations at Bambalapitiya, Thimbirigasyaya and Wellawatte.
The Northern system bullt provided primary treatment with
silt pit, twin screens with mechanical rakes, primary
sedimentation tank and a grit chamber. However, precolating
filter beds in the plant were removed in 1913 when they
suffered blockage by solids overflowing the settling tanks.
The silt pit and screens too became blocked and finally
sedimentation tanks proved inadequate to cope up with the
flows. The Southern treatment works built during the some
period too incorporated with a silt pit, twin screens with
no rakesand a detritus and a sedimentation tank. The
discharge into the ocean was through an outfall extending
82 m off shore. The silt pit and screens here too frequently
clogged and became ineffective. The sedimentation tanks
were abandoned due to public complaints on bad odour eminated.
The entire system, designed for year 1951 became heavily
over loaded by late forties due to excessive and indiscrimi-
nate sewer connections. The rectangular sedimentation
tanks at the Northern plant were modified subsequently in
1956 into four tanks with scraper  blades and three circular
sedimentation tanks were constructed. However, by early
sixties the tanks became ineffective mainly due to poor
maintenance and finally raw sewage   was diverted from the
plant and pumped directly into the Kelani Ganga from the
Madampitiya pumping station. Since then extensions and
modifications have been added to the system. However,



general conditions and overall efficiency of the system
continued to be poor.  The sewerage system in the city
of Colombo now consists of nearly 244 km of sewers, eleven
area pumping stations, and two abandoned treatment plants.
The system was designed for sewage only and was not intended
to handle sewage combined with storm water drainage except
in a few densely populated areas where overflows were
provided for flood water.
1.05    An overall evaluation of water supply and sewerage
system and recommendations of new facilities in Greater
Colombo area through year 2000 year was done by Consulting
Engineers team in the form of a Master Plan and Feasibility
Study of water supply and sewerage services for the South
West Coastal area (referred as UNDP Master Plan Studies),
under the auspices of the World Health Organisation (WHO)
as executing agency for the United Nations Development
Programme. As far as water supply is concerned bilateral
assistance received by the Government of Sri Lanka from
France and United Kingdom helped to implement part of the
works reconmnended in the Master Plan. Again financial
assistance given by the World Bank under First Water Supply
Project (credit 709-CE) enabled Sri Lanka to implement
another part of recommendations namely, the improvement
to the distribution system in the Greater Colombo area
without any increase in the supply output and to construct
new water supply systems in Kalutara and Ambalangoda -
Balapitiya areas. However the assistance so obtained from
various external sources was insufficient tiot only to imple-
ment recommendations made in order to supply sufficient
potable water to  the  consumer, 'but  also  to *imple-
ment any recommendations made in Master Plan to the fast
deteriorating sewerage system.



- 4 -
1.06    Te- Government of Sri Lanka (GSL) thorefore
requested the Bank to assist finance a project to imorove
the existing water suppLy and sewerage service in the
Greater Colombo area. The IDA Credit 104;-CE was the
Second Bank Participation in this sector in Sri Lanka in
an effort to respond to the urgent needs in water supply
and sewerage service in the Greater Colombo area and to
continue it's support GSL goals within the water supply
and sanitation decades plans which were conformed in the
1977 bnited Nations (UN) conference to provide adequate
water supplies to 100% of urban and estate populations
and 50% of rural population and to provide sanitation
facilities to 100l.of the national population by 1990.
1.07    The GSL alsQ requested a loan from the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia in the form oE Saudi Fund for Development
(SFD) loan 1/130 in order to co-finance the sewerage works
in the Greater Colombo area. The identified project set
out to expand the water supply and also to improve the
available sewerage facilities in the Greater Colombo area,
provide sewerage facilities in those areas of Colombo
where none existed, provide new sewerage facilities to a
part within Dehtwela-Mount Lavinia Municipal limits and
to almost whole of Kolonnawa Urban Council area and to
the Mattakkuliya area in the Colombo Municipal Council
area, strengthen the institutional, management and opea-
operational capability of the executing agency, the
National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB) which is
an autonomous body formed in 1975 under the Ministry of
Local Government Housing and Construction (MLGHC) and
headed by a General Manager, and Chairman (annex. 1) and
to provide technical assistance to undertake design study
for water supply (including rehabilitation of existing
facilities) and sewerage work..
1       Report on community water supplies, United Nation
Water Conference, Mar del Plata, Argentina, 14-25,
March, 1977



- .1
1.08    Due to various reasons culminating in communalriots in
July 1983, and the subsequent prolonged terrorist activities
in the North and East of Sri Lanka the project has suffered
cost and time over runs and the executing agency was unable
to meet major financial covenants.
1.09    The purpose of this document is to outline the
project history and discuss achievements and shortfalls
in respect to the project appraisal objectives. Special
attention has been paid to the project performance in
relation to t
-   sector objective
-   operating performance
-   financial performance
-   institutional performance
This document is based on information in the Staff Appraisal
Report (2904b-CE), the project files, and the Sri Lanka
Water Supply and Sanitation Sector  Study Repo:t (4190-CE)
and has been prepared by WDB, assisted by IDA Supervision
Missions.
1.10    The major contraints which affect GSL in achieving
the goals of Decade Plan are the lack of :
-   adequate institutional and operational capaci-
cit' of WDB,
-   sufficient recurrent revenues to properly
operate and maintain existing and new facilities,
-   available foreign and local capital resources,
-   participation by foreign contractors,
-   application of appropriate technology to the
local construction and service levels.



1.11    In urban areas simple water supply service levels
to suit consumer affordability and, in rural areas, extensive
use of hand pumps (deep as well as shallow wells), together
with implementation of appropriate technology and low cost
sanitation systems as developed by the UN Project have
been adopted to achieve the targets of the International
Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade (IDWSSD) Plan.
This approach minimizes capital investment and also reduces
recurr^nt operation and maintenance costs. Since 1978,
tlebre has been tremendous response from foreign donors to
assist GSL in its endeavours to improve sector service
levels and more financial assistance is underway. Further
during 1980 - 85 GSL invested approximately US$ 225 million
towards capital improvement in the sector representing
about 5% of the total national capital expenditure budget.
GSL's Public Investment Plan for 1985 - 89 indicates, an
average annual capital budget of USS 44 million for invest-
ment in the sector, ropresenting about 4.5% of the total
annual capital budget. This relatively high percentage
indicates GSL's commitment to the IDWSSD targets. However,
in the past, GSL sometimes embarked on foreign aided projects
without adequate consideration of provisions, viabilities,
availability of local funding and investigating operational
and maintenance recurrent costs. In instances, projects
were over designed or incorporated with highly sophisticated
components and supervision of construction by technical
staff was inadequate. The Bank initiated a water supply
and sanitation sector study highlighting the urgent necessity
for a much improved managaement capability within the WDB
(executing agency) with the establishment of an adequately
staffedoperation and maintenance organisation to implement
a thorough programme of preventive maintenance as most of
the existing pipe borne water systems are incapable of
supplying adequate potable water due to lack of proper
operation and maintenance.  It also highlighted   the necessity
of metering entire property connections to discourage waste
and excessive water useage, fcrmation of a Leak Detection
Unit to reduce water waste by leaks in the system, creation
of a Commercial Unit for billing and collection in order
to improve overall revenue from the system.



II.     PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Preparation
2.01    As mentioned before the Master Plan prepared in
1972 by the consulting engineer defined the overall
development of water supply and sewerage facilities in
the South West Coastal area. The consulting engineer
also completed preliminary engineering and feasibility
studies of water supply and sewerage requirements for the
first five years of the Master Plan period. Parts of the
recommended programne under the Master Plan and Feasibility
Report were implemented under the bilateral assistance
from the Government of France and the United Kingdom.
Part of the programme was implemented under the First IDA
assisted Sri Lanka Water Supply Project (credit 709-CE).
Parts of the above Master Plan and Feasibility Reports
revised by the engineering consultant in 1979 reflected
current population levels and conditions.When GSL approached
Bank financial assistance to implement at least a part of
the revised progranme covering priority area with high
population density and greater need, Bank agreed to support
GSL in its effort In spite of GSL's somewhat unsatisfactory
performance under first IDA assisted water supply project
(credit 709-CE), in order to assit GSL to reach it's goals
agreed at UN Conference of 1977. After a Bank review of
sector and local issues it was agreed that the Bank will
finance full components of water supply and a part of
sewerage project. The balance part of sewerage component
was to be financed by the Saudi Fund for Development under
a separate loan agreement.



2.02    Negotiations took place in Washington in April,
1980 with representatives of WDB and GSL. At the negoti-
ation it was agreed, inter alia, by GSL that s
-   financial assistance of US$ 30 million
(SR 99.9 million) shall be obtained from tha
Saudi Fund for Development to finance other
part of sewerage component of the project,
-   necessary counterpart funds will be provided
by GSL annually to complete the project
successfully irrespective of it's other
financial commitments that may arise from
time to time,
-   it will take necessary steps to ensure that
bills rendered by WDB to the LAS in the
project area are duly paid,
-   it will ensure that a management advisor to
WDB is appointed by 1.1.1981,
-   it will implement a programme satisfactory
to the Bank for provision of assistance to
lower income property owners in the project
area to meet the cost of sewer connections,
-   it will ensure that WDB takes control of
retailing water and sewerage services in the
Greater Colombo area,
-   it will ensure that WDB is given adequate
authority to charge consumers for sewerage
services in the project area,
-   shall agree with the Bank on a formula for
establishment of appropriate sewerage user
charges by 1.1.1984.
-   it will allow WDB to take all steps deemed
necessary to adjust tariff structure to provide
sufficient revenue from the first project area
so as to cover expenses arising out of operation
and maintenance and repayment of loan.
-   rate of return of al least 8% shall be achieved
by the financial year ending December 31, 1982.



-9-
Principoal ObJectives and DescriPtion
2.03    The project appraised in Jan., 1980 was aimed at
the following objectives, namely a) improving water supply
and sewerage services in the project area b) strengthening
WDB's financial and operational performance c) improving
the institutional organisation of WDB and d) prepare water
supply sewerage component designs for future implementation
(fig. 2.1 - 2.5). It was planned to be carried out over
a period of 4½ years (1980 - 1985) and it's objectives
were s
i. Improving the reliability and quality of pipe
borne water to a population of almost 1.5
million (1984) rising to 2.2 million by 1991.
ii. Improving sewerage system in the Colombo Muni-
cipal Council area through renovation and
extension of the existing sewerage networks.
iii. Providing new sewerage services in the Mattak-
kuliya area within the Colombo Municipal
Council limits.
iv. Providing new sewerage services in the highly
populated area within the Dehiwela-Mount Lavinia
Municipal Council limits.
v. Providing new sewerage services to almost
entire Kolonnawa Urban Council area.
vi. Strengthening technical, financial and operating
performance of WDB through consultancy services
on engineering, management, finance and through
training of WDB staff.



-10-
The project components designed to meet the above objectives
are as follows.
PART As Water SuPDly
i. Construction of river water intake on the
Kelani Ganga.
ii.  Construction of a transmission main from the
said intake to Ambatale treatment plant.
iii. Construction of two sedimentation tanks at
Ambatale treatment plant.
iv.  Modification of 12 existing filters at Ambatale
treatment plant to increase their capacities.
v. Provision and installation of additonal chemical
feed equipment at Ambatale treatment plant.
vi.  Construction of a pumping station and transmissin
main to convey water to Kolonnawa.
PART Bs Sewerage
i. Construction of sewage collection and conveyance
facilities in Colombo, including renovation of
sewers, modification and improvement of existing
pumping stations and the construction of a now
sewer pumping station and force mains.
ii.  Construction of sewage disposal facilities
including two ocean outfalls.
iii.  Construction of sewerage collection and conveyance
systems in parts of Kolonnawa and Dehiwela -
Mount Lavinia including sewers, sewage pumping
stations and force mains.



- 11 -
PART C: Eguipment and Materials
i. Provision of replacement and spare parts for
existing plant and equipment, provision of
vehicles for construction and maintenance
works, and miscellaneous items of equipment,
including a multi purpose computer.
PART Cs Techanical Assistance and Taining
i. Technical assistan-e for detailed design for
a further group of water supply and sewerage
works, a distribution study for the Colombo
Municipal area and Towns South, a solid
waste collsction and disposal study for the
Colombo Municipal area, and ar organisation
management and finance study for WDB.
ii. Training for WOB's finance and management
staff, engineers and supervisors.
J
A comparison of the scope of the originally appraised
project and project as finally executed is shown In
annexure 2.



- 12 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Credit Effectiveness
3.01 The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between
GSL and NOD on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA for
re-lending the proceeds of the IDA credit to WD8 was a
condition of credit offectiveness. Though the above con-
dition was fulfilled on 18.12. 1980, the credit could not
be declared effective until 26.02.1981 due to Banks
requirement of satisfactory arrangement for the commitment
of the Saudi Fund loan and the IDA credit 1041-CE was finaly
established in the sum US. 30.0 m on 26.2.81.
ProJect Scope
3.02 As the funds made available from the proceeds of
IDA credit (1041-CE) was not sufficient to implement the
scope of entire project, it was agreed by Bank and GSL
that the funds under the above shall be utilised to
finance all parts from A through D except a portioa of
part B.  It was also agreed that GSL shall apply to Saudi
Fund for Development for a loan (SFD loan 1/130) amounting
to USS. 30.0 million (SR 99.9 million) to linance the
balance part of 8 of the project and engineering supervision
of sewerage component.
3.03 Accordingly an agreement between GSL and SFD was
signed for SFD loan (SFD loan 1/130) on 8.1.1981. As per
this agreement the proceeds from this loan amounting to
USS. 30 million (SR 99.9 million) shall be utilised to
finance a portion of Part B and engineering supervision-
of sewerage components of the entire project lubject to
SFD's boycott requirement. The physical elements of the
project implemented under IDA credit (1041-CE) and SFD
loan (SFD 1/130) are shown in annex. 2.
1     SF3 will not finance the cost of goods, services
or transport supplied or undertaken which originates
from any person, compahy.or other body, which is
subject to the boycott requirement in force by the
League of Arab States or the requirement in force
in Saudi Arabia.



- 13 -
Project Start up
3.04 Tho project started slowly and a part of this is
still in pro%ress. The project is now expected to be
completed in September, 1987? two years and six months
behind schedule (fig. 3.1).  The implementation schedule
propared at appraisal judging on performance of WDB on
First Water Supply lroject under credit 709-CE was
optimistic. The completion dates for major project
components at the time of appraisal against actual completion
dates are presented in annex. 3.
3.05 The project experienced delays due to various
reasons including s-
i.   All tender documents were prepared by the
engineering consultants and approved by the
Cabinet Appointed Tender Board and IDA before
tendering. The first ICB was advertised in
June, 1981. four months after credit effective-
ness, and the first contract was awarded in
February, 1982.
ii.   After contracts have been awarded it was
found necessary to re award the following
contracts for the reasons stated herein. It
should be mentioned here that al' contracts
under water supply part of the project were
awarded under IDA guidelines on ICD without
prequalifying the prospective tenderers.
j - the contract awarded in late 1982 for
construction of reservoir and pump house
(C 1SA) had to be mutually terminated in
1983 immediately after the contractor
cleared the site and carried out part of
excav.ition at  his request following the



- 14 -
civil distutbances of July, 1983. This
contract was again awarded to another
contractor in early 1984 at a higher price.
The second contractor on ectpleting construc-
tion of pump house and excavation for reser-
voir base reported a weak soil zone in the
base area. This resulted in re designirg a
reservoi. with lesser capacity to suit soil
conditions. The change of design also
raised the contract price to nearly double
the contract sum.
the contract awarded in early 1932tor cons-
tructioa of raw water pump station and
appurtenant structures (C 13) had to be
mutually terminated in early 1985 due to
extremely slow progress of work shown by
the contractor. The balance works under this
contract was subsequently re awarded in mid
1985 to a local contractor working in colla-
boration with a foreign contractor at a
higher price. The performance of this con-
tractor too was extremely slow mainly due
to lack of competence on this type of work
and hence the contract had to be mutually
terminated in January, 1986. The outstanding
work under this contract was again re awarded
in March, 1986 to a local contractor to work
in collaboration with a foreign contractor
at a very high price. Some of the work done
by the previous coatractors had to be abandoned
on account of change of method of construction
adopted by the third contractor.



- 15 -
3.06    The contract for laying of raw water main and
transmission main (C 11) experienced delays on account
of problems associated with land acquisition and change
of type of piling needed to support pipes. The timber
piling originally quoted by the contractor had to be
changed to precast concrete piling due to non availabi-
lity of timber. The precast reinforced concrete piles
were again changed to insitu reinforced concrete piles
to cut down time needed for piling operation. The
change of type of piles from timber to insitu reinforced
concrete piles not only caused deliy% but also doubled
the contract value.
3.07    The contractors for the supply and installation
of pumps and equipment (C 12 and C 14) and for the supply,
installation and construction of Ambatale treatment plant
extension and modification (C 1Z) could not fulfill their
obligations under the contracts within the respective
contract periods satisfactorily due to non completion of
civil works at intake in time.
3.08    The tenders issued for the construction of sea
outfalls (C 101) to the prequalified contractors in early
1982 had to be declared null and void when the lowest
bidder failed to agree with WDB on the terms and conditions
ot the contract. This tender recalled in late 1982 was
finally awarded to a toreign company. The contractor who
signed the contract agreement in mid 1983 could not
mobilize until late November, 1983 due to civil disturbances
of July. 1983. Further, while executing the work three
change orders were issued on account of sea bed profile
being differed from that shown in the contract drawings
which caused a considerable time and cost over runs.
Delays of nearly 9 months also experienced in seeking legal
adv -a on these change orders on the instructions of Cabinet
Appointed Tender Board to determine whether a) the consul-
tants should bear the responsibility for change orders



- 16 -
on account of their incomplete investigation works on
sea bed and designs of sea outfalls and if so should WDB
take legal action against the consultants to recover the
additional costs arising out of change orders 2) the
contractor should absorb the extra cost within his
contract sum for this type of sea bed variations is not
uncommon in a job of this nature and that an experienced
contractor should have priced his tender anticipating
such sea bed variations c) WDB should take the responsi-
bility and bear the full cost of change orders. After
the review of legal advice Tender Board (oally decided
that approval of such change orders was a n:tter for the
S/MLGHC and WDB.  A comnittee consistit-o tff three lembers
with wide experience appointed subsequently by S/MLGHC
finally decided that WD8 should bear the extra cost
arising out of change orders. The variation orders were
then appxved by GSL. However, the undue delays encoun-
tered in approving the above change orders by GSL caused
untold financial difficluties to the contractor and WD8
for SFD could not make payments on these variation orders
without the approval of GSL and the concurrence of SFD
Board of Directors. Suspension of payments by SFD to
the contractor for more than a year and the subsequent
2
delay in extending the credit beyond the otiginal expiry date by
SFD too resulted in slow progress of works and caused
considerable financial difficulties to the contractor and
WD8. It compelled WDB to make payments to the contractor
out of its annual capital budget directly to tide over his
financial difficulties pending payment by SFD. The rough
sea conditions prevailed during annual North East monsoons
too caused delays.
1     Consultant Engineers    MLHGC
2     SFD loan was technically closed on 31.12.86 after an
extension of 1½ years from the original expiry date.
The loan shall be operative until 30.12.1988 for
disbursement.



- 17 -
3.09   The contract for the construction of sewer pump
houses (C 102) awarded to a foreign firm was signed in
late 1982. The contractor's repeated request to WDB to
allow change of manufacturers of pumps and equipment
from those he quoted in his tender, and the WDB's repeated
refusal to his request slowed the initial progress of
works. His progress was further slowed due to a) delays
in hand'ng over some sites by WDB on account of acquisi-
tion problems involved b) civil disturbances in mid 1983
and c) suspension of payments by SFD and the subsequent
SFD's delay in extending the loan (SFD 1/130) beyond
its original expiry date. At times WDB had to make
payments out of its annual capital budget directly to
the contractor to tide over his financial difficulties
pending payment by SFD.
3.10   The contract awarded to a toceign company for
supplyinig and laying sewers and force mains (C 103) in
late 1982 faced inordinate delays on account of uncharted
utilities encountered. The numerous claims forwarded
by the contractor for loss of production on account of
such uncharted utilities caused enormous financial problems
to WDB. Though WDB accepi d in principle that the
contractor should be adequately compensated for toss of
production on account of consultant's failure to prepare
a comprehensive tender document with full details of
utilities, however, WDB was not in a position to determine
as to what quantum of compensation should be paid to the
contractor, in the absence of a clear cut policy on
number of utilities to be considered for payment. Further,
contractor too was expected to price his tender anticipating
a reasonable number of uncharted utilities when he tendered
-----------          __-------------------------------------------- --
1/     Contractor's request was not granted by WDB



- 18 -
for a job of this nature. When this matter was referred
tn S/MWIC he appointed three independent ~Ambers with
wide experience for a decision. The committee in their
report recommended payment to be made to the contractor
for the loss of production. Unjustifiable rates demanded
by the contractor for labour, equipment and material
caused further delays in settling such claims. This
situation at times lead WDB being criticized by IDA
mission for WDB's failure to settle claims speedily.
Several discussions between WDB and contractor, over two
years did not bring any agreement on rates until late
1986. The finalized claims approved by GSL are now being
paid by IDA. More and more c.laims are likely to come
from the contractor even after the ixpiry of IDA credit
The claims also gave rise to enormous cost over runs.
Some of the routes suggested by the consultane had to be
changed on account of a) poor soil condition b) problem
associated with land acquisition c) limited working space
which could have otherwise resulted in more damages to
properties. The change of routes had invariably resulted
in time and cost over runs. The net result is that the
contractor could not complete the enitre work within the
contract period. The work is still in progress and now
expected to be completed in September, 1987.
3.11   Other major causes of delays were t
1.   WDB's limited capactiy to generate funds from
operations to finance project investment and the
25% across-the-board cut in 1982 mandated by GSL
for local counterpart funds in all Ministries
resulting in the Minimum Works Programme 1981 - 82
and the subsequent further cut on budget by GSL as
a result of its heavy expenditure on defence on
combating terrorism in the Northern and Eastern
parts of the island. The GSL allocated only limited
1      Consultant Engineers, MLGHC
2      IDA  credit      expired on 30.9.86 after an extension
of 1 year from the original expiry date. The credit
was in operation until 30.3.87 for disbursement. The
credit was fully utilized by 30.3.87.



- 19 -
funds (some times cut down WDB's capital budget
requirement by 50%) after 1984 when terrorist
activities were on the increase. The availability
of counterpart funds for project implementation
became so scarce that WDB had to make arrangements
with the Bank/SFD. with the concurizzn oE Treasury
and Central Bank of Sri Lanka to make payments
directly to the contractors by the Bank/SFD on
certification of invoice by WDB since late 1986.
2.   Slow and cumbersome review of bidding documents
by &binet Appointed Tender Board.
3.   Slow and cumbersome proceduare involved in the
selection of consultants for detailed design work
for future water supply and sewerage services.
4.   Suspension of project activities for over 2 - 3
months immediately after civil disturbances of July,
1983 and the absence of expatriate contractors,
WDB staff and engineering supervision staff on
account of their temporary departure from the
island for security reasons.
5.   Delay caused in filling vacancies by the exodus
of in house experienced engineers involved in
contract administration on account of civil distur-
bances in 1983 and the subsequent unstable political
situation prevailed in the island resulting in
limited project management and construction capabili-
ty of WDB.
6.   Delay caused in taking management decisions
due to frequent change of management which included
posts of Chairman and General Manager.
7.   Stoppage of work by contractors every time GSL
declared curfaw in the project area to prevent
backlash between different communities following
terrorists' attack on civilians in the North and
East
Tender document and tender award of any works
exceeding Rs. 5 m is subject to Cabinet Appointed
Tender Board's approval.



'v
8.   Delay caused due to inability     of the
contractors to carry out the work with correct
approach. This is specially so in the case of.
civil contractors (water supply components) who
were awarded contracts without prequalification.
9.   Delay caused in settling payments due to
the contractors by the financing institution.
This is especially so in case of contracts financed
by SFD.
3.12   Recurring delays in implementation occurred for
varitieC of reasons including X
-    problem of land acquisition
-    inadequate bearing capacity of soil
-    delayed start up by contractors after contract
has been awarded
-    lack of access roads to work sites
-    change of route due to non  suitability
of   route  recommended by the consultants
-    delays in obtaining power from the Ceylon
Electricity Board
-    delay in obtaining permission from other
agencies such as RDA, LAS to excavate roads,
-    presence of high water tab&e in the project
area
-    excessive surcharge due to damaged sewers and
manholes
-    uncharted utilities on roads
-    conditions imposed by RDA and LAS on number
of roads to be excavated at a time
-    extra work issued to the contractors by WDB



- 21 -
excessive time spent by the contractors on
carrying out renovation/rebuilding of
private properties damaged as a result of
laying sewer mains
change of route made by WDB
undue time spent to obtain authority to
close public roads before excavation is
commenced
time spent by contractors in settling issues
with owners of propertie3 damaged as a
result of laying of sewer mains.
Procurement
3.13   The procurement made under the project could
generally be classified into four categories namely s
1.   Supply of matecials such as pipes, Eittings,
valves etc.
2.   Supply, installation and construction of
structures such as treatment plant, laying
of sewers, etc.
3.   Supply and installation of pumps and equipment.
4.   Civil engineering contracts for the construc-
tion of structures such as intake, reservoir,
pump houses, laying of pipes and fictings etc.
3.14   All contracts awarded for water supply components
were made on ICB based on IDA guide lines on open bids
whereas those contracts for sewerage components were
awarded after prequalifying the tenderer$S For supply of
pipes and fittings tenders were invited for the alternative
D.I. or steel pipe materials. The type of pipe material
was then selected based on the lowest evaluated bids.
Unlike procurement made under First Water Supply Project
where seperate contracts were awarded for different pipes,
fittings and valves in order to procure them at the cheapest
price, supply of material contracts were reduced to one
and further that contract document was prepared in such a



- 22 -
way that the contractor would deliver the material to
WDS stores at site.  This prevented WD8's involvement
in clearing materials from the port and perhaps payment
of heavy demurrag- due to delayed clearance of goods.
However, one disadvantage%in this method was that
number of complete offers received was limited to a few
only. This may perhaps due to the reason that each
tenderer has to obtain goods from more than one manufac-
turer to offer a complete bid. Having learned a lesson
under the First Water Supply Project (IDA credti 709-CE)
WDD made sure that its involvement in clearing goods
from ware houses was minimum in all contracts under this
project. In all there were 13 major contracts awarded
under this project namely s
-    Supply of pipes, fittings, etc. (C 10)
-    Laying of raw water main and transmission
main (C 11)
-    Supply and installation of intake pumps and
equipment (C 12)
-    Construction of intake and pump house (C 13)
-    Supply and installation of pumps and equipment
for Ambatale clear water pump house and
Kolonnawa booster pump house (C 14)
-    Construction of Kolonnawa reservoir and
booster pump station (15 A)
-    Construction of Ambatale clear water pump
house (15 B)
-    Supply, installation and construction of
Ambatale treatment plant, modification and
extension (C 16)
-    Construction of ocean outfalls at Colombo
North and Colombo South (C 101)
-    Construction of sewage pump stations at
Colombo, Kolonnawa and Dehiwela-Mount Lavinia
(C 102)
-    Supplying and laying of sewers and force
mains (C 103)



- 23 -
-    Reinstitement of roads after pip- laying
(SLSP/GEN/RR/1)
-    Supply of sewer cleaning equipment (C 112)
-    Procurement of equipment such as computers,
generators, water meters etc.
The details of the contracts awarded are given in annex.4.
3.15   All tender documents for procurement were prepared
by the Engineering consultant, approved by the Cabinet
Appointed Tender Board and IDA before tenders were called.
Tenders were evaluated by a Committee approved by Chairman,
WDB and S/MLGHC consisting of WDB officials and representa-
tives of MLGHC. The tender committee evaluation reports
and recommendations submitted to the Cabinet Appointed
Tender Board, in which S/MLGHC and the Chairman, WDB were
Chairman and a Member respectively for approval, and
subsequently reviewed by IDA before awards were made.
Supply of materials; for this project were done by United
States of America, United Kingdom, India, Japan, Malaysia
and Indonesia.
Proiect Costs and Disbursements
3.16   The estimated cost of this project at appraisal
was Rs. 759 million and US$. 45.4 million which was equi-
valent to a total of US$. 94.0 million at the exchange
rate of Rs. 15.60 to USS. 1.0 at that time, July, 1980.
The project was originally scheduled to be completed by
March, 1985, but continued until 1987 resulting in cost
over runs. The actual cost has now gone to Rs. 1201e3
million and USS. 38.9 million which is equivalent to a
total of US$. 96.1 million at the exchange rate varying
between Rs. 15.6 and Rs. 28.8 to USS. 1.0 prevailed
during the project implementation period. In US dollar
equivalent the costs show an apparent overall project
cost increase of about 2.2* due to increased exchange
rate after July,1980 (from Rs. 15.60 to Rs. 28.8
to US$. 1.0) against an actual cou.t ove*rrun of 58.3%



- 24 -
in the local component and 14.3% under run in the foreign
cost component.
3.17   The SAR estimated a foreign base cost of US$. 36.9
million for equipment and material, specialised civil
works, engineering service by consultants, t-chnical
assistance and training. This cost excludes of physical
contingencies of USS 1.5  illion and a price contingency
of USS. 7.0 million estimated in SAR. The physical congin-
gencies were expected to vary between 4 and 15* depending
on the nature of the work and degree of completeness of
the engineering and cost contingencies were to vary from
21 - 10% for local civil works and and local materials
and equipment over years 1980 - 1984. The project costs
estimated at the time of appraisal and actual/anticipated
costs on a component basis are depicted in annex. 5. It
could be seen that civil works costs for all components
have gone up in some cases by upto five times the appraisal
estimates with an average increase of 2.5 times. The
actual costs of supply of materials amount to USS. 34.51
million indicating increasing of 24.6% when compared with
the appraisal figures. These unusual cost over runs may
be attcibuted to under estimation at the time of appraisal,
design.changes, incompetence of civil contractors who were
awarded contracts without prequalifying and the resulting
re-awards of contracts, poor soil condition which necessi-
tated expensive piling operation, fluctuation in exchange
rates and also due to delayed implementation on account of
civil disturbances and the prevailing political situation
in the country.
3.18   As a result of implementation mentioned above,
actual disbursements appreciably behind the appraised
disbursement.  This position changed considerably as the
project approahed tail end of the implementation period,
mainly due to the political pressure tocnplete the project
to supply additional water to the city of Colombo and its
suburbs, also to complete all road reinstatement work
after pipe laying before March, 1987. The details of



- 25 -
appraisal disbursement and the actual disbursement are
presented in annex. 6. it is also seen that it has taken
over six years to disburse the full credit compared with
4h years estimated at the time of appraisal.
Operations
3.19   The progress on this project was closely monitored
by frequent IDA missions. WDS requirement of suibmitting
quarterly progress report was regularly met by WDB. Aide
Memoires prepared and left with WDB at the end of each
IDA Mission high lighted critical activities which needed
to be addressed by WOB and MLGHC and also provided necessary
guide lines for the successful implementation of the project.
At times targets set for completion by applying extreme
pressure by IDA Mission on WDB and MLGHC could not always
be achieved due to political and legal issues involved.
Performance of consultants, contractors, suppliers, borrowers
Consultants
3.20   Several consultants from various firms were employed
under the project to offer their sernies to WDB on s
- Engineering
- Finance
- Management
- Operation & Maintenance
The types   of consultants employed and period served under
this project are presented in annex. 7. The consultants
performed their duty generally to the satisfaction of WDB
and MLGHC. The services of management consultant appointed
to WDB inJan., 1983 to assist WDB was terminated in Dec.,
1983 for personal reasons and the consultant who was appoin-
ted subsequently in his place was assigned to S/MLGHC to
assist the latter and co-ordinate the activities of WDS.



- 26 -
The engineering services were provided for
a.  Consultancy services associate(i with Second Proiec?t
1. A study on solid waste management
2. Leak detection study in Greater Colombo, area
3. Sewer cleaning in CMC area
4. Large scale base mappings in Urban local authorities
b.  Consultancy services associated with project preparation
for Third Projeect :
1. Identification of Greater Colombo area water supply
improvements
2. Identification of Ampara & Anuradhapura W.S.S.
improvements
3. Project preparation of Colombo Surface drainage
4.  Final designs for Ambatale - Jubilee transmissio"n
mains, Jubilee reservoir, Ampara & Anuradhapura
W.S.S. augmentations
5. Storm drainage record drawings
The works under (b) provided basic data for the Third Water
Supply and Sewerage Project under IDA credit 1700-CE.
3.21    The engineering supervision consultant appointed
to supervise sewerage contractors (C 101 through C 103)
urder SFD loan 1/130 too performed a fairly satisfactory
service even though a satisfactory transfer of technology
to WDB staff could not be achieved.
3.22    The performance of consultants employed under USAID
project is fairly satisfactory. However, it is too early
to predict whether the reorganisation will yield the desired
result in strengthening the institutional, management and
other capabilities of WDB. The consultants' progress on
establishing regional support centres, workshop and labora-
tory is appeared to be very slow. Further, the amalgamation
of project finance branch with that of non project area has
proved to be counter productive as far as Second Water Supply
and Sewerage Project is concerned. Lack of priority shown to
project activities by the present finance department has
created numerous problems to technical staff involved in



- 41 1-
contract administration in the project area. These are
-some of the problems faced by WDB as a result of reorgani-
sation suggested by USAID consultants. The image of WDB
is being degrated in the eyes of the public over the issues
of defective meters and excessive billing which resulted in poor
revenue collection. The present trend is detrimenta. to
very existance of WDB. Hance it is desirable to make use
of the services of USAD consultants to address on metering,
billing and collection in the near future.
3.23    The performance of consultant for sewer cleaning
has been excellent. During his short stay of three months
he has done good services by training CMC/WDB staff as to
how to use the sewer cleaning equipment imported some years
back, under the project. This equipment has not been fully
utilised in the sewer system earlier due to lacl of. knowledge on
proper use of it.
3.24    The services of local finance consultantr are
satisfactory. However, there is a certain amount of
resentment among WDB staff over employing of a local consul-
tant at high remunerations and other fringe benefits.
3.25    While mentioning the performance of consultants it
is necessary to state a few words about the performance of
consultants whose works provided basic data in the form of
design of water supply and sewerage systems for this project
under Sri Lanka First Water Supply Project (credit 709-CE).
WDB is now in a better position to judge the quality of their
works since the project has now been completed. It was
observed in some instances that inadequate preliminary investi-
gations and project planning done by the consultants caused
WOB a large number of variation orders of considerable value
(upto 100% over the original contract value in some contracts)
and a set back to timely project completion. Some of the
plant and equipment installed on the recommendation of the
consultants are too sophisticated for operation by local staff
who are used to plant and equipment with more simple processes.



- 28 -
Contractors
3.26    All civil works contracts under sewerage part of the
project were awarded after prequalifying the prospective
tenderers and all of them happened to be foreign contractors.
Even though none of them could complete their contracts
within their contract periods due to reasons beyond their
control, they all carried out their w-wrk precisely with
competence. The contract awarded for supplying and laying
of sewers and force mains is still in progress. The initial
work programme prepared by this particular contractor could
not be adhered to due to long delays caused on account of
uncharted utilities.
3.27    The civil works contracts under water supply part of
the project were awarded on ICB without prequalifying the
prospective tenderers. This lead to contracts being awarded
to contractors without sufficient competence.  All civil
works contractors selected were happened to be local contrac-
tors. One reason for foreign contractors not being involved
in the water supply contracts is that the size of the works
involved is small compared to the contracts under the
sewerage part of the project. The local civil contractors
did not perform well, were slow to mobilize and unable to
meet implementation mainly due to their limited resources.
Most cf them have under quoted for the works and some times
their contract sums were even less than WDB's estimates.
Other reasons for unsatisfactory performance of contractors
are given in 3.09 and 3.10.
S'ippliers
3.28    Performance of suppliers of materials and equipment
have been satisfactory. Though the contractors for supply
of pumps and equipment delivered goods within their contract
periods, pumps and equipment could not be installed and
connissioned due to delays in completing the civil works.



- 29 -
The Borrower
3,29    The project amply demonstrated WDB's capability
to handle construction supervision of large water supply
and sewerage works carried out by multi national
contractors. It also served to highlightshort falls in
WDS's operational and managetnent ability in the process
of 4mplementing the proJect including i
-   lack of appreciation of operation and maintenance
aspects of the project such aS staffing levels,
office and living accommodations, transportation
etc.
-   lack of appreciation of importance of metering
and rectification of defective meters in the
project area and thereby failure to address the
importance of billing and collection aspects of
the project.
-   delays encountered in implementation of the
proj"-t due to delays in decision making and
due to frequent change in management.
-   need for overall project planning and co-ordina-
tion by WDB.



- Ju
IV.     OPERATION PERFORMANCE
4.01    At the time of appraisal it was intended to complete
the project by March, 1985. In view of various reasons
mentioned earlier, the completion of the project was delayed
d it Is now very likely to be completed by September, 1987.
Water and Sewerage Service Demand and Market Potential
4.02    Imnediately after the installation of consumer
motors under the First Water Supply Project (IDA credit
709-CE) the per capital water demand in the Greater
Colombo area was reduced. The consumer reaction to metering
did conserve water and improved supply in the sytem. Some
towns like Dehiwela Mount Lavinia even had 24 hour supply
for the first time. The systematic leak detection programme
carried out by the consultant assisted WDB to reduce the
waste in the system to a great extent. The 1987 water
demand for Colombo and Towns South was forecast at 380 mld
compared with the production capacity of 445 mld from three
headworks namely, Labugama, Kalatuwawa and Ambatale. The
Towns North demand was forecast at 30 mld.
4.03    The consumer metering and billing introduced in
January, 1984 brought an immediate reduction in water waste
and water demand in the project area appeared to be below
the production from the headworks. This situation existed
for nearly one and half years. However by the end of 1985
the demand appeared to be above production. This may perhaps
due to consumers coming back to the habit of using water
with much waste after an initial 'shock' from metering
and billing and also due to introduction of a 'cap' of Rs.
150/u per month by GSL on billing in late 1985. By late
1985 additional water required by Colombo Municipality
and Towns South areas was 45 mld and 22.5 mld respectively.
This problem became more acute in 1986 and early 1987.
The commissioning of Wolfendhal tower in Color4bo Central
in September, 1986 did not produce much desired result



- 31 -
in improving the supply in Colombo Central area. The main
which supplies to the tower through booster pumps at St.
Sebastian Hill did not receive additional water from
Maligakanda service reservoir. As a result though the
booster pumping station improved supply in certain highly
elevated zones in Hultsdorf and Wolfendhal area which were
upto now badly affected due to low pressure in the system,
it also created wa.er shortage in some other zone in
Colombo Central area. This problem will be solved once
Maligakanda service reservoir receives additional water
directly and indirectly as a result of commissioning the
new intake and treatment plant at Ambatale.
4.04   There is a belief among staff in WDB that the
commissioning of Ambatale new intake and treatment plant
will not bring the required additional quantities of water
to Colombo Central and Towns South areas, as a result of
unplanned development in the project area. Studies are
underway to take remedial measures if such an event-occurs.
4.05   The existing sewerage system in Colombo serves nearly
80% of the Colombo Municipal area and about 50% of the
housing units within the area are connected to the system.
Since the existing sewerage system is heavily over loaded,
the Colombo Municipality has been reluctant to enforce the
ordinance which makes it compulsory for owners of premises
located within 30 metres (100 ft.) of a public sewer to
connect to the sewer or to convert any existing facilities
within the premises to a form suitable for use with the
public system. The other local authorities namely, Dehiwela
- Mount Lavinia  MC and Kolonnawa UC has neither existing
sewer system nor such an ordinance in force in their areas
of authorities. When the project was planned it was
expected to provide sewerage service nearly to all of
Colombo MC and parts of Dehiwela - Mount Lavinia MC and
Kolonnawa UC areas.



- 32 -
4.06    Though all sewer pump stations, sea outfalls have
been comnissioned and nearly all force and gravity sewer
mains have boen completed, only sewer system in Colombo
Municipality area is in operation now. The property
sewer connections in the project area has not been
comnenced due to various reasons including :-
-   delay in taking a decision by MLGH&C, WD8
and LAS concerned as to who should operate
and maintain the sewer system in the project
area,
-   lelay in implementing a policy on the form
of revenue collection for sewerage service
especially in Dehiwela - Mount Lavinia MC
and Kolonnawa UC areas where only a part of
the local authority area is provided with
sewer facilities.
-   inability to generate sufficient revenue by
Dehiwela - Mount Lavinia MC and Kolonnawa UC
to repay the loan and to meet the annual
operation and maintenance cost of the system,
-   lee-k of necessary iy-law in Dehiwela - Mount
Lavinia MC and Kolonnawa UC to make it compul-
sory for owners of premises located within a
certain distance (usually 30 m) of a public
sewer to connect to the sewer -or to convert
if necessary    any existing facilities  within
the premises to a form suitable for use with
the public system
-   decision on subsidies to be given to local
authorities by GSL towards repayment of loan,
1       Though WDB has this power utnder Act operation and
maintenance of sewer systen by WDB may not suit
GSL/ Bank in view of the latest policy of handing
over water supply ind sewerage systems to local
authorities.
2       GSL has already taken a positive step by making
SFD loan equity.



-3 -
inability by LAS except Colombo MC to
operate and maintain the sewer system within
their areas,
decision on form of financial relief to be
given to the property owners against high
cost of sewer connections.
4.07    A recent survey carried out by WDB within the
project area has shown that property owners are willing
to connect their property to public sewer if WDB/GSL could
meet part of high cost of connection. Accordingly it has
now been decided by WDB to provide sewer connections with
Bank's assistance to property owners who are in a position
to pay at least 1/10 of the cost estimate of such connection
immediately and pay the balance by 12 to 18 equal monthly
instalments.
4.08    There is a close linkage between WDB's annual
operating deficit and operations of urban local authorities
and other Government agencies. The LAS have been constantly
in default in paying mioneys due to WDB, primarily because
of their own poor deteriorating financial positions. The
responsibility of operating and maintaining the local distri-
bution systems particularly rural systemshavealso been
gradually vested with WDB in the past, because of inadequate
financial and institutional capacity of the local authorities.
By the year 1984, the outstanding dues from LAS aggregated
to about Rs. 300 million. In order to relieve financial
burden caused by the defaulty LAS, it has now been decided
by GSL with the concurrence with the Bank to gradually hand
over operation and maintenance responsibilities of water
supply and sewerage systemsto the respective local authorities.
WDB has already commenced a technical assistance and training
programme to help the LAS to take on these functions.
Further in order to provide the necessary know how to the
LAS before handing over the Sri Lanka Municipal Management
Project, funded by IDA, is now being implemented. This
project will not only improve financial, management and



- 34 -
operating efficiency of LAS, but also relieve financial
burden on WDB caused by the defaulting LAS upto now.
With this view in mind, it was decided by GSL/WDB that
CMC shall operate and maintain the whole system with its
available resources and make other LAS to pay for their
services through agreements signed with each LA separately.
This arrangement should be most suitable for the reason
that out of all LAS only CMC has sufficient resources to
operate and maintain the system and further all sewer infra
structure except for five pump houses are located within
the CMC limits. In order to.assist CMC,WDB has made
arrangements at its own cost to train CMC staff through
a foreign contractor in operation and maintenance of sewer
system.
Consumer Metering
4.09   During a major part of 1982 and all of 1983, GSL
instructed WDB for political reasons not to introduce
Elat monthly rates for unmetered consumers, not to increase
tariff rates and to suspend all metering programme.  Subse-
quently the financial position of WD) deteriorated rapidly
during this period. ihen GSL realised that WDB was recovering
lass than 10% of its expenditure from its self generated
revenues a Financial Recovery Progratiune (FRP) was embarked
upon including the introduction of flat monthly rates
increasing metered tariff rates and an accelerated metering
programme.  At the time of installation of meters there
have been-difficulties due to (i) long delay in the supply
of meters by the United Kingdom Overseas Administration (ODA)
(ii) a reluctance on the part of local authorities to accept
the concept of metering and associated tariff and
(iii) technical difficulties in installing the meters-
associated primarily with the inadequacy of maps
and  records  of  connections and  the   poor



- 35 -
conditions of many connections. The iotering work
carried out on a crash programme under the First Water
Supply Project (IDA credit 709-CE) did not produce
desired results either. It created public cry inainly
on the accuracy of meters installed and eventual excessive
bills rendered to consumers. Out of 80,O0Ometers installed,
nearly 25.000 meters were found to be defective. This
may perhaps be attzb.td to a) inadequate supervision of
the meter installations done under a very ambitious schedule
in order to complete metering programme as quickly as
possible b) WDB's liberal attitude towards motering contrac-
tors in order to achieve a satisfactory progress c) in
all individual water connections given to consumors prior
to the time of metering the aspects of metering were not
considered by WDB or LAS d) a baseless notion among public that
excessive bills mean defective meters and the consumers'
failure to believe that excessive reading could be due
to leaky internal plumbing as well and e) inefficiency
and indifference shown by the meter readers when taking
monthly meter readings. The issue of excessive billing
due to defective meters became so important and serious
that mnb 'L to intervene in late 1985 and compelled WDB
to cherge only a flat rate of Rs. 150/. per month from
those consumers who complaint of excessive billing until
such time all defective meters are repaired or replaced
with new meters.
-----------------------------------------------------------
1       The meters installed under this programme were of
horizontal reading type.
2       This lead to placing of consumer meters mostly in
difficult locations making it almost -         for
meter reader/consumer to read meters. Depending on
position of supply main, meters sometimes were
located a) below the ground water table level
b) on roadside and pavement etc.   Metering still
bec&me difficult in case of multi storey buildings
with several individual apartments.



- 36 -
4.10    Though tho motor rectification programne started
immediately after billing and collection commenced in
January, 1984 by WDO with its available resources, the
number of defective metors became very large making it
difficult for WDB to handle this process alone. In order
to solve this problem seven contracts were awarded in 1985
to local contractors for the rectification/replacement of
7000 defective meters. WDB also c-ontinued to carry out
metering programme with its own resources. This included
metering of Port Authority wherein WDB has been losing an
income of Rs. 1 million per month in the absence of meters.
On appreciating the urgency of meter rectification programme
IDA assisted WDB under this project by financing purchase
of 9000 meters and rectification of 15,000 defective meters
in the Greater Colombo area. The details of metering
progranme carried out during the implementation period are
shown in annex    8.
4.11    At appraisal stage an assurance was obtained from
WDB to carry out an ongoing programme to install and there-
after effectively maintain bullc meters, to accurately
m3asure flows from all treatment plants, major pumping
installations, distribution reservoirs and to accurately
measure bulk supplies to local authorities in the project
area to be completed by June 30, 1981. However, attempts
made by WDB to install and operate the bulk meters (olectro
magnetic type) procured under credit 709-CE were miserably
failed. These metors (8 Nos.) had to be discarded subse-
quently. The efforts made by WOB to procure meters with
its own funds in 1985/86 could not go well either for the
contract awarded to a GSL owned business undertaking
working in collaboration with a foreign company for the
supply of bulk meters under WDB funding had to be made
null and yoi, in 1986 mainly due to a) contractor's finan-
cial incapability to fulfill the terms and conditions of
the contract and b) WDN's own financial difficulties that



- 3, -
existed especially in late 1985 and 1986 on account of
its limited annual capital budget.  It is now proposed
to procure the bulk meters under the Third Water Supply
Project (IDA credit 1700-CE) and under ADB assisted
Rehabilitation Project.
lIing and Collection
4.12 Billing and collection in the Greater Colombo area
commenced in July, 1981 for the CMC area and rest in
January, 1982. An accelerated programme of metering.
meter rectification and conversion of unmetered connections
in the Greater Colombo &:ea combined with the implementation
of improved computerised billing system contributed signifi-
cally to increased billing efficlency. Billing delays also
have been reduced from over a year in 1983 to about two
months at present. WDB is at present carrying out an
active consumer complaint service progranuu through establi-
shing several billing and collection centers throughout
the project area and a consumer awareness programue by
means of more effective and frequent use of the mnass media.
These steps have resulted on improved collection of arrears
and strict enforcement of Aisconnection of defaulting
consumers. The collective impact of the above measures
have significantly improved revenue collection of WD. Upto
January, 1984 only comercial consumers were billed. The
performance during this period is tabulated below.
Year    No. of Consumers    Revenue Billed    Collections
1982        11,534           Rs.  33.9 m        Rs. 12.3 m
1983        10,579           Rs.  33.2 m        Rs. 13.7 m
Commencing from 1st January, 1984 all consumers (including
domestic consumers) in the Gceater Colombo area were billed.
The performance from 1984 to 1986 is appended.
Year    No. of Consumers    Revenue Billed    Collections
1984        80,717           Rs  172.3 m        Rs. 47.1 m
1985        87,298           Rs. 181.2 m        Rs.113.9 m
1986        93,000           Rs. 171.5 m        Rs.150.5 m
1     The current rate of disionnection is 150 per month
compared to practically none in 1984.



- 38 -
4.13   A drop in the revenue in 1986 over 1985 was due to
the introduction of a flat rate of Rs. 150/. per month
to those consumers with unusually excessive or incorrect
bills. The above step which was enforced by GSL as a
result of public cry and political pressure was proved
to be counter productive as far as the WDB's revenue
collection is concerned. This also resulted in encoura-
g-ing the consumer of above category to waste more and
more water. To do away with the flat rate collection,
a crash programme for m4eter rectification is being
carried out throughout the project area under IDA credit
1041-CE. 15,000 defective meters are being rectified
under this programme. Arranagements are also being made
under this credit to purchase 9,000 domestic meters for
the same purpose. The rectification of meters is antici-
pated to be completed by March, 1987. The WDB's revenue
collection is expected to improve significantly thereafter.
The water production and billing in the project area during
the project period is depicted in annex. 9.
Leak Detection Programme in Greater Colombo Area
4.14 With Bank's technical assistance under this project
(IDA credit 1041-CE) WDB emploved expatriate consultants
working in collaboration with local firms to implement a
leak detection programme in the Greater Colombo Area.
The principal objectives of this programme were a) to deve-
lop the most appropriate and cost effective leak detection
methodology for the area b) to locate and quantify leakage
c) to carry out leak repairs and d) to provide on-the-job
training for WD8's leak detection/repair personnel. The
Bank provided financial assistance under this project (IDA
credit 1041-CE) for the consultancy services and training
by the consultants and for procurement of eleven vehicles



- 39 -
and equipment for leak detection/repair. Six leak
detection teams and five leak repair teams were established
in WDD under the close supervision of consultants. The
central area in theCb Olao Municipality with about 70 per-
cent of the city population was chosen as the project
area. The consultanits recomnmnded and carried out visual
day time inspection and night sounding followed by repair
of leaks so detected in order to reduce unaccounted for
water to about 50 percent of quantity prevailed in 1985.
After the departure of consultants in 1965 the leak detection/
repair programme is now being carried out by the WDB personnel
with the know-how they have gained from the consultants
The major draw backs that were found under this progrmme
were a) lack of positive response and some times 'don't care'
attitude shown by the consumers to repair leaks occuring
in household plumbinxg and supply pipes downstream of consumers'
meters b) enforced water cut in the distribution area by WDB
on account of water shortage in the headworks c) lack of
consumer education on the importance of leak detection/
repair programme d) lack of stringent law in WDS's Act to
make it a criminal offence to tamper on the water meter as
in the case of electric meters.  A summary of characteristic
data of the Greater Colombo Leak Detection Study from April,
1984 to December, 1986 is presented in annex. 10.



- 40 -
V.     FINANCIAL PZRFORMANCE
Financial Covonants
5.01   Article (IV) of the Development Crodit Agreoment
sets out a number of financial covenants to be strictly
followed in carrying out the operations of the WOO.
The main points of the above covenants other than
mentioned in para 2.02 can be summarised am follows.
i.   GSL shall permit WD8 to charge the users
for sewerage services provided by WOB.
The revenue from sewerage chargos shall be
equal to 70% of that for water in the
same area.
ii.   GSL shall agree with IDA and WDB on charges
to be levied from the users for sewerage
services.
iii.   GSL shall permit WDB, until IDA decides
otherwise, to take necessary steps including
adjustment of water tariff structure or the
level of such tariff to generate sufficient
revenue to cover operating expenses and to
produce annual rate of return of at least 8%
by 31.12.1982 from its operation in the First
Project Area (IDA credit 709-CZ).
iv.   GSL shall allow WD8, until IDA decides other-
wise to take steps including adjustment of
water tariff and the level of such tariff to
ensure that the revenue will be at a level
so that operations outside the First Project
Area, are not subsidized by revenue Erom the
First Project Aroa.



- 41 -
5.02   The performance of level on the financial covenants
enumerated as follows.
1.   In keeping with the financial covenants of IDA
credit 709-CE, WDB had taken necessary steps.
-   to maintain records reflecting its operation
and financial conditions adequately,
-   to audit its accounts annually by an indepen-
dent auditing firmn and submit sulch audited
accounts and other information for review by
Bank,
-   to introduce a costingsystem and to maintain
I
seperate accounts for the Project Area,
2
-   to fill key posltions in the finance depart-
ment and to stafe this section adequately,
-   to maintain a close   corporation between
the Engineering and Finance departments,
3
-   to establish a commercial accounlting system,
-   to establish financial control, purchase
4
and stores syste s,
-   to establish an internal audit system,
-----------------------------------------------------------
1      Seperate Project Accounts System introduced was aban-
doned by Nov., 1985 when Project and Non-Project
areas were consolidated into a single unit.
2      Though the post DGM(Finance) was filled in early 1984,
th performance of this section showed remarkable
progress only after the Consultant DGM, Consultant
AGM and Consultant Accountants were appointed from
consulting firms in January, 1986.
3      Computerised accounting        has now been introduced
covering all water supply and sewerage schemes in the
island.
4      Manuals prepared by the Management Consultant and
USAID Consultants have helped to a great extent to
achieve this.
Internal audit section operated at the WDB Head office
has now been extended to Regional Support Centres
under USAID re-organisation.



- 41 -
2.     Improving .9BD's overall financial position called
for included e,' series of inter related technical,
financial, operational and administrative measures.
The water tariffs ware increased by 60* in January,
1984. A crash programne of metering, meter repair
and conversion of unmetered connections in the
project area combined with th- implementation of
improved computerised billing system contributed to
increased billing efficiency. Billing delays too
have decreased from over a year in 1983 to about
two months at present. WDB is carrying out an active
consumer complaint service programme through opening
up several billing and collection offices all over
the project area and a consumer awareness programme
through more effective and frequent use of the mass
media. These steps have resulted on improved collec-
tion of arrears and strict enforcemenX of Aisconnection
of defaulters. The combined impact ot the above
measures have significantly improved revenue collection
of WDB. However,the introduction of flat rate of
Rs. 150/- per month to those customers with unusually
excessive or incorrect bills have proved to be counter
productive as far as the WDB's revenue collection is
concerned. This move made as a result of public
cry and political pressure is encouraging customers
of above category to waste more and more water. In
order to do away with the flat rate collection an
accelerated programme of meter rectification is
being carried out throughout the project area under
IDA credit 1041-CE. 15,000 defective me ters are
being rectified. Arrangements are also being made
under this credit to purchase 9,000 water meters for
the above purpose.
1      The current rate of disconnection is about 150
per month compared to practically none in 1984.



- 4z.
3.     The rectification of meters is anticipated to be
completed by March, 1987. The WDB's collection
is expected to improve considerably thereafter.
4.     WDB in*roduced a computerised financial management
system in November, 1985 and ar improved accounting
system which provides detailed revenue and cost
information on a quarterly basis for each of WDB'5
major schemes. In order to utilize new financial
management and accounting system effectively, WDB
has also taken steps to strengthen its staffing by
appointing a consultant Finance Manager and consul-
tant accountants to its finance divisio-n and a
consultant Commercial Manager and an Assistant
Commercial Manager to improve its commercial func-
tions and operating systems and procedures. The
consultants had been recruited from   local firms
under Bank's technical assistance. The cost control
measures such as leak detection and meter repair
are also effectively taken. In addition, WDB is
now formulating an incentive programme for operating
staff, especially at the regional levels for improved
billing and collection.
5.     The cumulative effective of these steps are as
follows.
-    WDB's operating deficit subsidized by direct
and indirect GSL grants which escalated from
Rs. 34 million in 1980 to Rs. 141 mill4.on in
1983 were reduced to Rs. 127 million in 1984
and Rs. 149 million in 1985.
-    WDB is expected to eliminate its operating
deficit by 1987 and will be able to meet the
financial covenants under this project by 1989.



- 44 -
5.03   WD  has still not finalised a realistic tariff
for sewerag- service in the project area on account of
various reasons including t
a.   A flat charge of 70t of the monthly water
bill for sewerage service cannot justifiably
be levied from the consumers for the following
reasons.
i. 15 - 20% of domestic consumers within
project area do not pay for water on
account of their monthly consumption,
being within 10 unit.
ii. There are considerable number of consumers
in the project area who have alternative
sources of water supply for their use
without depending on WD3's water supply at
dll but continue to discharge household
sever into WDB's sewer system. There are
some consumers including big hoteliers
who depend on alternative scurces of water
like tube wells for their use and limit
the use of WDB's supply in order to keep
their monthly water bills minimum, while
continue to dispose the entire sewer
lod through WDB's sewer system.
iii. Availability of sewerage service in Dehiwela
Mount Lavinia MC and Kolonnawa UC areas
is limited to certain areas only. In Colombo
Municipality too Kirulapona area has been
left out of sewerage system.
iv. At present there is a resistance to pay
monthly water bill among the consumers
partly on account of faulty meter readings.
WDR has still not been able to generate
100% collection even from the consumers with
correct monthly bills   Hence enforcing
sewerage tariff to pay for sewerage service
at this juncture is practically impossible.
l      A household is entitled to a free supply of water upto
10,000 litres per month.



-45-
v. Consumer; with unauthorised water connections
will *njoy sewerage service as wall free of
charge.
b.   The Colombo Mun'icipality, where sewer system
existed prior to project implementation, chsrged
consumer by way of increased property assessment
tax and MC By-laws allow such a tax to be levied
whereas LAS in newly sewered areas namely, Dehi-
wela - Mount Lavinia MC and Kolonnawa UC have no
such By-laws in force. Further even if such a
By-law is passed by LAS for implementation in
these areas, the revenue from such taxes will be
negligible on account of a. (iii) given above.
co  The annual repayment of loan to the Bank /
Saudi Fund for Development by each of three local
authorities and their respfictive annual budget
figures for years 1980 - 86 are indicated in
annex. 1. The cost of annual operation and main-
tenance of sewerage system in the project area
is shwon in annex. 12. It appears that only
Colombo Municipal Council has the capability to
repay the loan whereas Kolonnawa UC is not even
in a position to meet the annual operation and
maintenance cost of the system within its UC
limits. It is therefore essential that some
form of annual irant should be made by GSL
towar6s repaympilts of loan in the case of Dehi-
wela - Mount Lavinia MC and Kolonnawa UC.
d.   The Colombo MC bas 10 sewer pumping stations
and two sea outfalls within its MC limit and
has sL¶ficient resources to operate and main-
tain the sewer system whereas Dehiwela - Mount
Lavinia MC with 2-sewer pump stations within
its jurisdic tion and Kolonnawa UC with 3 sewer
GSL has recently converted the SFD loan into equity
in order to ease the burden of repayment by LAS.



pumping stations within its limits has neither
resources nor trained staff to operate and main-
tain the system. Hence sewer system in DehJwela
Mount Lavinia MC and Kolonnawa UC areas have to
be either maintained by WD8 or Colombo MC. rn
case the Colombo MC is permitted to operate and
maintain the entire sewer system, some sort of
agreement has to be signed between Colombo MC
and each of other local authorities in regard
to payment for services rendered by Colombo MC.
a.   All property owners in Dehiwela - Mount Lavinia
MC, Kolonnawa UC and a part of Colombo MC area
(Mattakkuliya) have spent considerable amounts
of money and constructed septic tanks for house-
hold sewer disposal. Hence conversion of septic
tank to public sewerage system may be an expensive
process as far as any property owner in the above
area is concerned. Further, there is no council
ordinance in Dehiwela - Mount Lavinia MC and
Kolonnawa UC areas to force the property owners
to do away with septic tank disposal system when
public sewerage system is made operative. However,
WDB has authority as per WDB Act No. 2 of 1974 to
make public sewer connections compulsory for any
property owner if such a property is within 30 m
(100 ft.) from a public sewer. Hence By-laws
have to be introduced in these local authorities
to make taking sewer connections compulsory.
f.   Cost of sewer connections to property varies from
Rs. 3000/- to Rs. 30000/-. Hence it may not be
possible for a low income property owner to meet
such a high cost of public sewer connection. WOe
has now made arrangements with Bank assistance to
provide property connections with a small initial
payment (1/10 of the cost) from the owner and to
recover the balance due through 12 to 18 equal
monthly instal ments.



- 47 -
5.04   WDB's financial capability also depends on the
operation of local authorities and other government agencies.
The local authorities are constantly in default of payment
due to WDB, mainly due to their own poor and deteriorating
financial positions. The responsibility of operating and
maintaining local distribution syu3Mi, particularly rural
systems have been gradually vested with WDB due to inadequate
fiancial and institutional capability of the LAS. These
factors burden WDB's financial resources further.By the year
1984, the outstanding dues from LAS amounted to approximately
Rs. 300 m.  With the objective vesting some of the water
supply schemes again with LAS and thereby to relieve finan-
cial burden caused by the defaulting LAS on WDB, it has
been decided by GSL with the concurrence of the Bank to
gradually hand over operation and maintanence responsibilities
of water supply and sewer systems to the respective local
authorities. WDB has commenced a technical assistance and
*           training programme to help the local authorities to take
on these functions. Further, in order to provide necessary
know how to the local authorities before such handing over
the Sri Lanka Municipal Management Project funded by IDA
is now being implemented. It is anticipated that this
project shall not onlyimprove financial, management and
operating efficiencies of LAS, but also relieve financial
burden on WDB caused by the defaulting local authorities
to date.



- 48 -
Operating Results and Rate of Return
5.05   The income and expenditure statements from 1977
to 1986 is presented in annex. 13. The information furnished
therein could be summarised as follows.
Operating    Operating   Average not   Rate   Operating
Year  revenue*      expenses    fixed assets  of        ratio
in Rs.'000   in Rs.'000  in Rs.'000    return
1977   11,68        11,967           4,800        -      -
1978   26,604        28,998          42,242        -      -
1979   32,206        40,189         105,997        -      -
1980   40,610        63,744         199,864        -      -
1981   42.650       112,456         326,181        -      -
1982  119,488       166,278         473,672        -      -
1983  220,112       205,234        637,452       2.3%   93S
1984  148,000       179,000      3,700-,000        -      -
1985  204,000       194,000      4,900,000         4X   1:05
1986  169,000       209,000      5,800,000         -      -
includes direct revenue through sale of water and GSL
subsidies (direct and indirect)
Financing Plan
5.06 The balance sheets and funds flow statements from 1977
to 1986 is presented in annex. 14. The information furnished
therein could be sumnarised as follows.
Total         Equity       Long tern      Debt/Equity
Yeac  Assets        in Rs.       Debt            Ratio        Remarks
in Is.'000   '000          in Rs.'000
1917     83,083        58,224      -
1978    233,757       221,186         2,571        -
1979    406,241       317,269       82,420       1:4
1980  1,063,956       809,479      208,235       1:4
1981  2.000,665    1,173,062       626,506       1:1.85
1982  2.612,743    1,630,285       811,083       1:2
1983  3,581,002    2,427,228       957,979       1:2.57
1984  4,473,362    3,114g749   1.281.836         1:2.5
1985  5,895.477    3,825,001   1.757,111         1:2.2
1986  7,374,180    5,548,787   1.486,434         1:3.7



- 49 -
Total        Internal    foreign         Debt       Internal
sources      cash gone-  debt            service   finance
Yoar  of funds      ration in   service         covered   of total
in ts.'000   Zs.'000      in Rs.'000    by inter- require
natl cash nents (S)
Sn0ort-
ton No.
of times
1977     17.533        543                         -          3
1978    170,895      5,654          -              -          3
1979    185,325      2,621          -              -          1
1980    636,081    13.685           -              -          -
1981    802,606    51,424           -              -          -
1982    673,678    15,447           -              -          -
1983  1,005,597    47,895        30,663           1.5         5
1984  1,152,000    deficit          -           deficit       -
1985  1,250,000    deficit       71,000         deficit       -
1986    981.000    deficit    174.000           deficit       -
5.07 The financial covenant of the credit agreement which
requires WDB to meet all operating expenses and depreciation
and earn a minimum rate of return of 8% on net fixed assets
in operation of project financed by Bank could not be met
mainly due to a) inadequate pricing policies prior to 1984,
b) poor financial management practice and c) weak financial
management. However, it is expected to meet the financial
covenants at least by 1989 after the institutional improvements
that are being made by the Bank and USAID are fully realised.



- 50 -
VI.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORNANCE
Organisation and Management
6.01 WDS the executing agency for this proje-'t, was
created in 1975 out of the Department of Water Supply and
Drainage. WDB is responsible for development of all urban
and rural piped water supply systetns, urban sewerage
systems and rural non piped water supplies based on drilled/dug
wells.
6.02 At the time of project appraisal WDB was operationally
divided into eight regions with its head quarters at Ratmalana,
near Colombo. Each region was administered by a Regional
Manager stationed in the field. The regional offices had
only limited capabilities for field investigation, design
and logistical  supply and nearly all functional support
and decision making was centralised at head quarters. A
special unit called Project Division, under a Deputy General
Manager assisted by Assistant Genersl Manager and a qualified
Accountant were in existance at the time of project appraisal
and this unit was responsible for the implementation of the
First Water Supply Project under IDA credit 709-CE. At the
time of loan negotiation it was agreed by WDB as one of the
conditions of loan to retainthis unit to implement the
Second Water Supply and Seweraee Project as well. This unit
subsequently took over the operation and maintenance of the
Kalatuwawa and Labugama headworks and in 1981 assumed full
responsibility for operation and maintenance of the water
distribution system in the five local authorities in the
Towns South of Colombo. It also took over in the same
year the operation and maintenance of the water distribution
and sewer collection system in Colombo Municipality area
utilising the then existed Municipal Organisation. Further
when the Towns North of Colombo water supply scheme and
Ambalangoda - Balapitiya water supply schemes were constructed
under the First Water Supply Project and commissioned in



- 51 -
1984 and 1985 respectively, these schemes too were brought
under the Project Division for operation and maintenance.
As agreed with the Bank at the time of the loan negotiation,
this unit was retained to implement the Second Water Supply
and Sewerage Project financed by Bank under IDA credit
1041-CE and co-financed by Saudi Fund for Development under
SF0 loan 1/130. Further.to carry out improvements and
urgent development works in the Greater Colombo area, a
post of Assistant General Manager (Special Projects) was
created in 1982 and brought under DGM(Project). The works
carried out by AGM (Special Projects) were financed by
Government Departments such as Ministry of Health, Dept.
of Local Government etc. and State Organisations such'as
Urban Development Authority, National Housing Development
Authority etc.  This special project   section was scrapped
in 1985 when all works were completed. When billing and
collection was introduced on January 1, 1984, an Assistant
Accountant was appointed under DGM(Project) to attend to
the cotumercial activities of the Project Division.
6.03    Since late seventies WDB had also undertaken a fairly
large construction programme outside the project area on
works with the capital vote of WDB and also works for Local
Government and other state organisations. In addition to
the above construction progaramme, a large number of water
supply and sewerage systems have been taken over from local
authorities and other state organisations and operated and
maintained by WDB.  To cope    with the increased responsibi-
lity, WDB was re-organised. The Planning and Design, Ground
Water and Construction Sections were headed by AGMs in the
lhead office. DGHs were appointed in the head office to deal
administration, finance (upgraded from AGM to 0GM in 1984),
and operation and maintenance.   The Finance Section was
3ubsequently strengthen by the appointment of regional
e^countants.



- 52 -
6.04    In order to improvo the institutional strength of
WDB a Water Supply and $anitation Projet funded jointly
by GSL and USAID (Project No.. 383 - 0088) is being
implemented since April 1, 1985.  Th. project is to be
implemented over a period of 5 years at a cost of USS.
19.6 million. The project is being implemented by a team
of foreign consultants working in collaboration with two
teams of consultants from local consulting firms and
counterpart staff from WDB. The basic objective of this
project is to improve the operating efficiency of the WDS
in all functional areas to supply potable water to consumers
in a technically effective and cost effective manner by
means of assisting WD8 in strengthening i
a)   investment, planning and programming
b)   financial and accounting practic6a
c)   operation and maintenance
d)   commercial operations
e)   water quality control and
f)   health education and community development
effort
The project aims to achieve tLe above goals through reorgani-
sation of WDB, together with design and implementation of
new procedures for all functional areas such as personnel,
administration,operatidn and maintenance, finance, commer-
cial, etc. In addition to the basic procedural reform it
is also intended to provide commodities in the operation
and maintenance field, construction of three Regional Support
Centres, in-country and oversoas training for WDB staff.
A new section called Rural Sanitation Unit is also being
formed in WDB under this project to co-ordinate the activities
of the Ministry of Health and WDB to implement health



- 53 -
education and community participation at rural level
area to emphasis the importance of it. As of December,
1986, consultants addressed on following topics.
-   reorganisation of WDB and filling key
positions,
-   policies on project selection and entailing
signed agreement between WDB and LAS for
water supply and sewerage systems (existing
and new),
-   pilot project on decentralisation in Matara
region.
6.05 The organisational set up described in para 6.02
through 6.03 was abolished inNovember, 1985 when consultants
employed under USAID project prepared and implemented a
new organisation (annex. 1B). As per revised organisation
chart, the Chairman shall have a special comnittee for
Strategy-- Planning under his purview. The GeneralManager
shall be assisted by two Additio :l General Managers.
Additional General Manager (Suppcrt Services) will in turn be
assisted by Personnel and Administration, Finance and Commer-
cial Divisions each headed by a DGM. AGM(Training), AGM
(Supplies and Stores) too shall come under his purview.
Additional General Manager (Operations) on the other hand
shall be responsible for Planning and Design, Construction
and Operation and Maintenance Sections each headed by a DGM.
Manager (Tenders and Contracts) too shall be directly under
him. A special feature in this organisational set up is
that out of 6 AGMM serving under DGM (O&M), 3 AGMM shall
be stationed in Matara, Kandy and Anuradhapura as AGM
Regional Support Centre covering 8 regions, while AGM
(Western Water) shall be responsible for operation and
Maintenance in Greater Colombo, Ratnapura and Kurunegala
regions. In addition' AGM (Sewer OperatidW) and' AGM (Services)
shall assist DGM (o & M ) at the Head office.



- 54 -
DGM (Planning & Design) shall have under his purview
Planning, Design and Ground Water Sections each headed
by AGM. The newly created Rural Sanitation Unit too
shall functiorn under him. DGM (Construction) shall be
served by three AGMM namely, AGM (Colombo Water and
Sewerage), AGM (Major Schemes outside Colombo) and AGM
(Rural Schemes). The construction activities in the
regions shall be handled by Managers (Construction) under
AGM (Rural Schemes).  In addition to this, two Project
Managers at DGM level have been appointed to co-ordinate
the works under USAID and ADB Projects.  All other key
posi tior.k are indicated in annex. 1B.
6.06    In September, 1985 Chairman WDB wss transferred
to the MLGHC as Additional Secretary (Technical) and
thereafter General Manager worked as Acting Chairman in
addition to his normal duties for a brief period. In
January; 1986 the General Manager too was transferred to
the MLGHC as Engineering Consultant. At the same time a
Chairman and a General Manager were appointed to WDB.
When DGM (Finance) resigned from his post in 1985, a
Consultant DGM, a consultant AGM and two consultant
Accountants were recruited from local consultancy firms
on contract basis. A post of Commercial Manager at DGM
level was created and a consultant was appointed from a
loca. consultancy firm. The accountant who was upto now
handling the commercial activities of the then Project
Division was made Assistant Commercial Manager. The ser-
vices of the above consultants were financed by IDA under
credit 1041-CE. These appointmentn have strengthened the
finance and commercial sections considerably.
6.07    Under the re-organised set up, the Project Section
referred to in para. 6.02 has now been divided into four
and brought under four AGMK.  The implementation of Sri
Lanka Water Supply and Sewerage Project financed by IDA



- 55 -
and SFD is now being handled by an AGM. The Operation
and Maintenance Section under Project Division is now
looked after by another AGM under DGM (o&M).. Project
Finance Section has now been amalgamated with the Non-
Project Finance Section under WGM (Finance). The
billing and collectionbranch under Commercial Manager
at DGM level handles activities of Project Division as
well as those of regions. It is too early to tell
whether or not these changes will result in improved
implementation of Project..
6.08 From 1982 the trend has emerged within the Bank in
favour of diverting some of WDB's operation and mainte-
nance responsibilities of the local authorities. On
realisfng the importance of this aspect GSL/WDB has now
decided to gradually nand over operation and maintenance
responsibilities of water supply and sewerage systems to
the respective local authorities. WDB has already commenced
a technical assistance and training programme to help the
local authorities to take on these functions. Further
in order to provide the necessary know how to the local
authorities before handing over the Sri Lanka Municipal
Manageament Project funded by IDA is now being implemented.
This project will not only improve financial, management
and operating efficiency of LAS, but relieve financial
burden on WDB caused by the defauling LAS upto now.
Staff Recruitment and Training
6.09 The recruitment of staff is done by WDB by calling
for applications. The appointments are made after
obtaining approval Erom the Board and S/MLGH&C. WDB had
difficulties in recruiting professionally qualified
accountants to key positions due to low remunerations
paid in WD8. This problem was solved in 1985 by recrui-
ting three finance consultants through local firms on



- 56 -
contract basis.  However, scarecity of senior engineers
still continues. Since early eighties especially after
the civil riots of July, 1983. five senior engineers at
DGM level have left the services of the Board. Four of
them have been actively involved in the Projects since
1977.
6.10 The departure of senior engineers involved in the
implementation of the projects specially after July, 1983
had severely affected the project implementation. However,
vacancies created by them have now been gradually filled
by other engineers in the Board with lesser experience.
6.11 WDB has a training centre headed earlier by a Chief
Engineer and now by an AGM who is responsible for the
training of all categories of staff in WDB and in the
sector. The training is given not only to all categories
of staff in service but, also for new recruits and to all
grades of employees from skilled labour to engineer. The
employees of LAS especially those who are involved in the
operation and maintenance of water supply and sewerage
schemes are too trained by WDB. This also includes
training of hand pump caretakers so that communities in
remote areas depending on hand well for their drinking
water could maintain and attend to the running repairs
of hand pump installation. This programme is also closely
associated with the health and sociological aspects of
the rural water supply schemes for which sociologists have
been recruited by WDB. WDB has also carried out demonstra-
tion in collaboration with Health Department on low cost
latrine construction and hand pump maintenance programme
under DANIDA/FINIDA assistance. Two workshops have been
put up in the Matale and Polonnaruwa districts for this
purpose.



- 57 -
6.12  Since commencement of implementation of this project,
there were many foreign training programmes funded by
various foreign donor agencies in which WDB staff partici-
pated and b-nefittod considerably. A part of training
components of the credit too was utilised to send WDB's
staff for training abroad. The details of foreign
training given to WDB staff under this project (IDA credit
1041-CE) is presented in annex. 15.



- > 
ViI    PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
ProJection ObJectives
7.01   The main objectives of the project were a) to provide
a 24 hour potable water supply to Colombo city, Towns South
of Colombo and Towns North of Colombo b) to improve sewerage
service in Colombo Municipality area c) to provide new
sewerage service to densely populated parts of Dehiwela -
Mount Lavinia Municipal area and to most parts of Kolonnawa
Urban Council area d) to extend consumer metering and meter
rectification e) to improve billing and collection on water
and sewerage services and thereby improve financial recovery
f) to strengthen the institutional capabilities of WD8
g) to prepare water supply and sewerage component designs
for future implementations.
Project Achievements
7.02   The project achievements in respect of the above
objectives are discussed as under.
Service levels in Greater Colombo Area
7.03   With the commissioning of Ambatale intake, modified
treatment plant at Ambatale, Kolonnawa reservoir and booster
pump house, water service in Greater Colombo area is expected
to improve considerably. The quality of water supplied
from Labugama and Kalatuwawa has al30 been improved consider-
ably after rehabilitation of headworks under Japanese aid
in early 1986. However, supply from these sources has been
reduced by at least 0.5 mgd on account of increased retention
time in the sedimentation tank and the construction of a
full treatment plant facilities at Kalatuwawa and Labugama
respectively.



7.04   The sewerage service in Colombo Municipal area has
been tremendously improved since commissioning of pump
houses (new and renovated) and two sea outfalls. CMC is
in the process of soliciting application for property
sewer connections within Colombo Municipality including
newly sewered Mattakkuliya area. At present CMC operates
and maintains sewer system with its staff under the super-
vision of toreign contr4ctors who are financed by WDB.
7.05   Sewer system in the new area such as Dehiwela -
Mount Lavinia MC, Kolonnawa UC will become operative once
issues are settled between MLGH&C, WDB and LAS. In the
mean time WDB is in the process of inviting applications
from property owners in these areas for property sewer
connections.
7.06   At present it is neither possible to dertermine
the se'rvicc demand of property owners for connections in
the severed area, nor the degree of improvement in water
service in the project area as a result of commissioning
the new intake and modified treatment plant at Ambatale.
Consumer MeterinRt/Meter Rectification
7.07   The metering programmue carried out under First Water
Supply Project (IDA credit 709-CE) had to.face high incidentrm
of consumer complaints on account of many meters installed
(upto3o in some areas) being defective. The public protests
on defective meters and resistance to pay for the water
billed excessively buscame so strong, that made GSL to intervene
and order WOD to charge only a flat rate of Rs. 150/u per
mnonth from those consuemrs who complaint of excessive billing
due to defective meters until all such meters are repaired
or replaced with new meters. It is therefore still early
to predict as to whether consumer complaints will cease or
reduce once the meter rectification is completed by March,
1987.



- 60 -
Billing and Collection of Water and Sewer Service
7.08   WDB's revenue on sale of water which showed low
figures at the beginning of 1'84 picked up an upward
increase when WDB conmmnced disconnecting defa%4ters'
supply mains. The level of revenue collection there-
after remained fairly steady until GSL compelled WDB
to charge a flat rate of Rs. 150/- from those consumers
who complain of excessive billing. WDB's revenue on
sale of water is expected to improve once the ceiling
on billing of above mentioned category of consumers is
lifted and the necessary amendments in the Board Act of
1974 are made empowrering WDB to take stern action against
defaulters.
7.09 WDB is now in the process of :
a.  Soliciting applications from property owners
for sewer connections and
b.  Formulating a suitable tariff structure for
sewer service.
It is     therefore not possible now to indicate the quantum
of revenue that WDB will receive out of sewer services
provided in the project area.
Institutional Development
7.10   Strengthening of WDB's institutional, financial
and managerial capability was one of the main objectives
of this project. Since late eighties WDB has undertaken
a large capital investment programme in the Project Area
as well as other areas throughout the Island, financed
by foreign donors, to improve service le-.  islandwide.
However, WDB has failed at the beginning itself to develop
the financial planning expertise to carry out a proper
evaluation of the impact of such large capital investment



- 61 -
programme on recurrent operation and maintenance costs.
Most of the foreign donor agencies too fail to look into
this aspect when they finance such projects. The deep
well programme that is being implemented by WDB under
tho assistance of FINIDA, DANIDA and Japanese Government
etc. is a classic example of such   projects.
7.11   WDB's deficit subsidised by direct and indirect GSL
grants which escalated from Rs. 34 million in 1980 to
Rs. 141 million in 1983 were reduced to Rs. 127 million
in 1984 and Rs. 149 million in 1985. Preliminary figures
indicates a 1986 not loss of Rs.288-million. Further,
WDB expects to eliminat, its operating deficit by 1987 and
will be able to meet the financial covenant under this
project by 1989.
7.12   WDB is heavily   dependent on foreign technical
assistance and support services in the implementation of
major projects with the objective of strengthening its
institutional capability. WDB, in general has benefitted
immensely from training and technical assistance provided
under this and other foreign aided ppojcts especially
in the area of project appraisal, implementation, finance
and construction management and operation and maintenance.
7.13   The USAID project that is being implemented at a
cost of US. 19.6 million is directed on the institutional
strengthening of WD8 through amalgamation of Project
Section and Non-Project Section, consolidation of supplies
and stores units with finance to form a Commercial Section,
and decentralisation of control and decision making and
restructuring of the organisation from one oriented towards
design and construction to one which will ba mainly oriented
towards operation and maintenance. Special attention is
being paid to a) Management b) Human Resources Development
c) Financial Accounting Practices d) Operation and Mainte-
nance d) Commercial Activities f) Investment Planning and



Programming g) Health Ed4cation and Community Development
and h) Rural Sanitation. Under this project special
emphasis is also given to- water quality control, process
control, operational performance monitoring, public
relations, maintenance ma)agement systems, maintenance
workshops, transport and communication. WDB and USAID
consultants are now in the process of setting up   Regionnal
Support Centre in the Matara region as a model to implement
the above mentioned objectives. Once a RSCf is established
successfully in Matara region it will be extended to the
Kandy and Anaradhapura regions as well.
7.14   The bilateral assistance to WDB through GSL is
also being given by Peoples Republic of China, Denmark,
U.K., Finland, France, Federal Republic of Germany, Japan,
U.S.A., Netherlands, Norway and Sweden in amounts varying
from US$. 1 million to USS. 10 million per project, to
improve water supply and sanitation service level islandwide.
7.15   In July, 1986 IDA approved a credit of US$  37 million
to finance the Third Sri Lanka Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (IDA credit 1700-CE) which requirel WDB to meet
its recurrent costs in the Project Area by a combination
of increased service charges and subsidies from GSL.
7.16   In November, 1986 ADB approved a loan of US$  37.5
million to finance rehabilitation of 30 - 40 water supply
schemes to serve a population of 800,000 in various parts
of the island. The project will optimize the use of
existing facilities through rehabititation and provide
some new facilities with   minimum investment.



- 63 -
7.17   Man power shortage in WDB was aggra&wted by the
loss of senior professional staff following civil riots
of July, 1983 and the subsequent unstable political
situation prevailed in the country in the wake of terro-
rist activities in the North and East resulting in
constraints in its execution and management capability.
This combined with WDB's change of emphasis from major
construction activities to rehabilitation of existing
facilities and operation and maintenance activities is
meant that the senior management to spread itself much
more thinly to address opeL zion and maintenance, finan-
cial and commercial activities in addition to the manage-
ment of capital investment prograinue.
7.18   The water supply and sewerage component design
works undertaken and are being carried out by various
consultants will provide the basis for the implementation
of IDA assisted Third Sri Lanka Water Supply and Sewerage
Project. The details of works and consultants employed
under the Technical Assistance Programme, is presented
in Annex. 7.



- 64 -
VIII   CONCLUSION AND LESSOr5S LEARNED
8.01   The project will be of tremendous use in improving
water supply and sewerage services in Greater Colombo
area, but these objectives have been achieved two and
a' half (2h):. years later than the appraisal time and
at a much higher cost than the original estimate.
8.02   In retrospective, the original four and half years
project implementation schedule was overly optimistic
as demonstrated by the two and a half (2h)   years delay
in completion.
8.03   From the previous chapter it could be inferred that
a detailed study of various categories of contractors
available locally and abroad and preparation of a prequali-
fication of such contractors list would ensure that a
project is completed within the stipulated time.
8.04   The selection of  consultants for engineering design
work should be made after a detailed study of consultants'
performance and experience in a country like Sri Lanka.
In the present system of appointing consultants, there
is no guarantee for designs carried out by consultants and
further there is no way of assessing the success of their
designs until the project is completed. 1.i order to have
some form of guarantee on the works of consultants a clause
should be included in consultants' agreements for insurance
cover or for delay of release of retention money until the
project is completed success2ully.



- 65 -
8.05   The Bank's relationship with the WDB was good
throughout the project execution period. The IDA
supervision mission inspected the project generally
once in every three to six months (Annex. 16) to assess
the progress achieved upto the time of such visit and
to detail short term actions that needed priority before
the next visit. Bank staff worked closely with WDB
during such supervision missions. The comments made by
IDA staff at the end of each supervision mission have
been very useful to WDB in taking appropriate steps to
improve WDB's institutional, management, financial and
operational capability.
8.06   Project financing and WDB's financial performance
were the Bank's major concerns during project execution.
Covenanted rates of return were optimistic and the covenant
along with the project financing plan should have been
modified especially after Bank's experience with WDB on
the First Water Supply Project under credit 709-CE. The
Bank continuously pressurised WDB to take appropriate
measures to improve WDB's performance on institutional,
management, finance, metering, billing and collection and
operation and maintenance of water supply systems.
8.07   The procurement procedures involving Cabinet
Appointed Tender Board need to be reviewed to ensure a
quicker selection on responsive bids.
8.08   The major lesson to be learned is that projects
that need financing by the Banks should be selected jointly
by the Bank and GSL/WDB after carefully considering their
merits in regard to priority, needs and viability. The
financial incapability shown by the Dehiwela - Mount Lavinia
MC and Kolonnawa UC to meet recurrent cost of operation
and maintenance and loan repayment for sewerage service
amply demonstrates this point.



- 66 -
8.     Augmentation of water supply will be of no use if no
adequate measures are taken to (a) minimise the waste
in the system by systematic teak detection programme
and (b)    install bulk meters to determine the quantity
of water supplied to  various   zones in the system.
8.10   Cost over runs and design changesenountered in the
course of project implementation calls for adequate
detailed preparation and cost estimate before project
appraisal.
8.11   The importance and necessity of social economic
surveys in the project area to determine water supply and
sewerage service demand pattern was again amply demonstrated
by the apparent financial incapability shown by the Dehiwela
Mount Lavinia MC and Kolonnawa UC to meet recurrent cost
of operation and maintenance and loan repayment.
8.12   The project also illustrated the needs for greater
selectively in assessing contractors' and consultants'
capability based on their past experience to undertake
jobs of this nature.
8.13   More consideration:nnthe size of civil works
especially on water supply components would have had wider
and better international response which would certainly
have improved project implementation.
8.14   The importance and need of project co-ordination
and- planning was not fully realised by WDB .at the out set
which resulted in delays due to land acquisttion problem,
lack of access to sites, delayed approval for road excava-
tion, railway and bridge crossings etc. delayed power
supply to the State,agency and related problems



- 67 -                      Figure 1.1
/  Se  km
.          4<       \         t    ~~~~BAY  OF  'BENGAL
IULF OF MiANNAR  
.6 QCuN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ud u
790hl 0                              { SAnE  SRI LNA          WATERl
FiSP  Bm    S                      R EP E
LOCATION OP THE PROJECT AREA
1GO                                             IlaINO-H   kJETAE
COLO~~~~~~~~~~.



IQURR 2 -
say Of
BENGAL
TOWER a moos~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ar 
RESERVSIR                                         CHUC HILM a
TRASMISSON AND ^RTREATMENT PL A CL
.. s               t>                         IR   p tr :
kOLL        Am-                                                    rwATE  T  IS
RAWA                                      U    /      J/FROM KALATe WAWA
\ I / \ ~~~~~~~~~LASUGAMA RESERVOIRS
KIRILLroAP  i;p        i/7/     
PUMPING STA     TIt N                  IAER RESEROI4
WELLAWATTE                                   UMI   TA\T      *ON
,  OEHIW^^   *  (WAq RES         E                  
MOUNT -  T      .\7IFO   4AU4
LAVINIA        :      \                                    LAIBUGAMA
\   <    /)                              ~~~~~~~~~~RESERVOIRS
. 2  t                ~~~~SRI LAN KA
%  >\    1      ~~SEC>ON  WATER SUPPY8 5SWERAGE PROJECT
\>   \    ]         6~~~REATER COLOMBO AREA WATER SOURCES
\  5  9            ~~~~TRANSMISSION ANO TREATMENT fACIUtIES
MORATUWA   R E S   .      E~~~~Fxlimno   Trtr?anqtsc  Second ProJect CE 1041
\5~~~~~~~C                        11311    Treatmont Pleft
wP -5   'b3           IBt      O~~~~~~ Pumping Statione
MORATUWA                          C3 09 <         Z   RZesrvoirs
\\]xEM\S/ ° _._._ ~~~Water Main$
5&t<\   l|\t77   =  F         ~~~~Service Arears
*@4s   \\ \>  r5 > <;                 _ _       ~~~~~~~~~~~MuniCiPel Council {
5,,\gX \  Ce  >_;             ~~~~Boundorles
INDOIAN OCFOAN        0,t\       MRo0xt
\x\>                   :    ~~~~~~~~~Railways
.   PAllAWP.RA]                 Kibmeters 0°     2  3  4                .
RESERVOIR                      M iles   0              3  



- 69 -
FIGURtE 2 2
NOTHMRN
OUT FALL     >,       /Q>R  C/                           SCALE 1 50,000
INDIAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~DAP
HADOUR I  5  tM-Ti
F ~ ~~~~~~~                           ---    NEW  ORC MAINS
/    //CS-4 t  / Ac
j ISLANT NG PVAPSATION
POLWATTE ~ ~     ~      ~      **  XSTN  UM  TAIN
CSLLArTT      SECNE-   SR  LN              WATER
OCEAN       E \CFM-T I |
!               C"1-5+   )         1   /M 5               LEGEND
S BAaBLAPTURtAY  =   EXISTERO  SEWER LIE
O C    tSEW  \;        , NEW SEWERS
tN  COLOMBOt   ^ ---- NE FORCIE MAN
AREA\ tt   v   * NEW PUMP STATIONS
>9ws~~~SO PUMPOGSTATION           (1 EXISTING tP JMSTATIONS
CflX 9 \t  ytr                  r~~~~~~ EXISTING PUMP STATINS
SOUTHERN       w     LLAWATTE    SE CO NED S Il LAN KA   WATE R
6UTr fALL  '-SUPPLY  &f SEWA RAGE  '
|\            ~~PROJECT SEWERAGE WORKS
IN COLOMBO MUNICIPAL-TY
.                              ~~~~~AREA*



- 10 -
PIGURE 2 a
FIGURE
_E  J ANGA
SCALE 0'1150
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f:
PUMPING STATION
L EGEND
_ . _.,,___  COLOMBO MUNICIPAL
COUNCIL SOUNDARY
*. -   -   DRAINAGE BOUNDARY
-@----~- '   EXISTING  SEWER LINES
NEW SEWER LUNES
*   PUMPING STATION
SECOND SRI LANKA WATER
SUPPLY a SEWARAGE PROJECT
SEWERAGE WORKS IN -
MATTAKKULI'YA WITHIN  C*M*C
AREA



N.                               e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
TIEXTU- C BOUNDARIES
LEGEND~~SEF~AE    OKSI
FOCTO MAIN
STTO    HUPN  At AON
dOV                                  SEWRAGTPRJEC
.O    AKOLONNAWA  URBAN COUNcI
ARE a



LEGEND
SEWER LINES
- -- -    FORCE MAINS
DRAdNAGE AREA OUNDARES
(         LQdRINAGE AREA NUMBERS
_        PUMPING STATION INW)
TO OUT FALL HEAD WORKS AT
WELLAWATTA
-~ ~~ -
'iVD14JV      EA ly                                                               -
SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY                           CA
a SEWERAGE PROJECT-
SEWERAGE WORKS IN-DEHIWALA Mt- LAVINIA
MUNICIPAL COUNCIL AREA



- 73 -
SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY a SEWARAGE PROJECT-COMPLETION REPORT
CQONSTRUCTION-SCHEDULE- APPRAISAL  & ACTUAL                                                              rio   s.
CALMAR  tAN* ."0 sN oE LAMA    #     ro*      19     S13 |     43        4  |15            5 I6s     9      .955
I   A.rScA      n           lost I go         -gas '  I,  6   ,  I ,,
." Tel      _              31_ _i_  $I2 ,, ,14 I jai_ 141          3   ,  T 3 3          4        4
MAEIN  ITU 
TN NhhSO    MAM                                                              _____     _______i_ _ _ _ _
S PmooiPillN8  IPO STAMIN  Np
* ~    ~        ~~                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ _   I     , _   ,     
"4t1"4"^                      _           _         I                      I     iS
*        C~~IOSAIS OUTFALLS
"41"~~~~~ _ ____=| 
APO" AISAL                                                   ACTUAL
~~~~otiug              estRieoto,ost  n , l .w
S APPR OVAL
assme   6100t11  a coweacy A%owA                             (t3YiZU   _Soo  a coNTACT  wAAst_
~ml=on    MATS RIALS a iOJilpmeN? maNVPAC?unE                 M--I      ~I,I.ThIALS & E0OWPMSN? MANUPACTJU
SUPPLY  4, VISIALLAIION                                     SUPIDLY 0 INSTALLAlTION
MPZA=Lf   CIVIL  WORKS COWS?RUOCTIU                           O= cviL WORKS CONSTRUCTION



THE SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT. PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD-IN MAY 1980
THE  MINTRY OFLOCALGOVERNMENT
L HOU3NO AND CONSTRUCTION.
|THE ATIONAL VATERSUPY
ANDDRANAOE  BOARD
.    CHAIRMAN OF THE BORD!
* r-                                1'* AUDITOR
GENERAL MANAGER
LVOR SHOS AN D  =                                                 SOUTN Wm COAST
tA                                                                              A 9 U~~~~~IAMIISRTIN
FtNANCE                          DEj SS            TNO    CE       SlOUT                 SENIOR P.O
.OP ECU  SUPL           I Q o       Nm   RPWS   WAE   SEWER..I GrNM  REIkY. REIOM IWG    CETF  r;i  7Lad                           
LI                   . 1                     PROJECTI~~~~~~WET  EC
EM       AG a -  a*reC    G,        E Manag.  CE - C  EgI_        RPYtS - Rra PIed W E_upl           GCW- Groun We_ 
DGU-  Depal Gnr Mmnege.F



*  NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY a DRAINAGE B6ARD ORGANIZATION STRACTURE
a_marl  C LOCiS GOVT INGUUS_                       j
CO"STRUCTON |
El    $ s 0 a
MA<L  Fl"T.  _                                 T&T ot _e
LEsSmIIIILS*'  nuascl                PUAL  - i  low
ItX  ^"L "" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ V.04*M              T  om
F  A-4-0  1 r -Aa    as r.
mm.~ ~~                      I              "_Trl             x
. , . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o ew 36W          w  
$CT~~~S. ::Izz.-                      . 
rizzj                    L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i]  3*113~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



SECOND SRI LANZA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT CaOPLETIO  REPORT
PROJECT ELEIENTS
*ITBSE  OF WORKS INPL NIED UNDER SFD LOAN  11130
COMPONENT                    LOCATION         I       AT APPRAISAL                     ACTUAL                      FUNCTION
SIZE/CAPACITY                   SIZE/CAPACITY
1   WATER SUPPLY
GREATER COLOIIBO AREA
1.  River water intake . South bank of Kelani    305 mid (67 Imgd) capact-JIntake structure capacity  To extract water from
pumping station        Ganga at Ambatale adja- ty intake structure.           305 mid.  Initial pumping  Kelani Ganga and convey
cent to the existing      Initial pumping capacity  capcity 129.6  mid              it to A batale treat-
intake                    to be 130 mld               I                             _nt plant
2.  Rivur water main &   Main from intake at Kel 1200 ms dia. 800 m long  '1200 -m  dia  D.1. pipes    To convey raw water from
flow distributor      Kelani Ganga to Ambata- 0.1. or steel pipes 305  1627 m long.  305 mId rein- Kelani Ganga intake to
to treatment plant.        Id (67 ImgdI reinforced  f orced concrete flow           &Pubatale treatment plant
rlow distributor at        oncrete flow distributor distributor                     and to distribute the
Ambatale treatment plan                                                             flow to existing & new                a
re treat. ment units
3.  Settling tank          Ambatale treatment tank 122 mlid (27 mgdl concrete 02 Mos. 40 m die. * 7 m    T  clarify the chemscd-
_  ettling tanks 02 Mos.    ieep concrete settling        ly treated raw water
;ach 40 m dia. * 7 m deep.tanks.capacity of 122 mid   rior to filtration.
o increase the total        27 mgd)
settling tank capacity to
307 mid ('I Imgd)
4.  Rapid sand silters   A-batale treatment          #4odification of existing  Modification of existing   ro produce clear water
lant                     12 Nos. filters to allow a12 Nos. filters to filter  for conveying to the
,igher rate of filtration.204.6 mld (44.9 lmgd)           Jreater Colombo distri-
|Ipgraded capacity to be   I                               ution system.
305 mlid  45 lmgd)                                       [
5.  Chemical facilities    batale treatment          sncrease the chemical feedlIncrease chemical feed             aid in water treat-
plant                     fapacity to cater the        Icapacity to cater expandedinent and prodoce a
expanded plant capacity by plant capacity by install-disinfected non corro-
installing additional        xng ad l. chlorinators,   sive treated water.                    3>
chlorinators. alum pumps,  alu  6 lime pumps & equkp-
lime pumps, mixer and        mnent.                                                            a
associated equipment                                     "
i  i                     i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1.                       .                            }                                  ^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l



SECOND SRI LAMA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERACE PROJECT
PROJECt CO0PLETION REPORT
PROJECT BLU909!ff--.- 
*ISms Or WORKS DOPLEHENTED U14=  SFD LOAN  1/130
CONPOWENT                  LOCATION                 AT APPP'ISAL                   ACTUAL                    FUNCTION
SIZE/CAPACITY                 SIZE/CAPACITY
6.  Treated Water pumping    A now pumping station   Extension of the oxistin  Ext-nsion of existing           To transfer water from
stations                  at Asbatala treatment   reinforced concrete          reinforced concrete pump  Ambatele t&eetmeet
plant                    pumping station to acco-  station to accomodate 4   plant to Kolonnewa
modate 4. pumps. 3.ps  ps, -pumps. 3-pumps of capaci- reservoir.
having capacity of 30 ml ty 30.5 old
6.7 Ingd) to be install
od initially.
7.  Treated water transmis- irrom Ambetale water        500 _ & 600 _ dia. 7 k  500 & 600 _ di&. D.I.    To convey water from
Sion main                      aing station to     long. D0I. or steel pipes pipes 6782 m long. Capaci Aabetale treatment
Kolonnaw  reservoir      to lay below ground.        ty of transmission 360    plant to Kolonnawa
Capacity of transmission  old (6.7 Imgdl               reservoir.
to be 30 mid 16.7 Imgd)
6.  lolonnaw  reservoir       Kolonnawa                 Rinforced concrete stor- Reinforced concrete stor- ITo provide storage
g  tank with a capacity  age tank capacity 6.3 mld capecity from which to
f 11.0 million 1. Dimon- dimensions 44.55 m x 23.85supply to the existing
ionsere 43 u dia. 6 7 m x 8 a                        wat-r towr.
eep
9.  Boost-r pumping station  Adjacent to the reser-   einforced concrete pump- Relnforced concrete pump iTo transfer water from
voir at Kolonnawa         ng station. To be insta- *tation to instal 4 pumps Kolonnawa reservoir to
led with 4 sets ot pumps   Nos. pumps with capacityexisting.water towers
sign capacities - 7.3    .257 old to pump water t  A' and ''.
Id (1.6 lmgd) to be pum- tower GI 1 2 Not. pumps
d to tower 'A' & 16.3   1apacity 16.156 old to
Id (1.6 Imgd) to be pum- sower G2
to tower 'B'           |
10. Transmisiton mains e        rm  Xolonnawa reservoir 00 m  and 500 _ die. 2.900 no   500 _m die. 2544 po_convey water from
o distribution system      long 0.1. or stoel         long 0.1. pipes instal- Ilonnawe reservoir to
ipes to be installed       ad below ground            lieter tower 'Al and to
elow ground                I                          Kolonnawa distribution
system.
.. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



S5m0ND SRI L1iA WATER SUIPPLY AND SClWAGE PROJECT
PIOJECT Cl4PL3tIOI REPORT
*RJCT EITNS
*ITES OF WORKS IHPLIETD UIOE6 SFD LOAN  1/130
CONPWI%T                    WOCATION          |      AT APPRAISAL                    ACtUAL                    FUNCTlON
SIZE/CAPACITY                  SIZE/CAPACITY
SWERAGE
COLON8O
1.  Seterage collection        Colombo                   Reconstruction of 4.5 km  Reconstruction of 4.5 km  Collction and trensmis.
system                                               of existing sewers         of existing sewers &         sion of sevage
(sixes varying from 300   construction of 13 km of
_ dia. to 1600 _ di-. '   sewers sizes varying fron
and cinetruction of 15.3  700 _ to 1600 no
km of sewers (sizes vary
ing from 300 to 800 _
die.) to cater for a
designed population of
Sewage pumping                         ~~~~~770.000                       eitn   upn
2 * sewage pumping                                      lModifications/improvemen  Hodifications/iiprovemen-i
stations (SFD i/130)                                 ts to.existing pumping    ts to existing pumping
stations                   stations
Northern outCall           Nadampitiya               324 mid                    Madampitiya 324 mid
Harbour                   121 oid                    Harbour      121 mid
maligawatte                12 mId                    laligawatte  12 mid         Colloction of sewage
Vystwyke                   39 mId                    Vystvyk*       39 mId        frao  Colombo Hunicipal-
Southorn outfall           Borella                   104 mid                    Borella       104 mid        ity and convey to ocean
Thimbirigasyaya           104 mid                    Thimbirigasyaya 104 mld   o.tfa
Polvatte                  131 old                    Polwatt*    131 mld
Sabalapitiya               40 mid                    Bambalapitiya    40 mid
Wellawatte                 19 mid                     tellavatte        19 mId
S 8                       Construction of a new      Noev pumping station with
pumping station with a    432 mId pumping capacity
capacity of 432 mId.
3.  Sewage force mains         Colombo                   Construction of D.1. forc*Conutruction of D.1. forcoTransmission of sewage
Imains of 16 km long, die, mains of 17.466 km long. to ocean outfalls
|varying from 400 an to    dia. varying from 400 to
11500                      1 1500 -
4  ocean outfalls             jColombo North             Construction of two rein- 2 No. reinforced concrete Disposal of sewage                 !1!
(SF0 1/130)               jColombo South             forced concrete ocean      ocean outfalls 1500 m
l ~~~~~~outfalls  ISOO mmdia. &   di&.  2 km 6 1.4 km long o
2 km & 1.4 km long respec- respectively
tively



SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT ELEMENTS
*ITEMS OF WORKS IKPLEMENTED UNDER SFD LOAN 1/130
COMPONENT                  LOCATION         |       AT APPRAISAL                  ACTUAL                    FUNCTION
____ _   I SIZE/CAPACITY  I          SIZE/CAPACITY
KOLOtAWA
S. Sewage callection         Kolonnawa                 Construction of sewers   Construction of sewers -  Collection bfsvwagn  --
system                                              5.5 km long to cater for 17.56 km long with dia.    from Kolonnawa
'a designed population of varying fro 200 - to
49,400.  Dia. varying    250  m
from 200 _ to 250 -
6 *Sevag* pumping station   Kolonnwa                   Construction of 3 sewage Pumping stations with         Puoing sewage to Colombo
(SP0 1/130)                                         pumping stations with    capacities 4.2. 4.7 6 3.7  sewage disposal system
capacities of 4.2. 4.7   were constructed.               -
& 3.7 mdd.
7. Sewage force mains        Kolonnawa                 Construction of V.I.      0.1. force mains 1.93 km STrnamission of sewage
_         force mains I km long    long with dia. varying        to Coloebo sewage dispo-
with dia. varying from   from 100 -to 150 m            al system.
100 me to 150 -
MOUNT IAVINIA
8. Sewage collection         Mount Lavinia             Construction of sewers   Construction of sewers        Collection of sewage
system                                              of 20 km long with dia.  22.588 km long di&. from   from part of of Mount
varying froa 200 - to   200 m  to 600 -                Lavinia
600 m  to cater a popu-
lation of 39.000
9.-Sevage pumping station   Mount Lavinia              Construction of 2 sewage Construction of 2 No.         Pumping sewage to South-
(SFD 1/130)                                         pumping stations with    sewage pumping stations.   ern outfall
capacities of 22 old &  iCapacities 45 & 22 mId
45od Io
10 Sewage force main        -ount Lavinia              Construction of 3.3 km   Construction of 3.4 km        Transmission to South-
ID.I. sewer force mains   long D.I. force main dia.  *rn outfall
with dia. of 250 m  to   varying from 250 _  to
400 m                     '400 _s
I_~~~~~~~~~ I
-. ~       ~         _ _-                       _  __.I.7--_....



Annexure 3
Page 1 of 2
SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COMPLETION DATES FOR MAJOR PROJECT COMPoNENTS
PROJECT C WI o1 W          APRAISAL              ACTUAL
A.  WATER SUPPLY
1.  River intakes and
transmission mains
i.  Material & equip- September 1983         January 1987
ment manufacture,
supply S installation
ii.  Civil works        March 1984            January 1987
construction
2.  Ambatale Treatment
plant and pumping
station
i.  Material & equip- March 1984             January 1987
ment manufacture,
supply & installation
ii.  Civil works        December, 1983        December 1985
construction
3.  Kolonnawa pumping
station and reservoirs
i.  Material & equip- December 1983          January 1987
ment manufacture,
supply & installation
ii.  Civil works        June 1983             January 1987
construction
B.  SEWERAGE
1.  Sewage collection
system
i.  Material & equip- Jure 1983              September 1987
ment supply
ii.  Civil works        J4a. 1984             September 1987
construction
2. Sewer Renovations
i.  Material & equip- March 1982             September 1987
ment supply
ii.  Civil works        June 1983             September 1987
construction



- 81 -                    Annexure 3
Page 2 of 2
PROJ3C  CKOIU              APPRAISA              ACTUAL
3. Sewago pumping
stations
(under Saudi Fund)
i. Material & equip-
ment supply            June 1984             May 1986
ii. Civil works
construction           March 1984            May 1986
4. Ocean outfalls
(financed by Saudi fund)
i. Material I equip-
ment supply            June 1983             December 1986
ii. Civil works
construction           June 1984             December 1986



SECOMN SRI LA1EA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REtfORT
scREOLE or CONTRACTs
I   CONTRACT AWARD       I S IGNED        CONTRACT COMPLETION               CONTRACT AWARD
ICOtNTRACT   -                    _ _ _      _ _ _  _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _
CONo. C T    DESCRIPTION            EDATE                     ITO I.D.A. AGREEMENT      ED       !ACUALLT   LOCAL       FOREIGN COST
(DAT8.   (DAtE)   0 (DATE) 1COMPLETEDCONSR18U  FUU1X    U.S a
,  _  __  I ___ ____ - i --- - TEk _ {DbTEIT )t7L0"_".,_CU1ONI6 WMCY  EOUIY ANS
10    Procurement of pipes,       11  )4arJ               125 Hay    11 Sp pt  125 Jan.   25JAd   i672.483/, J r. f171,055.
fittings & valves for raw 1982    *                 '1982      11982      !1983      1981       ,   -     2il 161 6f 0j
water pipe line & tran1-
missFion!!  
11    Construction of raw water . May                     117 June   25 Oct    30 June   30 Jan.  ;9058,8321jNil           |Nil
_   plpq.' inz & transmission  1983                      1983       1984       1986      11987
12    Procurement & installa-   22 Feb.                   121 May    10 Feb.   30 June  131 March  1,100,00011.Rs.          1.056 5464
tion of raw water intake  1982                      :1'2        1985      1986      11987                 i8.940.082/.
pump station
13   ,Construction of raw water 2j Feb.                   .21 May    17 March 'Terminated             29.528.4S2k.
intake pump station         1982                     1982       1985      on 17 Apr.                     1I6S,439.45                     t
198S                                                  
do -             ;2 July                    9 Aug      17 July   2 March   Terminated22,117.055Nil          INil
(Reawarded)                 1985                    . 1985      1985      1986      -on 27 Jan.
.   .      .                                                    I I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1986   
-do-               20 May                   10 July   30 Sept.  31 Jan.   31 March  25,000,000Nil            Nil
1986                     1986      1986       1987       1987
14    Supply i installation of  14 June                    3 Oct.    4 June    31 March  31 Jan.   Nil           IPs.       379,901.29
of mchanical & electricall983                        1983       1985      1985       1987                  3,940.090   .
equipment at Ambatale
clear water pump station
& Kolonn-wa booster pump                                                                                                        i
ffstation!'                                                                       
15A  'Construction of Kolonnawa 26 Oct.  t                  3 Dec.  '31 Oct.               TrminatedlS,S71.754/95 Nil  ,Nil
'reservoir 4 booster pump  1982                       .982       1984                 on 31 Oct.
station                                                                              1983
- do -             20 Apr.                  24 Sept.  28 Feb.   15 July  ,31  arch  10.671,802Nil            Nil
1984                     1984      1985       1986      j1987       revised to
11.036.557l
I          on 13.2.64
158  iConstruction of Ambatale .26 Oct.                    20 Dec.  126 Oct.   i0 Sept. 131 Jan.   904 192.90Nil            Nil
iclear water pump station .1982                       1982      .1984      1985       11987
l.                                            I          I          i                     I          I         1 



SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWeRAGZ PROJECT
PROJDCT COMPLETION EPOCtT
___________________                 SoIEDE     EOF  CONTRACTS_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
.~~~~~~~~~ __
CONTRACT AWARD       SIGNED         CONTRACT COMPLETION              CONTRACT AARD
NO.SRAC1    DESCRIPTION           DA     I.             TO I D. A. jIGREEMENT      ED  ACTUALLY   LOCAL        roSIS  COST
L_NO.                                                     ( IDATE)    (DAr)    (DAME) COMLETED  ,ONTRIBU-  EUTr5   U.1S.*
16    Installation A construc-  30 Aug. I                13 Dec.   30 Aug.   31 June  31 March   14,431,5  1U.S$.   2.14S,65S.
I tion of Aataln  treat-   1982                     1982      1984       1987     1987                  2,146,65 .60    60
snet plant - modificatin
S. OutIme!on
103   laying-of -saer.melns.-! 1. Oct. I9 Nov.   14 Sept.   4 July   30 Sept.   110,667,  9 C.S   1.408,529
force mains               1982                     1962      1985     11986      1967                  27,24,8<        .73
112   Sewr cloening eqdipmnt t 12 Aug                    22 Sept.  10 Oct              10 Oct.   90,725.4  U.S.$.   522125la
DSFD                              1982                    1982     a1963 8193                      I          522,125/
1/130)118                                                                      a1
101   Construction of ocean      29 June                 4 July    31 Hey    31 HNy   31 Dec.    156,714, 0 L         4,3S9,S77/
ISFD    outfalls at Colowbo Morth 1983                     1983      1966       1986     1986                  2.729,004                      co
1/130) |  Colo  South                             1                                                 I                                         .1
102   Construction of sewag      29 July                                                          5 19,969,715U.S.$
(SF0    syitem pt~~~~~~ stat ~~19 Oct.   1 Aug.   a31 Une   30 June    9.6,IlS..                         11.440,474
(StrD    eyet"t pumsp stastions at   1982                  1982      1965       1986     1966                 1t.440.47
1 )30)  Colombo, Kolonnawa                                          I 4                             I
Mount Lavinia                                   I                                I                              I
I    ..                   .         ;                    .         |          I       :1¢~~I 
.~~~~~~~__   ..I...,.1,,__                                              i                                              *0*~              ILw
t            i          i:-           I         I      --l           1          !        :1         1- 1  1 
.  . ~ ~~~~                 .                                   --



SCOIO SRI LAIA WTER SUPPLY AMI SEUMRA4G PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SCHEDULE OF CONTRACTS -AWARDED 6 SlGD    R   1/9/6
CONtRACT AWARD        SIGNED         CONTRACT COMPLETION               COITRACT AMARD
409RC                                      I              CONTRACTI
ICOITRAC       ,EStRIPTSON            DATES   1                 I.D.A. -AGREEMENT  XTZND&O  ACTUALLY  !LOCAL         FOREISN COST
NO.                                                          (DATE)    (DA'E       I DATE1 |COtPLETED CONTRIBU-            U 5
! ~   ~     ________ ____ ;_                                  _____el_ J.DATE.L                           RS    ilRREI@C  00!VXL
T&C/CSA4 icro cotwutecs            j 26.6.P6 I              I 13.6S.96   26.9.86             26.2.87  12.74.500  Nil         "it
141/866                                                      
*T&C1190 Supply * inetallatiqn of  23.9.86                i   3.10.86   23.1.687              24.2.07  1423.002/ 1    .       170.6t0/-
/06      g ors                                              F                                                       119,602/
T&C/CSiJ Supply of water meters    22.9.66                    3.10.66  jZ12.86              t31.1.87  11,062,244L  b.         205,000/.
209/86!                                                                 621.6                   16
.1                                            ! ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,         I                               I.
i                               I 
TC/PDSupply of vehicles for    26.9.06                      3.10.86   26.1.87             117.4.87   88.000/.   JY         90.000/-
210/86  P III consultants                                                                   i                      12,786.800
6C/P&q,/Supply of air condition-  26.9.36                     3.10.66   30.9.86   7.11.86 115.1.87   213.750/-  Nil          il
211/1p6  *rx for P III consultants 26.9.86
T&C/CS) Rectification of water    22.9.86                     3.10.86   31.3.87             122.3.87   1.S65.864! Nil       INil
225/66 meters Unit I
SLSP/GJ NReinstate.mnt of road*    24.7.86 i                  4.8.86  1 28.2.87 t            1.6.87  153.148,053; Nil        Nil
/RR/l   damged due to trenching
for laying of -pLp                  'I 
line in  Mt. Lavinia S
Colombo areas
TGC/CS4 Rectification of water    22.9.86                     3.10.86   31.3.87 1    -       22.3.87   1,641. 976  Nil       Nil
226/861 meters Unit 2                                       *
T&C/CS/ Rectification of water    22.9.86                     3.10.86   31.3.87       -      22.3.87   1,010,680  Nil        Nil                   x
227186  meters Unit I                                                                         2          6
T6C/CSd Rectification of water    22.9.86                     3.10.86   31.3.87       -    122.3.87         1,648,030  Nil   Nil
228/86  meters Kotte                                                                       I                                          L     t  
T&C/CSO Rectification of water    22.9.86                     2.10.86 1 31.3.87       -      22.3.87        83,3N0 nil       aill
229/66w mters Dehiwla             .                                                                          36I.
T6C/CS! Rectification of water    22.9 86|                  j 3.10.866  31.3.87        -     22.3.87  I 706,980; Nil         Nil
230/86  meter. Noratuva           .                                 *I -                               I                  - 
* this contract could not be funded under tis credit   41-CE   n   the suplier coulI not delijor the                sbfor  31 3.8    |
under 1this                          _____      ~     ~     ~      ~



SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COIPLETION REPORT
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL PRC. CT COSTS
Appraisal Cost       Actual Cost        Increase/Decrease
Item          Local  Foreign      Local Foreign       Local    Foreign              Remarks
Rs. M. US$. M.      Rs. M. US.-M.       Rs. M.   US$. M.
A. WATER SUPPLY                                                                      Section A
CIVIL VORKS                                                                       In aII cases actual cost
Includes B.T.T.
Intake, liver water
transmission and
treat-ent
Intake a pumping
station            11.0   0.2          61.0   0.02         +44.0    -0.18
Transmlssion        4.0    -            3.1    -           - 0.9       -
Treatment          17.0   0.2          17.1    -           * 0.1    -0.2         Completion certificate
Lssued provision for balanc
Treated water                                                                    payment to be used from
transmission                                                                     foreign appraisal cost
US$. 0.2
Ambatale pumping
station             1.0   0.1           1.0    -              -      -0.1
Transmission mains26.0    -            12.2    -           -13.8       -                               C
Koloanawa pumping
station & reservoirS.0    -             8.2    -           + 0.2       -                               0  n
Sub Total          73.0   0.5         102.6   0.02         +29.6    -0.48



SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Cost       Actual Cost        Increase/Decrease
Item          Local  Foreign       Local Foreign       Local    Foreign              Remarks
Rs. M. USS.. Mc     Rsr M. U. M.        Rs. M.   US. H.
EQUIPlENT & MATERIAL
SUPPLY
Intake, river water                                                                                             "
transmission & troat-
sent
Intake pumping
station                -      1.6           -     1.16          -        -0.44
Transmisison maine    -       0.3           -     0.61          -        +0.31
Treat-ent              -      2.0           -     1.78          -        -0.22
Treated water
tranamisslon
Ambatale pumping
station                -      0.3           -     0.15          -        -0.15
Transmission sains    -       1.7           -     0.54          -        -0.16
Kolounava pumping                                                                                             e
station & reservoir   -       0.2           -     0.15          -        -0.05                             r '
Sub Total              -      6.1           -     4.39          -        -1.71                               1w



SECOND SRI LANMA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETIONI REPORT
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Cost        Actual Cost         Increase/Decrease
Item           Local  Foreign       Local Foreign        Local    Foreign               Remarks
Rs. M. USS. M.      Rs. M.   USS. M.
9. SElURAGS
CIVIL WORKS
Colombo
Sewage collrction
system              45.5    -            177.7   -            *132.70    -
Pumping stations
(under SID loan)  34.0    -               19.2   -            - 14.80    -
?orc, mains         12.0    -             42.4   -            + 30.40    -
Ocean outfalls
(undor SiD losn)  5S.0   1.8             292.9   -            +237.90  -l.a
*  Renovation of                                                                         tlxpemditre against renove
sewors               2.0    -              -      -           -  2.00    -            tIon of severs included
in colloctlon & forco mair
Kolonnava'
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                     U
Sevage colloction                                                                                          a  a
syston              I7.0    -             43.3 -7+ 26.30    -                                              * 4
Pumping otations                                                                                              "
(under BFD loan)   8.0    -               23.4   -            + 15.40    -                                 ° 
Force mains          1.0    -        .     2.3   -            +  1.30    -                                 -
_Cont.dA....    -



SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
- - --   PROJECT CONFLETION REPORT
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Cost       Actual Cost         Increase/Decrease
Item          Local  Foreign       Local Foreign       Local    Foreign              Remarks
. Rs. N. US$. M.    Rs. M. US$. M.      Rs. M.   USS  M. 1
Mount Lavinia
Sevage collection
system                25.0    -            20.50   -            -  4.5     -
Pumping station                                                                                                   $
(under SFb loan)      16.0    -            27.30   -            + 11.3     _                                       a
Force mains             1.0    -            5.40   -            +  4.4     -
Sub Total            216.0   1.8          654.40   -            +438.40  -1.80
EQUIPMENT & HATIRIAL
SUPPLY
Colosbo
Sevage collection
system                        1.4           -      9.04         -        +7.64
Pumping stations                                                                                            0
(under SID loan)       -      4.5           -    10.99          -        +6.49
Force mains            -      3.4           -      2.82         -        -0.58                              o
Ocean outfalls
(under SID loan)       -      7.0           -      1.16          -5.82
lenovation of sewers  -       1.9                   -            -       -1.90



SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ESTIMTED AND ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Cost      Actual Cost        Increase/Decrease
Item          -Local  Foreign     Local Foreign       Local    Foreign             Remarks
._. _. _          R.s M. USS. M.      Rs. M. US$. M.      Rs. M.   U$. UN.
Kolounawa
Sewage collection
system                 -     OS           -     2.15                  +1.65                                   0
Pumping stations
(under SID loan)       -     0.6           _     1.20          -       +0.60
Force mains            -     0.1           -     0.11          -       +0.01
Mount Lavinia
Sewage collection
system                 -     0.8           -     0.85          -          0.05
Pumping &tations
(under SBD loan)       -     1.2           _     1.48          -       +0.28
Force mains            -     0.2           -     0.30          -       +0.10
Sub Total                   21.6                30.12                  +8.52
* -
o c



SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETIOH REPOCRt
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL PROCT COSTS
Appraisal Cost        Actual Cost         Increase/Decrease
Item           Local  Foreign       Local Foreign        Local    Foreign               RerI
. -                   Rs. M. USS. 4.       Rs. M. USS.. M.      Rs. M.   US$. M.              - -
C. OTmZR ITES
Spare parts, vehicles
& oquipment               -    2.0            ^      1.0          -        -1.0
angine.ring- -
Consultants         4.0   1.5             -      1.9         -4.0      +0.4
UDB                23.0    -             23.6    -           +0.6        -
Technical assistance  22.0   2.4              1 6   t.3         -20.4      -1.l
Training                  -    1.0            -      0.2          -        -0.8
Land acquisition        15.0    -             1.76   -          -13.24       -
Harbour charges         29.0    -             0.50   -          -28.50       -
Motor rectification       -      -            7.8    -           +7.8        -
load reinstatement
after pipe laying         -      -          153.0    -         *153.0        -                                 v
Sub Total               93.0   6.9          188.26  4.4        + 95.26    -2.5
Total 'A' to 'C'       382.0  36.9          945.26 38.93       +563.26    +2.03                                HI
fl           ,n              _    



SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJEC'[
PROJECT COHPLETION REPORT
ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal Cost       Actual Cost        Increase/Decrease
- Item          Local  Foreign       Local Foreign       Local    Foreign              Remarks
Rs. M. US$. M.      Rs. M. US$. M.      Rs. M.   USS. M. 
D. CONTINGENCfIES
Physical                A4.0  1.5(E30's)   -        -          (- 14.0) (-1.5)       Tb. values of KiO's &
Price                  146.0  7.0(SSR's)   -                   (-146.0) (-7.0)        SSn* has boon included
PriCe  146.0                                   --               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~in the total value of
Sub Total              190.0  8.5            -      -          (-190.0) (-6.S        civil works.             e
Total 'A' to 'D'       572.0 45.4        945.26  38.93          +373.26  -6.47
E. CUSTOKS DUSY        177.0   -         247.0      -           + 70.0      -
P. TAXIS                10.0   -             -      -           - 10.0      -
TOTAL                  759.0 45.4        1201.26  38.93         +433.26  -6.47
'*  S
o *



- 92 -                     AnteSur* 6
Page 1 of 2.
SECOND SRI LAN"A WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJZCT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DETAILS Or DISDURSVIENTS - ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
IDA Fiscal        Estimaced cumu-   Percen-   Actual cumu-   Percen-
Year and          lative disburse   tage         lative dis-    tage
Quarter           ments at end of                bursoinont at
quarter USS. M                end of quar-
ter US$. M
1980/81
March 31 1981            0.2            1.0      Nil               0.0
June  30 1981            0.5            2.0       0.0244           0.08
1981/82
Sept. 30 1981            1.7            6.0       0.0244           0.08
Dec.  31 1981            3.4           11.0       0.0867           0.3
March 31 1982            6.1           20.0       0.170            0.6
Jutc  30 1982           9.1           30.0       0.184            0.7
1982/83
Sept. 30 1982           12.0           40.0       0.460            1.5
Dec.  31 1982           14.9           50.0       1.493            5.0
Marchi 31 1983          17.8           59.0       3.572           12.0
Jutme  30 1983          20.6           69.0       4.822          16.0
1983/84
Sept. 30 1983           22.9           76.0       5.018           16.7
Dec.  31 1983           24.8           83.0       5.828           19.4
Marclh 31 1984          26.1           87.0       6.680           22.0
June  30 1984           27.0           90.0       8.482          28.0
1984/85
Sept. 30 1984           28.4           95.0       9.885          33.0
Dec.  31 1984           29.4           98.0      11.035          37.0
March 31 1985           29.8           99.0      12.847          43.0
June  30 1985           30.0          100.0      '4.110          47.0



_ 3 -                      f            2
1985/86
Sept. 30 1985          Nil                      15.755          53.0
Dec.  31 1985          Nil                      17.021          57.0
March 31 1986          Nil                      17.386          50.8
June  30 1986          Nil                      18.895          63.0
1986/87
Sept. 30 1986          Nil                      20.552          68.0
Jan.  31 1987          Nil                      22.849          76.0
March 3. 1987          Nil                      28.49           95.0
June  30 1987          Nil                      30.00          100.0



SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY & SEiERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPOtT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECTS - FUNDED FRON IDA CREDIT 1041-CE
Field of
Specialisation           Purpose of Assignment        Period Served
Accountants              Operation & Maintenance      March 1981 to
Accounting assignment        March 1982
X
Engineering              Solid Waste Management       March - June
Study                        1982
Managemnt Advisor        Management Advisor to the   Jan. - Dec.
Chairman of NWSDB            1983
Engineering              Leak Detection Study         March 1984 -
Oct. 1984
Advisor                  Studies on improvements of  Oct. 1984
Urban & local authorities   (20 days)       P c
0
Engineering              Technical Advisor to the    15 March 1985  w
Secretary of NLGHC           to date



Field of
Specialisation           Purpose of Assignment         Period Served
Engineering              Project III preparation       Apr. - Dec.
Greater Colombo Water        1985
Supply Improvements
Engineering              Project III preparation       May - June
Colombo Surface Drainage    1985
Engineering              Project III preparation       may - Nov.
Extension of Towns North    1985
& East of Colombo
'q
Economlst                Project III Social impact   Aug. 19B6          W
& Economic analysis of       (12 dbys)
surface drainage project
Engineering              Project III preparation       Sept. - Dec.
Project co-ordinator  1985
Engineering              Project III preparation       Sept..- Oct.
Anuradhapura & Ampara Water 1985
supply schemes
Economist                Financial E Economic Study  Nov. - Dec.    My
1985                q4 I
*x
I o 
0  s



Field of
pecialisation            Purpose of Assignment         Period Servsd
Management               Pfrformance, improvement of Jain. - July
Urban E Local authorities   196S
Engineering              Large scale base mappieg    usg. 1985 -
in Urban local authorities  Feb. 19Sf
Engineering              Colombo Sewer Cleaning        ei*pt. - Dec.
1986
Engineering              Storm drainage record         June 1986 - 6
drawings                     April 1987 1
Engineering              Technical assistance &        Sept. 1986 -
Project Management of        Feb. 1987
Project III work
Valuers                  Fixed Assets register         Oct. 1986
Preparation                  to date
Accountants              Financial accountants for   Jan. 1986
Accounts division L manage- to date
ment of commercial section
of NWSDB
L.a 
U~~~ 



SECOND SRI LAMA WATER SUPPLY AM SEKAGE PROJC
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NETERING DATA DURING THE PROJECT PERIOD
IN -un GREATER COLOMO AREA
Year     Domestic   Government   Comm_rci&l   Tourist   Shipping   Industrical   Institutional  Total
End of 1981  6,196         -           1,104        15         63                          25         7.403
End of 1982  8,793         -           2,580        26-        48                          678       11.534
End of 1983  9,884         -           4,137        33         48           -              51         10,57)
End of 1984 69,356       k126          9,178        98         25          379            537        80,717
End of 1985 75.842       1.230         8,.971.      87         50          381            737        87,296
End of 1986 80,255       1,284         9,054        82         48          376            749        93,000



SECOND SRI LANlKA WATER SUPPLY AM SEVRA  PRW3Cr
PROJECT COWPLRYIOSI RUORt
WATZR P UC0 tIO1 & SUBDIG DATA DN GRBATER COLOMBO AREA DURIMN  TE PROCT P3R1D0
Item             Description                 1981           1982            1983           1984            1965            1986
Noe             Dsripon                     gals           gals,           gals.          gals.           gals.           gaIs.
I      Total water production
1.1  Ambatale                  14034 x 10'   16318 x 106    16167 x 106    15808 x 106   16131 x 10'    IS636 x 1.6
1.2  Labugama                   4396 x 106    3790 x 1V'       3660 x 106      5271 x 106    3116 x 10'       4959 a 106
1.3  Kalatuwawa                 6094 x 106    4828 x 106       6117 x 106      6510 x 106    6819 x 106       5906 x 10'
Total (gals.)                  24524 x 1o6   26936 x 106    25944 x 106    27569 x 106   26136 x 10'    26585 x I0'
2      Total Billed (gals.)             1400 x 106    2031 x 106       2694 x 106      7165 x 106   12315 x 106    163713 x 10'
3      Unaccounted (gals.)            23124 x 10    24905 x 106    23250 x 106    19824 x 106   13821 x 106    163713 x '0
4      P  eentage Accounted                                                                          52.565          61.66                              1
as
S      Total revenue billed  (Rs.)  11.685.000/a  33.949.198/-   33,226.358/.   177.212,000/- 131,164.000/-  171.461.000/ 
6      Total revenue collected(Rs.) 2,720,000/-   12,331.106/-   13,746,620/-   150.497,000/- 113.000.000/-  150.497.000/.
7      Percentage collected           22.88%          36. 3           41.37t          84.9t          62.371          27.717
Note  s  Billing   collectioms from the consumers (Domestic) was comenced only in 1964.  Prior to this only the Commercial
consumers were billed.  Hence the unaccounted percentages are not given for the years 1961 - 1964.



SECOND SRI LANKA WATER SUPPLY & SVNERAG PROJFVZ
PROJBCT COMPLETION REPCRT
GREATER COLMO  LEAK DETBCTION 8RUY
StIARY OF CHARACTERISTIC DATA - DURATION APRIL  1984 TO Dec., 19"
April - Dec.    Jan. - Dec.      Jan. - Dec.
NO.     Description           1984             1985            1986                Total
I   No. of houses inspected  3,769            4i.740           9,095               54.604
2   No. of repairs inspected 1,414            15085            3.735               20.234
3   No. of standposts/public
bath houses inspected       226            3,707             292                4,225
4   No. of connections
inspected                 1,640           18,792          4,027                24,259           e
5   Leaks un-accounted for
water
a. No. of leaks             239            2,423             363                3,025
b. Total leak sizo M3/hr 30.8             424.1           68.3                 523.2
6   Leaks accounted for water
a. No. of leaks             817            3.939             473                5,229
b. Total leak size M3/hr 38.5             824.7           87.6                 950.6
7   Leak notices issued to
consumers                   756            2,114             297                3,197
8   Defects in meter installa-
tion                         82            2,545            689                 3.316
9   Nom of unmetered premises  Not             1,648             652                2,300
recorded
10 Illegal tappings/meter
by passes                    55              250             83                   388
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



SCOND) SRI LASKA WAM  SUPPLY AM  SWZRAGE PROJCT
PROWJCt cowLz3?Z0 NPORY
LOAN R PAWIUSW (M5. WILLIOUI
CmOa     _ 756                        inIa M. WD1I - 101                  _                     - In
SMDI ?tD           ID,% 1041 CB           SME)I 116          IDM 1041 C             SNEDI FM            M  1641 C
cAulYWJEws  CAPfl             ~  SL    CAL   WAL                L  uEWJ   ?aL    CWIIIL DnU r CAP1L Pr mL
196    7.25    19.29    3.42    24.14   54.10    0.96     2.57    0.46     3.22    7.21     1.4S     3.L    0."      4.03   10.62
1967    7.91    18.62    4.76    30.63   61.79    1.06     2.48    0.64    4.06    8.24     1.56     3.72    0.96    6.13   12.36
1966    6.64    17.00    5.53    31.96   64.01    1.15     2.39    0.74    4.26    6.54     1.73     3.56    1.11    6.39   12.0
1969    9.44    17.10    6.04    31.44   64.01    1.26    2.26    0.81     4.19    8.54     1.89     3.42    1.21    6.29   12.66
m      10.31   * 16.23    6.59    30.6vi  64.01   1.37    2.16    0.88     4.13    8.54     2.06     3.25    1.32    6.16   12.6
1991- -11.26  -15.2    7.19    30.29   64.01      1.50     2.04    0.96     4.04    8.54    2.25     3.06    1.44     6.06   12.0
1992   12.29    14.25    7.8S    29.63   64.01    1.64     1.9    1.05     3.5    8.54      2.46     2.85    1.57    5.93   12.tO
1993   13.42    13.12    6.56    26.9   64.01     1.79     1.75    1.14    3.65    6.54     2.6      2.62    1.72    5.76   12.66
1994   14.65    11.69    9.37    26.10   64.01    1.95     l.59    1.25    3.75    9.54     2.93     2.30    1.67    S.62   12.66
1995   16.00    10.52   10.23    27.24   64.01    2.14     1.40    1.36    3.64    6.54     3.20     2.10    2.05    5.45   12.60
1996   17.50    9.04   11.18    26.30   64.01     2.33     1.21    1.49    3.51    8.54     3.50     1.61    2.24    5.26   12.60
1997   19.11    7.43   12.20    25.26  64.01      2.55     0.99    1.63    3.37    8.54     3.82     1.49    2.44    5.0   12.80
1996   20.87    5."    13.32    24.16   64.01     2.78     0.76    1.78    3.22    6.54     4.17     1.13    2.66    4.83   12.80                  0
1999   22.79    3.74   14.55    22.93   64.01     3.04     0.50    1.94    3.06    8.54     4.56     0.75    2.91    4.59   12.6
20a0   24.41    2.12   15.89    21.S   64.01      3.26     0.28    2.12    2.68    6.54     4.66     0.42    3.18    4.32   12.66
2001                    17.35    20.13   37.4                      2.31    2.68    5.00                      3.47    4.03    7.56
2002                   18.95    18.53   37.48                      2.53    2.47    5.00                      3.79    3.71    7."
2003                   20.69    16.79   37.48                      2.76    2.24    5.00                      4.14    3.36    7.56
2004                   22.59    14.89   37.48                      3.01    L."    5.00                       4.52    2.96    7.50
20QS                   24.66    12.80   37.4                       3.29    1.71    5.00                      4.94    2.56    7.50
2100                   26.94    10.54   37.48                      3.S9    1.41    5.00                      S.39    2.11    7.50
2C0?                   29.42     6.06   37.48                      3.92    1.07    5.00                      3.6     1.61    7.56
2006                   32.12     5.35   37.4                       4.26    0.71    s.00                      6.42    1.07    7.54
2609                   35.16     2.32   37.40                     4.69     0.31    5.00                      7.03    6.4S    7.56



LOD  SS RI &ANA VW3  sU     mm         ,g rem=
PSOJUCT CWWL!WION 3MM?
viii umin   ramm        w    N.msc
YUUI COILO NIUICIPAL COUNCIL                  ONIVILA NV- LAVINIA NNICItPAL COUNCIL        KOLUIWA  O*  CONWIL
1900                     164.773                                16.953                              SOS)
1961                     2.1.364                                15.307                              3.317
190                      316.1W                                 24.952                              6."1
193                      310.70                                 25.981                              5.514
1964                     35S.12                 ,               33.526                             5AM6
1955                     349.960                                33.903                              6.322
1906                     445.910                                49.699                              4.32S



-  102  -                         $
SECOND SRI LAIA MATZR SUPPLY AMD SVWERAGZ PROJECT
pOJRcr ComLRTION REPORT
GREAt   COWSQO S*RAG  PFROCT
Iuwrmasz oir su  piW1.4G STAT lOS VWIIIIN CMC (12 MOS.)
A_ML SUDGE? OF OP sATIOIN AND MAI        AC  COST
SALARI9S G WAGZS
Designation                  No.    Annual salary        Annual overtime
"er11A1iCal Engineer               0t        48.000/-
Electrical Engin-er                01        48.000/,
Foromnn                            02        48,000/-            19.200/.
T.cI,t:ica. Officer (Gr II)        02        44.000/-            19.200/.
Terlm,ical Officer (Gr 1I1)        11       198.000/.            66.000/.
Stovre Keeper (Gr X)               01        21.600/-             6,400/.
Store Keeper (Gr 11)               01        16.320/-             7.200/-
Hilnoe Supervisors                 02        36.24               12.000/.
Power Attendant (Cl I,Gr 1)        13       221.500/-           109,200/.
Asst. Power *   (Cl S.GrSI)        24       374,400/.           144,000/-
Drivers                            03        47.880/-            25,000/-
Fitters (Cl S, Gr SI)              02        31.200/-            12,000/-
Carpenters (C1 S. Gr 1I)           02        31.200/-             7,200/.
Mas.%ns (Cl I. Gr SS)              02        31.200/-             7,200/.
Electrician (Cl S. Gr IS)          02        31.200;.            12,000/J
Sewer Cleaners                     03        41,940/-            14.400/.
Stnrcqs'nn                         01        13,980/.             3.600/*
.Abourer (Gr II)                   45       629,100/-           270.000/-
Unskitted Labour (Gr II)          32       422,400/.           153.600/-
2.336,180/.           890.400/-      *   Rs. 3,226.580/-
Say            *   Rs. 3.300.000/.
2    MATERIAL & MAINTEN4ACE COST (ANNUAL
Peocurement of spares              * Rs.   650.000/-
Fuel                               * Rs.   200,000/-
maintieiance of vehicles           * Rs.    36,000/.
Maiutenance of buildings           * Rs.   114.000/-
TotAl                              * Rs. 1.000.000/.                               Rs. 1.000.000/.
3    Security service for 12
stittonn  4000 x 12 x 12           * Rs.   576.000/- (Say Rs. 600.000/.)   .   Rs.   600.000/.
4    Electricity                        - Rs.18,624.000/- (Say Rs.18,650,000/.) *   Rs.18.650.000/.
5    INITIAL CAPITAL COST FOR PURCHASE OF VEHICLES
01 No. Tractor                     * Rs.   300.000/-
02 No. Pick-ups                    * Rs.   700.000/-
Rs. 1.000.000/                            *   Rs. 1,000,000/.



- 103 -                    AP u ge   2
NOyMY ELECTRICITY BILL
NO. OF UNITS
PUMPING STATION      AVERAGE HP       PER MONTH        (KVA)
1    Maligawatte             100            52,000            500
2    Madampitiya             600           300,000           1600
3    Vyatwyke                  60            31,000           250
4    Harbour                  125            64,000           630
5    Borella                  125            64,000           550
6    Thimbirigasyaya           50            25,000           250
7    Bambalanitiya             30            16,000           250
8    Polwatte                 100            52,000           500
9    S - 8                    300           152,000           630
10   Wellawatte                40            20,000           250
11   Wanathamulla             25(estd.)    12,000             200
12   Slave Island             25( do  )    12,000             200
Total        800,000
Consider initial utilisation of 50% consumption units per
month and KVA rating. Rate per unit (KE HR) including
fuel adjustment charges                      -   Rs. 3.13
Charges per month on unit                    Rs. 1,252,000
Charges per month max. demand (KVA)          Rs.   300,000
Monthly Bill        Rs. 1,552,000
Annual Bill         Rs.18,624,000
(Say Rs.18,650,000/u)



SaCOIS SRI LMA WAMR SP?.Y AND SUIIM  PSWET
PNGJECT CCWPL3TIOU 63106
I1ca  STATSU   1977 - 1986
I         I    '               I                                                        196196
DnSCRUztPO                1977     1975      1it"        1t60      191        198   !9"3          194        195       I
customer siling               6,391    24,437   131.456    39.099   j41,336    63.979    77.702    224.003    255.803    209.363.
Less   O OERTING ekPNSIS  '.
N4t.rL.lo                     _         _          4,076      7.547    12,007    13.717    10,179      9.541       14.246      14.3691
Utilities                     8.606    10,973      5        1790    15,450    40.691    66,039    79.5S0    71.719  6|.404    74.949
lepairs 6 _isttnn.                                            2.724     4.792      9,573     6.912     8,557        9.50 I3  17.194
Personne  cost -             ,pg n - t             9,9U3    21.657    31.620   13.479    50,910    31.166          36.149     41.310
-Casual       _         _                     5.177      6,026    12,067    17,631    14.365       21it629     22.367
2stablishm_t expenses         2,561      4,417     9.531   I 6,643      9.661    13.177    20,977    111347         4.652      5.911
2eat rate t     ether tes       159        246     1,421      1,326   3 1,233      2,170     3.663       947        4. 206     5.072j
ra       harge                -                   -              19       . 3i    L.574      1,031    _-                   !    - 
Total directcost              1.346      3,636    30.809   062.543    10,279   1               IU 2.159    47.744  166.769    161.232
Ainistratlon ovrb.A s
(Not of transfer to coastrue
ti. V.I.P.)                            _          _          16,767    16,570     7.466      9.569    31,152       33.S43  i'41.612
Total expendituroe            1,346    23.636    30.$09    45,756   '91.709   134.400        265,4 66             194332t 225.A4.
Excess ot operating income             '                               I
ov* r  xp nditucr b foc. ebcX                               *'!
9iA9 depreciation, b d debtol!j;                                                        
*nd 1O A int*r*at            (2.ff5)       Sol    ;647    (6.657)  (50,3711  (70,421)  14p.82)   45.10?            61,471    (15.662rn
L"s ¢                 t         i         §                               s         J          0~~~~~~aa    I       ;         S
ijrs#tide            1621       5.362    i9,380   'I7. 9"    20.747    p.678   fj.652    i4,  4    '6,326 >1499571
lrovsion for doubtful debts-                                                                          I 7 -  ,-  _  -$ .55, 349  30,603
Int-rest on loans           1-         r         r                      1                   9,106    t1.684 7I2.6,,   I1,341
1frrd,Pt~jten off!                          I I                  I                              I                    17.7  2.277
iture after chaerging d.pre-1          ;
ltSn, bad 4obts  ndloan111t|     
Intcat                      13,57d)    4,561)   25.733)   A.I645)   ?1.I11), j4l02299)  146,640) '(132.339)  (15281)3 19.720  1E
Uw INt                     '         I                                        I '   .                                 . ,| 
grants (receivable by                                                                                              ; 
vt. agalnst revenue delictL 3,47.7    3,9          750   1;SO            -        5  1541,646   127605  j 14.01             21,78S
ees  In¢c_ e                    225    -            69,SS               1 849    - 1.200      4,218      4.372      3.266 1  7,26'
f  d oth   r     lvenu     -           472               1    11    11312       1I9 "a        772       964  I    600       3,137
fait 6 lose A/c balance b/4 11,973)  14,0511   63,79)   410.S18) 142.371)  4114.543) {161,S68) 125 733, ,,.,, "01)   
o  year adjustmnt             (204)      486       326    (13.276)  1(4.2151 l1.735)  113.65) 1  9,170)        164.19)
frtit & loss  A/¢ b lareJ.5(4.051)  37759)  (?0.S18)   J42,371)   114.543)  161,t6)   75 .713)  16j.601) 1(249.097) j267,5313
t  of return                          -         |-                    -                              -
rating radio                          -         -J                                           .8         5         768



S80O0D SRI LMA VA13R SUPPL AM  33133M3 FOJUC
IOJUCT CoPL 3TIOU Upon
UUAaiCz SW" 1977 - 1986 fIn M. )soe'
Year ending 31st Dec.              1977      1976       1979      1960      16el       1982      1983      1964      1965       1986
Assets a
rixed Assets a
Fixed Assts at written-down
value                           .. 5151    93.334   116,660   281,066   371,294   571,050   696.655 1.327,52g 1.313.627  4.167,072
Construction work-in- progress
etc.                              22,314    32.037   137.371   547.084 1,220,563 1,S91,155 2.007.145 2.3671.40 3,52129  2.352."6
Treasury Deposit                    -          -         -          -         -              -          -        O
Total net fixed *assts            27.465   125,371   256,031   626,152 1.591.657 2.167,205 2,751.960 3.695,206 4.695.9S   6,659.155
Current Assets t
Stocks                             6,839    24.605    51,011   114.926   246.264   232.620   167,590   199.377   174,622    I55.03a-
Debtors                           24.422    42.367    41,376    53.314    44.545    30.S22   101.707   251.936   293.002    153,519
Advance, Deposits 6 pr  payments
etc.                              13.265      8.523    41,010    55.574   110,086   138,766   303,555   333,390   304.623   260,3 .09
Cash                               6.673    14,060    11,344    11.990       7.913    43.630    48,560    40,915    56.459      28615O
Treasury                           2.419    16,612      5.469       -         -         -      187,610   154,536   169.015        -
Total Current Assets              55,616   106,386   150,210   235.804   408,806   445.538   629,042   960,154   999,721    717,025
Total Assots                      63,063   233.757   406,241 %.063.956 2,000,665 2.612,743 3,561,002 4,475.362 5.695,677  7.376,160
Eauity and Liabilities
Government Contribution             -       112,090   109,775   109,775   109.775   125,3175   165,460   16584,0   165.460    185,480
(equivalent to assets taken overl
Capital Orantn                    62.275   112.655   218,012   742,072 1,177.831 1.666.779 2.417,480 3.137,721 3.8,.202 5,965,169
Accuoulated Surplus/Deficit       14.051)   (3.7591 IIOB518)  142.372) l114.544)(161.8691  (175,732) (178.459) (2489.81)  1601t,U2)
Total Equity                      58,224   221,186   311.269   809,47S 1,173.062 1,630,285 2.427,226 3.144.749 3.825.601  5.546,767
Long-Torm LLallities a
Foreign Loan$                       -         2.,85    82,347   208.235   626.506   602,614   948.510 1.154.837 1.609,416  1,46S.654
Local Loans                         -            86        73      -          -        9.459     9.449    15,451    15.237    IS,237
Custom_ Advances forconstruction  -            -         -                                         -      110.998   131.162
Security Deposits                   -          -         -          -         -         -         -           5SO     1.276      2,543
Long-Term debt                      -         2,571    82,420   208,235   626,506   611,063   OS7.97%o 1.261,U36 1,757.111  1.486,434
Current Liabilities               24,659    10,000      6,552    46,246   201,097   171.375   19S,795   248.777       1,276    340.959
Total Equity 6 Liabilities        83,063   233.757   406,241 1.063,956 2,000,665 2,612,743 3,561,002 4.675.362 5.695.677  7.376,160
Debt/Equity Ratio                   -         0:01       1.4        1.4   1.1.85       1.2      1,2.57   1.2.5     162.2         1.3173



- 106                     Annexur- 15
Page 1 of 2
SECOND SRI LAunA WATER SUPPLY a SEWERAGE PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TRAINING OF OFFICERS- FUNDED FkM IDA CREDIT 1041-CE
Category of           Country      Course             Duration
the officer           visited      followed
Civil Engineer        U.S.A.       Study tour at      12 weeks
National Environ-
mental Association
Secretary            'U.S.A.             - do -       5 weeks
Civil Engineer        Manila       Training of compu-3 weeks
(2 Nos.)              Philippines ter techniques
Technical Assistant  U.K.          Slow sand filter  10 days
study at British
Water International
Civil Engineer        U.S.A.       Negotiation at    2 weeks
World Bank
Civil Engineer        Netherlands Sanitary Engineer 11 months
Civil Engineer        U.K.         M.Sc. course in   12 months
construction mana-
gement at Loughbo-
rough University
Civil Engineer        U.K.         M.Sc. course in   12 months
water & waste
water engineering
for developing
countries
Civil Engineer        U.K.         Engineering desi- 19 days
gns & pump insta-
llation
Civil Engineer        U.K.         Engineering desi- 26 days
gns sewerage
systems



107                     Annexure 15
Page 2 o?t      
Category of           Country      Courso             Duration
the officer           visitei      followed
I
Civil gagineer        U.K.         Engineering con-  19 days
(2 Nos.)                           tract;managoment
Civil Engineer        U.K.         Operation & main- 7 weeks
tenance of water
supply & treatment
plants
Civil Engineer        U.K.         Work organization 12 days
& supervision of
water authority
Accountant            U.K.         Public rinance    2½ months
Institution manage-
ment programme
Accountants           Singapore   Public Utilities  3 weeks
(2 Nos.)                           Board
Accountant            Singapore   Implementing &    7 weeks
management of data
processing
Addl. Secretary       Tailand      Seminar on Urban  10 days
M/LGHC                             Development
Advisors              United       Study Tour         1 month
M/LGHC                States &
Canada



