Document of               FILE COpy
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-2820-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
May 21, 1980
This dKumeut bs  raideted dstribution and may be used by reipients only In the perfonance of
thdr ofcial duts. ts contents my not otberwise be disclosed without World BDnk authoriwton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             =   Rs 15.6 1/
Rs 1                US$0.064
Rs 1 million    =   US$64,103
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 acre (ac)              =   0.405 hectare (ha)
1 mile (mi)              =   1.609 kilometers (km)
1 liter (1)              =   0.22 Imperial gallons (Ig)
or .26 US gallons (g)
1 cubic meter (cu. m)   =   220 Imperial gallons or
264.2 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIDA - Canadian International Development Agency
SFD  -  Saudi Fund for Development
WDB  -  National Water Supply and Drainage Board
WHO  -  World Health Organization
Imgd - Million imperial gallons per day
Ig   -  Imperial gallons
lcd  -  liters per capita per day
mld  -  million liters per day
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/   At the time of appraisal, current exchange rate of US$1 = Rs 16.3.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Beneficiary:            National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB).
Amount:                 US$30 million equivalent.
Terms:                  Standard.
Relending Terms:        Government would relend the proceeds of the credit
to the WDB for 24 years, including five years of
grace, with interest at 9% per annum.
Project Description:   The project would improve the existing water supply
system serving Greater Colombo area. It would also
improve the sewage collection system serving Colombo
and extend the system to adjacent urban areas. The
project would include the following major items:
(a)  Water Supply.  Construction of a river water
intake on the Kelani Ganga and a transmission
main to Ambatale treatment plant. Construction
of water treatment components to increase the
capacity of Ambatale treatment plant. Construc-
tion of a pumping station and transmission main
to convey water to Kolonnawa. Construction of
a distribution reservoir, pumping station and
transmission main at Kolonnawa.
(b) Sewerage. Construction of sewage collection
and conveyance facilities in Colombo, Kolonnawa
and Mt. Lavinia. Construction of sewage disposal
facilities including two ocean outfalls.
(c) Other Items. Provision of replacement and spare
parts required for repair of existing plant and
equipment. Provision of miscellaneous items of
new plant and equipment.
Provision of consulting services for: supervision
of construction of the sewerage component; detailed
design of a further package of works; a water dis-
tribution system study for the Greater Colombo area;
a solid waste collection and disposal study for the
Colombo Municipal area; and an organization and
management study for WDB, including implementation
of management procedures and policies and training
for WDB staff in new procedures.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Training of WDB personnel in water treatment, plant
operation and management, accounting and financial
management.
The project faces no major risk. WDB, assisted by
consultants to supervise construction of sewerage
component, would be competent to implement the
project.
Estimated Cost: 1/                                     US$ Million Equivalent
Component               Local   Foreign  Total
Water Supply
Civil Works                  4.7       0.5      5.2
Equipment                     1.5      6.2      7.7
6.2      6.7    12.9
Sewerage
Civil                       14.0       1.7    15.7
Equipment                   10.1      21.6    31.7
24.1     23.3    47.4
Other Items
Spare Parts, Vehicles
and Equipment              -         2.0     2.0
Engineering:
Consultants                0.3       1.5     1.8
WDB                        1.5        -       1.5
Technical Assistance          1.4      2.4      3.8
Training                       -       1.0      1.0
Land Acquisition              1.0       -       1.0
Harbor Charges                1.9               1.9
Sub-total                6.1       6.9    13.0
Base Cost Estimate      36.4      36.9    73.3
Physical contingencies          2.8      1.5      4.3
Price contingencies             9.4      7.0    16.4
Sub-total               12.2       8.5    20.7
Total Project Cost            48.6      45.4    94.0
Financing Plan:                                        US$ Million Equivalent
Source
IDA                                              30.0
Saudi Fund for Development                       30.0
Government                                       34.0
Total                                      94.0
1/   Includes taxes and duties of US$12 million equivalent.



- iii. -
Estimated                                           US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursement:          IDA FY             1981    1982    1933    1984    1985
Annual              0.7      8.4    11.5       6.4     3.0
Cumulative          0.7      9.1    20.6    27.0    30.0
Economic Rate
of Return:            4.6%, based on incremental water sales alone.
Staff Appraisal
Report:               No. 2904 of May 15, 1980






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the
equivalent of US$30.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a second
water supply and sewerage project. The proceeds of the credit would be relent
to the National Water Supply and Drainage Board (WDB) for 24 years, including
five years of grace, with interest at 9% per annum. Saudi Fund for Development
(SFD) is expected to participate with a loan of US$30.0 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report, "Development in Sri Lanka:  Issues
and Prospects" (Report No. 1937-CE, March 22, 1978) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 23, 1978. An economic mission visited Sri Lanka
in December 1979 and prepared an economic report which is being distributed.
This section draws on the findings of that mission. Country Data are provided
in Annex I.
3.        After several years of relative stagnation, Sri Lanka's economy
is experiencing rapid growth and unprecedentedly high levels of savings and
investment. This remarkable turnaround is explained by the Central Bank
of Ceylon as the "spontaneous reaction of a long repressed economy to its
liberalization by the new economic policies initiated in 1977." Until 1977,
Sri Lanka's growth performance was below both need and potential. Although
GDP growth in the 1960s, at 4.4% per annum, was above the average for low
income countries, growth slackened sharply in the 1970-77 period to 2.9%
per annum, just below the average for low income countries. Through much of
this period, the terms of trade deteriorated steadily, eroding even these
modest gains: as a consequence, per capita gross national income rose by a
mere 0.9% per annum during the 1960-76 period. The slowdown in economic growth
in the 1970-77 period is attributable to a combination of factors, including
inadequate investment, poor management of the economy and a policy environ-
ment unconducive to growth and investment, which were compounded by bad weather
and a sharp rise in the cost of imported food and fuel.
4.        The three tree crops--tea, rubber and coconuts--which are still
the mainstay of the economy, suffered from low replanting and inadequate in-
centives. These problems were exacerbated by a dual exchange rate, introduced
in 1968, that discriminated against these crops, and by the uncertainties
surrounding a protracted nationalization (1972-75) of the larger estates.
1/   This part is substantially the same as Part I of the Report and Recommen-
dation of the President to the Executive Directors on a credit to the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for a Telecommunications
Project (Report No. P-2698-CE, dated April 24, 1980), which was approved
on May 15, 1980.



After the exceptional output growth of the 1960s, rice yields and cropping
intensities declined in the 1970s due to poor institutional support. Invest-
ment in manufacturing was low, and the inefficiency of most public and private
sector firms nurtured in a highly protected environment resulted in industrial
growth of less than 2% per annum. The only bright spots were subsidiary food
crops and industrial exports which benefited from good incentives.
5.        An inadequate public savings effort, caused by inelastic revenues
and an uncontrolled increase in recurrent expenditures, inhibited public
investment. Private savings and investment were constrained by an unfavor-
able policy environment. The high incremental capital output ratio in the
1970s (5.5 as against 3.5 in the 1960s), reflected the fact that the invest-
ment that did take place was both inefficient and highly capital intensive.
6.        The poor growth rates and the slow changes in the structure of
output matched neither the jobs nor the changes in employment structure that
the labor force required. Slow output growth, the excessive capital intensity
of investment, the mismatch between the job aspirations of those with post-
primary education and the jobs available to them, the post war demographic
bulge, and rising female participation rates contributed to a massive increase
in open unemployment, estimated at over 1 million, or nearly 20% of the labor
force in 1977.
7.        In sharp contrast to this poor economic performance, Sri Lanka's
social achievements in relation to per capita income have been outstanding.
Sri Lanka has about one and one-half times the life expectancy, almost thrice
the literacy, one-quarter the infant mortality and half the birth rate that
would be expected for a country at its per capita income level. Nutrition
levels have been adequate, and in the 1960s there were parallel gains in
income distribution.
8.        Improvements in the quality of life, in particular the rise in health
standards, the spread of education and the availability of subsidized food,
have been important factors in the decline in mortality. The increasing age
of marriage, the spread of female education and employment, and a vigorous
family planning program, have also contributed to a sharp decline in fertility.
As a consequence, the growth rate of population has dropped from 2.6% per annum
in the 1953-63 intercensal period to 2.0% per annum in the 1963-73 period.
Allowing for net migration, population is currently increasing at only 1.7%
per annum.
9.        The gains in the social field were made possible by favorable initial
conditions. Compulsory primary education was introduced as early as 1901. The
food ration was introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time of Independence in 1948,
Sri Lanka already enjoyed high levels of adult literacy and life expectancy.
These initial gains were consolidated and expanded in the post-Independence
period through large expenditures on social services and the food subsidy,
which accounted for two-fifths to one-half of government revenues in the 1960s
and early 1970s. These expenditures were traditionally financed by harnessing
the surpluses of Sri Lanka's three major tree crops (tea, rubber, and coconut),
which provided the Government with both an easy revenue source and foreign
exchange earnings. These surpluses began to disappear in the late 1960s as
government policies discriminated against these crops and the terms of trade



- 3 -
deteriorated. With growth in other productive sectors in the economy also
decelerating in the 1970-77 period, the budgetary resources available for
sociaL programs were squeezed by inelastic revenues and rapid inflation. As
a consequence, expenditures on social services other than the food subsidy
began to decline as a proportion of total current expenditures and GDP, threat-
ening the hard won gains in health and education.  In sum, the economy was no
longer generating the resources needed to sustain a large program of welfare
expenditures. Moreover, the very size of those programs reduced the scope
of policy makers to shift resources to development.
10.       The policy changes introduced in 1977, following the election of
the United National Party, were intended to break this vicious circle. The
new Government identified its objectives as the revival and resuscitation
of the economy and increased employment through (i) increased capacity utili-
zation in the productive sectors, (ii) stimulation of savings and investment,
and (iii) efforts to encourage exports and import substitution in foodgrains.
A program of policy reforms was developed in close consultation with the IMF.
Its principal aim was to dismantle controls over resource allocations and
initiate price adjustments with a view to establishing more realistic relative
prices. These reforms were supported initially by an IMF standby arrangement
covering 1978 for SDR 93 million. On January 26, 1979, the Fund's Executive
Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement covering the 1979-81
period.
11.       The following broad policy reforms have been introduced:
Exchange Rate Reform: The exchange rate was unified on November 16,
1977 at a depreciated rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00 and allowed to float.
This implied a depreciation of 46% against the official rate prevail-
ing prior to unification, 11.2% with respect to the Foreign Exchange
Entitlement Certificate rate, and 29.5% with respect to a transactions-
weighted average rate of the two markets. 1/
Import Liberalization: The trade and payments regime was liberal-
ized. With the exception of foodgrains and petroleum products,
public sector import monopolies were terminated. Prior licensing
of imports was abolished for all but a handful of commodities. The
tariff structure was revised and simplified.
Interest Rate Reform: To encourage financial savings and discourage
speculative imports, interest rates were raised sharply.
Price Controls: These ended for most commodities.
Budgetary Policies: The unification and depreciation of the exchange
rate caused tree crops export tax revenues and the cost of food,
fertilizer and petroleum subsidies to rise sharply. Business Turnover
1/   Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the
FEEC rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



- 4 -
Tax rates were substantially lowered and rationalized to be con-
sistent with the new import tariff and exchange rate. To limit
the increase in cost of food subsidies, rice and sugar rations were
initially confined to the poorer half of the population, and the
subsidy on imported wheat flour was reduced through a series of
adjustments in the domestic price. On September 1, 1979 the Gov-
ernment introduced a system of food and kerosene stamps for families
with monthly incomes less than Rs 300 to replace specific food sub-
sidies and rationing, and to target benefits to the poorest. Ini-
tially about seven million persons were issued with food and kero-
sene stamps. To offset the adverse impact of these changes on real
incomes, public sector wages have twice been adjusted upwards, and
in February 1978 an income supplement was introduced at Rs 50 per
month to benefit the poorest households in which one or more persons
had no gainful employment. Public corporations were asked to pass
on cost increases, except in the case of fertilizer, petroleum,
milk and public transport, where price increases were initially
deferred to cushion the impact on consumers. The Government has
subsequently made sizable adjustments in flour, rice and sugar
prices, bus fares, and petroleum prices. The burden of subsidies
and transfers has, as a consequence fallen from around 9% of GNP
in 1978 to around 5% in 1980. These changes, taken together with
higher aid receipts, have permitted a sizable step up in capital
expenditures.
Tax Reform: The tax structure has been rationalized and simplified
with a view to increasing the elasticity of revenues. The burden of
personal and company taxation has been lowered.
Agricultural Pricing Policies: The domestic procurement price for
rice was increased by 21%. With the related increase in flour prices,
incentives for paddy and other flour substitutes benefited. Fresh
coconut prices have also been increased by 30% and the export duty
on coconut products has been appropriately adjusted. While the uni-
fication of the exchange rate ended formal discrimination against
tree crops, the export duty on tea was initially set at a level which
effectively siphoned off most of the benefits to the Government. As
tea prices fell and production costs rose in 1978-79, the Government
responded to the reduced producer margins by a lowering of taxes on
tea. Further adjustments in both the structure and level of tea
taxation will be needed to maintain and improve incentives.
12.       The economic reforms have been accompanied by a major effort at
stepping up public investment. The Government's capital expenditures jumped
from 6% of gross national product at market prices in 1977 to an average
of 13% in 1978 and 1979, as government departments responded to an improved
budgetary resource position by embarking on long overdue replacement invest-
ments and new projects that had been shelved earlier for lack of resources.
The Government has also embarked on four major new programs which are to be
the lead projects in a five-year rolling public investment program. These are:
(i) Accelerated implementation of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program, by



far the largest multi-purpose river basin development ever undertaken in Sri
Lanka; (ii) a 200 square-mile free trade zone north of Colombo under a newly
constituted Greater Colombo Economic Commission which has established the
first Investment Promotion Zone near Colombo's international airport, Katuna-
yake, and is planning others, and has approved some 92 proposals involving a
total investment of US$176 million by December 1979; (iii) a massive housing
and urban renewal program with its main focus on the Colombo metropolitan
region; and (iv) the construction of a new capital complex at Kotte, a suburb
of Colombo.
13.       These four programs will together cost an estimated Rs 25 billion,
or 43% of the projected Rs 60 billion public investment program over the
1980-84 period. The Government's tentative macro-economic scenario envisages
public investment taking one-half of total investment which is expected to
average an ambitious 23% of GNP in 1980-84 as against 16% in the early 1970s.
To enable this increase to materialize, gross domestic savings are expected
to average 16.3% of GNP, and net external inflows nearly 7%. This implies
a substantial increase in external inflows which averaged 2.3% of GNP in the
1970-76 period. Official development assistance is to finance 54% of public
investment.
14.       The underlying public investment strategy is to balance the large
investment requirements of the Government's high priority programs against the
urgent rehabilitation and fresh investment needs in other sectors. The main
thrust of the public sector program is to lay the foundation for longer term
development, both by improving the efficiency of use of existing infrastructure
investments and by expanding the longer term growth capacity of the economy.
The strategy thus implicitly relies on the private sector to respond to the
economic reforms and the stimulus of the public sector investment program,
and provide much of the short-term growth.
15.       The initial response of the economy to the policy reforms and the
accompanying acceleration in public investment has been encouraging. Economic
growth between 1977 and 1980 is estimated at an impressive 6.7% per annum.
This growth has been shared by almost all sectors of the economy, with the
most dynamic sectors being construction, mining and quarrying, electricity,
gas and water and manufacturing. The only major exception has been the
tree crop sector. This impressive performance is due to a number of factors
including the improved availability of inputs following import liberalization,
an increased role for the private sector in distribution, and the removal
of price controls.
16.       Domestic savings reached 15% of GNP in 1978 and 1979, well above
historical levels. Financial savings, as measured by fixed and savings
deposits, have responded dramatically to the change in interest rates.
Public and private investment have also risen sharply, bringing total invest-
ment to 20% of GNP in 1978 and 25% in 1979. This has been reflected in a
four--fold increase in capital goods imports from $84 million in 1977 to an
estimated $350 million in 1979. Much of the investment reflected pent up
demanid for replacement of antiquated equipment in industry and transport.
Investment approvals in 1978 and 1979 for manufacturing reached record
levels; those involving foreign collaboration totalled $300 million, of



- 6 -
which over one-half were in the new free trade zone. Although there is
little data available on employment, the Central Bank estimates a sizable
(1023000) increase in the public sector and organized private sector employ-
ment in 1978 as against an increase of 40,000 in 1977. This would have
contributed to the fall in open unemployment from an estimated one million
to 900,000, or 16% of the labor force.
17.       The exchange rate adjustment, other policy induced price increases
and related wage increases, and the removal of price controls contributed
significantly to inflationary pressures in 1978 and 1979. However, these
pressures were moderated in 1978 by a bumper paddy harvest, increased capacity
utilization in the economy, increased availability of imports and the benefi-
cial effects of competition from imports and in domestic distribution. Thus
average annual inflation was held to 9% in 1978. There was a marked deterior-
ation in 1979 - average annual inflation rose to 18% (32% on December 1978
to December 1979 basis) due to an acceleration in money supply expansion on
account of the continued buildup in gross external assets and the rapid
domestic bank credit expansion, and to a sharp increase in construction sector
costs, as the increase in investment levels led to shortages of construction
materials and skilled labor.
18.       Not surprisingly, the current account deficit in the balance of
payments rose sharply to $150 million in 1978 and $360 million in 1979.
After a strong surge in 1978, merchandise imports rose by a further 41% in
1979 to $1,450 million, or twice 1977 levels, reflecting sizable increases
in the cost of petroleum imports, and substantial real increases in non-food
consumer goods, intermediate and investment goods imports. Exports rose
by a more modest 18% to $900 million in 1979. However, as in 1978, the
current account deficit was more than offset by non-monetary capital inflows,
resulting in an increase in net foreign exchange reserves by a further
$46 million. Gross reserves rose by $121 million to $519 million at end
1979, due largely to drawings on the Extended Fund Facility. Reserves are
currently equivalent to about four months imports. Preliminary balance of
payments projections for 1980 suggest a further marked deterioration in the
current account deficit to $600 million, due in part to the sharp rise in
the cost of petroleum imports. Net petroleum imports as a percentage of non-
petroleum exports will rise from 14% in 1979 to 26% in 1980. At currently
projected aid levels, net reserves are likely to fall by nearly $60 million
in 1980.
19.       Success in attaining the Government's medium-term development
objectives is conditional on a number of factors. The Government will need to
carefully continue reviewing the content of its public investment program. As
presently proposed, it will severely strain the domestic availability of
skilled manpower and construction materials. To the extent that this forces a
greater reliance on imports, it will further strain the balance of payments,
which is already under severe pressure on account of the oil price increase
and other factors that will result in a deterioration in the terms of trade.
Moreover, domestic production and exports will need to increase at a rapid
rate to ensure the required level of import substitution and export promotion
implicit in the Government's macro-framework. This, in turn, will require
further efforts to improve price and export incentives, and the quality of
management in the public sector, and particularly in the tree crop sector.



A further essential precondition is an adequate level of public savings to
generate the required resources for public investment without infringing on
the financing needs of the private sector. While the Government has already
undertaken a number of important resource mobilization measures, this will
need to be an area of continuing vigilance. However, success will ultimately
be contingent ei larger aid flows which are needed to ensure that an ambitious
development program, with a strong rehabilitation component, can be implemented
within the framework of a liberalized import regime. The Government is antici-
pating that aid flows will finance over one-half of the public investment pro-
gram, including considerable local cost financing. In this way, the Govern-
ment's own considerable resource mobilization efforts will be supplemented,
while at the same time providing strong balance of payments support during
this period of economic transformation.
20.       Aid donors have responded enthusiastically to the new policy environ-
ment in Sri Lanka. Aid commitments in 1978 from members of the Sri Lanka Aid
Group totalled US$362 million, an increase of 60% over 1977. Aid commitments
in 1979 totalled a massive $660 million, including $220 million for the acce-
lerated Mahaweli Program. The grant element of aid commitments is currently
around 63% and is expected to improve further. The debt service ratio in 1979,
excluding Fund repurchases, stood at around 8.0%, declining from 15.0% in 1977
and 10.0% in 1978, due to improved export earnings and the decline in outstand-
ing short- and medium-term borrowings.
PART II - BAN~K GROUP OPERATIONS INi SRI LAN~KA
21.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has made eight loans totalling US$72.9 million (net of cancellations)
and 23 credits totalling US$312.5 million (net of cancellations and exchange
adjustments) in support of 29 projects. About 42% of Bank Group assistance has
been for agriculture (irrigation, agricultural, and dairy development), 14% for
power, and the remainder for development finance company operations, highways,
a program credit (mainly involving the import of raw materials for industry),
water supply, road transport, small and medium industries and technical assis-
tance. Eight loans and eight credits have been fully disbursed so far. During
FY80, IDA credits for a total of US$102.0 million have been approved for a
Technical Assistance Project, a Road Passenger Transport Project, a Smallholder
Rubber Rehabilitation Project, and a Telecommunications Project. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations as of March 31, 1980,
together with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       An IFC equity investment of about US$100,000 equivalent in the Devel-
opment Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) and an IFC non-revolving line of
credit of US$2.0 million to the government-owned Bank of Ceylon for on-lending
to private small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises were approved in
FY78. IFC also approved an investment of US$2.32 million in a synthetic
textile mill, and US$986,000 in a polypropylene bag manufacturing plant in
FY79. IFC has very recently approved an increase in equity investment of
about US$51,000 equivalent in DFCC.
23.       The Bank Group's current strategy is focused on the agricultural
sector to support Government efforts to increase food production and reduce
its dependence on food imports, and to raise productivity, employment, incomes



- 8 -
and living standards of the rural population in Sri Lanka. Projects to
support basic infrastructure are also included. In addition to providing
financing for the ongoing Mahaweli Ganga Development Project II and for
the Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance Project, the Bank Group is assist-
ing the Government of Sri Lanka in accelerating the implementation of the
Mahaweli Ganga Development Program (para 12) principally through the coor-
dination of external assistance for project preparation and implementation.
IDA credits recently approved cover road transport, rubber estate rehabili-
tation and telecommunications. A power transmission project will shortly be
presented for Board approval and a rural development project is in an advanced
stage of preparation.
24.       The Bank Group presently accounts for 10.3% (IBRD, 3.3%; IDA, 7.0%)
of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 6.5% (almost totally
IBRD) of debt service. It is projected that the Bank Group's share in total
external debt will increase to 19% by 1985 (with the IBRD's share declining
to 0.7%). The Bank and IDA shares in the debt service are expected to decline
to about 4% by 1985.
PART III - WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE IN SRI LANKA
General
25.       A nationwide summary of water services data from the 1971 census
indicates that about 2.0 million people (71%) of the 2.8 million urban popula-
tion have access to piped water. Of the 9.9 million rural population, only
1.3 million (13%) have access to piped water. Furthermore, no water supply
system consistently provides safe water because: supplies are intermittent;
the standard of treatment plant operation is low; supplies of chlorine (an
important chemical for disinfecting water) are unreliable; and no authority
or agency accepts responsibility for continuously monitoring water quality.
26.       Levels of waste disposal services are equally unsatisfactory;
only the capital city, Colombo, has water-borne sewerage which currently
serves about 50% of its housing units. Of the total 1971 urban population of
Sri Lanka, some 23% had flush toilets, 57% had some other form of latrine,
and 20% had no service. In rural areas, 2% had flush toilets, 56% had some
other form of latrine, and 42% had no service. Despite the Government's
endeavors in recent years to satisfy increasing sector demands caused by an
expanding population and high rates of urban growth, recent estimates indicate
that levels of service have declined since 1971.
27.       The urban population is located in 135 communities, 66 of which have
piped water and the remaining 69 rely on wells and surface water sources of
doubtful quality and poor yield. Only three of the piped water systems provide
water on a 24-hour basis, and the quality of water supplied is not always
satisfactory. Of the four towns outside the Greater Colombo area with popu-
lations exceeding 50,000 (Kandy, Galle, Jaffna and Trincomalee), only Kandy
and Galle have a 24-hour piped water service. The WDB has also undertaken
projects to improve water supply in some smaller towns, e.g., Kurunegala,
Matara, and Mannar under assistance from bilateral donors.



- 9 -
28.       The southwestern coastal area of Sri Lanka, the most densely popu-
lated sector of the country, depends almost entirely on surface water sources
for its piped water supplies. Groundwater sources yield small quantities of
water of poor quality, and are frequently polluted by wastes from nearby
inadequate sanitation facilities. Although large rivers from the central
highlands provide ample water for the southwestern coastal area, the water is
frequently turbid and is heavily polluted. Extensive works comprising river
water intakes, pumping and treatment plants are therefore essential components
of most systems supplying potable water in this area.
Water Supply and Sewerage in the Project Area
29.       The city of Colombo, the national capital and the largest city in
Sri Lanka (estimated 1979 population 0.64 million), forms the central urban
core of the project area. Colombo is the principal commercial and industrial
center of Sri Lanka and also the center of a large and rapidly growing tourist
industry. It is well linked to the remainder of the country by a network of
roads, has a large thriving port for international vessels, and has an inter-
national airport. The project area includes urban development extending to
the south and north of Colombo, designated as Towns South and Towns North,
respectively. The estimated 1979 population of the eleven municipal areas
in which the project area is located was 1.5 million. The estimated 1979
popuLation of the project area was 1.1 million. The existing piped water
suppLy system is insufficient to provide a 24-hour service to the project
area and will be supplemented under the proposed project. The capacity of
the existing waterborne sewerage system, which at present is not adequate to
serve Colombo municipal area, will be increased under the proposed project
and the system will be extended to serve part of Kolonnawa and part of the
Dehiwala/Mt. Lavinia municipal areas.
30.       Failure of the southwest monsoon in 1976 resulted in a severe
water shortage and a reduction in the hours of supply to 4 to 6 hours per day.
An even more severe water shortage was subsequently averted by the temporary
installation of pumps to increase the quantity of water obtained from the
Kelani Ganga, at Ambatale, by about 30 million liters per day (mld). This
water is chlorinated but is not fully treated, a procedure which cannot con-
sistently produce safe water and is, therefore, most unsatisfactory. In recent
years it has become increasingly difficult to maintain a 24-hour water supply
to Colombo and Towns South, and there is a tendency to draw down the existing
impounding reservoirs to levels at which the reliability of these sources is
severely reduced.
31.       The present Colombo sewerage system is the only waterborne sewerage
system in operation in Sri Lanka. It is a separate sanitary system (conveys
sewage only and excludes most surface water), most of which was constructed
between 1906 and 1913; although there have been some extensions and renewals
in recent years, they are limited in extent. Therefore, the system is old and
inadequate. Small sewage treatment plants, which were part of the original
system and served the northern and southern drainage areas of Colombo, became
partially inoperative by 1918 and were finally taken out of service in 1956.



- 10 -
Since then, untreated sewage has been continuously discharged to the lower
reaches of the Kelani Ganga and to the sea. The sewage collection and con-
veyance systems became heavily overloaded by 1951 when the population of the
service area reached almost 0.4 million, resulting in flows of about twice
the design capacity.
32.       Except for small amounts of groundwater from privately constructed
shallow wells there are three sources of water serving the project area.
Two of the sources are impounding reservoirs, located in upland catchment
areas at Labugama and Kalatuwawa, some 44 kilometers (km) from Colombo. These
sources have been developed to their full potential to supply about 136 mld of
fully treated water, which is equivalent to about 30 million imperial gallons
per day (Imgd).
33.       The third source of supply is the Kelani Ganga, a large river which
has an extensive upland catchment area to the northwest of Colombo and which
discharges to the Indian Ocean, close to Colombo. The works, which withdraw
water from the Kelani Ganga, treat the water and pump it to the distribution
system are located at Ambatale, some 14 km upstream from the coast, and 11
km from Colombo. In mid-1980, the completion of pumping installations at
Ambatale (under Credit 709-CE, paragraphs 37-40) will provide a capacity of
183 mld (40 Imgd) at the Ambatale works and a total yield of 318 mld (70 Imgd)
of fully treated water from all sources. Colombo and adjacent municipal areas
to the south are the only parts of the project area currently receiving piped
water. Under the First Water Supply Project which will be completed in 1982,
the area of supply will be increased to include adjacent municipal areas to the
north of Colombo.
34.       The Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction has pri-
mary responsibility for development of water supply and sewerage facilities
throughout Sri Lanka. The Ministry executes its responsibilities through the
principal executing agency in the sector, the National Water Supply and Drain-
age Board (WDB), and through local authorities. The WDB was created in 1975,
from the then Department of Water Supply and Drainage. Since then, it has
been responsible for planning, design and construction of water supply systems
throughout Sri Lanka, although its activities have been largely confined to
water supplies in urban and the larger rural communities.
35.       WDB assists local authorities in planning and constructing water
supply systems and frequently retains responsibility for operating the head-
works of such systems. Most local authorities operate and maintain their own
distribution systems and collect revenue. However, in some cases this function
is performed by WDB. In the Greater Colombo area, the water sources, transmis-
sion and treatment systems are operated by WDB, and water is supplied in bulk
to Colombo Municipality and to five adjacent municipalities located to the
south of Colombo.
36.       Substantial investment in capital works is necessary since parts of
the water supply system, as well as substantial parts of the sewerage infra-
structure, must be enlarged, renovated or even constructed in their entirety
from the water source to the sewage outfall. The comparatively large invest-
ment in sewerage reflects the long failure to recognize the growing need to
provide adequate sewage conveyance and disposal systems to serve the capital
city.



- 11 -
Review of Progress of the First Water Supply Project
37.       The First Water Supply Project (Credit No. 709-CE of June 30, 1977)
was identified from the master plan and feasibility studies of water supply
and sewerage services for the southwest coastal area. These studies and the
resulting reports were prepared in 1972 by consulting engineers under contract
to the World Health Organization (WHO) as executing agency for the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP). The project was designed to complete the
priority works proposed by the consultants under the master plan and to meet
water demands in the Greater Colombo area until 1982/83 when further exten-
sions to increase the supply of water to the service area would be necessary.
The project covers (a) improvement and extension of the existing piped water
supply system serving approximately 1.2 million people in Colombo and five
municipalities south of Colombo; and (b) provision of new water supply systems
for some 0.4 million people in five municipalities north of Colombo and in
the towns of Ambalangoda and Kalutara. To achieve these objectives, the
project includes two independent components. One component consists of improv-
ing, expanding and integrating the water supply systems serving the Greater
Colombo area, while the second provides new piped water systems for Ambalangoda
and Kalutara. The project also includes provision of spare parts and equipment,
technical assistance and training. The technical assistance component provided
consultant services to prepare the engineering designs and tender documents for
the project now proposed.
38.       In addition to IDA credit of US$9.2 million, the First Water Supply
Project also included a CIDA credit of US$4.8 million equivalent. Although
the credits were signed in June 1977, credit effectiveness was delayed until
February 1978, due to a change in Government and subsequent civil unrest.
An EEC Special Action Credit of US$7.0 million equivalent was committed in
November 1979 to meet foreign exchange cost overruns and finance part of the
civil works costs which were not financed under Credit 709-CE.
39.       Many unforeseen difficulties were encountered from the beginning
of the First Water Supply Project. The change in Government in July 1977
and subsequent civil unrest delayed credit effectiveness and slowed project
implementation in the first year. However, following this period, WDB made
remarkable progress in preparing procurement documents for equipment, mate-
rials, and civil works. As of March 31, 1980, an amount of US$7.7 million
had been disbursed from the credits. This amount is expected to increase to
about US$10 million by September 1980. A tariff study has been satisfactorily
completed. WDB retained a local firm of consultants to design and place into
operation a commercial accounting system suitable for a public utility organ-
ization. The system was brought into operation in January 1980 and a team of
consultants is training WDB personnel in its use and operation.
40.       The metering program included in the First Water Supply Project
has fallen behind schedule due to a number of factors, including (a) a
long delay in the supply of meters, (b) a reluctance on the part of local
authorities to accept the concept of metering, and (c) inadequacy of maps
and connections records. These difficulties have now been overcome to a large
extent. The Government strongly supports the concept of consumer metering.
As a result, the metering program has made good progress in recent months.



- 12 -
WDB has now accepted a realistic metering program to install not less than
1,000 meters each month. Under this program, metering in the Greater Colombo
area will be completed by 1988.
41.       Under the First Project, WDB and the Government agreed to certain
measures to correct deficiencies in WDB's management and finance functions.
At the time, WDB had recently been formed from a Government department, from
which it inherited an accounting system which served as a record of cash
receipts and payments; neither a balance sheet nor an income statement was
prepared.  Because of the inadequate accounting system and management pro-
cedures, the management neglected financial control as a tool for operating
WDB; WDB was reluctant, or even unable, to begin operating as a comercial-
oriented public utility rather than a government department. All parties
recognized that correcting these deficiencies required time and would become
possible only as WDB management gradually increased its appreciation and
acceptance of a commercial type of operation. There has been progress in
improving WDB's management and finance functions, but it is now clear that
the task of management and financial reform is greater than was originally
envisaged.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The proposed project, which was identified from the master plan,
was prepared by WDB with the assistance of engineering consultants and
appraised by an IDA mission in January/February 1980. Negotiations were
held in Washington in April 1980. The Government delegation was led by
Mr. R. Paskaralingam, Secretary, Ministry of Local Government, Housing and
Construction. A supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
43.       The project contains two major components.  The water supply compo-
nent would supplement the First Sri Lanka Water Supply Project by providing
for the treatment, transmission and distribution of an additional 125 mld of
water to the Greater Colombo area, sufficient to meet demand in the project
area until 1990. An increase in the number of public taps would greatly
enhance access for poorer sections of the community. A more intensive program
to detect distribution system losses and repair existing mains, as well as a
program to meter all connected domestic consumers, would be implemented with
the proposed project.
44.       The sewerage component was prepared with the help of consultant
services provided under the First Water Supply Project. This component would
improve the sewage collection and conveyance system in Colombo and in parts
of Kolonnawa and Dehiwala/Mt. Lavinia. The project would include the con-
struction and renovation of about 30 km of sewers, 15 sewage pumping stations,
20 km of force mains, and the construction of two ocean outfalls for the safe
disposal of sewage. It will serve an area of 40 sq. km. and provide adequate
capacity for all properties in the sewered area to be connected.



- 13 -
45.       Institution building is a major objective of the project.  To
achieve organizational and management reforms, consultants would be retained,
as a condition of effectiveness, to: (a) identify a suitable organizational
structure for WDB; (b) recommend improved management procedures and policies;
and (c) bring into operation systems and procedures for billing, stores
management, financial accounting and control (draft DCA, Section 6.01(c)).
In addition, a management adviser would be assigned to WDB by January 1, 1981
(draft DCA, Section 3.03). The adviser would report to the Chairman, WDB and
Secretary to the Ministry of Local Government, Housing and Construction.
46.       Other items of technical assistance under the project would provide
for: detailed engineering design of a further group of water supply and sewer-
age works; a water distribution study for the Colombo Municipal area and
adjacent towns to the south; and a solid waste collection and disposal study
for the Colombo Municipal area. Training under the project would be directed
towards most categories of WDB's supervisory staff including: finance and
management staff, sewerage engineers, plant chemists and plant superintendents.
Organization and Implementation
47.       Detailed engineering designs for the project have been completed by
consulting engineers under the direction of WDB engineering staff. As execut-
ing agency for the project, WDB will have a separate group of engineers formed
as a project unit to implement the project. Although WDB has staff capable of
carrying out the water supply component, it has few engineers with experience
in sewerage works. As a condition of effectiveness, the Government would
engage engineering consultants to supervise sewerage construction (draft DCA,
Section 6.01(c)). As regards finance and accounting staff, frequent turnover
is a major problem. WDB would retain the services of a firm of accountants if
its finance and accounting staff is unable to perform the duties assigned to
it. The project is scheduled to be implemented over a five-year period; this
program is realistic since most contracts are expected to be ready for award
as soon as the credit becomes effective.
48.       Local authorities are now responsible for operation and maintenance
of the water distribution systems in the project area. WDB will take over,
by December 31, 1981, retailing of water and sewerage services in Colombo and
adjacent municipalities to the south (draft DCA, Section 3.06). It will
also then be responsible for maintenance and operation of the distribution
systems. The Government has undertaken to obtain the acceptance of the appro-
priate local authorities to this institutional rearrangement.
49.       Under the provisions of Law No. 2 of 1974 establishing the WDB,
owners of properties located within 100 meters of a public sewer system may
be required to connect to the system. The Government would by January 1, 1982
implement a satisfactory program to provide assistance to lower income property
owners to meet the cost of sewer connections (draft DCA, Section 3.04).



- 14 -
Financial Aspects
50.       An accounting system based on commercial principles was adopted when
WDB was established as a separate financial entity in 1975. However, imple-
mentation of the system has proceeded slowly due in part to WDB's extra-
ordinarily rapii growth. As a result, statements for the period (1975-78)
are satisfactory only as an indication of operating performance. Under the
First Water Supply Project, WDB was to generate an annual surplus sufficient
to return 5% on historically valued net fixed assets in operation within the
project area in 1978 and 6% in 1979. In 1978 and 1979, within the project
area, WDB realized rates of return on historically valued net fixed assets
in operation of 8% and 7.5% respectively. As of December 31, 1979, within
the project area, the debt/equity ratio was 38:62, providing an adequate margin
for further borrowing; on WDB's entire operations, the debt/equity ratio was
even better at 23:77. Liquidity is sufficient to assure continued smooth
financial operations.
51.       Currently, WDB's revenues within the project area accrue from bulk
water charges to local authorities. The bulk water rate has increased annually
from Rs 0.60/1,000 Ig in 1977 to Rs 1.35/1,000 Ig, effective January 1980. The
local authorities, in turn, have attempted to cover these bulk water charges
and expenses related to water distribution by allocating between 30% and 60%
of property tax revenues to this service.  However, WDB's slow progress in
implementing a program under the first project to meter all connected domestic
properties has limited local authorities' ability to charge for water. WDB
will install meters on existing property connections at a rate of at least
1,000 meters per month and install meters, where appropriate, on all new
connections (draft PA, Section 3.05).   User charges for water will be trans-
ferred to a metered basis, district by district, as soon as meters are in
place. In addition, WDB will complete the installation of bulk meters by
June 30, 1981 (draft PA, Section 3.06).
52.       The tariff structure recently accepted for implementation by the
Government is based on the principle of marginal cost pricing. Commercial
and industrial consumers, many of whom are already metered, are to be charged
Rs 12.44/1,000 Ig, which is the rate computed for WDB as long term marginal
cost of water. Similarly, the Government will increase the rate for water
consumed at public taps to the long-term marginal cost of water and pay for
water consumed at public taps. Metered consumers will receive sufficient
water to meet basic needs at nominal cost, approximately an equivalent amount
of water at a rate somewhat above that being effectively charged under the
current property tax allocation, and all additional consumption at marginal
cost. In order to minimize consumer resistance to metering and direct tariffs,
the domestic charges would be increased to full rate over a five-year period.
WDB will further receive revenues for sewerage services, based on 70% of water
revenues, from the Government and relevant local authorities until 1983; in
1984 and thereafter, these sewerage revenues will include a component of user
charges and thus will be shared between the users, the local authorities,
and the Government (draft DCA, Section 4.01(a)). The formula for the estab-
lishment of levels of sewerage user charges will be agreed by the Government,
WDB and IDA prior to their introduction in 1984 (draft DCA, Section 4.01(b)).
The Government will take all steps necessary, including adjustment of tariffs,



- 15 -
to maintain WDB's aggregate revenues in the project area at a level sufficient
to produce a minimum rate of return of 8% on revalued fixed assets in 1982 and
thereafter (draft DCA, Section 4.02(a)). Although WDB's asset base is expected
to expand considerably as a result of the addition of assets from the First
Water Supply Project and the proposed project, a metered tariff supplement by
sewerage revenues outlined above has sufficient revenue generation potential
to realize an 8% return on revalued net fixed assets. For operations outside
the project area, WDB would ensure that these are not subsidized from project
area revenues (draft DCA, Section 4.02(b)).
53.       Government has agreed to impose a tariff which provides WDB with
the maximum user revenue given the low level of affordability in the greater
Colombo area. The bottom third of Colombo's income distribution will receive
water free at public taps; despite this, projections show that half of the
project area's household connections will pay more than 6% of their available
income for water, even assuming a decrease in consumption of about 25% from
present levels. The tariff makes maximum use of the limited base for cross-
subsidization; the principal business establishments in the project area,
mostly small, family operated commercial enterprises, enjoy little real
economic strength.
54.       WDB has experienced relatively little difficulty in collecting its
revenues. While local authorities frequently lacked the liquidity to make
timely payments of their water bills, the First Water Supply Project included
an agreement that the Government guarantee the timely remittance of these
payments. WDB has relied heavily on this guarantee for collection from local
authorities. Because of the cash requirement imposed by WDB's continued rapid
rate of growth, timely revenue collection continues to be a high priority for
WDB. Under the proposed project, the Government will continue to ensure timely
payment of WDB bills by local authorities (draft DCA, Section 3.02). Assis-
tance by consultants will be provided for development of an efficient and
effective revenue operation within the project area.
55.       Under the aforementioned arrangements, WDB would, commencing in 1982,
be financing about 25% of its capital investment program in the project area
from internal cash generation. WDB would not incur any long-term debt unless
the 12-month net revenues, prior to realization of debt service requirements,
would cover such maximum future debt service at least 1.5 times (draft PA,
Section 4.04).
Project Costs and Financing
56.       The estimated cost of the project is US$94.0 million, of which
US$45.4 million represents foreign exchange costs and US$12.0 million repre-
sents taxes and duties. Physical contingencies have been calculated at rates
varying between 4% and 15%, depending on the type of work. Price contingen-
cies have been calculated assuming annual inflation of 21% for 1980, 15% for
1981, 12% for 1982 and 10% for 1983 and 1984, for domestic costs; and 10.5%
for 1980, 9% for 1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% for 1983 and 1984, for foreign costs.
57.       Engineering consultants' charges for supervision of sewerage con-
struction is estimated at 4% of base cost of the component.  The cost of



- 16 -
engineering consultants' services for feasibility and detailed designs for
a future project is estimated to be US$1.5 million, 6% of the estimated con-
struction cost of US$25 million. For the study on the water distribution
system, 150 man-months of local services and 60 months of expatriate services
would be required at a total estimated cost of US$1.0 million. The cost of
the organization study, including implementation and training, iF estimated at
US$0.7 million, covering 500 man-months of local services and 20 man-months
of expatriate services.
58.       The proposed IDA credit of US$30.00 million would provide 37% of the
cost of project excluding duties and taxes. The Saudi Fund for Development
(SFD) is expected to participate with a loan of US$30.0 million equivalent on a
parallel financing basis.  The proposed SFD contribution would finance another
37% of the cost of the project excluding duties and taxes. The balance (US$34.0)
million) would be provided by the Government. A list of goods and works to be
financed out of its loan has been proposed to SFD. We intend to finalize this
list in consultation with the Government and SFD. SFD loan is expected to be
signed later this year. This will be in line with implementation requirements
of the projects. A special condition of effectiveness would be a commitment of
the proposed SFD assistance (draft DCA, Section 6.01(d)). In the event that
SFD finance is not forthcoming the Government would provide alternative financ-
ing from either some other donor or its own resources.
59.       The proposed credit would be relent to WDB as a government loan
at an annual interest rate of 9% and a term of 24 years, including a five-
year grace period. Interest will accrue during the grace period. Execution
of the subsidiary loan agreement between the Government of Sri Lanka and WDB
would be a condition of effectiveness (draft DCA, Section 6.01(b)). The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
60.       Although the average annual rate of inflation has risen sharply
since 1978, reaching 18% in 1979, it is expected to peak in 1980, and decline
to about 10% in 1983. The current inflation is largely a result of policy-
induced price adjustments in administered prices and short-term demand-supply
imbalances in certain sectors, most notably construction. The Sri Lankan
authorities expect production to respond positively to the price changes and
liberalization of the economy, and together with a tight rein over government
budgetary deficits and credit expansion, to cause a slowdown in the rate of
inflation by 1981. Subsequently, domestic inflation is expected to come more
closely in line with international inflation.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.       All contracts for equipment and materials and all civil works
contracts financed under the credit will be awarded under international
competitive bidding procedures in accordance with the Association's guide-
lines, with the exception of items costing less than US$100,000 with an
aggregate value of no more than US$1.0 million. Such items would be procured
under local procedures which are acceptable to the Association. Most contracts,
except those for construction of short lengths of small diameter sewer, are
expected to be won by foreign contractors.



- 17 -
62.       Disbursements under the credit would be made as follows:  (a) 100%
of foreign expenditures on directly imported, 100% of local expenditures
(exfactory) on locally manufactured and 60% of expenditures on locally pro-
cured equipment and materials; (b) 100% of total expenditures on civil works
excluding sewers and force mains; and (c) 100% of expenditures on training
and consultant services. A preference margin of 15% or the currcnt rate of
import duty, whichever is less, would be granted to local equipment manu-
facturers competing under international competitive bidding. A preference
margin of 7-1/2% would be allowed to local contractors in evaluating civil
works bids.
Benefits and Risks
63.       Based only on the value of incremental water sales, the project
has an economic rate of return of 4.6%; however, most of the benefits of the
project cannot be measured in economic terms. With the present inadequacy
of water supplies and waste disposal, the Colombo area and adjacent towns face
serious threats to health and economic vitality. Water supplies at public
taps are available for only 2-4 hours a day and on an irregular basis. Middle
and upper income households maintain continuity of water supply by construct-
ing storage tanks. Thus, hardships imposed by present irregular supplies tend
to affect the poorer sections of the community more than middle or higher
income groups. The quality of water is doubtful; treatment works are operat-
ing beyond capacity and in order to meet demands, untreated water is being
pumped directly from river intakes to the bulk water supply. Problems of
availability and quality of water are being addressed by the First Water
Supply Project. However, these investments will be insufficient from about
1982 when a water deficit is again expected. Government is introducing
metered charges for water in order to encourage conservation. The sewerage
system is severely overloaded and is overflowing into city streets. Raw
sewage is being dumped directly into the Kelani river within the municipal
limits of Colombo; outbreaks of cholera and typhoid have occurred repeatedly
over the past decade as a consequence.
64.       The proposed project would increase the supply of potable water
and upgrade sewerage facilities. In addition, it would further strengthen the
institutional capacity of WDB to design, build and operate water and sewerage
works. The project would allow an increase in the number of household water
connections serving almost 0.5 million more people. By 1991, the number
of public taps would be doubled, serving about half of the project's benefi-
ciaries, thus increasing accessibility and reducing waiting time.
65.       The sewerage component will improve sanitation and public health in
the area by eliminating the overflow of raw sewage to the storm-water drain-
age systems and streets. Construction of ocean outfalls will eliminate the
dumping of raw sewage into the Kelani river and hence reduce health hazards
in the project area. Oceanographic studies of the outfall designs have shown
that adequate dispersion will be achieved and the likelihood of surface con-
tamination or shore pollution will be minimal.
66.       The project would benefit the entire Colombo area population of 1.5
million by significantly reducing the threat of epidemics of water and sanita-
tion related diseases. Water-borne and sanitation-related disease in Sri



- 18 -
Lanka is one of the more major persistent threats to health in an otherwise
healthy nation. Gastro-enteric infections, soil borne helminths, and skin
infections account for about 26% of hospital admissions and about 16% of
deaths in hospitals. Information on the diseases seen in clinics and health
centers is not available, but it is probable that common water-borne diseases
are presented more frequently at these facilities than at hospitals. Minor
gastro-enteric complaints probably do not routinely receive medical attention
but are likely to disable victims for one to four days per episode. In 1973-
1976 an outbreak of cholera appeared in the project area. Standards of hygiene
and water use are high in Sri Lanka; greater availability of water and the
safe disposal of wastes will significantly reduce the incidence of water and
sanitation-related diseases. The project would also reduce the vulnerability
of the tourist industry to a potential loss of markets due to outbreaks of
disease. Furthermore, the improved reliability of the water and sewerage
services would improve economic opportunities.
67.       In addition to providing safe and continuous supply of water to
all sections of the community and institutional reforms allowing more efficient
delivery of service, the project will extend consumer metering and introduce
tariffs that are affordable. These would discourage waste and excessive
consumption, yet provide sufficient water to meet essential daily requirements
at affordable cost.
68.       The risks involved in this project are no greater than can normally
be expected with operations of this type. Because the project involves mod-
erately large and complex civil engineering works, there is a risk that tempo-
rary shortages of materials, delays on the part of manufacturers in meeting
contractual delivery schedules or lack of management skills during the con-
struction phase will lead to delays. There is also a risk that the extensive
sewerage works, which are unavoidably located in the already congested streets
of Colombo, will seriously disrupt the normal flows of activity in the city.
However, WDB is aware of these risks and, with experience gained during the
first project and the assistance planned under the proposed project, is
expected to be able to minimize their impact.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association, the draft Project Agree-
ment between the Association and WDB and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special Conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness include the appointment of con-
sultants for supervision of sewL ige construction and for the organization,
management and finance study, and the commitment of SFD loan.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
May 21, 1980



- 20 -                                                  Annex I
TABLE 3A                                               Page  1  of  6  pages
SRI LANMA - SOCLAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
STIO LANMA                  117ERICE GROUPS (ADJUSTED ADAGES
LAND ARYA (TEOUSAIC SQ. CH. )                                                   -MOST aLECENT ESTL NATE
TOTAL              65.6                                                     SAME         SAME     NET HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       24.2                                  MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb        REGION /c   CROUP /d    GROUP >
GNP PfR CAPITA (USS)                    60.0        100.0      190.0           191.1       209.6        467.5
MERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       107.0       153.0      106.0             69.1        83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION. KID-TEAR (MILLIONS)        9.9         12.5      14.1
URRAN POPULATION (PDCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9            21.9      24.3             13.2        16.2         24.6
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         21.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           30.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2070
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                       151.0        191.0      215.0             M6.6       49.4         45.3
PER SQ. 04. AGRICULTURAL LAND    507.0         518.0      583.0            330.2      252.0        149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 Yrs.                          42.1         41.9       38.0             44.3       43.1         45.2
15-64 YrS.                          54.3         54.5       58.0            52.4        53.2         51.9
65 YES. AND ABOVE                     3.6         3.6        4.0              3.1        3.0          2. 8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCET I
TOTAL                                2.5         2.4        1.7              2.4        2.4          2.7
IRBAN                                4.8         4.3        3.7              4.1        4.6          4.3
CRUDE 8I1TS RATE (Pt THOUSAND)        36.0        30.0       26.0             44.4        42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        9.0          7.0       6.0             16.4        15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION HATE                2.5         2.3        1.8              3.2         2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        55.3      113.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           8.0       44.0              7.9        12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF POOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            89.2       103.0      120.0             99.4       98.2         99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQuIRaMENTS)                     98.0        94.0       91.0             93.0       93.3         94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           46.0         43.1       42.6             56.1       52.1         54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         13.7        11.8        8.9             10.4       13.6         17.4
CRILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        7.0          3.0       2.0             19.2        18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EVPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)    62.0          67.0       69.0             49.1       49.3         54.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
.HOUSAND )                           63.0         51.0       47* L             ..       105.4         68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
MOTAL                                 ..        21.0       10.0             31.5       26.3         34.4
JRgAN                                 ..        46.0       45.0             63.9       s8.5         57.9
RURAL                                ..         14.0       13.0             20.1        15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        64.0       59.0             15.7       16.0         40.8
7RBAN                                 ..        76.0       68.0             66.8       45.1         71.3
RURAL                                 ..        61.0       55.0              2.5        3.5         27.7
POPFLATION PER PHYSICLAN           4500.0            ..    6230.0JR         7107.9    11396.4       6799..
POPULATION PER NURSLNG PERSON      4150.0       2730.0    2240.0           12064.0     5552.,       7522.1
POPULATION PER ROSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             330.0        330.0      330.0           2738.4     1417.1        726.5
URBAN                                 ..       130.0      140.0               ..      197.3        272.7
RLRAL                                 *        570.0      600.0               ..     2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER EOSPITAL SED              .         54.0      51.3               ..        24.8         z7.5
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TO.AL               ~.'f                         5.8        ..               .          5.3         5.4
UTRAN                                6.3/f       6.3                          -. .9                  5.1
RURAL                                5.2/f        5.5        ..               ..         5..         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF ?ERSONIS PER ROOM
MOTAL                               ..3/f        2.5         ..
:RSAN                                -.  f       Z. 7                          - 
RURAL                                2.0/f       Z. 5
ACCESS *o ELEC-RICTY /PERCENT
DF DWELL:NGS)
-O-AL                                - i5         9. 3          * -23.                              28.1
RSAN                               35. 9,f      34.          ..              ..        i7.d          ..
RURAL                                2.37T        2.d        ..               ..          ..         9.9



- 21 -                                            Annex I
Page 2 of 6 pages
TABLE 3A
SRI LANIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SRI LAA                  REFERENCE GOUPS (ADJUSTED )yACES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE -
SAME       SAME    NEXT HIGHER
MosT RECENT    GROIAPRIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 lb    1970 /b ESTIMTE lb      RlGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP /e
iDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL               95.0        99.0      77.0/i         59.5       63.3       82.7
MALE               100.0       104.0      80.01          74.9      79.1        87.3
FEAIL               90.0        94.0     73n.o           43.7      48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL               27.0        51.0      55.0           19.5       16.7        21.4
HALE                38.0        50.0     54.0            27.8       22.1       33.0
FEKALE              16.0        51.0     56.0            10.0       10.2       15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   ..        1.0       1.0            1.3        5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          31.0         ..      29.0           42.2       41.0        34.1
SECCNDARY                         ..          ..       ..              ..       21.7       23.4
AWLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      75.0/h      77.6      78.1           25.5       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       8.0         7.0       6.8            2.3        2.8        9.3
RADIO RECEIVEIRS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                      36.0          ..      36.0           15.5       27.2       76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        ..          ..       ..              ..        2.4       13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCLATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION               36.0        49.0       ..             6.2        5.3       18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0        ..       4.0             *-        1.1        2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    3391.0     4188.0   4707.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                22.6        23.7      28.5           21.4       24.8       29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)           56.3        55.1      54.0           66.3       69.4       62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)              13.5        14.4      15.0            9.6       10.0       11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             34.3        33.5      34.6           35.8       36.9       37.1
MALE                               50.8       49.2      48.2           52.3       52.4       48.8
EEHALE                            16.2        16.5      20.3           15.7       18.0       20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.3         1.4       1.2            1.3        1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS   26.4        ..      18.6             ..         ..       15.2
1IGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  52.1      43.4      42.8             ..         ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   4.5        7.5       7.3             ..         ..        6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.7      19.2      19.3             ..         ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..        ..           86.5       99.2      241.3
Rt'RAL                            ..          ..        ..           74.2       78.9      136.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..          ..        ..             ..       91.9      179.7
RURAL                             ..          ..        ..           50.4       54.8      103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
LNCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URPAN                             ..          ..       ..            44.3       44.1       24.8
RURAL                             ..          ..        ..           52.4       53.9       37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
SOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c   South Asia;  'd Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f  1963;  /g  Begistered;  /h  1962;  'i  1973; Li public education only.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 22 -                                                                  ANNEX I
pZrEW GM  OFSOr-JZ, =rATCASPage   3   of   6   pages
Ploise;  Although the data or  dean fro  soone  genrally Juged the met authtrit&ti'@  e,d reliable, it  hold also be nted that they  ay1 oot he intena-
ti .ai . ompnrahl  osoa    of the lank of nt-aadadind dtnltinn   end tcpoepe usd by  itffer*,i coutries in coileotieg  the date. The date  r,nntoe.
useful to. des-ibe orders of aeeitude, Ledionte trends  end ohareteise  -et.it sajor differe-osbhtosen  -ot1inite5
Th   1ng 1gpu,-vr es: for .-Jh ledintor se  popolaoioa-night.d geaeetrio   er,eoidt.  the extrem     eueofthe Indicator ad the  -ut poyuated
noantr  ti  a   roup   Iu  t  lan Io data, g p avrg,o   l  niaosfor Cepital1 duplu- Ol   apertere nod  f Indicators of Ac...ee to dater- ra .. Zrta
Dinesa, hcusng,InomeDteribilo   ed  -tvrty for ote           -cutry greupe  r0pQpulatlo,-.5ighted gemri n L titlot -noluol  of the eotree  vaus  a
In r          ns..,                                                                 ocs ttToft Dersel  potn   fpnui.in       totluhnen   oa 
-   Total etofase urea tomyroetog lud  -e  end bled eater..                                      _~Tep.    oa,uhe,sdcrl   evd     teoreta tl.epola
deiulu4 -  net repet e.titosn  of egi-oltur.1 area used tepr"riiy                   M.eretegre of their repeoti-rpouatos.mrn,. disposal eq  Iolude
or peu-etly foetrv   pasture, neket ed titchen gerde   or to                          the  oUItleoti    ad dispoesI, cith or uwithot treataent, of hinsen errete
lirfello                                                                               ad eete-nater byf 0.0r-born  systes or the use of pit prLines eNd sile
GNP POCAPITA (US$) - tKP per -pita .etitatn   at ourret serie  priocs,                   irptepnet,,I      $    i   -Ppltion ablide byotrf patnig phye;iais
amiIet.dto by sae  oner- o -ethod as dorid B.O dtls.  (1976-78 besis);                                              ..iFiYomidolehoo t  nvreit'y lee.ro   rt.
it,9"' t   i 197   no   9$daaO,rlna   s  Purin  Persom                                                                    nito  hiided by number of pr,aonioing sale
17W   M U)PTIO  PlO CAPITA - Pnnual onnumtion of osiaenrr                                  nod for.i,s graduate  uss  preetia1 nurse, end aeistestnrss
'74li6'onte,eriuu   cdiirigo  u  ydo-,,tuI;r end ge-PotuIation pr HospitalbPd   t.totl. -obe. nod rual                                               ouato    tota, u-tno,
thermal eleuritoy Iv  ilogrno  of  oa  equ ireet pe                   96t;1*0,            odra)divided by their r-p-ottoi           ue    fhsia   esaalbet
1970, nod 1976 dana.                                              ~~~publI  ed private   . genra  nod    eilohhosyt tal nod rebabll'tati- o-ntr.-
1970, -d 1911's                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~hospitals arc establinat.t pernontlu'  tAffed by at least -e phy.ioL-o
POftUATION ADI  VfTAL. lATIST77                                                            Es.hblichmonts providing prL-nipally cus tod. Iacr   r  not  Inoldn. Fura
Toal7punto. cidifear  aillion) - hA. of JulIy It 1*0, 1973, nod                   hoepituls, no.e.er, inolude he.Itb and aedie  vtier  out pe nnly utafie
fl7Tdeoa.                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~by ap I 'ioi   'hut by a medloal anebetnt, su,rer, midnifo,  io. ) uno  :fI
Urhsn PnuI,to  vevet of total) - Rtatl  of urba to total popo1ntioo;                     in-patient uoeodatinn end p-oids aJieited vr-ge of csdioal  ncloi
differeot orfinitbooc of ~rhen areas e   n.ffeot vomperabiluty of date     Addminsiou  ochoeital hd - Total number of neneeto or tlIshargen fros
efg9o6r0s il  1955, nd 1977 Oetm                         .                    t ipto.in diIde  by tho outer of bed-.
y      - Cret popja.tiot pro,tetione ar  asud on              _____
217ctei popuatIon by  gc ad  -c  end trts eartaliny and fertility               Arere-, lieo   oshold  proos per hiuenL.I) -total cr0.0  ad rrl
rates  yrl; to   paeoeefr  eprtonlity rate. oumprise of ithee                        0  ousehold  osne  fagou   fi divdaaootare lio-d ;uarte-  -o
Ieve:  aseumug   -if  rctenc  at birh icragn    ith ooutry' e                        their nubi eeal.  A ooader or lo4gdge   qo   sfttt   tcdo  h
pe   a ito.oo     level, nod fe-al  ofe  eoctnay  tehiloinghnt..ousehod for etatlati-a   orens
7-. 5 pears~.  Thc  -ae ters for fertiliyrate also hart three lI.ei.              Averse  ounnr o  oeen   e  om-   toa-Ihn   o  rura  -Average totte
aumcgd-oi-e in fertilI ty norolng toiooi  leve  nod Paet                        ofprocpr  onl                otn    drua   ouid  otretoa  ot-2.Ic_cc
f   Iit   oaigprfnao.tutoty1ethe  -nslgod oeof these                            reepetively.  toeIliogs etolds  o-oenn    tut.nndivu:uorv
nIne coehintio-  of mortality aud frly irosfrpooto                                  ceeo   lorot    eco   fdeloo      oa,iOs   o   ii                             
Diativerytcuonto   - i  a otatIou-y populatio  there inc.  gru-th                     tota, irha, to  rura  dtelliog   r-peoti-ely.
ocuoc vte horth rate on eqlt  thc death rate, nd aLso the .ge
truotu    eceo   ontart  This -note-d -ly nftc, fertilIty raten                 EDItuA:c
etalloe  o tIe rerL-eto  level of -it .ti    rprodunti-t rate, oheu.Aot  nrln                            ao
enbjort-        tohtcorpee  otne   eonouy.  The snatio.tno  poPo-                    Pit000-  -tta,al  end fenale-Irose  .tot, tale to n                  eaoonol
lntiotsooeoaao tlmateo 00the heelo ofthe poeedhentrninetofalestoinPrIery level aspcreatng-c of  ..ssetlve or na
of the yoptlatioo1  vh. year  000, nod the rove f ce-lin  of fertility                s.oln.        py.aion   oolyinluecide  ae hL   er
rite to  el.     sti lee._.cteoo  different  c-gtho of prieary suaio    routzt0
tear etatio..ary pplto  ivenhed - The year nOon sititary pnpulati-oo                     o    varuuoa~d tio- enrol-en  eq  ....ed lOt peretooe  oerpl
-ieOeleccahed.                                                                 ar   eo    rthr   o    fioa.ooiae
PouaInDensity                                                                      deodycnol-tta,ml nod female     optdn   t  0   eoo.
per ... o..- Odd-year populstin  per sqnr  killomner (lo etre)o0dcotoCrqie  nt  ..eet for  ya o  apoe Y.romas-;-I                                          otutl
t.t.l ZZ.                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~prerdee geea-I aina,o  teeher trainingI otoiot  for Po;il.s
F*    .   eareatorl en  - Cospted -  eho   fnr                     WAoslsn   les    u LalyIf L2 to 17 yemenr of ag; orepeee   nsesaegenerally
pnwuAnLoni AgeSton-twe bper-t) - Children (0-10 years.), emrhimg-eg                       eetoa enrltatt  oron  of eseodeep)-  nainl Intitutions inoud.
(15-64 ya.,a    reie   0   ee   d ovr epereanaen. nf S.d-pee                            tsehaloal, iutria,  rother peegra edith oprate ladepeettotly or a
=osane   1960' 1970, ad 1977 data.                                                   dptrtents of  .eeeeedao  Institutions
ppats  rsoRate (peroemi)   it.W    Anneal x-eth rates of totel  id.             "itItmhrrto-otr   edsenay-Ttlsuet. enrolld In
per  epltimsfr Se,.o, 9.-0,ad  97-7.                                                      prir  ad  snone    evl  hi.ide  by muhrstof teahers ho tOe cy--
Pemu4ln  0-veO` at1 pecet   - urai-Ana grath rates of urban                                epecAidi   levels
pcp.lmtiee  for 199000,196070,Ma  197-77.A~t  Irc 9p.47rg.fret5..}.prnnt - Litrnie edulto (sOle to rea  ad -it.) an
C-"    W t. ?5  th-W)- Annual lice hinds psr thoused of eid-                      I"691$ag tat oii tpoPIetlatio  aged 15 Year  ad over.
jOn  ofali&1960, 1970, enid 1977 data.
Tfl49D.h Raitlf-zthoos d) - An=a oeaotc per thouseno of tOoy-per                   f9ht00
t'* iihitl  WT  -OomW97  Unn                                                        antorCr    o  tbepc-d~ pultion)   Passe.nger vere  -oepei- sntr oar
Grs  oro%      no  hate-Overge otmero  doughtrnumneI.-ee                                 vening I... thanegt proe   oidss nmhl-nn, he.-e.. ad  iltary
in her tor-,L reproouott-r peroId If 000 eopcrle,oe  precept age-                     vhoe
epcflofrt Ilty rat,   -nualy floe-year notrege  e-ditg in 1*,                   Pei -hvi-rco   (r taround  Po-tlaton    All tipee of r-ptoceo  raio
1970, end 1975.                                                                       hr-dcnnteoogcter.. I            P"lto  per .ooussd ofipopultio;_ slde   ooas.d
Pemily Pleoiog     uotr   onxu hl .-oseoe  - uuAl cuter of                                          1 r-eveetot ric  nodtoY.arsoe   ettaito   a              esOet
oPoeptur  of hbrth-o-toro  tei-vee otte  nspie of    "...Ios  fmily                    cffoot; daun for revet years nay v-t he -vpara. i    oen. .,t c-uertc-
planing prgN-.                                                                         ai.lished IIIve..itg.
Pe_ily PIn-,l- - usere  pret of eseied   -I - Pereentsg  of earnd                     TV' Ieroorre  oer tooun   ooai-)-7eevr  for bronunnt to g--era
no. of Ihilh-hearing eg  (li-t4 years)  h.o ue  hirth-tontrol de-oe                     ub- H aPer  h-ound popu floth0; euvlude  calleoeped IV r-ps rer  ivonore
no e11 earned ton  In enm  ege gyvp.                                                  nod on year   he  regietratioo -of TV oe.  -a in effevo.
N eerCiroubati-t (Per troeand verlatfl-o)- 3hote the  vrg   inl,o
__0___AND  _______                                                                         of ,daily generarl  otreoeppr,  dolnd ot pe              ro_odo-l pualinatine
loden of Food Produutlot ter molit. (1*9-71-IC0) -Indco of per .n.pita                  tetoted prmaily to r_oring genea  es   It                ...conidered to he 'daily"
nonual prodootion of all foo~~d c-idittee. Prod-tion eoeldes need not          If io  npare at least four       -- tim    neeku
fednd inoclndrya  basic.  loeditios  -nre  primary goods                         lm  Annual Atteodan-  ter Capita oer Year  E-td on tie oute  of ti,hete
(eg.ogeoae tteen   of ougr)  hbiob ar  edibl  no d oontaIo totriente          -old dcrIng the Year,ooldogt no    to or--It oiemn  nod cobi l
(e..tffee and tea are e-lded).  Aggregtrt prduovion of -ho oounty                   -titu..
In base  on natioa  aveageI rett   price eeht.
peiniacal   fiolre  loret of rurfots) -_Compted frm                          P P000
enray eorlo    f  rtfooupisnalb 'oo    ntY per ..Pita                             futal labor.Ftorte  ibtousno) - AE-nioally artivepros  Isludlng   ee
per dyp.  hoalabie eupplics  -uprioe dometic production, imports less               foroea   od  yenlo- ht  -colding h-ou.eui-e, v-dent, nip. DeIoit-.c
q ntitensel   fod poesn,ndIsenit dirhboton  Peure                              femleI.   ret) -F.e-I. labor furo  n  percetage of total laor fcete.
aente  -r  ectientedby fAt bneed onphysiologial -eede fr. tor-                            tarel    roen) - abo  forte i  farming, foretry, hnting nod
ntirity not tealtb considering  e-viro-tl temper-atr, body teighto,                f-h-cigaope-otge of total labor fuo.-
eond..see . ritirt uI--  of population, ad slco.ing 10 pereot for              Db$,11     rott   -labor freIn mlnio,  -oeoot-ton, eacuf-rtog nod
tast  at ho1-cbit lee.                                                               elntru  no-t, ontr nod g a  p-eretage of total labor  ore.
Per apitavonlyo  prteogren- e  day) - Protein onuteot of Per                        P.otiinti-u Pate (peroct) -total eae,nd fca.       aetopaio
oapinttetpl;        f food per day. Nct eupyo   odi   eie   stinity rnoec erc capute-a  toa,el nd fal  ibur fu-  an per-
abov.  equireepte for al  v-uteie  established by USDA proide for a                  eet f  oa,  aenod feI epopuetion of all ageerseciey
meumaonceof 60 grne  of total protein per de  ad 20 gram  of               1*0g i970f no  1975  ao.me  are L               .n parncpainret refsting
noimn.-ed pulon protein, of ohiohb1 i gree  eho1d he salea  protein.                ag.-s.o .tructur. of the popnlatl, and long time trend. A              .eeetiateo.
Thes  etadeudo arcIcoe  than thoee of 75 gems of total pretein ad                    are fro  national   - -rce
23 gres.  of anima protein no no averag  for the torld, propos.d by FAO           E.-oloteennty Ratio -  Ratou of population   der 15 ned 65 nod over to
in the Third World Food Sor-ey,                                                     the  no!te oc  Io age group of 15-64 fea..
Pnr capita erateln euofo  oiml nod pulse - Protein supply of food
derived fro  nimend pulse  in, grem  ro  dy.                                    INCOME DI mTR oos
Child (gsIu)mraity hat  )oer thous.ondr- deial deaths per thoca5d                      ?etn-     oo   rvt  nom    tt  oes  n   th)-tcevdb   tha
in age getu  _o fr_, tohIlre -It this ego grop; for mont deed-                         3 prcet, rihs   0pret   ooet2   ecn,nd portent i0 percet
opiog toutries data deried fro  life tabioe.                                           of ienbls
CEALTH                                                                                 POV!TRT TARCyT OtOtIP
lier=ptsnya   Ait    er) -nerge seher of pear  of life                                 Entimated Abnoute Poverty Incom  Lei 008$ ner ...it.) - urbe  end rurl 
reeon  tbIrh d    ptO, 1970, end 1977. dt.                                         Absolute povrty in__  1e_1 in  z he   moo- leve  bei1e oihio  a eliia
indet Wortallty Reate  per thoumn) - A-.nual omts of itfste under ...                   outeitinnally  dhquate diet pio  es...ential ton-food requor ,mts is .to
yarf:   of age per thusend Live bit he.                                                 aff.raIe..
noe,to OSfe Water (pernt of eplthot) -tota   urban, ad nura  -                      U,is~taed teletive Pwvrop  oo   leve  (t  per 1catit:) - urba   nd rurl 
member of potpIe  total, urban,norua cb reausbl  notec  inOu   relative                                  - poety locom    o  Is tiethIrdofnrg  per oapita
safe eater supply (i-oldos teat,d vufans nater  or untreated but                       personal Iaoa  of the u-utry. lbn  i-e  Is derived frmthe  -rurl leve
neonnts.iaated  ater   .ho an that fro  protected borehole, springs,                   eith edjut-nt fur tighe- ouot of lIing I. urbanaoe
ad sseitay meAls  anp-retage  of their repetti- . popLations, I.                      siee   oslto   en  Abolute Povrt InomY               F o   Ioroct) -ubaned
enrhs  see  aIpublic foutal. or etsndpoet 1ated not meeteIua       eta  of P.plaIo.  -bha-ed rrl   h   r    btolt.or
20 Ztar   froah-use say be .-mideo"d as being oIthin reeseahi
encese of that hes.  in rura  areas reasonble nooe   -Iud imply
that ton hb.u.e.if. or eters of the huahold do not hero to spod aFtvaoio ad tooial Data tietion
ileproportLua-t  pes  of toe hey Ao fetohing the fnmlo-. seter nedo                                                      ,_onad  dualyntc end    jntosparet
August 1979



Ainex I
- 23 -                             Page 4 of 6 pages
SRI LANKA
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA SHEETS
ACTUAL                         EST
1965     1970       1976      1977      1978     1979
NAT.ONAL ACCOUNTS 1/
(MILLIONS OF US$ AT 1975 PRICES)
Gross Domestic Product                1783.0   2354.0   2747.3   2811.4   3020.7   3294.7
Gains from Terms of Trade               539.7    242.2    185.1    413.4    362.6    324.7
Gross Domestic Income                 2322.7   2596.2   2932.4   3224.8   3383.3   3619.4
Imports                               1189.8   1017.3    913.5    999.3   1272.8   1550.8
Exports - Volume                      -670.2   -662.9   -660.5   -694.5   -754.8   -819.0
Exports - TT. Adjusted               -1209.9   -905.1   -845.6  -1107.9  -1117.4  -1143.7
Resource Gap - TT. Adjuisted           -20.1    112.1        67.9   -108.6    155.4    407.1
Total Consumption                     2055.9   2239.0   2563.6   2648.2   2891.1    3219.0
Investment                             246.8    469.4    436.8    468.0    647.6    807.5
National Savings                        244.3    297.9    350.7    570.6    511.1    434.6
Domestic Savings                        266.9    357.3    368.9    576.6    492.3    400.4
GDP at Cuirrent US$                   1686.6   1870.6   2424.2   2821.3   2546.3    3370.4
SECTOR OUTPUT
(SNARE OF GDP AT 1975 PRICES)
Agriculture                             0.444    0.422    0.376    0.387    0.322         0.306
Industry                               0.171    0.211    0.217    0.201    0.260    0.269
Services                               0.385    0.367    0.407    0.412    0.418          0.425
PRICES (1975 = 100)
Export Price Index                     65.65    56.86    95.16   119.13   125.63    138.59
Import Price Index                     36.37    41.64    74.33    74.67    84.86          99.24
Terms of Trade Index                  180.52   136.55   128.02   159.53   148.05    139.65
GDP Deflator (US$)                      94.59    79.47    88.24   100.35    84.30    102.30
Annual Average Exchange Rate             4.76      6.85    10.88    11.06    15.61        15.57
Growth Rates        1978 Share
1965-77            of ODP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS 1/
(MILLIONS OF US$ AT 1975 PRICES)
Gross Domestic Product                              3.9              100.0
Gains from Terms of Trade                                             12.0
Gross Domestic Income                               2.8              112.0
Imports                                           -1.4                42.1
Exports - Volume                                    0.3                25.0
Exports - TT. Adjusted                             -0.7                37.0
Resource Gap - TT. Adjusted                                             5.1
Total Consumption                                   2.1               95.7
Investment                                          5.5               21.4
National Savings                                    7.3                16.9
Domestic Savings                                    6.6               16.3
GDP at Current US$                                  4.4
PRICES (1975 = 100)
Export Price Index                                  5.1
Import Price Index                                  6.2
Terms of Trade Index                               -1.0
GDP Deflator (US$)                                  0.5
SELECTED INDICATORS                             1965-77
ICOR                                                4.37
Import Elasticity                                 -0.39
Average National Savings Rate                       0.11
Marginal National Savings Rate                      0.32
Imports/GDP                                         0.44
Investment GDP                                      0.16
Resource Gap/GDP                                    0.04
1/ Components may not add up because of rounding.



- 24 -
SRI LANKA                                  Annex I
Page 5 of 6 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
1973      1974    1975       1976    1977    1978        1979
A C TUAL-EST.
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Million)
1. Exports (incl. NFS)           424.3    570.4   628.2    628.5   827.3   950.0    1135.0
2. Imports (incl. NFS)           445.3    731.7   798.8    679.0   746.2  1081.0    1539.C
3. Resource Balance              -21.0   -161.3  -170.6    -50.5    81.1  -131.0    -404.0
4. Net Factor Service Income  -17.3    -16.6   -18.4    -20.1   -15.0   -15.0              -16.O
.1 Net Interest Payments        -14.7    -14.7   -15.9    -18.6   -14.0
of which on PUB M&LT Loans-15.5    -16.5   -20.6    -23.1   -22.1
.2 Direct Investment Income   -2.7         -2.0    -2.4       -1.5    -1.1
.3 Workers Remittances (net)       .0        .0       .0        .0       .0
5. Current Transfers (net)          .2       -.2      2.8       6.6    10.5    22.0         48.0
6. Balance on current account -38.1   -178.1  -186.2    -64.0    76.6  -124.0    -372.0
7. Private Direct Investment        .5       1.3      -.2        .0      -.3      2.0       47.0
8. Grants & Grant-like Flows   13.0         42.0    77.0       58.0    60.8      58.0      139.0
PUBLIC M&LT LOANS
9. Disbursements                  83.8    146.3   157.4    210.4   150.1   236.0           186.0
1O.Amortization                  -39.1    -52.4  -117.7   -103.8  -101.9    43.0           -44.0
ll.Net Disbursements,             44,7      93.8    39.7    106.7    48.2   193.0          142.0
OTHER M&LT LOANS
12.Disbursements                    .0        .0       .0        .0       .0       .0          .0
13.Amortization                     .0        .0       .0        .0       .0       .0          .0
14.Net Disbursements                .0        .0       .0        .0       .0       .o *0
15.Use of IMF Resources           -1.4      33.3    27.9       11.1    46.9    36.0         67.0
16.Short-term Capital
Transactions                   -9.8      13.2    -2.8    -22.6        6.5        0         .0
17.Capital fransactions NEI    28.2         62.3   -12.0    -31.8   -56.9   -35.0           92.0
18.Change in Reserves
(- = Increase)       1/      -37.1      56.8    56.6    -57.4  -183.0    94.0           48.0
19.Net Foreign Exchange-
Reserves (end of period)   -11.0    -67.8  -124.4    -67.0   116.0   210.0              258.0
GRANT AND LOANS COMMITMENTS (US$ Million)
1. Official Grants                21.1      37.0    76.0       53.1   104.3   123.7  )  660.0
2. Total Public M&LT Loans        92.1    233.1   285.8    221.8   167.6   324.9
.1 IBRD                           .0                  .0        .0       .0       .0         .0
.2 IDA                            6.0      24.0    29.5         .0    41.2    25.5         68.0
.3 Other Multilateral             2.8       2.5    30.0        8.1    49.7    83.2         42.2
.4 Governments                   58.4      72.9   196.6    140.9    69.7   192.8
.5 of which Centrally Planned
Economies 2/                   2.6      21.4    56.1        4.2      1.7    10.0
.6 Suppliers                     25.0    133.6    29.7        72.7      7.0    23.4
.7 Financial Institutions          .0        .0       .0        .0       .0       .0         .0
.8 Bonds                           .0        .0       .0        *        .0       .0         .0
.9 Public Loans NEI                .0        .0       .0        .0       .0       .0         .0
3. Other M&LT Loans (where
available)                       .0        .0       .0        .0       .0       .0         .0
MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1. Grant Element of Total
Commitments                 45.000    27.100   55.700  39.800  64.400   62.686           67.521
2. Average Interest Rate          .037       .051      .029    .040    .021        .024        .020
3. Average Maturity (years)  23.700    13.600   28.800  20.500  35.400   29.529              39.715
1/ Net Foreign Assets:  US$ Equivalent of Line 31, IFS.
2/ Includes CMEA Countries, Peoples Republic of China,
North Korea, North Vietnam.
figures not available
May 16, 1980



- 25 -                                      Annex I
Page 6 of 6 pages
SRI LANKA
DEBT AND CREDITWORTIHNESS
ACTUAL
1973       1974      1975      1976       197        1978
MEDIUM AND LONG TERM DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)
Total Debt Outstanding (DOD End of Period)           484.8       587.3    598.0      702.3      787.0     974.5
Including Undisbursed                                680.1      875.7    997.0   1,103.8   1,217.9   1,428.1
Public Debt Service                                  -54.6      -68.9   -138.4    -126.8    -124.0        -94.9
Interest                                             -15.5      -16.5    -20.6       -23.1     -22.1      -22.8
Other M&LT Debt Service                                 .0          .0        .0        .0         .0         .0
Total Debt Service                                   -54.6      -68.9   -138.4    -126.8    -124.0        -94.9
DEBT BURDEN
Debt Service Ratio                                    12.9        12.1     22.0       20.2      15.0       10.0
Debt Service Ratio 1/                                 13.5        12.4     22.4       20.4      15.1       10.1
Debt Service/GDP                                       2.7         2.7      5.2        5.2        4.4       3.7
Public Debt Service/Government Revenue                15.7        10.0     19.0       20.0      23.5       14.7
TERMS
Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD                        3.2        2.8       3.4        3.3       2.8        2.3
Total Debt Service/Total DOD                          11.3        11.7     23.1       18.1      15.8        9.7
DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEBT
Gross Disb./Imports (Incl. NFS)                       18.8        20.0     19.7       31.0      20.1       24.1
Net Transfer/Imports (Incl. NFS)                       6.6        10.6      2.4       12.3        3.5      15.4
Net Transfer/Gross Disb.                              34.9        52.9     12.1       39.7      17.4       63.6
EXPOSURE
IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                           6.5        3.4       3.6        1.6       1.3         .7
Bank Group Disb./Gross Total Disbursements            12.4       10.9      12.2        4.0       8.7        5.6
TIRD DOD/Total DOD                                     6.6        5.8       6.1        5.1       4.4        3.3
Bank Group DOD/Total DOD                               9.5       10.0      12.5       11.3      11.3       10.3
IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service                   8.0        7.4       4.0        4.7       4.9        6.1
Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service             8.1        7.5       4.2        5.0       5.2        6.5
OUTSTANDING DECEMBER 31, 1977
EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)                                              AMOUNT             PERCENT
IBRD                                                                           34.3               4.4
Bank Group                                                                     89.0              11.3
Other Multilateral                                                             43.8                5.6
Governments                                                                   574.9              73.0
Of Which Centrally Planned Economies 2/                                      52.8               6.7
Suppliers                                                                      79.2              10.1
Financial Institutions                                                            .1               .0
Bonds                                                                             .0               .0
Public Debt NEI                                                                   .0               .0
Total Public M&LT Debt                                                        787.0             100.0
Other Public M&LT Debt                                                            .0               .0
Other M&LT Debt                                                                   .0               .0
Total Public Debt (Including Undisbursed)                                   1,217.9             154.8
Total M&LT Debt (Including Undisbursed)                                     1,217.9             154.8
DEBT PROFILE
Total Debt Service 1978-82/Total DOD End of 1977                               63.5
1/ Including Net Direct Investment Income
2/ Includes CMEA Countries, People's Republic of China, North Korea, North Vietnam
Figures not available
February 27, 1980



-26 -                         ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1980)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                      Amount (net of
Credit                                                       cancellations)
No.   Year   Borrower             Purpose              Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed            72.9   66.8
504     1974   Sri Lanka         Dairy Development               9.0      6.9
666     1976   Sri Lanka         Tank Irrigation                 5.0      4.4
701     1977   Sri Lanka         Mahaweli Ganga
Development II               19.0    18.8
709     1977   Sri Lanka         Water Supply                    9.2      3.7
742     1977   Sri Lanka         DFC - Industrial IV             8.0      3.4
818     1978   Sri Lanka         Tree Crop Reha-
bilitation (Tea)             21.0    20.2
819     1978   Sri Lanka         Tree Crop Diver-
sification (Tea)              4.5     3.1
891     1979   Sri Lanka         Kurunegala Rural
Development                  20.0    19.1
900     1979   Sri Lanka         Road Maintenance               16.5    16.5
931     1979   Sri Lanka         Agricultural Extension
and Adaptive Research        15.5    15.5
942     1979   Sri Lanka         Small and Medium
Industries                   16.0    15.9
979     1980   Sri Lanka         Mahaweli Ganga
Technical Assistance          3.0     3.0
994     1980   Sri Lanka         Road Passenger Transport       53.0    53.0
Total, /a                                                72.9  266.5   183.3
of which has been repaid                              40.2    -
Total now outstanding                                    32.7  266.5
Amount sold,                               3.6
of which has been repaid                 3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                        32.7  282.5
Total undisbursed                                         Nil  183.3
/a   A credit of US$16.0 million for a Rubber Rehabilitation Project and
US$30.0 million for a Telecommunications Project have recently been
approved by the Executive Directors but have not yet been signed.
/b   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of March 31, 1980)
Amount of US$ Million
Year        Obligor                Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1977  The Development Finance   Development Banking
Corporation of Ceylon                               -      0.1      0.1
1978  Bank of Ceylon              Development Banking       2.0     -        2.0
1979  Cyntex                      Textiles                  1.9    0.4       2.3
1979  Mikechris Industries        Polypropylene Bag         0.9    0.1       1.0
1980  Development Finance
Corporation of Ceylon   Development Banking         -      0.05     0.05
Total Commitment now held by IFC                4.8      .5       .
_        m



- 27 -                         ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The original project, as appraised in 1973, was designed to increase
milk production on about 2,400 dairy farms covering 42,000 acres in the
Coconut Triangle and Mid Country of Sri Lanka by providing credit, technical
assistance and a strengthened milk collection, transport and marketing system.
Complementary objectives were to establish pilot units for commercial calf
rearing and pasture management systems and to provide proceasing equipment
to the National Milk Board. However, progress was severely constrained by
the poor supply of cattle available for supplying to project borrowers. The
poor supply of cattle was due to import problems and an over-estimation of
the national herd at appraisal stemming from unreliable Government statistics.
Moreover, unrestricted slaughter of cattle was stimulated by a rapid increase
in concentrate feed prices which made milk production unattractive plus the
relatively high consumer price of fish and poultry meat. It, therefore,
became necessary to reformulate the project. Before proceeding with refor-
mulation, the Government was requested to provide appropriate incentives to
the dairy sector by raising the producer price of milk and stabilizing feed
prices. Appropriate action was taken in November, 1978, and the climate for
dairying has improved accordingly. The revised project would focus on
what was a small component of the original project -- support to dairy co-
operatives. Under this component, dairy farmers would be organized in a
manner similar to the successful Anand pattern of Dairy Cooperatives in
India. The National Dairy Development Board (India) helped in the prepa-
ration of the reformulated project. Under this reformulation, the supply
of inputs and services would become key activities which would include pro-
vision of technical assistance and credit to farmers and support for milk
collection, transport and marketing. The successful ongoing pilot calf/heifer
rearing and pasture programs have been expanded. The number of beneficiary
farm families would be substantially increased (current estimate approximately
10,000 vs. 2,400 in the original project) and the project would contribute to
a considerable increase in income of existing landless and small farmer dairy
producers.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -                         ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: April 12, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project covers five tank areas, serving a total cultivated area
of 31,500 acres. The project includes: (a) construction works for improving
irrigation and drainage facilities; (b) improvement of farm roads; (c) provi-
sion of farm equipment for land preparation and plant protection; (d) strength-
ening of agricultural supporting services, particularly extension; and (e)
technical assistance for improving the operation and maintenance of the irri-
gation systems.  The construction program continues to lag behind the revised
schedule by about one year.  In August 1979 IDA approved the procurement of
about US$1.5 M of additional construction equipment under the Credit as a means
of improving construction progress and the quality of the work. The construc-
tion program for two of the tanks, Mahakandarawa and Mahawilachchiya, is fairly
well advanced; completion of the major part of this work is expected by the end
of 1980. Work is in the initial stages on the other three tanks. The quality
of project management has been a serious constraint to effective implementation.
A new management team is to be provided. Also, it has been agreed with the
Government that a three-member consulting team, funded under the IDA credit
or the U.K. grant, would be provided for up to two years to assist the Irriga-
tion Department in the design and supervision of the project. IDA provided a
design engineer for about six weeks during February/March 1980 to review and
assist in the design of irrigation works to be undertaken in 1980 until the
consulting team is appointed. With these measures, project implementation
(measured both in terms of time and quality) is expected to improve signifi-
cantly. A study has been undertaken on 120 ac in the project area to train
farmers in making use of rainfall for land preparation and early cultivation,
thus conserving tank water for yala cultivation. This technical assistance
program is to improve water management and water use efficiencies in the
project area and appears to be successful. The T&V system of agricultural
extension is not yet operating effectively. However, the Secretary, Ministry
of Agriculture is taking a special interest in the program and is confident
that he can make it successful.
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million
of June 27, 1977; Effective Date: December 29, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Credit will help finance construction of irrigation and drainage
schemes on 40,000 acres of new land in the Mahaweli Ganga dry zone, together
with providing O&M facilities and equipment, production support in the form
of necessary tilling power and implements, marketing, transport and processing
facilities for 71,000 acres and improved agricultural extension services for
106,000 acres. Cofinancing arrangements have been made with Canada, the
Netherlands, the United Kingdom, the United States and the EEC. Considerable
progress has been achieved in the construction of the irrigation system and
the outlook for completing the project about 1-1/2 to 2 years ahead of schedule



- 29 -                         ANNEX II
Page 4
remains good. The settlement of many areas has begun. A total of about
2,600 farms out of a total of about 13,500 had been settled bv early 1980 and
settlement of all areas is scheduled for completion by late 1980. On-farm
development work has been completed for about 1,000 farms but is not keeping
pace with settlement. The completion of social infrastructure is lagging far
behind other project components but steps are being taken to accelerate this
work. Water issues were started in November 1979 in some of the recently
settled project areas and water charges have been initiated in adjoining
areas of System H completed previously (a total of about Rs 120,000 had been
collected by mid-November 1979). A feeling of optimism is prevalent among
project staff, Quality control measures and the quality of completed works
continue to improve but are still not up to desired levels.  Much of the work
is onily partially completed and considerable cleanup remains in areas where
construction work is essentially complete. The agricultural extension program
is adversely affected by inadequate staffing and morale and discipline of
extension staff are low. The Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, is personally
taking steps to rectify these conditions. A farmer training program (organized
in part of System H) is achieving excellent results and will be expanded over
the total area. Disbursements are still far behind schedule but are expected
to increase significantly with the approval of several requests for withdrawal
by mid-1980.
Cr. No. 709 -  Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of June 30, 1977; Effective
Date:  February 8, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
This credit will help finance improvement of existing piped water
supplies to Colombo and five adjacent towns south of Colombo. In addition,
the project will provide piped water to five adjacent towns north of Colombo
and Ambalangoda and Kalutara on the southwest coast of Sri Lanka. It also
includes provision for expenditures on spare parts and equipment, technical
assistance and training. An additional credit of Canadian $5.0 million from
Canadian funds administered by IDA is assisting in financing this project.
Recently, an EEC Special Action Credit Agreement of US$7.0 million has been
signed. Actions were taken in implementing some institutional changes, intro-
ducing a new bulk water tariff, and establishing new accounting procedures
both in the National Water Supply and Drainage Board and in local authorities.
Despite initial delays, the WDB has made good progress during the past year,
particularly in procurement.
Cr. No. 742 - Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit will meet a substantial portion of DFCC's estimated
foreign exchange requirements for lending to private sector industrial
prcjects and tourism. Subprojects for US$7.8 million have been authorized.



- 30 -                       ANNEX II
Page 5
DFCC remains a competent institution, with a rapidly increasing level of
activity, which could increase further provided that DFCC's staffing problems
are overcome as well as the constraint caused by the low equity base.
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; US$21.0 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The credit would assist the Government in improving the economic
efficiency of the tea industry by lowering production costs and improving
tea quality in the project area, as well as in stemming the decline in tea
output. Project progress is satisfactory. Procurement is under way; all
tender documents have been issued. In the case of housing, awards have been
made and construction started. Field works, replanting and infilling, are
on schedule. All other project components, namely health component, training
component and tea area measurement, are progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 819 - Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project; US$4.5 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 15, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
This credit would help the Government in its initial effort in a
long-term program to rehabilitate, diversify and settle degraded mid-country
lands, mainly nationalized tea estates. The National Agricultural Development
and Settlement Authority, the project executing agency, has developed into a
mature development organization which is operating efficiently under capable
management. Despite some delay in procurement of equipment, progress in
field work is impressive. Cluster selection and homestead and farm demarca-
tion are nearly complete and soil conservation work (bench terraces, lock and
spill drains, graded stone terraces) well under way and accelerating. Foun-
dations for about 500 houses have been laid and these houses are at various
stages of construction. Implementation of settlement aspects of the project
(settler selection, transfer of non-citizen labor to other estates, and land
allocation) has just started. This is the most sensitive and potentially
difficult part of the project.
Cr. No. 891 -  Kurunegala Rural Development Project; US$20.0 million of
April 26, 1979; Effective Date: August 27, 1979; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1984.
The project aims to assist the development of the District of
Kurunegala in an integrated manner for purposes of raising productivity,
employment, incomes and living standards and to develop a replicable model
for rural development for other districts in Sri Lanka. The project will
provide for rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes accompanied by
improved water management practices to fully exploit the irrigation potential,
and for programs for replanting/underplanting, intercropping and fertilizing
of smallholder coconut plantations. The project will also strengthen agri-
cultural extension services, improve the supply of input services such as



- 31 -                        ANNEX II
Page 6
fertilizer distribution and seeds supplies, and lay the foundation for a
viable agriculture credit system. These directly productive investments
will be complemented by investments in transportation, health, education,
water supply and rural electrification. Subsidiary loan agreements with
participating banks have been signed and the project unit set up. A super-
vision mission reviewed the project in August, 1979 and reported good
progress.
Cr. No. 900 - Road Maintenance Project; US$16.5 million of June 22, 1979;
Effective Date: December 19, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
The project aims to improve the highway system of Sri Lanka by a
program of enhanced periodic and routine maintenance. It would assist the
Government in the rehabilitation of 112 miles of road, resurfacing of 150
additional miles and strengthening, repairing or replacement of 30 bridges.
The project would also provide plant and equipment for workshops and strengthen
the road maintenance services of the Department of Highways. Consultants have
recently been appointed and started their work.
Cr. No. 931 - Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research Project; US$15.5
million of July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project would help Sri Lanka to (a) introduce a Training and
Visit (T&V) extension system throughout the entire country, (b) strengthen
adaptive research, and (c) improve and expand training of extension officers.
The project would establish a link between research and extension and enhance
the intensity, coverage and the content of agricultural extension services.
A unified extension system would be developed, under which extension workers
would receive biweekly training, visit farmers according to planned schedules,
and transmit extension messages.
Cr. No. 942 - Small and Medium Industries Project; US$16.0 million of
July 24, 1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal objectives of the project would be to encourage and
assist growth and productivity improvement of small and medium firms, defined
as enterprises having plant and equipment valued at less than Rs 1 million, so
as to increase their contribution to efficient low cost employment creation,
export expansion, regional development and economic growth. The project would
have two main components - credit and technical, management and marketing
services. Under the credit component, it is proposed to establish a fund in
the National Development Bank (NDB) to provide refinancing of subloans made to
small and medium industries by commercial banks and the Development Finance
Corporation. The technical services component would be implemented by the
Industrial Development Board, Department of Small Industry, Department of



- 32 -                        ANNEX II
Page 7
Textile Industries, and the National Institute of Management, and directed at
specific subsectors - rubber products, light engineering, subcontracting
exchanges, handlooms, coir products, and rice milling.
Cr. No. 979 - Mahaweli Ganga Technical Assistance Project; US3.0 million;
not yet effective
The project is to provide technical assistance for: (i) preparation
of a reconnaissance-level study of plans for conveying and utilizing surplus
Mahaweli Ganga water to develop land in three alternative areas in order to
select the best plan for a transbasin diversion project; (ii) ongoing review
of designs and tender documents for the Right Bank Transbasin Canal, and
preparation of final designs and tender documents for construction of civil
works and social infrastructure for part of System C in the Mahaweli Basin;
and (iii) support for other studies and designs of projects in the Mahaweli
Ganga Development Program. Training of local staff is included throughout
the project. An EEC Special Action Credit of US$2.0 million equivalent has
been provided to assist in financing consultants' services for the ongoing
review of the designs and tender documents for the Right Bank Transbasin
Canal and the preparation of final design and tender documents for System C.
Cr. No. 994 - Road Passenger Transport Project; US$53 million; not yet
effective.
The project would improve the availability and reliability of public
road passenger transportation services throughout Sri Lanka. It would intro-
duce improved maintenance standards, thereby improving fuel efficiency. It
also aims to improve the financial condition of Sri Lanka Central Transport
Board and Regional Transport Boards (RTBs), and progressively reduce and by
1983 eliminate Government subsidies for public bus operations. The project
provides for the purchase of 2,100 bus chassis, which will be assembled at
the assembly plant in Sri Lanka. It also includes improvements of bus main-
tenance facilities and practices in RTBs, traffic engineering measures to
improve bus flows on roads, and technical assistance and training for the
execution of the project and institution building.



- 33 -                      ANNEX III
Page I
SRI LANKA
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare the project
1 year
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
National Water Supply and Drainage Board.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of the first mission to consider the project
March 1979; June 2, 1979
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 7, 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 25, 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 31, 1980
Section II. Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.



- 34 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  WDB will appoint a management adviser by January 1, 1981
(para 45);
(b)  WDB will take over, by December 31, 1981, retailing
of water and sewerage services in the project area
(para 48);
(c) the Government would implement, by January 1, 1982, a
program to provide assistance to lower income property
owners to enable them to connect to the sewer system
(para 49);
(d)  WDB will install consumer meters at a rate of at least
1,000 meters per month and complete the installation
of bulk meters by June 30, 1981 (para 51);
(e)  WDB will maintain revenues at a level sufficient to produce
a minimum rate of return of 8% on its revalued fixed assets
in 1982 and thereafter (para 52);
(f)  WDB will receive sewerage revenues equal to 70% of the
Project Area water revenues, to be paid by the Govern-
ment and local authorities until January 1, 1984 and
thereafter to be shared by consumers (para 52);
(g)  WDB would not subsidize operations outside the project
area from project area revenues (para 52);
(h)  the Government will ensure timely payment of WDB bills
by local authorities (para 54); and
(i)  WDB debt service to be covered 1.5 times by net income
at the time the debt is incurred (para 55).
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)  WDB to appoint consultants to carry out an organ-
ization, management and finance study (para 45);
and supervise sewerage construction (para 47);
(b) a commitment of SFD loan (para 58); and
(c) execution of the subsidiary loan agreement between
the Government and WDB.



IBRD 14818
7950' =5To  Veo                                           79t55'                                           4                   MARCH 1980
-7P00'                                                                                                 740                          E AY OF
.SRI LANKAN
ELIE HOUSEi      -/                                                                           AREAM         
RESERVOI      sf                                                                            OF MAP COLCM13 0
RESERVOIR         'NO/AN           CA N
COLOMBd
C o L o      M     B c T 08ds~~  ^A BTAL
Gg4 S . T W NAMBATION                                WATER TRAN5M SSION MA 
FROM KA-ATUWA,WA/LABUAMA
Kollupity,   OVfl                                                                                                RESERVOIRS
iLIA                                                                     SRI   LANAIEE RESERVOR
0  PI,MPINGISTATION   M        A     JUBEREE PREMPING STXTNDON
EE                                                 RET ALA R-SERVO R  R
DehiwaWtwer m
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 MCeA N
2 I I /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WT". TRANM;SN  
65'   MLavi^ntt$'   |  j  <                                                               |         RESERVOIRS
FO5fETFRS R I  L      A            KA
t -z\ | ~SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
\X-)  w    a C                    ~~GREATER COLOMBO AREA WATER SOURCES,
% l  5   <                       ~~~TRANSMISSION AND TREATMENT FACILITIES
MORATUN,RESERVO RR                     UNDERCRNSTRUCTION    EXTENDED
iAEXISTING  ISTSTAGECR709-CE) PR OEDPROJECT
r a R _ - _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Treatrrent plaunts
o the readersFhereporrato,   s ateod TePurping stations
X   >,><9j a          a              *             *        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Reservoirs
Morotuw   @   NotGOD4J                             *             *                       Water towers
PD        \X 84         r71                  acoeptosre of to odaseWater mains
t\iL  <\\t7 . ... ]~~E                                              Service areas
/4 N                                               C/ANf'\   ...... .--Municipal Council boundaries                                      645
tF  @   2>C)                          -       ~~~~~~~~Roads
O   C  Lc  A  NIVk                                      a                                         Railways
v                     '    5;;~~~~~~~~~~~~PANAURA PESERVO R  KILCMETERS   1    2     3      4     5
<    <                        ~~~~~~~~~           ~ ~~MILES 6  1  2  3
t !, -v   X1          ~~~~~Th,s -ap h-s beenp,,p-rdbv h,, Wor/d8-ak ssa{,I lujel o the ovee
%  o  <               of the rea~~d_r o th-  re MI, mo Wd. -nht-,p/tfl, .1 th pan of MIe Wdd B-nk and I
79"50 9'                                                  ,,9,55-          afHptacnf-suc bt .. d-tel9Isau fayrmtr rayedr zo






-                                            B~~~~~~~~~~~A Y  OF
<               ' ' ~~~~- ;          > =                                           BEPMPNGGAIO
\~~~~~~~~~~~OrTO                                                     \S A    '                         AASA
JOE /7  ""   /                                ~~~~SRI LANKA\
.  t ' -t.2  .= = .i==. \F=_WSECODWTESUPYADEWRGPOJCT,$ 
Si~
_0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
SECOND WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECr
GREATER COLOMBO AREA SEWERAGE FACILITIES
EXISTING   UNDER PROJECT PROPOSED PROJECT
reTese-p pl-nt
62i C   ]: SY ==  it 00;;  0  >  > \    ,                  __________             __________  Sewrce is
O :CE-AN                                                                                                       Foremoe
----------              -----  - Sewered  oreo  booodorres
-   Muorprol CoconI boordories
, 0;  =   =  !A==  a   ==   .=  0   X  } ' '   ==                     Ml ES  9         Y2         -IETIR    0  12 1  1 
M-LES            S



