OFFICIAL         C
L~~FNT~JCREDIT NUMBER 1041 CE
DOCUMENTS
Project Agreement
(Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD
Dated     -                          , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1041 CE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   '46,5% v bJ  b2-          , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION     hereinafter called   the
Association) and NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD (herein-
after called WDB).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million
dollars ($30,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that WDB
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and WDB, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available
to WDB on the terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS WDB, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. WDB shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause


﻿-2-
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist WDB in carrying out the
Project, WDB shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) WDB undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by WDB to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, WDB
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) WDB shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, training programs, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modi-
fications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) WDB: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall


﻿-3-
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between WDB and the
Association, WDB shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by WDB and the Association of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
(d) WDB shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of WDB and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.06. WDB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, WDB shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) WDB shall at the request of the Asso-
ciation, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) WDB shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress
of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
or the performance by WDB of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.08. WDB shall maintain the unit established pur-
suant to Section 2.09 of the First Project Agreement, and streng-
then such unit to a level satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of WDB
Section 3.01. (a) WDB shall at all times manage its affairs,
plan the development of its properties and facilities and main-
tain its financial position in accordance with appropriate
administrative, engineering, public utility and financial prac-
tices under the supervision of experienced and competent manage-
ment; and shall cause its plant, equipment, properties and
facilities to be maintained and all necessary renewals and repairs
thereto to be made, all in accordance with appropriate adminis-
trative, engineering, public utility and financial practices.
(b) WDB shall take all steps as shall be required to provide
it with revenues as determined in accordance with the provisions
of Section 4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) WDB shall take all steps necessary to
acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
operations;
(b) WDB shall not sell or otherwise dispose of any of
its property or assets which shall be required for the efficient
conduct of its operations.
Section 3.03. WDB shall take out and maintain insurance
with responsible insurers, or make other arrangements satisfactory
to the Association, for protection against risks in a manner
which shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. WDB shall continue to ensure that, in accor-
dance with a timetable acceptable to the Association, senior
financial positions on its staff shall be filled and its accoun-
ting department shall be adequately staffed by WDB personnel or
through provision of technical assistance.
Section 3.05. WDB shall: (i) install consumer meters on
existing connections in the Project Area at a rate of not less
than 1,000 meters per month; and (ii) install new meters, where
appropriate, on new connections promptly as such connections
are provided.


﻿-5-
Section 3.06. WDB shall by June 30, 1981 complete the
installation of bulk meters to accurately measure flows from all
treatment plants, major pumping installations and distribution
reservoirs, and to accurately measure bulk supplies to local
authorities of the Borrower in the Project Area.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. WDB shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. WDB shall: (i) have its accounts and fin,ncial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year (including those for the
fiscal year ending December 31, 1979) audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Association (for the fiscal year
1980 such auditors shall be appointed by September 30, 1980, and
thereafter said auditors shall be appointed by January 1 for the
relevant fiscal year); (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial state-
ments for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Associa-
tion shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. WDB shall implement a program satisfactory to
the Association, for the annual revaluation of its fixed assets in
operation.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
WDB shall not incur any debt unless the net revenue of WDB for
the fiscal year next preceding the date of such incurrence or for
a later twelve-month period ended prior to the date or such
incurrence, whichever, is greater, shall be not less than 1.5
times the maximum debt service requirements for any succeeding
fiscal year on all debt of WDB including the debt to be incurred.
For the purposes of this Section:


﻿-6-
(a) the term "debt" means all debt incurred by WD3 including
debt assumed or guaranteed by WDB, except debt incurred in the
ordinary course of business and maturing by its terms on demand or
less than one year after its incurrence;
(b) the term "incur" with reference to any such debt
includes any modification of the terms of payment of such debt.
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred by WDB: (i) under a contract
or loan agreement, on the date the contract or loan agreement
providing for such debt is entered into; and (ii) under a guaran-
tee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee shall have been entered into;
(c) the term "net revenue" means a gross revenue received
by WDB from water supply, sewerage and drainage services, less
all operating expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes or
payment in lieu of taxes, if any, and administrative expenses, but
before provision for depreciation and interest and other charges
on debt;
(d) the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if
any), interest and other charges on such debt; and
(e) whenever it shall be necessary to value in the currency
of the Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time such valua-
tion is made, obtainable by WDB for the purpose of servicing such
debt.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
.Sect'ion 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of WDB thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:


﻿-7-
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this Agree-
ment.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
WDB of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation.
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be* given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
For WDB:
National Water Supply
and Drainage Board
P.O. Box 14
Mt. Lavinia
Sri Lanka
Cable address:
WATERBOARD
Ratmalana
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of WDB may be taken or executed by its
Chairman or such other person or persons as such Chairman shall
designate in writing, and WDB shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
BySa'a
Regional Vice President
South Asia
NATIONAL WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD
*  By      Ji,a-
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, WDB shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60.days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. WDB shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in the Project shall be
prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 10 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Sri Lanka may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Sri Lanka if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of WDB and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Sri Lanka equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4. If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such


﻿- 11 -
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (3) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured
in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of this
Schedule, WDB may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower
and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
. 2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by WDB,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the purchase of goods amounting to not more
than the equivalent of $100,000 each and totalling in the aggre-
gate not more than equivalent of $1,000,000 shall be procured in


﻿- 12 -
accordance with local procurement procedures of the Borrower
acceptable to the Association.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. WDB shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic
preference under Part D above and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification and for such eligibility
shall be furnished by WDB to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified of WDB's decision, and WDB
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in,
the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a)   Before bids are invited, WDB shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of -the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, WDB
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform WDB
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 13 -
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the As- ciation promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such -contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would-increase the cost of the contract by
more than 10% of the original price, WDB shall inform the Associa-
tion of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change
order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform WDB and state the reasons
for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
1980-.
FOR SECRETARY


