fILE      COPY                              Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1881-IN
REPORT AND RECOMTIENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
INDIA
FOR A
SIXTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
June 22, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at May 4, 1976)
Rs 1.00            =    Paise 100
US$1.00            -    Rs 8.97
Rs 1.00            =    US$0.1115
Rs 1 million       =    US$111,500
(Prior to September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at
a fixed Pound Sterling rate.   Since then, it has been fixed rela-
tive to a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are now
floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the staff project report were made at US$1 to Rs 9.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
List of Abbrevi,ations and Acronyms Used in this Report
Branch   -   Telecommunications Branch of Posts and Telegraphs
Department
DEL      -   Direct Exchange Line
GOI      -   Government of India
HCL      -   Hindustan Cables Limited
HF       -    High frequency (low capacity radio)
HTL      -    Hindustan Teleprinters Limited
ITI      -   Indian Telephone Industries Limited
OCS      -   Overseas Communications Service
OYT      -   Own Your Telephone
PCO      -   Public Call Office
P&T      -   Posts and Telegraphs Department
STD      -   Subscriber trunk dialing



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA
FOR THE SIXTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to India in an amount equivalent to US$80 million to help finance a sixth
telecommunications project. The loan would have a term of 23 years, including
3 years grace, with interest at 8.85% per annum.
1/
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1073-IN dated March 29, 1976), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 2, 1976. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 states with
a population of some 600 million and over 60 languages. The country's poverty
and inadequate domestic savings, together with a net transfer of external
resources averaging over the past five years only about US$1.20 per person
per annum, have imposed sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account must
be taken, also, of the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability of
water. A bad monsoon, which is likely to occur almost two years out of every
five, has a pervasive influence over the entire economy and can wipe out the
results of years of efforts. Thus, the annual growth of national income over
the last five years (1971/72 - 1975/76), which included two consecutive mon-
soon failures, has averaged only 2% per annum, less than the rate of popula-
tion increase.
4.        Since independence, progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others, and generally has fallen short of India's mas-
sive needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport,
education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has often been
achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many
industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well
below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and structural
1/   Parts I and II in this report are identical to the corresponding parts
in the President's Report (No. P-1849-IN) on the National Seed Project.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offlcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other
parts of the world, but in other regions there has been stagnation and possibly
even decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there has
been in general little impact upon the living standards of the vast masses of
the urban and rural population. In recent years, the Government has initiated
a variety of programs specifically directed toward helping the lower income
strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200 million people
with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained
approximately constant at about 23%. There has, however, been a shift in the
composition of industrial production, with consumer, intermediate, and capital
goods now contributing about one third each, compared with an overwhelming
preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        India entered 1975/76 having been through one of the most difficult
periods since Independence. Progress in dealing with long-term development
problems had been limited by poor crops, the dramatic shifts against India in
the terms of trade, and inflation. Adjustments to these immediate difficul-
ties thus became the principal preoccupation in economic management. However,
with the support of favorable weather and additional foreign assistance, it
now appears that India has successfully weathered the problems of the recent
past; once again there is hope for an upturn in the growth rate of the economy.
7.        Most important among the favorable factors in 1975/76 was a bumper
harvest which followed years of poor or modest agricultural output. Food-
grain production last year, estimated at around 114 million tons, exceeded
the previous record of 1970/71 by 6%. Oilseeds, sugarcane and cotton also
reached new production peaks and provided ample supplies for the agro-
industries. Secondly, deficiencies in the supply of basic commodities and of
infrastructural inputs such as energy and transport, which had been prevalent
in the past, have been eased. Electricity generation and domestic production
of coal, oil, cement and steel all increased by over 10% during 1975/76.
Finally, the increased supply of agricultural and industrial products and of
services, together with the demand restraint imposed by the Government since
mid-1974, put a stop to inflation.. In 1974/75 the Wholesale Price Index had
risen by 23%; in 1975/76 it remained unchanged.
8.        On the balance of payments front in 1975/76, some of the basic
problems of the previous two years remained. In particular, the terms of
trade, which had deteriorated significantly over the previous two years, did
not improve and most probably moved even further against India. Nevertheless,
there were a number of encouraging developments. Firstly, the build-up of
foodgrain stocks during the year will provide a buffer against the impact of
a future crop failure on the balance of payments. Secondly, although export



- 3 -
earnings rose only 6%, with high volume growth being offset by falling prices,
import growth was also less than expected. The value of petroleum imports
was stabilized despite price increases during the year, and steel imports
were substantially reduced due to increased domestic production. As a result,
the value of India's imports rose only 2% during 1975/76 and the trade deficit
was reduced to US$1.45 billion, US$150 million less than in 1974/75. Thirdly,
the net transfer of aid was 20% higher than in 1974/75 and India also received
substantial inflows of private remittances from abroad. As a result of these
favorable developments, India was able to add over $800 million to foreign
exchange reserves. These reserves will give India added flexibility in ad-
justing to a higher rate of economic growth during 1976/77.
Development Prospects
9.        While many of the most acute problems were eased during 1975/76,
longer-term constraints to growth remain. Many of these have existed for
some time, but their importance had been temporarily overshadowed by the more
overwhelming limitations imposed by supply shortages and balance of payments
problems. One such constraint is the deficiency of demand for a large seg-
ment of the manufacturing industry. Consequently, in the midst of adequate
supplies during 1975/76, the use of manufacturing capacity - especially for
consumer durables - remained low. In the short and medium term, the two most
promising ways of stimulating demand are to boost public investment and ex-
pand exports. Both avenues are currently being pursued by the Government.
During 1975/76, real Plan outlay rose by 18-20%, after having fallen during
each of the previous two years. The 1976/77 Budget proposes a further in-
crease of 16% in real terms and introduces new measures to stimulate invest-
ment in the private sector. Investment priorities remain the same as last
year, namely agricultural development and increased production of critical
industrial inputs, such as power, coal, oil, and iron and steel.    The Budget
also stresses the import:ance of exports as an essential condition for sus-
tained stability in the balance of payments.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76, the long-term growth rate of foodgrain production
in India has been unacceptably low, at about 2.3% per annum over the last 15
years. This is about the same as the rate of population increase. Starting
from a situation of deficit, this has meant that only in good years has there
been a significant margin of production to cater to any per capita growth in
consumption, and even in normal years it has been necessary to rely on stocks
or imports to meet any growth.in demand. With a major effort to expand the
irrigated area and provide complementary inputs, the average growth rate of
foodgrain production could be substantially increased. This is essential,
not only because of the necessity to meet food requirements without unmanage-
able consequences for the balance of payments but also because of the strong
influence of agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the
economy. Even with a-higher growth rate of foodgrain production, imports
will still be required. However, in relation to India's total consumption of
foodgrains, the dependence on imports has been and will remain small. In the
past, domestic production has accounted for almost 100% of supplies in good
weather years and about 90% when harvests were poor.



- 4 -
11.       The energy sector in India was headed for its own crisis before
the international oil crisis developed. The dramatic hike in oil prices,
coinciding as it did with the accentuation of electric power shortages -
caused in part by low hydroelectric generation due to poor monsoons - led
to an acceleration of measures to improve performance of existing facilities
and to a much higher priority for investments in the energy sector. The
effects of these measures, aided by the good monsoon, are now starting to be
felt. Coal production has increased by 10% or more in each of the last two
years, and, partly as a result of this, power shortages and restrictions have
been greatly reduced. The medium-term prospects for oil and natural gas have
improved with the delineation of the offshore Bombay High field. Crude pro-
duction from this field is expected to be 1 million tons in 1976/77 and to
reach 6 million tons by the end of the Plan period. On this basis, petro-
leum imports are projected to start declining in 1978/79, as increased crude
production and expanded refinery output more than offset increases in demand.
12.       In the past, export growth was affected in varying degrees by in-
adequate profitability, lack of access to imported inputs, poor quality,
instability of the policy environment and vulnerability to ad hoc decisions.
In addition, for agricultural commodities export taxes were significant.
For some homogeneous commodities, such as iron ore and tea, inadequate sup-
plies or limited world demand have been important constraints. In recent
years, mainly because of the large trade deficit, the Government's emphasis
on export promotion has intensified. As a result, although the fundamental
orientation of India's industrial and trade policy and the specific instru-
ments of the export regime have, by and large, remained the same, a signi-
ficant shift in emphasis and in the way these policies are operated has
occurred. These are important both because they are likely to lead to a
better utilization of current export potential and as an indication of the
willingness to make policy adjustments, when necessary, to expand exports.
13.       While it is difficult to assess the impact of the new measures in
an area where policy is already very complex, some improvement has already
taken place and further improvement in medium-term performance seems likely.
An annual real export growth rate of about 7% should be feasible, compared
to an average of 5% over the last five years. However, to achieve a higher
export growth over the long run, more far-reaching policy measures will be
required, including the introduction of a more uniform and more stable sys-
tem of export incentives. Even so, the export drive might be impeded by
controls in some developed markets.
14.       India's balance of payments problems should be manageable over
the next few years, even with the repayment obligations resulting from re-
cent short-term OPEC and IMF borrowings. The worldwide inflation has bene-
fitted India by reducing the proportion of export earnings that have to be
devoted to debt service. India's debt service ratio has come down from 31%
in 1970/71 to 19% in 1975/76. Provided the real growth of exports remains at
about 7% per annum, the debt service ratio is unlikely to rise much above
20% in the foreseeable future. On the import side, given the adequate level



of stocks on hand at the end of 1975/76 and assuming normal weather condi-
tions, annual foodgrain imports could be kept to 5-6 million tons during the
next three years. Within the general category of non-food imports, India
has substantial medium-term import substitution opportunities for three
major Items -- petroleum, fertilizer and steel -- which constituted more
than 60% of imports last year. If the medium-term targets for production in
these areas are achieved, the total expenditure on these three import items
in 1978/79 need not be any higher than in 1975/76 and could quite conceiva-
bly be less. Provided the Government is willing to liberalize imports and
donors continue to respond to India's needs, the easing in the external
payments situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
(complemented by larger imports of capital goods, components, and raw
materials), and consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long-term
growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
15.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 44 loans and 80 development
credits to India totalling US$1,436 million and US$4,112 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$752 million has been
repaid, and US$1,590.5 million was still undisbursed as of May 31, 1976.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of May 31,
1976, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
16.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totaling US$51.8
million, of which US$10.8 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$26.5 million, US$20.0 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of May 31, 1976, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
17.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active In support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
18.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, transport and telecommunica-
tions remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural



- 6 -
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation
schemes, and seed production form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to proj-
ects benefitting small farmers. Lending in support of infrastructure and
industrial investments will focus on energy-related projects. Repeater
credits for power and railways have high priority in this context.
19.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. The need for
readily usable foreign exchange assistance is especially pressing at a
time when output and investment have to be adjusted to a radically differ-
ent price situation. Consequently, Bank Group lending for critical indus-
trial raw materials and components continues to be an essential element
within the overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank Group
assistance for projects in India should Include, as appropriate, the fi-
nancing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import
component of projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas
as agriculture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be
able to make an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in
these sectors, it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
20.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. With this
loan the grant element of Bank Group commitments to India during the current
fiscal year, including Third Window, becomes 74%, as compared with the 83%
grant element of standard IDA terms. As of March 31, 1976, the loans to
India held by the Bank totaled US$711 million, of which US$275 million
remained to be disbursed, thus leaving a net amount outstanding of US$436
million.
21.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 41%, 24% and 30%,
respectively, in 1974/75, and the contribution of the Bank Group is expected
to continue growing. On March 31, 1975, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$11.8 billion of which the Bank Group's share
was 24%. The Bank's Group's share is likely to grow, but not very rapidly.
Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will also rise slowly. In 1974/75,
about 14% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



- 7 -
PART III - THE SECTOR
Background
22.       India's sheer size places a special demand on its communications
networks to facilitate the flow of information, arising from management and
administration of industrial, commercial and governmental activities in widely
dispersed population centers. The Bank Group has been associated with the
telecommunications sector since 1962 when there were only 373,000 telephone
subscribers. Their numbers have increased at an average annual rate of 10.5%
and in 1975 had reached 1,367,000. Over this period GNP growth averaged 3.2%
per year. 1/ The growth rate of subscribers in the 8 largest cities was
lower than average at 6.5% reflecting to some extent emphasis on rural and
regional development. At the same time the trunk network expanded and modern-
ized with the number of trunk circuits increasing by 13.6% annually from 5,700
in 1962 to 30,000 in 1975. This, together with the establishment of a new
telex network, which had 10,900 subscribers in 1975, has accommodated only
partially India's pressing need for long distance communication. Despite
the considerable efforts made, India still has the lowest per capita density
of telephone subscribers among the 42 countries with over 500,000 telehones,
at 0.29 per 100 of the population, compared with such countries as Egypt
(the next lowest) at 1.37, Iran at 2.4 or Mexico at 4.37. Existing local and
trunk networks are overloaded and service is poor.
23.       The Telecommunications Branch of the Department of Posts and Tele-
graph (P&T) would be the beneficiary of the proposed loan. P&T is a govern-
ment department under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Communications.
It is controlled by a seven-member board of senior executives and has ade-
quate autonomy in its policy formulation and day-to-day operations. The
Branch has made important organizational changes since 1962. The responsi-
bility for certain functions, such as construction of major projects, has been
decentralized. Its postal and telecommunication operations each have separate
specialized management structures. The Telecommunications Branch has developed
a commercial accounting system for financial reporting within P&T and to
Government. Regional commercial accounts are also being developed as agreed
under Credit 403-IN, the Fifth Telecommunications Project. A new materials
management system has been introduced and is serving to improve the overall
planning and execution of works through closer coordination between project,
material and production planning. Over the years, the Telecommunications
Branch has improved its financial performance, and a large proportion of its
investment is being financed by the Branch internally, even though the Branch
also continues to subsidize the postal service. P&T staff has grown from
387,000 in 1962 to 623,000 in 1975, while the Telecommunications Branch staff
increased from 69,000 to 236,000, a high proportion of which is unskilled and
semi-skilled labor.
24.       Efficient operation and development of any large telecommunication
system requires the parallel development of a local equipment industry to
allow actions to be closely coordinated from system planning, through design,
production, delivery, installation to operation; to standardize equipment; to
I/   Growth in constant 1960/61 prices.



- 8 -
enable inventories to be kept to a minimum; to ensure continuity of supply;
and to reduce lead times particularly in coping with changes in demand and
emergencies. For these reasons, practically all developed countries and
developing countries with large telecommunications systems develop a domestic
industry to supply a large part of their requirements. As telecommunications
have spread, domestic manufacture of such goods as cables, teleprinters and
switching gear has kept pace. 75% of P&T's equipment requirements are manu-
factured within India. The three domestic manufacturers, Indian Telephone
Industries (ITI), Hindustan Cables Limited (HCL), and Hindustan Teleprinters
Limited (HTL),, which dominate the telecommunications equipment industry,
employ about 25,000 people and had aggregate sales of about US$100 million in
1974/75. Their products are internationally competitive in regard to price,
quality and delivery times (see para 51). Indeed, such goods as telephone
exchanges and teleprinters have recently been exported in small quantities.
These three firms have helped the development of the small-scale sector by
offering extensive assistance to their small-scale ancillary suppliers.
25.       The factories are satisfactorily managed with audited commercial
accounts showing that their products are realistically priced and that the
factories operate at a reasonable profit. Pricing agreements are negotiated
formally between P&T and the factories and P&T monitors factory efficiency
through regular reviews by its cost accountants, through periodic investi-
gation by its audit group and through continuing overview by the senior P&T
officials who hold posts of Directors on the factory Boards of Management.
The Bank Group participation in the sector has enabled it to contribute to the
development of these enterprises. Production and material management consult-
ants engaged after discussions with Bank staff during appraisal of Credits
241-IN and 403-IN have enabled ITI production methods to be improved and have
assisted in introduction of a new materials management system which gives
improved liaison between P&T and the factories and better control of material
supply from the factory to the field.
26.       The GOI views local manufacture of telecommunications supplies
as important because of the employment potential, the importance of these
industries and the significant foreign exchange savings achieved. It is
estimated that by using locally manufactured equipment, the foreign exchange
savings with this project would be about US$150 million.
Present Access to Service
27.       Too few people have access to telecommunications facilities.    The
geographic coverage is limited, and the quality of the service is still
inadequate.
28.       The local telephone networks (as of September 30, 1975) comprise
4,937 exchanges with an installed capacity of 1,599,749 lines and 1,366,540
subscriber connections (direct exchange lines-DEL). The waiting list for new
connections stands at about 280,000 despite a newly imposed application deposit
ranging from Rs 1,000 in the smallest networks to Rs 5,000 in the major city
networks. At the same time, existing facilities are congested. Calling densi-
ties in Bombay, Delhi and Calcutta are among the highest in the world and the
chance of the called party being busy is consequently unduly high, leading to
many repeat attempts.



29.       Despite 20% per annum expansion of the trunk network capacity in
the last five years, the trunk service Ls far from adequate. Improved faci-
lities result in greatly increased volume of calls, and consequently service
between the main cities of India remains poor. Access within regions to
secondary and tertiary cities and to rural areas is also far from adequate.
This, however, should improve in the next two years as major microwave radio
and coaxial cable systems nearing completion under ongoing projects and in-
cluded in the present project are brought into service. The main trunk trans-
mission schemes are shown in Map IBRD 12105. Sixty percent of subscribers
have access to limited Subscriber Trunk Dialing (STD) facilities, which allows
some 55% of trunk calls to be subscriber-dialed.
30.       The extensive public telegraph network with 12,615 offices and
the telex network with 10,886 subscribers on 60 exchanges interconnect the
main centers in India. The telex network, which is of great importance to
business, is not performing as well as desired. Ineffective calls are
common due primarily to over-age line plant in the trunk network and the
great distances involved.
31.       International telephone and telegraph connections are provided by
the Overseas Communications Service (OCS), which is a separate Government
authority under the Ministry of Communications, through the INTELSAT Indian
Ocean satellite via an earth station at Arvi near Bombay and by HF radio
system. A second earth station near New Delhi will be brought into service
during 1976. Other terrestrial connections to Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh
and Sri Lanka are operated by P&T. India's international services are good.
Sector Development Objectives
32.       P&T's present development program is an important step in imple-
menting a sound long-term plan for modern telecommunication services in India.
The program and the development plans of the equipment industry, are based in
the first instance on conservative demand forecasts, that is, on extrapolation
of past subscriber demand adjusted to allow for the chronic suppressed demand
reflected in the existing long waiting lists for new connections. However,
financial constraints have meant that targets for the Fifth Five-Year Plan
Period, of which the present project is part, have had to be lowered. As a
result, a waiting list of at least 340,000 is expected at the end of the plan
period in FY79. Within the current resource constraints, P&T and the Bank
Group consider the maintenance and improvement of the service offered to
existing subscribers to be of high priority.
33.       P&T maintains an active research program in order to stay abreast
of modern technological developments. The research group collaborates closely
with the telecommunications equipment industry in design, development and
manufacture of equipment to meet India's particular needs, and also supplies
P&T with expertise to support the selective importation of new technologies
such as electronic switching and satellite communications as proposed in this
project.



- 10 -
34.       The shortage of financial resources, particularly foreign exchange,
is the effective constraint preventing the sector from more fully meeting
India's telecommunications requirements. The Telecommunications Branch is
technically and managerially capable of a more rapid rate of expansion. The
Branch is certainly financially viable and could generate much of the funds
required for a higher level of physical growth as illustrated by the fact that
at present in addition to financing about 55% of investment over the next
three years, it will also meet a substantial postal deficit amounting to $231
million for the same three years (see paras 58 and 59). To some extent the
resource constraint of the Telecommunications Branch reflects the general
scarcity of resources in India. However, it also reflects the fact that the
wider development impact of improved telecommunications is not adequately
appreciated. The Telecommunications Branch has not been very effective in
substantiating their case. To alleviate this situation, in the context of the
Fifth Telecommunications Project (Cr. 403-IN) the Telecommunications Branch
has undertaken certain economic studies which are at a preliminary stage.
During negotiation of the proposed project, the scope of these studies was
reviewed and, in addition, it was agreed that a special economic unit would be
established within the Telecommunications Branch to undertake studies including
analyses of demand and usage, costs and benefits, tariffs and investment
priorities. P&T and the Bank will work closely in finalizing the work pro-
gram of this unit and in monitoring the progress of the work (Section 4.06 of
the Loan Agreement). The work of this unit should provide valuable data for
determining both the level and composition of future telecommunications
investments.
35.       The financial requirements for investment have risen from an annual
average of US$65 million during the five-year period FY65-69 to US$95 million
during FY70-74. For the period FY75-79, P&T has planned for an average annual
investment of about US$250 million representing an annual 20% increase (in-
cluding inflation) over the previous five year average. Of this, about 25%
represents foreign exchange requirements. This investment increase has been
helped by higher revenues from steady improvements to the trunk service, pe-
riodic tariff increases, external borrowings and a new advance deposit scheme
estimated to provide some 15% of total requirements for gross asset formation
during the three year period FY76-79. Internal generation of funds is ex-
pected to be double that of the previous three years, and after providing
substantial funds for the postal service, will finance 55% of a capital
expansion program that is 2.4 times larger in current terms as that of the
previous three years.
Previous Bank Group Operations
36.       Since 1962, the Bank Group has financed five projects providing a
total of US$288 million for the telecommunications development in India.
Other foreign exchange contributors were: Canada (US$35 million), and Hungary
(US$12 million). The first four Bank Group projects have been satisfactorily
completed. Disbursements under the fifth project (Credit 403-IN) are expected
to be 85% complete by the original closing date of December 31, 1976. A



- 11 -
further 12 months will pass before all payments on imported items are complete.
The delay is principally a carry-over of the late completion of the fourth
project (Credit 241-IN) due to a combination of equipment supply problems
in that project involving both local and overseas suppliers. These problems
were progressively overcome during the fourth project period. These five Bank
Group operations have assisted the Indian telecommunications in their consider-
able expansion of networks, as described in para 22. The Bank Group has also
helped P&T in its institutional improvements (para 23), in the development of
local equipment manufacturing capacity and by providing technical assistance.
Over the period of assocciation with the Bank Group, P&T's financial manage-
ment has improved and financial results have remained consistently satisfac-
tory.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The project was appraised in November/December 1975 and a Staff
Project Report is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors.
Negotiations were held in Washington from May 7 to 12, 1976. The negotiating
delegation for India was headed by Mr. S.M. Agarwal, Secretary, Department of
Communications. A loan and project summary is attached as Annex III and a
supplementary project data sheet is attached as Annex IV.
Program and Project Objectives
38.       P&T is approaching mid-term in the Implementation of its Fifth
Five Year Plan of development (April 1974 - March 1979). The objectives of
this plan, along with those for development of all sectors, were reviewed in
the past year by GOI and were left largely unchanged except for reduction in
the rate of growth of the automatic trunk network. The FY77-79 expansion
program, of which the project forms part, will complete the implementation of
the plan. The total cost of the FY77-79 program is estimated at Rs 9,023
million (US$1,003 million) with a foreign exchange component of Rs 2,421
million (US$269 million). The main objectives of the program period are:
(i) installation of 595,000 additional lines of telephone
exchange equipment;
(ii) expansion of cable networks and provision of subscriber
equipment to permit connection of an additional 520,000
Direct Exchange Lines, reflecting an annual growth rate
*of around 10/;
(iii) expansion of the trunk service by 22,300 channels and
installation of 14 trunk automatic exchanges with capacity
to accommodate 40,900 lines;
(iv) installation of 25 new telex exchanges and addition of
6,800 new telex subscribers; and



- 12 -
(v) extension of the national network into rural areas includ-
ing the provision of 2,600 long distance public call
offices (PCOs).
The Project
39.       The project proposed for IBRD financing follows on the project
being financed by Credit 403-IN and is a self-contained part of the expansion
program for FY77-79. It would alleviate congestion in both the major city
telephone networks and trunk services; would improve telex service; and would
bring new telephone service to 220,000 subscribers. The project's capital
cost is estimated at Rs 3,732 million (US$415 million) with a foreign exchange
component of Rs 923 million (US$103 million). It consists of the following
main items:
(i)  installation of 274,000 line units of local telephone
exchange equipment including introduction of modern
electronic switching equipment;
(ii)  provision of cables and associated equipment which will
permit the connection of about 220,000 DELs;
(iii)  extension of existing trunk exchanges and installation
of new trunk exchanges including four using modern
electronic switching equipment which will accommodate
about an additional 23,000 lines;
(iv)  transmission equipment including radio, coaxial cable
and multiplex equipment to increase capacity on routes
between important cities and for expansion of the trunk
lines network to more remote rural areas;
(v)  a small satellite earth station to provide reliable,
good-quality communication between the Andaman Islands
and the mainland; and
(vi)  telex exchange equipment, including electronic telex
exchanges for Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta and Madras, and
associated teleprinters.
40.       Forty percent of the new direct exchange lines (DELs) will be
provided in the major cities to meet priority needs and to provide essential
improvement to service. The remainder of the DELs will be allocated through-
out the rest of India. About 200 small communities will receive new tele-
phone exchanges and 1,200 public call offices will be established to extend
telephone service to more villages.
41.       Traditional and new technologies are to be utilized in achieving
the least-cost engineering for the project. Latest telecommunications tech-
nology will be applied to improve service by overcoming problems arising from
high traffic levels, the presence of over-age plant in the trunk network and
the large distances and remote communities to be served.



- 13 -
42.       It is proposed to install 10,000 line electronic local exchanges
in the New Delhi and Bombay networks to help reduce the effects of over-
loading. Overloading in these networks will only be really overcome when
demand is adequately met but funding on the scale required is not feasible
at this time. Electronic exchanges in the meantime will cater for the very
high calling rates and traffic levels now prevailing more economically and
reliably than conventional electromechanical exchanges.
43.       Electronic trunk exchanges are proposed for the key centers in the
national trunk network at Bombay, New Delhi, Calcutta and Madras. These are
now the preferred and economic means of catering for the high traffic volumes
in a national network the size of that in India.
44.       Electronic switching centers are also proposed for the key centers
in the India telex network at Bombay, New Delhi, Calcutta and Madras. This
technology is now competitive in cost with traditional switching methods.
The centers will regenerate all the telex signals passing through them, thus
removing signal distortion due to the presence of over-age plant and the
distances to be traversed in India. The large number of ineffective con-
nections which are now experienced should be much reduced with considerable
benefit to the business community for whom this service nationally and in-
ternationally is important for organizational efficiency and for effective
marketing of products.
45.       Newly developed relatively inexpensive satellite earth station
technology will be applied for the first time in India to bring reliable,
good quality service to the remote Andaman Islands. This application will
serve as a pilot study of the potential of this technology for opening up
of large areas of remote territory which are now without reliable communi-
cations and for special applications such as providing service to offshore
oil rigs.
Project Implementation
46.       All installation and maintenance of telecommunications equipment
will be by P&T technical staff with support of manufacturers' specialist
staff where new technologies are involved. The large and technically compe-
tent P&T staff, together with the existing comprehensive training schemes,
will ensure adequate supply of technicians and line staff for installation
and future maintenance of project works.
Project Cost and Financing
47.       The cost of the project is US$415 million with a foreign component
of US$103 million. A break-up of the project costs is given in Annex III.
48.       The project costs are based on most recent (1975) prices.    Cost
estimates for imported items have been based on P&T's experience of prices
obtained for recent contracts related to ongoing works and on quotations ob-
tained from a number of suppliers. Those for locally manufactured equipment



- 14 -
are based on planning figures agreed between P&T and the manufacturers. The
estimates are reasonable. Customs duties of 80% on imported equipment and
25% on imported raw materials have been included in the project local costs.
49.       Physical contingencies amounting to 5% of the cost of traffic
dependent items in the trunk network component of the project have been in-
cluded to cover uncertainties in the traffic levels following extension of
STD. Other estimates are either for works where detailed engineering has
been completed or relate to large numbers of component works where deviations
from individual estimates will tend to balance out in the aggregate. Price
contingencies provided amount to 22% of both local and foreign costs. The
allowances are based on the estimates by P&T and the Indian equipment fac-
tories of possible cost increases.
50.       The proposed loan of US$80 million will cover about 78% of the
estimated foreign exchange costs of the project. The balance would be met
from internal cash generation and borrowing (see para. 58).
Procurement and Disbursement
51.       All equipment imported directly by P&T and financed by the Bank
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in ac-
cordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines. All other equipment for which
the Bank would provide finance will be procured by P&T from local Govern-
ment - owned factories. As with previous loans and credits, the Bank loan
would finance the estimated foreign exchange costs of the equipment to be
supplied by these local factories, which would represent the cost of imported
raw materials and components used in the manufacture of such equipment. Also
as previously ICB is not proposed for the equipment in the project which
can be procured economically and efficiently from the domestic factories.
For switching and transmission equipment there is strong justification for
local procurement for reasons of economy, compatibility and standardization.
In case of cables, supplies of many sizes and types are involved for each of
thousands of sub-projects throughout India and consequently considerable
savings are achieved through more accurate matching of purchases to indivi-
dual jobs and better scheduling of deliveries. Examination during appraisal
confirmed that the main equipment items produced by the factories were com-
parable in quality and delivery with internationally procured equipment and
prices were generally lower.
52.       All materials and components, except proprietary items, imported
by such factories for the production of the equipment to be supplied by
the local factories would be procured through international shopping proce-
dures similar to that followed by India under Bank Group financed Industrial
Imports Program Credits. Proprietary items imported by the factories would
be excluded from Bank financing. An appropriate provision confirming these
procurement arrangements is set out in Part B of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
53.       The proposed loan would provide US$30 million for equipment to be
imported by P&T, and US$50 million for purchases from local factories. Items
to be financed under the loan would be as follows:



- 15 -
US$ Million
A.   Direct Imports by P&T
(i) Switching Equipment
Electronic telephone exchanges               8.0
Electronic trunk exchanges                   6.0
Electronic telex exchanges                   3.0
(ii) Transmission Equipment
Coaxial-cable line equipment                 4.0
Radio systems and equipment                  4.0
(iii)  Equipment for Research, Testing & Training     3.0
(iv)  Raw Materials for P&T Workshops                2.0
Sub-total                                30.0
B.   Purchases from Domestic Factories
(i) From Hindustan Cables Limited (HCL)
Cable and accessories                       24.9
(ii) From Indian Telephone Industries (ITI)
Switching, transmission, radio systems,
coaxial cable and multiplex equipment     24.8
(iii) From Hindustan Teleprinters Limited (HTL)
Teleprinters                                 0.3
Sub-total                                50.0
Grand Total                              80.0
54.       For direct imports by P&T disbursement of loan proceeds would be
made against CIF cost incurred by P&T in import of equipment and of materials
for manufacture in their workshops.
55.       In respect of procurement from Government factories, it is pro-
posed, as was the case in the past Loans and Credits, to disburse against
invoices to P&T a predetermined percentage representing the average foreign
exchange content of the product mix, supplied from each factory. These were
estimated during the appraisal mission to be:
-    for ITI, 25% of the selling price;
-    for HCL, 30% of the selling price; and
-    for HTL, 6% of the selling price.
These percentages will be subject to review if substantial changes
occur in material prices or exchange rates or local availability of materials.



- 16 -
Financial Analysis
56.       As a Government department, P&T's finances form part of the national
budget. The revenues of the Board are paid into the Central Government's
consolidated fund and its costs are met through parliamentary appropriation.
Funds for construction made available by Government to the Telecommunications
Branch in excess of those generated internally are called capital-at-charge
and consist of Central Government contributions of local funds and foreign
exchange loans borrowed by Government on behalf of the Branch. The commer-
cial accounts show the Telecommunications Branch's operations on a commercial
basis, as though it were a separate entity and had full use of its funds.
Foreign borrowings are recorded as debt and other central government contri-
butions as equity. The Branch pays annual interest of 6% on the capital-at-
charge. The total payments by Branch to Government include sizeable transfers
to the Postal Branch of P&T. The total payments to Government over the
1976-79 period works out to the equivalent of a 16% interest on capital-
at-charge.
57.       The revenue of the Telecommunications Branch was about US$345 mil-
lion, and its operating income was US$91 million in FY76; revenue is expected
to increase by 30% to about US$455 million in FY77. During the past four
years, when the operating results were very satisfactory, the rate of return
on fixed assets ranged between 15.0% and 21.2%. The Branch has been financing
about two-thirds of its capital expansion from internal sources after covering
debt service and the transfer to the postal service (see paras 59 and 60).
This pattern of financing is reflected in the conservative capital structure
at the close of FY76 when debt equaled 35% of capitalization.
58.       The following is a summary of the financing plan for the period
1977-79, which includes the period of the project.



- 17 -
Requirements and Sources of Funds for the Telecommunications Branch
1977-1979
Rs             US$
Million         Million
Requirements
Construction program and working
capital increase                    9,368           1,041        100
Sources
Internal cash generation /a           7,147             794         76
Less:  Debt service                   1,299             144         14
Postal transfers               2,083             231         22
Net internal cash generation          3,765             419         40
Withdrawals from P&T fund held
by Government                          40               4          -
OYT /b payments and other deposits    1,400             155         15
Central Government contribution       1,743              194        19
Borrowings                            2,420             269         26
Total Sources                      9,368           1,041        100
/a  Includes interest earned on postal transfers.
/b  Own your telephone deposits - advance deposits from applicants for new
telephone connections (see para 28).
59.       In the foregoing financing plan, net internal sources of funds
(after debt service and postal transfers and including as a source of funds
OYT payments and other deposits, and withdrawals from the P&T fund held by
Government) would finance 55% of construction costs and working capital in-
crease. The self-financing of 55% of this capital program is impressive,
particularly when considering that the value of plant is expected to increase
by 70% during this period and that the Telecommunications Branch will be
covering substantial losses of the postal operation. Were the Telecommuni-
cations Branch not supporting the postal operations, it would be generating
71% of total requirements for financing gross asset formation. Central
Government contributions would finance 19% and foreign exchange borrowings
26%. The total borrowings of US$269 million include: undisbursed portion
of IDA Credit 403-IN US$40 million; Hungarian credit US$9 million; other
bilateral credits US$40 million; proposed loan of US$80 million; and further
financing of US$100 million to be arranged by the Government from foreign
borrowing or free foreign exchange.



- 18 -
60.       A substantial amount of funds generated by the Telecommunications
Branch is made available to cover the losses of the postal operation which
amounted to US$74 million in FY76 and expected to total about US$231 million
over the period FY77-79. There are some 120,000 post offices located through-
out India, of which about 105,000 are in rural and backward areas where
revenues fall short of covering operating costs.
61.       Forecast operating results and financial position through FY81
are satisfactory, with rates of return ranging between 15.7% and 21.5%.
During the five-year period 1977-81 when the value of plant in service is
expected to increase 150%, the debt/equity ratio would remain at about
35/65, reflecting a financing pattern where the Branch would continue finan-
cing expansion mainly from internal sources.
62.       Tariffs are reviewed and adjusted periodically to accommodate cost
increases and maintain financial performance standards. Tariffs were in-
creased about 20% in the latest review which became effective in March 1976.
The tariff structure is related to costs so that, for example, subscribers
in the large metropolitan areas pay more than the average basic cost for
local service, reflecting the higher costs of providing an extensive local
network.
63.       Forecasts show that over the next five years the tariff level will
provide sufficient revenues to finance about 63% of requirements after provid-
ing substantial funds to the Postal Service, and exceed appreciably the mini-
mum rate of return of 11% on average net plant in service presently required
under Credit 403-IN. This requirement to earn a 11% rate of return would be
continued under the proposed loan (Section 4.04(a) of the Loan Agreement).
Economic Analysis and Risks
64.       Economic benefits from telecommunications investment arise from
the more efficient use of resources made possible in other sectors of the
economy. Productivity is improved, waste is avoided, the disadvantages of
distance and of dispersal of people and of productive units are reduced
and markets are greatly expanded.
65.       While the benefits of development of a telecommunications system
are considerable, they are hard to quantify fully. In most cases, the gross
benefits to the caller will exceed the charges paid. In addition, bene-
fits normally accrue also to the recipient of the call. Moreover, when the
system is extended to new subscribers, the benefit to existing subscribers
cannot be reflected in the new connection charges. In India, for many years
there has been a substantial waiting list for new connections, which presently
stands at about 280,000 despite the recent introduction of an application
deposit (paragraph 28). These general observations strongly suggest that the
benefit of the project is under-represented by the associated increase in
revenue.



- 19 -
66.       Aside from these questions related to efficiency, the benefits
of a system are particularly hard to quantify when the ultimate beneficiaries
cannot be identified readily, and thus equity considerations cannot be taken
into account. Practically all of India's subscribers are commercial and
industrial enterprises and government services, for whom telecommunications
constitute an intermediate input into the final goods or services produced.
Private connections are also used for productive purposes in many cases.
67.       Finally, telecommunications Is a sector which may contribute
dynamically to development in a way which none of the traditional benefit
measures can adequately reflect. It is difficult to value the contribution
of telecommunication links without which, for example regional development in
backward areas, management of infrastructure projects or rapid and efficient
marketing of perishable agriculLural crops are impossible.
68.       Given the externalities associated with telecommunications, the
discount rate which equalizes the stream of expected revenues attributable
to the project with the capital and operating costs is a conservative estimate
of the economic rate of return of the project. 1/ This is 20.2% for the pre-
sent project. A 10% increase in the costs of construction and a 10% decline
in the revenue stream would lower this estimated economic rate of return to
14.5%, showing that the economic viability is fairly insensitive to changes
in the major parameters.
69.       This project involves no special risks.
Conclusion
70.       Although telecominunlication investments in India have been highly
successful, the Investments in the sector have continued to be below re-
quirements. This has resulted in unusually low per capita availability of
telephone services and extremely large unsatisfied demand. Nevertheless,
our Involvement has been Instrumental in making possible higher investment
levels than would otherwise have prevailed. Equally important have been
our contributions towards steady institutional improvements which have
enabled P&T to make more efficient use of the available resources. P&T
today is one of the best managed and most sound, financially and techni-
cally, of Government enterprises in India. However, more needs to be done
on the financial, economic-cum-planning and technical side. Under the
proposed project, further stress would be given towards fostering financial
independence of the Telecommunications Branch by expeditLng the extension of
commercial accounting practices to the District levels.     The work of the
special economic unit, whLch is to be established in P&T, would improve
the quality of investment planning. Our continued association would also
help P&T in their applications of modern sophisticated technologies for
telecommtunication development in India.
1/   Taxes are excluded from costs, as are physical and price contingencies.



- 20 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
71.       The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank, the Report of
the Committee provided for In Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement and the text of a draft Resolution approving the proposed loan
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
72.       Special conditions of the project are lLsted in Section III of
Annex IV.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply witLh the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       T recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by: J. Burlce .inapp
Attachments
June 22, 1976



ANNlEX1I
O0DUTh DATA - INDIA                             Page       1
3,280,183 hiZ                                          7.0   Mion (md-1973)
350     Per holof arable land
SCIAL. INDICATORS
India                   !&    I.M.mi             ii  .n
MA PM   CAPIT  MSR (ATLAS B55IS) -i                              ..              o Li            90 L.        220 /a     2,600 1
DEDm8AICC
r  rate4t  ~par tho.aa,d                                 3 4            58    d         48.  L  1.    L5 Zd.      13.94
Crude death rats  Per thouande                                  13 1          16               19 L4de      1   7a.j.   12.0 4
Infant mortality rats (par thouee   lv   bits139                         120-ThOcA             .             80         17.5  i
Lieexpectancy at birth (years)                               ii15           50              L8            58            72
Or*es repoductio      rte 44                                   2.7 /b_i      2.9              32,          3.3           1.3
Population growhrt       urban                                   3/          230.0                         301j 
Population g-oth rate     rbw                                  23                  k54 
Age auruneo   (Pernant)
0-1.                                                         11                             a             1.3  a     23.
15-61.                                                        56             51              53,           11a        6217 4
65  nd over                                                                   3/f3                             a      13 6
ige depende,ncy ratio                                                                 0        .09  c       0.9  a       06     I
Ecor.rd~~ depeaden-y mtio A  ~~1.0                            17                 5          1.C.a
Urban poountle.o As peroant of total                           18 4k          20 /ake          384          32 /ce        78 /.
Emly planngctg   No. of acoeptora cuonlative (theu.        1000 15          *                75           Log
No. of visero (% of barried omen)            ..
Yrbrform    (thousnds)                              189,000Li      221,000 44,       1.0,100 c    13,2(00/      25,7001
Percentage neoploy.4 in agriclture                            73 L          71 4~~4          62 7          564           3
Preretage nampioyod                                         3.78                             2 I4m         7j         3.6  m
Per-etAii.     iiia  ince.. received by highest 5%               27 ~r         25ro            .             25or           5
Percent of notioa   loonie received by high.st 20%              52  r         53 Ir s         .             51    r       39 9E51?
P.ernat of national iloones receive  by 1ernt 20%                45~                          .._             24~          6r Li
Formact of national ioose rece.ived by loseot h.%               IL.7           .3~            ...           12 ~j         19 r515
MSTRtIT3*TDN OP LAND 0hUKRMW
Si owned by top 105 of Osue                                     ..
% owned by iallee.t 10% of owners                              ..
PoplaioMpr       haicle                                       5,80La        1800            27,380/       2,71   5          c/
Pono.iation Per nurin  Person                               5,0140         5,l1O            8,1320 77    1,970 1          3   4
Population, per hospital bed                                 2,600 1       1,620 1a         1,15  J        650 L&z        1n Lisa
Per napit: calorie eapply so% ofrequiranete 44                  95            93             - 93           85           125
Per oepta protei   oapply, ttal (grise  per dayj 46             55            53               53           45s           90
Of Wobic, animal and pulse                                   19 /p          16 /ab           14. /d       22/
Death 'aet 1-1 years /7                                        1.1                                                        5 .
44 /     pri.ory school enrolLwnt ratio                     1.2            79Io            71           Ii /2  A     110
Adjusted    seodryoho enrolla-t ratio                          10             28 444          1.2           15    4       702
Ye.ar of as ln1ig provided, first arod second leve              17            12               12           10            13
vocatLeioal enrollment as % of sac. sohool eneollsent            1             6               28           10  66.e       S
Adult literacy rete 5                                           21.1-U        36               56ak S  /o._g  720 1id,    97 L
Averege No. of Persons per room (urban)                        a.6 Intelk    2.8 /c.a.3,ak    .                           .~ ./...l
Percet of occupied meit, withmtj piped water                                                                6~6 /gd-j
PAccess to electricity (.as  of total poPulation)                                                           2 3 /iia  J..
Perct of tural Populatimohn c ectvd to electricity                         6. -.                             6d     .
~feivere Per i00    population                              5            23 L.           111.          46 15        672 La
Peesenger oars per 1OM population                             0.8              1524                                       3 
Electric Pose  ocoamptlon (kwh p.c.)                           1.6           100/              23          25   a      i7
NRe. print noesinoption, p.c. kg pee year                                                         LEow7  o  17    ~     2  5
Notoe, Fig-ce refer either to the latest periods onoannt of aoviro-                       tai tweaq.t-, e. nS    egt,
the lateet years. Latest periods refer to Prineiplr to              distribution by age ad .an of national popuiatione.
the yearo 1956-60 or 1966-703 the Intent years tn prin-         &6  Protein standar-ds (requirseente) for all eceutriee an  stab-
ciplo to 1960 and 1970.                                              isohed by USDA Soonoeloi Research ServIce prestds for a eline
44  The Per Cepito GSP setieato is ot moe-lt pri..o for              allowance of 60 grene of total protein per day, aM  20 gasesn of
Y-r   other than 1960, oslooloted by the  m   oeveec            animal acd pales protein, of which 10 grams should be aninal
teoboique as thc 1972 W-rld Bcob itiso.                         protei.. Thesoe standards are swbat iser than these of 78
424  ,q     ...og   cb-r of daughters per -cc  of reproductive        ea of total protei    and 23 pan   of animal protein as an
.oe.                                                            average for the vwold, proposed by PLO in the Third World F'ood
Za  Pbpultio- growth raeso orea for the dcaden ending in            Sorr5y.
1960 end 197.                                               4   Sone etudisef hare s~ggeetad that orude death ratee of shildrn.
/L  Ratio of population undor 15 and 65 and over io popula-          ages Ithrough 4. my be coed As a first apprbximation indexe of
tion of wge 15-61 for age dependeny ratio end to labor           malnairitino.
force of aga  1$-6L. for ecconolc depseneocy ratio.          Li. P.erentage eIrclnd of oorv    -Aening population of scoleol ag
la  FAO referec     taimdrda represent Physiological re-             as defined for each seantry.
quire1atsat for coreal activity and heasathc taking
15 1972,   Ak  REtivte annua averge for 1963-61. bused on -eeute of the na,tbonel ample Souvey;          /0  3971;   Id  Eotleate;
1965-70;   If  1973;    aj  EnUrt.n d annual averge for 1951-6i basad en aeai1.als af decennial ceneus;      A4 i3g-6o;
Ratet is setiente based on, birtho obtaoined by application of 'r~everseureivl" metthod in resolts of 1951 and 1961
cesues.    4   1960-72;   A5  For the definition of urban see .=        ft,INE a..eLrr      ifl  p. iS;  44   fthniipnlitios,
regeny capitalo end other pIacen with urhe, characterirtice     exldn       etiin         5Fr the definition of orbo
see J Deiccceohc leahoch 977  p  127;  A5  Are  cianoifid a. urban for local gvrmeant purpoase, i.e. county
hergh,nicplbrghen                 urban dli.ticta;    L.  1961;   15   If-l.lden all -ndividualo o,o potlcipate in any
type of econei.c activity; a AID satiate cf labor force in age grou~p 15-59. 188M report given a figure of 180.4.
il2iic hesed en the i971 population ceneno. The differenors to duo to chngee in the definitioc of ayorker. In the
1971 cenase, per-ems wer ciesifled ooly on the beasis of their~ cain activities. This led to the exciuibon of secerel
categ.rise, ouch so hoosuvs aw         Households;    4.. 1967-68;    Lt  1968;   15  1962;    /,  Perocane     in g-vernoet
service     only;  1  i7;,"15     096;    15   Including rural hoopitals;    L.  Gocernoocet hospital eotabliehoenta only;
La. 19,60-62;    lab  196970,       Lac,  Remti e which Irl detas, overage stdents;  ld   16;     'n   Alicoigvctoa
short-tore, coursee;   1f41965;     Lii l1961;    /nh   opulation, of 10 years end over iae.d on uric per-otonpl dote
of 1971;  415j 15 Yonre end oe;       4a      Date refer to households;  4h   Into booed c- cople tabu.lato       of n
return;    4L!   iota refer to hooseholdo in convetional dwellings;      I5 bporto only;      icc    Rglcte-d applinote
for sorb.
line end poplation nae Indonesia a releest referanc          .-otry, although  ' ito ;. t.he per ca.pIta incoce group bcio
India.
enThe UniLed Kingdoc baa boon ColOted heoaue. of the lportant. role of oullin atrenterprieco and the highly
deve.loped eyeten of eccol   rifr,



ANNEX 1
ECONOMIC LEVELOPMENT DATA                                  Page    2
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1973 -/ UpS120
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1974/7 1                                             ANNUAL RAfE OF GROWTE (t, constant prices)
USS Bln.                                       1961/62-1964/65    1965/66-1969/170   1970/71-t1973/4
GNP at Market Prices              87,4       100.0                                   3.4                3.7               1.9
Gross Domestic Investment         14.8        16.9
Gross National Saving             12.8        14.6
Current Account Balance           -2.0        -2.3
Resource Gap                      -1.8        -2.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
ValLe Added (at factor oosta Labor Foroe                  V.A. Per Worker
USt Bln.               %                                          Itn  5   Of Natiomal Average
Agriculture                       24.5                46.6            130.0   72.1         188             64
Industry                          11.8                22.3             20.2   11.2         582            199
Servioes                          16.3                51.t             30.2   16.7         542            186
Total/average                     52.6               100.0            180.4  100.0         292           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Governmentdv                        Central Governm nt
(Rs. Bln)               O                                               of GIP
1974/75        1974/75   1972/73-1974/T5        197475       194/75      1972/73-1974/75
Current Reoeipts                  107.63          15.4         15-7                64.02           9.1          9.2
Current Expenditures               98.9           14.2         15_2                57.78           8.2          6.7
Current Surplus/Deficit             8.64           1.2          0-5                 6.24          0.9          0.5
Capital Expenditures  e/           40.40           5.8          5.4                30.17           4.3          4.1
External Assistance (net)          10.17           1.4          1.0                10.17           1.4          1.0
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES                1965/66     970/71    197/72     1972/73    19nZ1      1974/75    Auguat 1974    August 1975
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                     61.4      105.7      122.4      142.2      169.1      187.4       176.8           198.2
Bank Credit to Public Sector              40.8       56.9       69.0       82.5       92.9      102.0        98.8          115.3
Bank Credit to Private Seotor             28.1       56-7       64.4       76.o       90.1      100.5        90.0          104.7
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                    January 1975   January 1976
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP         24.0       24.4       26.3       27.9       27.2       25.5
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                      131.6      181.1      138.4      207.1      254.2      313.0       316.o          290.5
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                      7.7        5-5        4-0        9.9       22.7       23.1                       -8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector              12.9        8.6       21.3       19.6       12.6        9.8                        4.8 8
Bank Credit to Private Sector             12.8       17.4       13.6       18.0       18.5       11.5                       22.9 i
a/ The per capita GNP estimate is at 1973 market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the 1975
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during
the period covered.
h/ Quick Estimates.
a/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation
after last year of listed period.
IJ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out,
e/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
V Credit to Government.
v/ Credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
BAIANCE OF PAYMENTS               t972/73     197317 1474/            1975/76 /alIS3E EXPORTS (A IAGE 1972/73-1974/75)
(uS$ Million)                                                  IIln.
Exports of Goods                   2,558       3,259       4,143       4,300           Jute m  aftu5ru         329          10
Imports of Gooda                  -2,682      -3,971      -5,739      -5,920           Tea            }        220           7
Trade Balanoe                     - 124       -  732      -1,596      -1,620           Cotton TextilesJ        217           7
179 (net) i/                      -  146        n.e.        n.a.        n.a.           Iron Ore                171           5
Engineering Goods       295           9
Resource Can                      -  270        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.           Others                2.081          65
Interest Payments (not)           -  237      -  233      -  260      -  261           Total                 3,313         100
Other Faotor Payments (net)       -    8        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Net Transfers j/                  -   50        n.a.        n.a.        n.a.
Balance on Current Account        -  565        n.>.        n.a.        n.a.           EXTERNAL DEBT. MARCH 31t 1975/
Official Aid                                                                                                              US8 Mm.
Disbursements                    955       1,249       1,766       2,210           Repayable in foreign currency       11,056
Amortization                    -445        -459        -519        -522           Repayable throuA   Mort of goods       714
Transactions with IMF                             75         530         130           Total Outstanding and Disbursed     11,770
All Other Items                       89         205          41         500            M
DEE  S-lCVICE RALTI0 FOR 1975/76     19.0 percent /
Increase in Reserves (-)            - 34        -105          38        -435
Gross Reserves (end year)          1,311       1,416       19378       1,813           I   /ID  LENAID . December 31. 1975   (3- Mlne.)
Net Reserves (end year)            1,311       1,34i         773       1,073                                                  ____
Fuel and Related Naterial.                                                                                            I        IDA
Imports                              265         720       1,451       1,450           Outstanding and Disbursed       445     2,827
of which, Petroleum                265         719       1,451       1,450           Undiabarsed                     264     1,157
Outstanding including           729     3,984
Exports                               41          20          26        n.a.             Undiesbred
of whichs Petroleum                 37          16          17        n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANE -I/
Prior to mid-December 1971        U 031t.00 = Re 7.5                                   After end June 1972   I   Floating Rate
Re 1.00 = UStOt133333                                Spot Rate December 31, 1975
Mid-December 1971 to           :  US81.00 = ne 7.27927                                               approx. uS88.0o = p.. 8.937
end June 1972                   Rs 1.00 = 1StO.137376                                              approx. Rs 1.00 = uSS 0.112
./ Estimated.
J/ For 1973j74 to 1975/76, included with 'All other Items'.
,1/ Aid and trade figures converted to 0S dollars using exchange rates and DIP trade conversion factors as indicated in inside front
oover of this report or notes to individual tables.
i/ Excluding garments.
j/ Amortization and interest payments (excluding IMF transactions) as a percentage of merchandise exports.






ANNEX II
Page I of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of May 31, 1976)
1/
Loan or                                                                 US $ Million
Credit No.   Year   Borrower            Purpose                      (Net of Cancellation)
BANK      IDA   Undisbursed
38 Loans/                                                         1,032.5
36 Credits fully disbursed                                                 2,051.9
614-IN       1969    India    Tarai Seeds                           13.0      -        7.0
176-IN       1970    India    Kadana Irrigation                      -       35.0       0.1
203-IN       1970    India    Punjab Agricultural Credit             -       27.5      15.5
226-IN       1971    India    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Cr.        -       24.4      4.2
242-IN       1971    India    Power Transmission II                  -       75.0      32.3
249-IN       1971    India    Haryana Agricultural Credit            -       25.0       6.2
250-IN       1971    India    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit         -       35.0       8.4
264-IN       1971    India    Cochin II Fertilizer                   -       20.0       2.2
267-IN       1971    India    Wheat Storage                          -        5.0      3.8
268-IN       1971    India    Pochampad Irrigation                   -       39.0       1.4
789-IN       1971    ICICI    Industry DFC IX                       60.0       -       4.0
278-IN       1972    India    Mysore Agricultural Credit             -       40.0      12.3
293-IN       1972    India    Maharashtra Agricultural Credit        -       30.0       1.5
294-IN       1972    India    Bihar Agricultural Markets             -       14.0      11.8
312-IN       1972    India    Population                             -       21.2      13.0
342-IN       1972    India    Education                              -       12.0      11.8
356-IN       1972    India    IDBI                                   -       25.0      18.9
357-IN       1973    India    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion            -       58.0       0.5
377-IN       1973    India    Power Transmission III                 -       85.0      70.5
378-IN       1973    India    Mysore Agricultural Markets            -        8.0       7.8
902-IN       1973    ICICI    Industry DFC X                        70.0      -        14.6
390-IN       1973    India    Bombay Water Supply                    -       55.0     44.6
391-IN       1973    India    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Cr.        -       33.0      13.2
392-IN       1973    India    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Cr.         -       38.0      20.7
403-IN       1973    India    Telecommunications V                   -        80.0     41.2
427-IN       1973    India     Calcutta Urban Development            -       35.0      21.6
440-IN       1973    India     Bihar Agricultural Credit             -        32.0     22.1
456-IN       1974    India    HP Apple Processing & Marketing        -        13.0     11.8
481-IN       1974    India     Trombay IV                            -        50.0     42.0
1011-IN       1974    India     Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD              52.0       -       43.9
482-IN       1974    India    Karnataka Dairy                        -        30.0     30.0
502-IN       1974    India     Rajasthan Canal CAD                   -        83.0     61.8
520-IN       1974    India     Sindri Fertilizer                     -        91.0     79.5
521-IN       1974    India     Rajasthan Dairy                       -        27.7     27.6
522-IN       1974    India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy                   -        16.4     16.4
526-IN       1975    India    Drought Prone Areas                    -        35.0     33.6
1079-IN       1975    India     IFFCO Fertilizer                    109.0       -      106.2
1097-IN       1975    India     Industry DFC XI                     100.0       -       92.6
532-IN       1975    India    Godavari Barrage Irrigation            -       45.0      42.7
540-IN       1975    India    ARC Credit                              -       75.0     58.5
541-IN       1975    India    West Bengal Agrc. Dev.                 -        34.0     34.0
562-IN       1975    India     Chambal (Madhya Pradesh)CAD            -       24.0     24.0
572-IN       1975    India     Rural Electrification                  -       57.0     57.0
582-IN       1975    India     Railways XIII                          -      110.0     75.1
585-IN       1975    India    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply              -       40.0     40.0
598-IN       1975    India    Fertilizer Industry                     -      105.0    104.3
604-IN       1975    India    Power Transmission IV                   -      150.0 *  150.0
609-IN       1975    India    Madhya Pradesh Foresty T.A.             -        4.0      4.0
610-IN       1976    India    Integrated Cotton Development          -        18.0 *   18.0
616-IN       1976    India    Industrial Imports XI                   -      200.0    194.2
Total                                                            1,436.5   4,112.1
of which has been repaid                                     734.0      18.1
Total now outstanding                                               702.5  4,094.0
Amount sold                         111.5
of which has been repaid      111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                      702.5  4,094.0
Total undisbursed (including *)                                     268.1  1,322.4  1,590.5
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of May 31, 1976)
Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                             Loan      Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5        -        1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9        -        0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4        -        1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2        -        0.2
1963-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.7       0.3       1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8       1.0      12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0       0.3       1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                   1.0      0.1       1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6       2.9       11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1       3.8       18.9
TOTAL                            43.0      8.8       51.8
Less:  Sold                              6.0       1.6       7.6
Repaid                           10.8       -        10.8
Cancelled                         6.2      0.7        6.9
Now Held                         20.0      6.5       26.5
Undisbursed                       8.4       -         8.4



ANNEX IT
Page 3 of 12
/a
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disburssements was US$480.3 million in FY75 or 57%
of Bank Group commitmentss to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,825.9 million as of March 31, 1976, corresponds roughly to
commitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 789    Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$60.0 million loan of October 21, 1971; Effective
Date: December 20, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loans 789-IN and 902-IN are
fully committed and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan
1097-IN. Disbursements under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1976
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the development of seeds of high-yielding varieties. The Corporation is
working efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed
quality. Seed production is meeting targets. Expansion of an existing
processing plant has been completed. Two other plants are being consider-
ably expanded. Bids have recently been cleared for orders to be placed for
the equipment necessary to complete the expansion program.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Cr. No. 176    Kadana Irrigation Project; US$35.0 million credit of
February 9, 1970; Effective Date: July 29, 1970; Closing
Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam
on the Mahi River and the expansion of the irrigated area below the dam. The
project also includes field channel construction, land-leveling, drainage
works and roads, and a program to support agricultural development. The
project will be completed about two years behind schedule because of delays
in dam construction. The agricultural components of the project are also
behind schedule. Some of the delays in implementation occurred at the
start of the project before major investments were made. These will not
affect the economic justification of the project. Further delays have
occurred as a result of building materials shortages. The Government
intervened and made adequate quantities of building materials available.
In spite of an additional delay in the procurement of a large batching
plant, the dam is still expected to be completed in July 1977, which is
in accordance with the revised schedule. A project review mission visited
the Project in January and is preparing its report.
Cr. No. 268    Pochampad Irrigation Project; US$39.0 million credit of
August 23, 1971; Effective Date: November 15, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the agricultural development on the right
bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to some 100,000
ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-lined main
canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads. Until mid-
1973, overall performance on the project was satisfactory with construction
and disbursements from the IDA credit progressing ahead of schedule. For
two years, acute shortages of construction materials, especially explosives
for the canal excavation, and technical difficulties with the lining of the
main canal hampered progress. As a result, construction of the main canal
has fallen about one year behind schedule, which is likely to delay the
introduction of irrigation to over 40% of the project area. Since early
1975, all material shortages have been removed and progress has been satis-
factory. Construction of the dam is ahead of schedule. Land development,
however, is haphazard and increasingly lagging behind water availability
in the project area. The Pochampad component of the proposed Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation and Command Area Development Composite Project is designed to
remedy this inadequacy.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
Cr. No. 532     Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Tendering for the supply of equipment is under way. The contract
for civil works was recently awarded after international competitive bid-
ding.
Cr. No. 203     Punjab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226     Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249     Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250     Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 278     Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 293     Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million
credit of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: January 31, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1976
Cr. No. 391     Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 392     Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Cr. No. 440     Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540     Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which
were confined to individual states. ARDC will continue to act as the
financial intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has completed a contract for
construction of the silo foundations at two of the five silo sites. A tender
has been offered for foundations at the other three sites. Tenders have
been cleared for a part of the equipment. The godown component has been
fully disbursed. In addition, the All-India Grain Storage Study is pro-
gressing and the staff training program has been planned in detail and is
to be implemented soon. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processng and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. A June 1975 review mission recommended actions to
bring the project in line with managerial and technical capabilities and to
incorporate consultants' recommendations for modifying the cold storage
component. A recent review mission found a satisfactory improvement in the
prospects for successful project implementation. Disbursements should be
completed by the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1976
Disbursements were initially delayed mainly because of delays
in material supply from both local and external sources. Delays in local
supply were due to labor problems affecting one of the principal suppliers
and imports were delayed due to longer than anticipate leadtime required.
The revised disbursement schedule for this credit is now expected to be met.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Cr. No. 242    Power Transmission II Project; US$75.0 million credit of
May 3, 1971; Effective Date: July 29, 1971; Closing Date:
March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: July 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project
financed by Loan 416-IN, was designed to assist in financing the purchase
of equipment and materials required to develop a power transmission program
in nine states under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred
because of problems associated with preparing bid documents suitable for
international bidding and the analysis of the very large number of bids
involved, but all contract awards have now been made. As a consequence
of the delays, however, the closing date of the credit had to be postponed
accordingly. For Power Transmission III, virtually all equipment has now
been ordered; there are likely to be substantial cost overruns, a portion
of which is being met through Power Transmission IV.
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30,, 1976
Cr. No. 357    Nangal Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$58.0 million credit
of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: May 11, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520     Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079    IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the
expansion of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project
is now proceeding about 24 months behind schedule, mainly because of pro-
curement delays, slow progress on civil works, and shortages of steel and
cement. Procurement problems have been largely overcome, and most of the
equipment is either at the site or at the Cochin port. Another factor which
has contributed to the delay has been technical problems in the commission-
ing of the Cochin I plant, which has required a disproportionate amount of
management attention. Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant Operations
Improvement Program which will be used in part to overcome these problems;
the use of these funds has been identified on a plant-by-plant basis and
procurement has been initiated. Engineering work, procurement and site
construction for the Nangal Fertilizer Project are proceeding satisfactorily,
but the project faces substantial cost over-runs due to increases in equipment
prices. Progress on the Trombay IV project has been good although project
completion may be delayed by about four months because of longer than
expected delivery times for critical equipment. Engineering design and
procurement for the Sindri project are proceeding on schedule. The IFFCO
project has been delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock
from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts.
Credit 598-IN is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity; implementation is now underway.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date:   September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the projects has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved and construction of the first ten markets is well advanced.
Six markets are expected to open for business by mid June 1976. Market
construction in Karnataka is expected to be on schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is-almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project implementation has improved with satisfactory progress
on civil works, preparation of equipment lists, bid documents, fellowship
programs and university development plans. The rate of disbursement has
been slow, partly due to previous delays in the selection of key personnel
and in the preparation of equipment lists, but is expected to improve in
line with progressing construction and equipment procurement.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project had a particularly slow start which was mainly due
to institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations
(SFCs). However, there is now evidence of improvement in the utilization of
this credit. Commitments are virtually completed. In order to provide
continuity in the Bank Group's involvement with small and medium scale
industry, a second line of credit is being prepared, which would cover the
expected foreign exchange requirement of SFC sponsored small and medium scale
industrial projects for the two year period beginning on July 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain components of the project. Action has been
taken to redefine and rephase the project construction to fit the financing



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
available from the Credit, local loans and bonds and internal cash genera-
tion of the project entity. The revised cost estimate for the implementation
period 1975/76 to 1979/80 amounts to US$266 million dollar equivalent exclud-
ing interest during construction. GOI has confirmed the revised project
description and is expected to confirm the project costs and financing plan
shortly. Meanwhile project construction is proceeding and most major con-
tracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been awarded. Disburse-
ments should therefore be faster in FY1977 than in preceding years. Finan-
cial performance of the project entity during 1974/75 was satisfactory, but
major rate increases have been instituted in April 1976, to ensure con-
tinuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Progress in implementation of this project is rather slow, in
view of the reduction in overall funding of the CMDA program, of which the
project forms part, and of management and organizational problems. Project
costs have increased considerably, especially in the water supply and
sewerage/drainage sectors. In order to accommodate the project to funding
available, CMDA has submitted a redefined project, which is expected to be
substantially completed by December 1978, about 24 months behind the original
schedule.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL
dairy cooperative scheme Ln Gujarat State. Progress on the Karnataka
project has been slow, partly because of inadequate staffing off the
Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC) and partly due to poor
project management. However, improvement in implementation is expected
with the recent recruitment by KDDC of a management consultant. Training
has progressed with the completion of a two-month training program by 68
field staff. Overall, the project is six months behind the original sched-
ule. Progress under the Madhya Pradesh project is satisfactory, with the
Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Corporation having been established and
all key staff positions filled. Field staff training has commenced and
the first dairy cooperative societies should be established by December,
1975. Detailed design studies for plant construction have begun and con-
struction is expected to begin soon. With respect to the Rajasthan project,
the Rajasthan Dairy Development Corporation has been formed and key personnel
appointed. The first milk union has been formed and good progress has been
made in organizing dairy cooperatives at the village level.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily. In par-
ticular, agricultural extension has made remarkable progress.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides credit over 4 years for construction of about
18,000 shallow tubewells, 300 deep tubewells, 200 agro-service centers and
3 markets. The credit also helps the state to finance the completion of a
number of state-owned river lift and deep tubewell schemes and to improve
agricultural extension and maintenance facilities. Participating banks



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation are preparing schemes for ini-
tiating the agricultural credit components. The state government has reor-
ganized its agricultural extension services and is taking steps to reorganize
the State Water Board and to carry out studies needed for completion of river
lift schemes.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
The project has progressed satisfactory during the past six months.
Most staff are now in position and physical works are well underway. Pro-
gress has been slower in new activities (dry farming, dairy and sheep
development) because of delays in staffing and insufficient technical know-
ledge. Technical assistance, to be provided through the FAO Fund-in-Trust,
should help. To further improve the situation, at GOI request, a special
supervision mission will help identify training requirements and formulate
a training program.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1976; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
This project consists of Indian Railway's new and on-going
investment program between April 1, 1975 and March 31, 1977. The credit
is expected to be fully disbursed by March 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: August 24,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will demonstrate practical and effective means of
increasing cotton yields and maximizing by product recovery from ginning
and cotton seed processing. It will be executed over five years.



Annex III
Page 1 of 2 pages
INDIA - SIXTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  India acting by its President
Beneficiary:               Posts and Telegraphs Department of the Ministry of
Communications
Amount:                    US$80 million
Terms:                     23 years including 3 years of grace at 8.85%
per annum
Project Description:       Improvement and increase in capacity of India's
domestic telecommunications system during 1976/77
through 1978/79 by installation of additional tele-
phone lines and associated facilities, expansion of
trunk line facilities, extension of service to
rural areas and increase in telex services
Estimated Cost                                              (US$ Million)
(1976/77-1978/79):                                   Local  Foreign   Total
Local telephone systems       130     49      179
Trunkline systems              77     27      104
Telex and telegraph            4       3        7
Research & training facilities 3       2        5
Land & buildings               29      -       29
Contingency & escalation      69      22       91
TOTAL PROJECT COST
(1976/77-1978/79)          312    103      415
Ongoing works
(1976/77)                   67     30        97
Future works
(4f-77/78-1978/79)         355     136      491
Working capital increase
(1976/77-1978/79)            38     -         38
TOTAL REQUIREMENTS             772    269    1,041



Annex III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(US$ Million)
Financing Plan:             Proceeds of IDA Credits 403-IN                 40
Proceeds of Hungarian credit                    9
Proceeds of proposed loan                      80
Bilateral funding                              40
Other foreign exchange (GOI or future
borrowing)                                  100
Internal sources of funds                     578
GOI contributions                              194
TOTAL                                  1,041
Estimated Disbursements:   FY 1977       FY 1978        TOTAL
38.5          41.5          80
Procurement Arrangements: Equipment imported directly by P&T to a value of
US$30 million would be procured through interna-
tional competitive bidding. US$50 million would
finance the estimated foreign exchange cost of the
equipment to be procured from domestic factories,
the portion representing the cost of imported
materials and components used in the equipment. All
materials and components imported by such factories
for the production of the equipment to be supplied
by the local factories would be procured through
international shopping procedures similar to that
followed by India under Bank Group financed Industrial
Imports Credits.
Rate of Return:            20%
Staff Project Report:      Report No. 1125-IN daLed June 22, 1976.
May 27, 1976



Annex IV
Page 1 of 2 pages
INDIA - SIXTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
Program and project planning is a continuous process in tele-
communications. Fifty professional man years (about .02% of
project cost) over the years commencing with formulation in
1972 of the Fifth Five Year Plan for telecommunications de-
velopment would be a minimum estimate.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Telecommunications Branch, Posts and Telegraphs Department.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of the first
mission to consider the project
October 1972. January 1973 as part of the appraisal of the
fifth telecommunications project (403-IN).
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 8, 1975.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
May 12, 1976
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 1976
Section II     Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.



Annex IV
Page 2 of 2 pages
Section III    Special Conditions
(a) P&T to establish a special economic unit to undertake
various economic analyses of telecommunications (para-
graph 34).
(b) Factories to procure all material and component imports
under methods consistent with those required in India
by the Bank Group under industrial import credits
(paragraph 52).
(c) P&T to maintain telecommunications tariffs at a level to
provide revenue sufficient to earn a minimum rate of return
of 11% on average net plant in service (paragraph 63).



INDIA
K  --~~-          TELECOMMUNICATIONS
AFGHANISTAN ~~~~  it'                Coaxial and Microwave Schemes
EXISTING       1 0E.co~R44Nd
PAKISTANDSAGF~-FSTC
\0  ,"c                            CHIN
t~~~~~'~~~~~'~~~~~'o/~(     ,b l
5             AnTS"   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
NEWDEL
,0~~~~~"t~/
'L
N  A~~~~~~- 9  ALTo.-
qflA\  ~   ANGLADESH
/  ""'"'  I     ...d'  '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN""'A"  )  B U R MA~~~~~~~..I-
.T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
SEA~~~~~~I
0     200   400    000
0    00o  200  000  400  500
~~~~~~~~~~A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     A



