Document of                     FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1125-IN
INDIA
SIXTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECT
OF THE
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT (P & T)
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
June 22, 1976
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distbution nd may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offieil duties. Its contents may net otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indian Rupee (Re)
US$1.00 = Rs 9.0
Re 1 = US$0.11
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THE REPORT
Branch - Telecommunicat,ions Branch
C&AG   - Comptroller and Auditor General
CIDA   - Canadian International Development Agency
CIF    - Cost, insurance and freight
DEL    - Direct exchange line
Gentex - Public automatic telegraph service
GOI   - Government of India
HCL    - Hindustan Cables Limited
HF     - High frequency (low capacity radio)
HTL    - Hindustan Teleprinters Limited
ITI    - Indian Telephone Industries Limited
MIS    - Management Information System
OCS    - Overseas Communications Service
OYT    - Own your telephone
P&T    - Posts and Telegraphs
STD    - Subscriber trunk dialing
TAX    - Trunk automatic exchange
Telex  - Teleprinter exchange service
UHF    - Ultra high frequency (radio)
UNDP   - United Nations Development Program
VHF    - Very high frequency (radio)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DIDIA
POSTS AND TELBRAPHS DEPARTMET(P&T)
SIXTH TELECOHKNICATIONS PROJECT
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
INTRODUCTIONANDSUMIMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  i-xlii
1.  THE SECTOR. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   1
Background. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                1
Organization of the Sector. . . o.. .. .. .a          . . .. ..  .         1
Present Access to Serwice ..a.....iac.                     a...................  3
Sector Development Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                5
Sector Constraints. . . . . . . . . . .                      . a   . . . . . . . a  6
Additional Sector Contributions to National Development . .                 6
Previous Bank Involvement with the Sector . . . . . . . . .                7
Tables 1.01   International Telephone Statistics. . . . . . . .                9
1.02  Comparison of Countries with more than
00,000 Telephones . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    10
1.03  Existing Facilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    11
2.  THE BENEFICIARY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    12
Introduction. . . o . . . . . a . # a . . .         . . .  . . . .  .    12
Organization . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            .      . . .  . .    .    12
Staff and Training. . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . .  . . . .    12
accounting. . .   .  . . . . . .  .   . .  . .    . . o .         .       .    14
Transfer of Postal Branch Accounting i\nction . . . . . . .               15
Audit .  O . . E  . .  . .  . . . .  . o   . &  .  . . .      . .  .    15
Materials Management. .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    15
Management InfoCmation System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Tariffs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    16
Tableo 2.01 Sumb ary of  Tariffs   proide b.     y . PT. and o. . . a.n . .    18
3.DEMAD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . o. . . . . . . . . .... ..... 21
4.  PROGRAM  N    ROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                     .................. 24
The Programx . . ...... ........ ...... ... ...... ..........       .     24
The Project . .  .  .    . ................   a ... . ................    24
Project Costs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ............ 27
Contingencies ................................... a....... . .........    28
This report is based on information provided by P&T and on the findings of
a mission composed of Messrs. G. E. Hams and J. M. Vance which visited India
in November/December 1975.
This document hu a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
4.  PROGRAM AND PROJECT (Continued)
Items for Bank Financing      .................   28
Procurement  . a . . . .                                       29
Disbursement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          30
Implementation . . . . . 3 . . .        . . . .    . . . . . .    31
Tables 4.01  Physical Targets 1975-1979 . . . . . . . . .        33
4.02 Program and Project Costs 1977-1979  . . . .         34
5.    FINANCES   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . .  .    . .  .    .    .  . .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  35
Background . . . . .            .   . . . . . .                35
Past Operations          . .............35
Present Financial Position. ...... .                           36
Financing Pln      Ran   ....                                 37
Future Einances. . . . o . . . o . . . . . . . .               39
Fiscal Impact. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
Performanc Indicators .n .o....... . ......   40
Tables 5.01  Actual and Forecast Income Statements
(1973-1981) ...             ..........  41
5.02 Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets
(1973-1981).....   .......  42
5.03  Forecast Sources and Applications of Kunds
(1977-1981).................    43
5.04  Forecast Performance Indicators  . . . . . . . . .  48
6. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION  ..     .   * ...........   .              49
Telecommunications and Economic Development. . . . . . . . .  49
Return on Investment........ ....  ....    52
Analysis of Return on Investment . . . . . . ..  ... . ..    52
7.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .    ...............   56
Annex 7.01 Related Documents and Data Available in the
Project File ....    . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   57
Map No. IBRD 12105



INTRODUCTION AND SUMKARY
THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Background
1.        India's sheer size places a special demand on its communications
networks to facilitate the flow of information, arising from management and
administration of industrial, commercial and governmental activities in widely
dispersed population centers. The Bank Group has been associated with the
telecommunications sector since 1962 when there were only 373,000 telepholle
subscribers. Their numbers have increased at an average annual rate of 10.5%
and in 1975 had reached 1,367,000. Over this period GNP growth averaged 3.2%
each year. 1/ The growth rate of subscribers in the 8 largest cities was
lower than average at 6.5% reflecting to some extent emphasis on rural and
regional development. At the same time the trunk network expanded and modern-
ized with the number of trunk circuits increasing by 13.6% annually from 5,700
in 1962 to 30,000 in 1975. This, together with the establishment of a new
telex network, which had 10,900 subscribers in 1975, has accommodated only
partially India's pressing need for long distance communication. Despite
the considerable efforts made, India still has the lowest per capita density
of telephone subscribers among the 42 countries with over 500,000 telehones,
at 0.29 per 100 of the population, compared with such countries as Egypt
(the next lowest) at 1.37, Iran at 2.4 or M1exico at 4.37. Existing local and
trunk networks are overloaded and service is poor.
21i       The Telecommunications Branch of the Department of Posts and Tele-
graph (P&T) would be the beneficiary of the proposed loan. P&T is a govern-
ment department under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Communications.
It is controlled by a seven-member board of senior executives and has ade-
quate autonomy in its policy formulation and day-to-day operations. The
Branch has made important organizational changes since 1962. The responsi-
bility for certain functions, such as construction of major projects, has been
decentralized. Its postal and telecommunication operations each have separate
specialized management structures. The Telecommunications Branch has developed
a commercial accounting system for financial reporting within P&T and to
Government. Regional commercial accounts are also being developed as agreed
under Credit 403-IN, the Fifth Telecommunications Project. A new materials
management system has been introduced and is serving to improve the overall
planning and execution of works through closer coordination between project,--
material and production planning. Over the years, the Telecommunications
Branch has improved its financial performance, and a large proportion of its
investment is being financed by the Branchinternally, even though the Branch
also continues to subsidize the postal service. P&T staff has grown from
387,000 in 1962 to 623,000 in 1975, while the Telecommunications Branch staff
increased from 69,000 to 236,000, a high proportion of which is unskilled and
semi-skilled labor.
3.        Efficient operation and development of any large telecommullication
system requlres the parallel development of a local equipment industry to
allow actions to be closely coordinated from system planning, through design,
production, delivery, installation to operation; to standardize equipment; to
1/   Growth in constant 1960/61 prices.



- ii -
enable inventories to b)e kept to a rnlninum; to ensure continuity' of suipply;
and to reduce lead times par ticu]lzrly in copinSn  with changes in demand and
emergencies. For these reasons, practically all developed countries and
developing countries with large telecommunications systems develop a domestic
industry to supply a large part of their requirements.  As telecommunications
have spread, domestic manufacture of such goods as cables, teleprinters and
switching gear has kept pace. 75% of P&T's equipment requirements are manu-
factured within India. The three domestic manufacturers, Indian Telephone
Industries (ITI), Hindustan Cables Limited (1ICL), and Hlindustan Teleprinters
Limited (HTL), which dominate the telecommunications equipment industry,
employ about 25,000 people and had aggregate sales of about US$100 million in
1974/75. Their products are internationally competitive in regard to price,
quality and delivery times (see para 51). Indeed, such goods as telephone
exchanges and teleprinters have recently been exported in small quantities.
These three firms have helped the development of the small-scale sector by
offering extensive assistance to their small-scale ancillary suppliers.
4.         The factories are satisfactorily managed with audited commercial
accounts showing that their products are realistically priced and that the
factories operate at a reasonable profit. Pricing agreements are negotiated
formally between P&T and the factories and P&T monitors factory efficiency
through regular reviews by its cost accountants, through periodic investi-
gation by its audit group and through continuing overview by the senior P&T
officials who hold posts of Directors on the factory Boards of Management.
The Bank Group participation in the sector has enabled it to contribute to the
development of these enterprises.  Production and material manngerent censul-
ants engdged afLer discussions with Bank staff during appraisal of Credits
241-IN and 403-IN have enabled ITI production methods to be improved and have
assisted in introduction of a new materials management system which gives
improved liaison between P&T and the factories and better control of material.
supply from the factory to the field.
5.         The GOI views local manufacture of telecommunications supplies
as important because of the employment potential, the importance of these
industries and the significant foreign exchange savings achieved. It is
estimated that by using locally manufactured equipment, the foreign exchange
savings with this project would be about US$150 million.
Present Access to Service
6.        Too few people have access to telecommunications facilities.  The
geographic coverage is limited, and the quality of the service is still
; qequate.
7.        The local telephone networks (as of September 30, 1975) comprise
4,937 exchanges with an installed capacity of 1,599,749 lines and 1,366,540
subscriber connections (direct exchange lines-DEL). The waiting list for new
connections stands at about 280,000 despite a newly imposed application deposit
ranging from Rs 1,000 in the smallest networks to Rs 5,000 in the major city
nr tworks. At the same time, existing facilities are congested. Calling densi-
tle3 in Bombay, Delhi and Calcutta are among the highest in the world and the
chance of the called party being busy is consequently unduly high, leading to
riny repeat attempts.



- iii -
8.        Despite 20% per annum expansion of the trunk network capacity in
the last five years, the trunk service is far from adequate. limproved faci-
lities result in greatly increased volume of calls, and consequently service
between the main cities of India remains poor. Access-within regions to
secondary and tertiary cities and to rural areas is also far from adequate.
This, howev7er, should improve in the next two years as major microwave radio
and coaxial cable systems nearing completion under ongoing projects and in-
cluded in the present project are brought into service. The main trunk trans-
mission schemes are shown in Map IBRD 12105. Sixty percent of subscribers
have access to limited Subscriber Trunk Dialing (STD) facilities, which allows
some 55% of trunk calls to be subscriber-dialed.
9.        The extensive public telegraph network with 12,615 offices and
the telex network with 10,886 subscribers on 60 exchanges interconnect the
main centers in India. The telex network, which is of great importance to
business, is not performing as well as desired. Ineffective calls are
common due primarily to over-age line plant in the trunk network and the
great distances involved.
10.       International telephone and telegraph connections are provided by
the Overseas Communications Service (OCS), which is a separate Government
authority under the Ministry of Communications, through the INTELSAT Indian
Ocean satellite via an earth station at Arvi. near Bombay and by hIF radio
system. A second earth station near New Delhi will be brought into service
during 1976. Other terrestrial connections to Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh
and Sri Lanka are operated by P&T. India's international services are good.
Sector Development Objectives
11.       P&T's present development program is an important step in imple-
menting a sound long-term plan for modern telecommunication services in India.
The program and the development plans of the equipment industry, are based in
the first instance on conservative demand forecasts, that is, on extrapolation
of past subscriber demand adjusted to allow for the chronic suppressed demand
reflected in the existing long waiting lists for new connections. However,
financial constraints have meant that targets for the Fifth Five-Year Plan
F_riod, of which the present project is part, have had to be lowered. As a
result, a waiting list of at least 340,000 is expected at the end of the plan
period in FY79. Within the current resource constraints, P&T and the Bank
Group consider the maintenance and improvement of the service offered to
existing subscribers to be of high priority.
12.       P&T maintains an active research program in order to stay abreast
of modern technological developments. The research group collaborates closely
with the telecommunications equipment industry in design, development and
manufacture of equipment to meet India's particular needs, and also supplies
P&T with expertise to support the selective importation of new technologies
such as electronic switching and satellite communications as proposed in this
project.



- iv -
13.       The shortage of financial resources, particularly foreign exchanlge,
is the effective constraint preventing the sector from more fully meeting
India's telecommunications requiremnents. The Telecommunications Branch is
technically and managerially capable of a more rapid rate of expansion. The
Branch is certainly financially viable and could generate iruch of the funds
required for a higher level of physical growth as illustrated by the fact that
at present in addition to financing about 55% of investment over the next
three years, it will also meet a substantial postal deficit amounting to $231
million for the same three years (see paras 58 and 59). To some extent the
resource constraint of the Telecommunications Branch refleets the general
scarcity of resources in India. However, it also reflects the fact that the
wider development impact of improved telecommunications is not adequately
appreciated. The Telecommunications Branch has not been very effective in
substantiating their case. To alleviate this situation, in the context of the
Fifth Telecommunications Project (Cr. 403-IN) the Telecommunications Branch
has undertaken certain economic studies which are at a preliminary stage.
During negotiation of the proposed project, the scope of these studies was
reviewed and, in addition, it was agreed that a special economic unit would be
established within the Telecommunications Branch to undertake studies including
analyses of demand and usage, costs and benefits, tariffs and investment
priorities. P&T and the Bank will work closely in finalizing the work pro-
gram of this unit and in monitoring the progress of the work (Section 4.06 of
the Loan Agreement). The work of this unit should provide valuable data for
determining both the level and composition of future telecommunications
investE,eats.
14.       The financial requirements for investment have risen from an annual
average of US$65 million during the five-year period FY65-69 to US$95 million
during FY70-74. For the period FY75-79, P&T has planned for an average annual
investment of about US$2503 million representing an annual 20% increase (in-
cluding inflation) over the previous five year average. Of this, about 25%
represents foreign exchange requirements. This investment increase has been
helped by higher revenues from steady improvements to the trunk service, pe-
riodic tariff increases, external borrowings and a new advance deposit scheme
estimated to provide some 15% of total requirements for gross asset formation
during the three year period FY76-79. Internal generation of funds is ex-
pected to be double that of the previous three years, and after providing
substantial funds for the postal service, will finance 55% of a capital
expansiDn program2I that is I.   times larger in current terms as that of thie
previous three years.
Previous Bank Group Oper-t lpns
15.       Since 1962, the Bank Group has financed five projects providing a
total of US$288 million fol- the telecommunications development in India.
Other foreign exchange contributors were: Canada (US$35 million), and Hungary
(US$12 million). The first four Bank Group projects have been satisfactorily
completed. Disbursements under the fifth project (Credit 403-IN) are expected
to be 85% complete by the original closing date of December 31, 1976. A



-V -
further 12 months will pass before all payments on imported items are complete.
The delay is principally a carry-over of the late completion of the fourth
project (Credit 241-IN) due to a combination of equipment supply problems
in that project involving both local and overseas suppliers. These problems
were progressively overcome during the fourth project period..  These five Bank
Group operations have assisted the Indian telecommunications in their consider-
able expansion of networks, as described in para 22. The Bank Group has also
helped P&T in its institutional improvements (para 23), in the development of
local equipment manufacturing capacity and by providing technical assistance.
Over the period of assocciation with the Bank Group, P&T's financial manage-
ment has improved and financial results have remained consistently satisfac-
tory.
THE PROJECT
Program and Project Objectives
16.       P&T is approaching mid-term in the implementation of its Fifth
Five Year Plan of developmant (April 1974 - March 1979). The objectives of
this plan, along with those for development of all sectors, were reviewed in
the past year by GOI and were left largely unchanged except for reduction in
the rate of growth of the automatic trunk network.  The FY77-79 expansion
program, of which the project forms part, will complete the implementation of
the plan. The total cost of the FY77-79 program is estimated at Rs 9,023
million (US$1,003 million) with a foreign exchange component of Rs 2,421
million (US$269 million). The main objectives of the program period are:
(i) installation of 595,000 additional lines of telephone
exchange equipment;
(ii) expansion of cable networks and provision of subscriber
equipment to permit connection of an additional 520,000
Direct Exchange Lines, reflecting an annual growth rate
of around 10%;
(iii) expansion of the trunk service by 22,300 channels and
installation of 14 trink automatic exchanges with capacity
to accommodate 40,900 lines;
(iv) Installation of 25 new telex exchanges and addition of
6,800 new telex subscribers; and



- vi -
(v) extension of the national network into rural areas includ-
ing the provision of 2,600 long distance public call
offices (PCOs).
The Project
17.       The project proposed for IBRD financing follows on the project
being financed by Credit 403-IN and is a self-contained part of the expanslon
program for FY77-79. It would alleviate congestion in both the major city
telephone networks and trunk services; would improve telex service; and would
bring new telephone service to 220,000 subscribers. The project's capital
cost is estimated at Rs 3,732 million (US$415 million) with a foreign exchange
component of Rs 923 million (US$103 million). It consists of the following
main items:
(i)  installation of 274,000 line units of local telephone
exchange equipment including introduction of modern
electronic switching equipment;
(ii)  provision of cables and associated equipment which will
permit the connection of about 220,000 DELs;
(iii)  extension of existing trunk exchanges and installation
of new trunk exchanges including four using modern
electronic switching equipment which will accommodate
about an additional 23,000 lines;
(iv)  transmission equipment including radio, coaxial cable
and multiplex equipment to increase capacity on routes
between important cities and for expansion of the trunk
lines network to more remote rural areas;
(v)  a small satellite earth station to provide reliable,
good-quality communication between the Andaman Islands
and the mainland; and
(vi)  telex exchange equipment, including electronic telex
exchanges for Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta and Madras, and
associated teleprinters.
18.       Forty percent of the new direct exchange lines (DELs) will be
provided in the major cities to meet priority needs and to provide essential
improvement to service. The remainder of the DELs will be allocated tlhrough-
out the rest of India. About 200 small communities will receive new tele-
phone exchanges and 1,200 public call offices will be established to extend
telephone service to more villages.
19.       Traditional and new techlnologies are to be utilized In achieving
thie least-cost engineering for the project.  I.atest telecommunications tech-
nology will be applied to improve service by overcoming problems arising from
higih traffic levels, the presence of over-age plant in the trunk network and
the large distances and remote communities to be served.



- vii -
20.       It is proposed to install 10,000 line electronic local exchanges
in the New Delhi and Bombay networks to help reduce the effects of over-
loading. Overloading in these networks wlll only be really overcome when
demand is adequately met but funding on the scale required Is not feasible
at this time. Electronic exchanges In the meantime will cater for the very
high calling rates and traffic levels now prevailing more economically. and
reliably than conventional electromechanical exchanges.
21.       Electronic trunk exchanges are proposed for the key centers in the
national trunk network at Bombay, New Delhi, Calcutta and Madras. These are
now the preferred and economic means of catering for the high traffic volumes
in a national network the size of that in India.
22.       Electronic switching centers are also proposed for the key centers
in the India telex network at Bombay, New Delhi, Calcutta and Madras. This
technology is now competitive in cost with traditional switching methods.
The centers will regenerate all the telex signals passing through them, thus
removing signal distortion due to the presence of over-age plant and the
distances to be traversed in India. The large number of ineffective con-
nections which are now experienced should be much reduced with considerable
benefit to the business community for whom this service nationally and in-
ternationally is Important for organizational efficiency and for effective
marketing of products.
23.       Newly developed relatively inexpensive satellite earth station
technology will be applied for the first time in India to bring reliable,
good quality service to the remote Andaman Islands. This application will
serve as a pilot study of the potential of this technology for opening up
of large areas of remote territory which are now without reliable communi-
cations and for special applications such as providing service to offshore
oil rigs.
Project Implementation
24.       All installation and maintenance of telecommunications equipment
will be by P&T technical staff with support of manufacturers' specialist
staff where new technologies are involved. The large and technically compe-
tent P&T staff, together with the existing comprehensive training schemes,
will ensure adequate supply of technicians and line staff for installation
and future maintenance of project works.
Project Cost and Financing
25.       The cost of the project is US$415 million with a forelgn component
of US$103 million. A break-up of the project costs is given in Annex III.
26.   .   The project costs are based on most recent (1975) prices.  Cost
cstimates for imported items have been based on P&T's experience of prices
obtained for recent contracts related to ongoing works and on quotations ob-
tained from a number of suppliers. Those for locally manufactured equipment



- viii -
are based on planning figures agreed between P&T and the manufacturers. The
estimates are reasonable. Customs duties of 80% on imported equipment and
25% on Imported raw materials have been included In the project local costs.
27.       Physical contingencies amounting to 5% of the cost of traffic
dependent Items In the trunk network component of the project have been in-
cluded to cover uncertainties in the traffic levels following extension of
STD. Other estimates are either for works where detailed engineering has
been completed or relate to large numbers of component works where deviations
from individual estimates will tend to balance out in the aggregate. Price
contingencies provided amount to 22% of both local and foreign costs.  Thc
allowances are based on the estimates by P&T and the Indian equipment fac-
tories of possible cost increases.
28.       The proposed loan of US$80 million will cover about 78% of the
estimated foreign exchange costs of the project.  The balance would be met
from internal cash generation and borrowing (see para. 58).
Procurement and Disbursement
29.       All equipment imported directly by P&T and financed by the Bank
would be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding in ac-
cordance with, the Bank Group's Guidelines. All other equipmenL for which
the Bank would provide finance will be procured by P&T from local Govern-
ment - owned factories. As with previous loans and credits, the Bank loan
would finance the estimated foreign exchange costs of the equipment to be
supplied by these local factories, which would represent the cost of imported
raw materials and components used in the manufacture of such equipment. Also
as previously ICB is not proposed for the equipment in the project which
can be procured economically and efficiently from the domestic factories.
For switching and transmission equipment there is strong justificatlon for
local procurement for reasons of economy, compatibility and standardization.
In case of cables, supplies of many sizes and types are involved for each of
thousands of sub-projects throughout India and consequently considerable
savings are achieved through more accurate matching of purchases to Indivi-
dual jobs and better scheduling of deliveries. Examination during appraisal
confirmed that Lhe main equipment items produced by the factories were com-
parable in quality and delivery with internationally procured equipment and
prices were generally lower.
30.       All materials and components, except proprietary items, imported
by such factories for the production of the equipment to be supplied by
the local factories would be procured through international shopping proce-
dures similar to that followed by India under Bank Group financed Industrlal
Imports Program Credits. Proprietary items imported by the factories would
be excluded from Bank finaneing. An appropriate provision confirming these
procurement arrangements Is set out in Part B of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement.
31.       The proposed loan would provide US$30 million for equipment to be
Imported by P&T, and US$50 million for purchases from local factories. Items
to be financed under the loan would be as follows:



- ix -
US$ Million
A.   Direct Imports by P&T
(i) Switching Equipment
Electronic telephone exchanges                  8.0
Electronic trunk exchanges                      6.0
Electronic telex exchanges                      3.0
(ii.)  Transmission Equipment
Coaxial cable line equipment                    4.0
Radio systems and equipment                     4.0
(iii)  Equipment for Research, Testing & Training    3.0
(iv)  Raw Materials for P&T Workshops                   2.0
Sub-total                                  30.0
B.   Purchases from Domestic Factories
(i) From Hindustan Cables Limited (HCL)
Cable and accessories                          24.9
(ii) From Indian Telephone Industries (ITI)
Switching, transmission, radio systems,
coaxial cable and multiplex equipment    24.8
(iiM) From Hindustan Teleprinters Limited (HTL)
Teleprinters                                    0.3
Sub-total                                  50.0
Grand Total                                 80.0
32.       For direct imports by P&T disbursement of loan proceeds would be
made against CIF cost incurred by P&T in import of equipment and of materials
for manufacture i.n their workshops.
33.       In respect of procurement from Government factories, it is pro-
posed, as was the case in the past Loans and Credits, to disburse against
invoices to P&T a predetermined percentage representing the average foreign
exchange content of the product mix, supplied from each factory. These were
estimated during the appraisal mission to be:
-    for ITI, 25% of the selling price;
-    for IICL, 30% of the selling price; and
-    for HITL, 6% of the selling price.
These percentages will be subject to review if substantial changes
occur i.n material prices or exchange rates or local availability of materials.



x 
Financial Analysis
34.       As a Government department, P&T's finances form part of the national
budget. The revenues of the Board are paid lnto the Central Government's
consolidated fund and its costs are met through parliamentary appropriation.
Funds for construction made available by Government to the Telecommunications
Branch in excess of those generated internally are called capital-at-charge
and consist of Central Government contributions of local funds and foreign
exchange loans borrowed by Government on behalf of the Branch. The commer-
cial accounts show the Telecommunications Branch's operations on a commercial
basis, as though it were a separate entity and had full use of its funds.
Foreign borrowings are recorded as debt and other central government contri-
butions as equity. The Branch pays annual interest of 6% on the capital-at-
charge. The total payments by Branch to Government include sizeable transfers
to the Postal Branch of P&T. The total payments to Government over the
1976-79 period works out to the equivalent of a 16% interest on capital-
at-charge.
35.       The revenue of the Telecommunications Branch was about US$345 mil-
lion, and its operating income was US$91 million in FY76; revenue Is expected
to increase by 30% to about US$455 million in FY77. During the past four
years, when the operating results were very satisfactory, the rate of return
on fixed assets ranged between 15.0% and 21.2%. The Branch has been financing
about two-thirds of its capital expansion from internal sources after covering
debt service and the transfer to the postal service (see paras 59 and 60).
This pattern of financing is reflected in the conservative capital structure
at the close of FY76 when debt equaled 35% of capitalization.
36.       The following is a summary of the financing plan for the period
1977-79, which includes the period of the project.



- xi -
Requirements and Sources of Funds for the Telecommunications Branch
1977-1979
Rs              US$
Million          Million         X
Requirements
Construction program and working
capital increase                      9,368             1,041        100
Sources
Internal cash generation /a             7,147               794          76
Less:  Debt service                      1,299               144         14
Postal transfers                 2,083               231         22
Net internal cash generation            3,765               419          40
Withdrawals from P&T fund held
by Government                             40                4           -
OYT /b payments and other deposits   1,400                   155         15
Central Government contribution          1,743               194         19
Borrowings                              2,420               269          26
Total Sources                        9,368             1,041        100
/a Includes interest earned on postal transfers.
/b  Own your telephone deposits - advance deposits from applicants for new
telephone connections (see para 28).
37.       In the foregoing financing plan, net internal sources of funds
(after debt service and postal transfers and including as a source of funds
OYT payments and other deposits, and withdrawals from the P&T fund held by
Government) would finance 55% of construction costs and working capital in-
crease. The self-financing of 55% of this capital program is impressive,
particularly when considering that the value of plant is expected to increase
by 70% during this period and that the Telecommunications Branch will he
covering substantial losses of the postal operation. Were the Telecommuni-
cations Branch not supporting the postal operations, it would be generating
71% of total requirements for financing gross asset formation. Central
government contributions would finance 19% and foreign exchange borrowings
26%. The total borrowings of US$269 million include: undisbursed portlion
of IDA Credit 403-IN US$40 million; Hungarian credit US$9 million; other
bilateral credits US$40 million; proposed loan of US$80 million; and further
financlng of US$100 million to be arranged by the Government from foreign
borrowing or free foreign exchange.



- xii -
38.       A substantial amount of funds generated by the Telecommunications
Branch is made available to cover the losses of the postal operation which
amounted to US$74 million in FY76 and expected to total about US$231 million
over the period FY77-79. There are some 120,000 post offices located through-
out India, of which about 105,000 are in rural and backward areas where
revenues fall short of covering operating costs.
39.       Forecast operating results and financial position through FY81
are satisfactory, with rates of return ranging between 15.7% and 21.5%.
During the five-year period 1977-81 when the value of plant in service is
expected to increase 150%, the debt/equity ratio would remain at about
35/65, reflecting a financing pattern where the Branch would continue finan-
cing expansion mainly from internal sources.
40.       Tariffs are reviewed and adjusted periodically to accommodate cost
increases and maintain financial performance standards. Tariffs were in-
creased about 20% in the latest review which became effective in March 1976.
The tariff structure is related to costs so that, for example, subscribers
in the large metropolitan areas pay more than the average basic cost for
local service, reflecting the higher costs of providing an extensive local
network.
h1,       Forecasts show that over the next five years the tariff level will
provide sufficient revenues to finance about 63% of requirements after provid-
ing substantial funds to the Postal Service, and exceed appreciably the mini-
mum rate of return of 11% on average net plant in service presently required
under Credit 403-IN. This requirement to earn a 11% rate of return would be
continued under the proposed loan (Section 4.04(a) of the Loan Agreement).
Economic Analysis and Risks
42.       Economic benefits from telecommunications investment arise from
the more efficient use of resources made possible in other sectors of the
economy. Productivity is improved, waste is avoided, the disadvantages of
distance and of dispersal of people and of productive units are reduced
and markets are greatly expanded.
43.       While the benefits of development of a telecommunications system
are considerable, they are hard to quantify fully. In most cases, the gross
benefits to the caller will exceed the charges paid. In addition, bene-
fits normally accrue also to the recipient of the call. Moreover, whien the
system is extended to new subscribers, the benefit to existing subscribers
cannot be reflected In the new connection charges. In India, for many years
there has been a substantial waiting list for new connections, which presently
stands at about 280,000 despite the recent introduction of an application
deposit (paragraph 28). These general observations strongly suggest that the
benefit of the project is under-represented by the associated increase In
revenue.



- xiii -
44.      Aside from these questions related to efficiency, the benefits
of a system are particularly hard to quantify when the,ultlmate beneficiaries
cannot be Identified readily, and thus equity considerations cannot be taken
into account. Practically all of India's subscribers are commercial and
industrial enterprises and government services, for whom telecommunications
constitute an Intermediate input into the final goods or services produced.
Private connections are also used for productive purposes in many cases.
45g       Finally, telecommunications is a sector whtch may contribute
dynamically to development in a way which none of the traditional benefit
measures can adequately reflect. It is difficult to value the contribution
of telecommunication links without which, for example regional development in
backward areas, management of infrastructure projects or rapid and efficient
marketing of perishable agricultural crops are impossible.
46.       Given the externalities associated with telecommunications, the
discount rate which equalizes the stream of expected revenues attributable
to the project with the capital and operating costs is a conservative estimate
of the economic rate of return of the project. 1/ This is 20.2% for the pre-
sent project. A 10% increase in the costs of construction and a 10% decline
in the revenue stream would lower this estimated economic rate of return to
14.5%, showing that the economic viability is fairly insensitive to changes
in the major parameters.
47.       This project involves no special risks.
Conclusion
48.       Although telecommunication investments in India have been highly
successful, the investments in the sector have continued to be below re-
quirements. This has resulted in unusually low per capita availability of
telephone services and extremely large unsatisfied demand. Nevertheless,
our involvement has been Instrumental in making possible higher investment
levels than would otherwise have prevailed. Equally important have been
our contributions towards steady institutional improvements whichl have
enabled P&T to make more efficient use of the available resources. P&T
today is one of the best managed and most sound, financially and tectni-
cally, of Government enLerprises in India. Ilowever, more needs to be done
on the financial, economic-cum-planning and technical side. Under the
proposed project, further stress would be given towards fostering financial
independence of the Telecommunications Branch by expediting the extension of
commercial accounting practices to the District levels. The work of Llte
special economic unit, whlich is to be established in P&T, would improve
the quality of investment planning. Our continued associatiotn would also
help P&T in their applications of modern sophisticated technologies for
telecommunication development in India.
I/   Taxes are excluded from costs, as are physical and price contingencies.






1. THE SECTOR
Background
1.01      India's sheer size -- second in the world in terms of population
and seventh in terms of land area -- places special demands on the telecom-
munications network to facilitate the flow of information among widely
dispersed industrial, commercial and administrative centers. The cotton
and textiles in the west, coal, iron and steel in the northeast, forestry
and timber in the central area, and important agricultural activities along
the north Indian plains and river deltas generate great demands on movement
of goods and information throughout the country. The organization of State
Governments, with their close dependence on the central Government, also
generates considerable cammunications traffic.
1.02      While telecommunications development in India over the years since
independence has been substantial, the telephone density as at June 30, 1975
was only .29 telephones per hundred population, placing it among the l*iest
of the developing countries. Paragraph 1.12 shows that the access to tele-
communications facilities and the quality of the service is still deficient
and the telecommunications system is unable to adequately meet the increasing
demand of business, industry, agriculture and administration.
Organization of the Sector
1.03      The telecommunications sector in India comprises:
(i)  the Posts and Telegraphs Department (P&T) which constructs
and operates all public telecommunication facilities in
India and to adjoining countries;
(ii) the Overseas Communications Service (OCS), a separate
Government authority operating the international services
to other than adjoining countries; and
(iii)  the telecommunications industry of which the three domin-
ant enterprises are the Government-owned Indian Telephone
Industries (ITI), Hindustan Cables Limited (HCL), and
Hindustan Teleprinters Limited (HTL).
1,04      The Posts and Telegraphs Department, the beneficiary, is discussed
in Chapter 2.
1.05      An important feature of telecommunications development in India
has been the move towards self-reliance in the manufacture of cable, tele-
printers and switching equipment. Efficient operation and development of any
large telecommunications system sch as that in India which is now the 25th
largest in the world (see Table 1.02), needs the support of local industry
to allow actions to be closely coordinated from system planning, through
design, production , delivery, installation to operation; to enable inven-
tories to be kept to a minimum; to ensure continuity of supply; and to reduce



- 2 -
lead time between demand and supply, particularly in coping with changes in
demand and emergencies. For these reasons and for standardization, prac-
tically all developed countries and developing countries with large telecom-
munications systems procure most of their requirements from domestic industry.
India's domestic industry now supplies about 75% of the telecommunications
plant and equipment used by P&T.
1.0o6     Local manufacture of telecommunications supplies is favored by
the GOI because of its employment potential, its importance for efficient
and reliable domestic telecommunication services and the significant foreign
exchange savings it allows. It is estimated that foreign exchange savings
with this project would be about $150 million. The Indian industry has been
largely occupied with satisfying domestic needs but is approaching the stage
wnere extension of exports ia a distinct possibility with potential for sig-
nificant generation of foreign exchange.
1.07      Indian Telephone Industries (ITI), which commenced manufacture at
Bangalore in 1950, is owned by the OI (77U), the Mysore State Government
(7%), and the two collaborating companies, Plessy, UK (h4) and International
Standard Electric Company, USA (12%). It now operates factories at Bangalore,
Rae Bareli, Naini, Palghat and Srinagar, employs a staff of about 20,000, and
had sales in FY75 totaling Rs 635 million. Production consists of step-by-
step and crossbar switching equipment, cable line equipment, microwave radio
systems, carrier multiplex equipment, telephones and numerous lesser items
of telecommunications and signaling equipment. P&T buys about 85% of ITI's
output, the balance going to other public sector and private users in India,
as well as export.
1.08      Hindustan Cables Limited (HTCL) is wholly owned by GOI and commenced
operations in 1954 in TRupnarainpur, West Bengal, under a collaborative agree-
ment with Standard Telephones and Cables, Ltd., UK. It now operates factor-
ies there and at Hyderabad in Andhra Pradesh. HCL employs about 3,000 staff
and in FY75 had sales of Rs 233 million. Since cable production commenced
in 1954, P&T's requirements have always been more than the production of HCL.
Now, however, with the Hyderabad factory in full production, capacity will
exceed local demand and HCL has started to seek export orders.
1.09      H                                     commenced operations in 1960
under a collaborative agreement with Olivetti of Italy. It has now developed
to a state of virtual independence of the collaborator. Its factory is
located in Madras. It employs 1500 staff and in FY75 its sales amounted to
Rs 36 million. Physical production in FY75 was 5061 teleprinter units and
other miscellaneous telegraph items.
1.10      These major factories are satisfactorily managed with audited
commercial accounts showing that their products are realistically priced
and that the factories operate at a reasonable profit level. The Bank
Group participation in the sector has contributed to the sound devulop-
ment of these enterprises. Production and material management con-
sultants engaged after discussions with Bank staff during appraisal of



- 3 -
Credits 241-IN and 403-IN have enabled ITI production methods to be improved
and have assisted in introduction of a new materials management system which
gives improved liaison between P&T and the factories and better control of
material supply from the factory to the field.
1.11      Other large scale manufacturers of electronic equipment are Bharat
Electronic Limited and the Electronic Corporation of India. These enterprises
are suppliers to the telecommunications factories and are also developing the
capacity for manufacture of public network telecommunications equipment and
are potential sources of supply for P&T. Each of the major manufacturers
contracts component parts to small scale industry, thus further promoting
technical development and employment.
Present Access to Service
1.12      Despite the substantial development which has been achieved over
the past decade, access to service still remains seriously deficient in terms
of the number of people having facilities, the coverage of the country, and
the quality of the service. Tables 1.01 and 1.02 compare India's telephone
development with that in other countries. Table 1.01 shows that India's
telephone density at .29 telephones per 100 of population is low even among
developing countries, while Table 1.02 shows that it has by far the lowest
density among other countries with large networks exceeding 500,000 tele-
phones. Table 1.03 gives statistics on the existing telecommunications
facilities in India.
1.13      The local telephone networks as at 3eptember 30, 1 975 had in total
4,937 exchanges with an installed capacity of 1,599,749 lines and 1,366,540
subscriber connections (DELs). The waiting list stood at about 600,000 but
fell to 280,000 as at March 31, 1976 as a result of a newly imposed heavy
applications deposit (see para. 5.15). This unsatisfied demand for facili-
ties is reflected in the extremely heavy usage of the existing services as
users attempt to satisfy their communication needs. Calling rates in Bombay,
Delhi and Calcutta are among the highest in the world and the chance of the
called party being busy is consequently unduly high, leading to many repeat
attempts. This places heavy demand on the network common controls and as a
result, network congestion is a common occurrence in these cities. The fol-
lowing table, which records the result of recent observations of four lines
of typical large users, shows that on average more than two attempts were
required to get any connection and 14 or more attempts were needed before
some connections could be established.



4
Average     Maximum No.
Identity                               attempts    of attempts
of the       Fresh       Total       per fresh    for a single
Subscriber     Calls      Attempts        call        fresh call
Cotton Mill      107         289            2.7            17
PBX Junction
A large com-
mercial firm     141         277            2.0             17
Ordinary line
A large com-
mercial firm       29         84            2.9             14
Individual
Social Leader    380        1068            2.8            56
Average          2.6
1.14      Despite expansion of the trunk network capacity at about 20%
increase per annum during this decade, the trunk service is far from ade-
quate to handle the traffic demands of the economy. The traffic surge with
improved service (see para. 6.08) has exceeded forecasts with the result
that service standards between main cities still remains poor. Access
within regions to secondary and tertiary cities and to rural areas although
progressively improving, is far from adequate. The problems will be partly
remedied during the project period when major microwave radio and coaxial
cable systems nearing completion under ongoing projects and included in new
project are brought into service. The main trunk transmission schemes are
shown in Map IBRD 12105. These systems bring improved service also to smaller
centers through which they pass and their benefits are spread to other more --
remote areas by spur routes using low capacity VHF or UHF radio and open wire
systems. Sixty percent of subscribers have access to limited STD facilities
which enable some 55% of trunk calls to be subscriber dialed. There are 66
point-to-point STD routes in service and the nucleus of a nationwide auto-
matic trunk network has been established.
1.15       The extensive public telegraph network with 12,615 offices and
the telex network with 10,886 subscribers on 60 exchanges interconnect the
main centers in India. The telex network, which is of great importance to
business, is not performing as well as desired. Ineffective calls are unduly
high due primarily to the presence of over-age line plant in the trunk network
and the distances involved in India.
1.16      International telephone and telegraph connections are provided by
the Overseas Communications Service (OCS) through the INTELSAT Indian Ocean
satellite via an earth station at Arvi near Bombay and by HF radio systems.
A second earth station near New Delhi will be placed in service during 1976.
Other terrestrial connections to Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka
are operated by P&T. India's international services are good.



- 5-
Sector Development Objectives
1.17      Sound long-term plans have been prepared by P&T defining the form
of modern telecommunications service to be created in India. These plans
prescribe, for the telephone and telex networks, the basis for numbering of
exchanges and subscribers; the network rules, the signaling methods and the
geographical sequence for interconnection of exchanges in the setting up of
calls; the transmission standards to be obeyed to ensure satisfactory con-
versation on any call within India and on international calls; and the
basis and methods for charging both operator-handled and subscriber-dialed
calls. P&T's program is a further step in the implementation of these plans.
1.18      The program targets and also the development Dlans for the equip-
ment factories are based on demand forecasts selected by GOI after studies
made in collaboration by P&T and the GOI Planning Commission. These studies
are discussed in Chapter 3, "Demand". The selected forecasts are con-
servative, being based on extrapolation of past demand as represented by
existing DELs plus recorded waiting lists under conditions where potential
applicants have been deterred by the prospect of long waiting times fre-
quently measured in years. Even so, limitations on funds available to P&T
have meant that the targets for P&T's fifth five year program, of which the
project is part, fall short of that conservative estimate of demand. On
that basis, at the end of the program (FY79) a waiting list of some 340,000
would still be expected; the real unsatisfied demand judged on the experi-
ence of other countries would certainly exceed one million applicants. With
the current resource constraints, P&T's development objectives are to prevent
deterioration and where possible effect steady improvement of the service
offered to existing subscribers and to meet the needs of new applicants in
accordance with prescribed priority procedures. P&T is undertaking special
studies, with the encouragement and support of the Bank, to identify the
economic benefits of telecommunications more explicitly so that future pro-
grams can be better matched to the needs of the economy. Daring negotiations,
it was agreed that P&T would establish, by December 31, 1976, a special unit
within the Telecommunications Branch to give increased emphasis to this eco-
nomic analysis in telecommunications. The unit will consist of at least one
economist, at least one financial analyst and some engineers. Its work would
include analysis of demand and usage; costs and benefits; tariffs, and invest-
inent priorities. The work program of the unit would be submitted to the Bank
for comment by June 30, 1977 and six-monthly program reports on the analyses
would commence for December 31, 1977.
1.19      P&T maintains, in collaboration with the domestic industry, an
active applied research program with the objective of continually assessing
modern technological advancements for economical solutions to India's com-
rmunications problems. Considerable experience has been acquired in switch-
ing system technology in the extensive work carried out in adapting the
Pentaconta crossbar switching system to cope with the demanding Indian traf-
fic conditions and in transmission technology through the development of
such items as indigenous carrier multiplex equipment, coaxial cable line
equipment and microwave radio systems. The research groups have kept close
contact with world electronic switching developments and have gained experi-
ence by the construction of trial exchanges, giving P&T the technological
backtup for a.sp-lication of this new technology.  The work of the groups is
directed towards the sector objective of achieving self-sufficiency in the
design and m-nufi-cture of telecommunications equipment. Action has already
been taken by GOI to increase domestic manufacturing capacity to meet a
higher proportion of P&T's needs in larger future programs.



-6-
Sector Constraints
1.20      The shortage of investment resources is the effective constraint
preventing the sector from more fully meeting India's telecommunications
requirements. The Telecommunications Branch has a technically competent
work force which could achieve higher output if provided with increased
supply of equipment. The Branch is financially viable and is capable of
generating much of the funds required for a higher level of physical achieve-
ment, particularly if relieved of the need to meet the postal deficit and if
the Branch is allocated foreign exchange through loans and credits.
1.21      The average annual investment has risen from US$65 million during
the five year period FYs 65-69 to US$95 million during the next five years
FYs 70-74. For the period FYs75-79, P&I has planned for an average annual
investment of about US$250 million. This increasing rate of investment is
required for maintaining the prevailing rates of growth and improvement of
facilities. The increase in size of the program has been helped by higher
revenues from steady improvements to the trunk service, periodic tariff
increases, a new advance deposit scheme estimated to provide some 20 of
total requirements during the four year period FYs 76-79 and a level of
external borrowings commensurate with the increasing annual capital invest-
ment. An increasingly important source of revenue is that deriving from
subscriber trunk dialing for which facilities are continually being provided.
The amount of funds generated internally for the four year period FYs 76-79
is estimated to be double that of the previous four years, and will allow the
Branch to self-finance 60% of a capital expansion program that is 1.6 times
larger than that of the previous four years and after providing substantial
funds for the postal service.
1 22      Future foreign exchange requirements will amount to about 25% of
the investment programs so that the amount of foreign exchange required will
increase in about the same proportion as the capital investment increases.
EBcternal borrowings for the FYs77-79 period, which will see the completion
of P&Tts fifth five year plan, include US$40 million from bilateral sources
to be arranged by Government, the proposed IBRD loan of US$80 million and
US$100 million to be arranged by GOI by August 1977.
Additional Sector Contributions to National Development
1.23      Important contributions of the telecommunications operation in
India, in addition to those benefits from improvement of intercommunication
throughout the nation which are normally associated with the sector, are
(i) its support of the postal service, (ii) its huge employment, currently
of the order of 260,000 people, the bulk of whom are in the unskilled and
semi-skilled categories, (iii) the provision of housing for lower income
staff, and (iv) the fostering of industry including small scale industry in
supplying India's telecommunications needs.



- 7 -
1.2L      A substantial amount of funds generated by the Telecommunications
Branch (expected to exceed $230 million for the FYs77-79 program period) is
made available to cover the losses of the postal operation. The Postal
Branch has some 120,000 post offices located throughout India, of which about
105,000 are in rural and backward areas, many of which operate at a loss.
Government views the continued operation of these deficit-operated postal
offices as essential to the well being of the nation since they provide low
cost and often the only communications to vast rural areas with a large
percentage of India's population.
1.25      Government policy calls for P&T to make major investments in pro-
viding adequate housing at subsidized rates to lower income staff. The
funds for this P&T undertaking are generated by the Telecommunications Branch.
As part of the fifth plan, P&T is providing some 16,000 staff quarters cost-
ing Rs 400 million with no foreign exchange involved.
1.26      The Government-owned telecommunications factories, which currently
supply P&T with about 75,1 of its equipment and cable needs, are developing
reliable sources of domestic suppliers for those items that can more econ-
omically be produced by smaller auxiliary units. This has over the years
helped to develop small scale industries in many rural areas in India.
Subcontracting in this way and also the work within the main factories them-
selves provides training for development of other light engineering products.
Skills developed are applicable to production of consumer products based on
electrical, electronic and light mechanical engineering.
Previous Bank Involvement with the Sector
1.27      The Bank has been continuously associated with the sector since
1962 with the following loans and credits:
Credit 28-IN   September 14, 1962         $ 42 million
Credit 58-IN   July 6, 1964                  33 million
Loan   615-IN) June 18, 1969                 55 million
Credit 241-IN  May 3, 1971                   78 million
Credit 403-IN  June 25, 1973                 80 million
Total   $288 million
During this period the Bank has provided most of the foreign exchange required
in the development program cost of US$1.4 billion. The number of telephone
subscribers (DELs) has increased from 373,000 to 1,367,000 (about a 10% per
annum growth rate); a telex network has been established and at September 30,
1975 had 10,900 subscribers; and the trunk network has been expanded and
modernized with trunk circuits increasing from 5,690 to 30,000 (about a 1h%
per annum growth rate) at September 30, 1975. Domestic manufacturing has
also matured and substantial management improvements have been made by P&T
to cope with the increasing complexity of its operations (see Section 2).



1.28      The first four projects have been completed and the fifth is well
advanced. Credit 403-IN is expected to be 85% disbursed by its scheduled
closing date, December 31, 1976, with the balance, which covers payments
on imported items, to be disbursed within 12 months. The delay is mainly
a carry forward of the late completion of the fourth project (Credit 241-IN)
which was caused by problems with both local and overseas supply. These
problems have now been rectified.



_9 _
TABLE 1 .01
INDIA
POSTS AND TEJRAPHS DEPARTENT (P&T)
TELBCOME0ICATMNS BRANCH
International Telephone Statistics
GROSS NATIONAL                                        TELEPHONES - JANUARY 1975
POPULATION     PRODUCT - 1973                    NATIONAL                         PRINCIPAt CITIES            REST OF COUNTRY
Per Capita              Per     Av. Annual
COUNTRY           1/1/75    Per       Growth      Total     100     Growth Rate  Automa-   Total    Per  Percentage  Total   Per  Percentage
Capita    Rate       Number     Popu-    (1965-75)   tization   Number    100   of Nat'l  Number   100  of Nat'l
(OOO's)   US$      (1965-73)  (O's)   lation           %          %       (000's)   PoP.    %         (000's) Pop.    %
AFRICA
F -East Africa           37,283      149       2.7         215     0.58       10.5        84.6          6      8.3   73.0          59    0.2   27.0
Egypt, Arab Rep. of    36,730      250       0.8         503     1.37         n.a.      96.7         3       114.0   72.4       139    0.5   27.6
Ethiopia               27,495       90       1.6          66     0.24        12.1       88.5          52    3.4    78.8          14    0.1    212
Morocco                16,726      320       2.5         189     1.13         2.5       82.0         128     3.2    67.7         61    0.5   32.3
Nigeria                69,674      210       8.3         111     0.16        6.4        83.4          68     3.9    61.3         43    0.1   38.7
Rhodesia                6,205      430       3.5         172     2.77        6.2        93.4         138    14.2   80.2          34    0.7    19.8
South Africa           24,914    1,050       2.0       1,936     7.77        5.5        82.6       1,399    24.2   72,3         537    2.8   27.7
Sudan                  18,112      130      -0.6          56     0.31        4.5        91.4          49     3.0   87.5           7    0.1   12.5
Tunisia                 5,628      460       4.9         114     2.03       12.7        92.6          49     2.4    43.0         65    1.8   57.0
Zambia                  4,687      430      -0.2          68     1.45        8.2        97.8          29     3.3   42.7          39    1.0   57.3
AMERICA
Argentina              25,225    1,640       2.9       2 374     9.41         4.9       96.8       1,378    18.9    58.1        996    5.6    41.9
Brazil                106,069      760       6.o       2,652     2,50         7.7       94.6       1,992     8.3    75.1        660    0.8   24.9
Canada                 22,661    5,450       3.5      12,454    54,96        5.9        97.8       6,254    59.0   50.2       6,200   51.5   49.8
Colombia               25,025      441       3.1       1,186     4,74       11.5        99.7         813     7.8    68.6        373    2.6    31.4
Costa Rica              1,960      710       3.5          98     5,02       16.1        99.0          88    10.5    89.8         10    0.9   10.2
El Salvador             4,o65      350       o.8          50     1,22         8.6       97.2          44     2.9   88.0           6    0.2   12.0
Mexico                 58,265      890       2.8       2,546    4137         13.4       94.8       2,069    10.2   81.3         477    1.3    18.7
Trinidad & Tobago       1,060    1,310       2.2          66     6.26        6.o        99.9          41    41.8   62.1          25    2.6   37.9
US                    212,013    6,200       2.5     143,427    67.65         5.0       99.9      75,904    73.5   52.9    67,523   62.1   47.1
Venezuela              11,918    1,630       1.3         554     4.65         7.9       99.2         477     9.3   86.1          77    1.1    13.9
ASIA
China, Rep. of         15,856      660       7.3         901     5.68       19.8        92.5         591    12.0   65.6         310    2.8    34.4
India                 582,596      120       1.5       1,690     0.29        8.4        82.3         879     2.7   52.0         811    0.2   48.0
Indonesia             123,840      130       4.5         285     0.23         3.4       63.3         201     1.4    70.5         84    0.1    29.5
Iran                   33,565      870       7.4         806     2.40       16.1        94.1         541     5.3   67.1         265    1.1    32.9
Iraq                   10,770                            153     1.42        9.4        93.1         126     2.9   82.4          27    0.4    17.6
Israel                  3,408    3,010       6.7         735    21.57        13.1      100.0         562    30.9   76.5         173   10.9   23.5
Japan                 11o,626    3,630       9.6      41,905    37.88        13.1       97.4      26,527    42.9   63.3      15,378   31.5    36.7
Malaysi7               11,738      570       3.7         259     2.21         7.9       96.6         n.a.    n.a.    n.a.       n.a.   n.a.    n.a.
Nepal 2                12,423       90      -0.1          11     0.09        13.9        n.n.a.    n.a.    n.a.                 n.a.   n.a.    n.a.
Pakistan               69,710      120       2.5         2114    0.31        5.9        83.0         n.a.    n.a.    n.a.       n.a.   n.a.    n.a.
Philippines            40,941      280       2.6         446     1.09        11.4       96.o         374     4.3   83.9          72    0.2   16.1
Singapore               2,237    1,830       9.4         280    12.53        13.5      100.0         280    12.5  100.0          -       -       -
Syria /                 7,121     410        3.6         152     2.14        7.8        89.7         126     5.2   82.9          26    o.6   17.1
Thailand               41,036      270       4.5         271     0.66        15.3       96.0         234     4.4   86.4          37    0.1   13,6
EUROPE
France                 52,742    4,540       5.0      12,405   23.52          8.1       94.0       4,546    46,2   36.7       7,859   18.3   63.3
Germany, Fed. Rep. of 62,040    5,320        4.0      18,767    30.25         8.7      100.0       8,185    46.1   43.6    10,582   23.9    56.4
Sweden                  8,178    5,910       2.4       5,178    63.32        4.3       100.0       2,529    75.1   48.9       2,649   55.1   51.1
Switzerland             6,375    6,100       3.0       3,790    59.46        5.9       100.0       1,798    76.2    47.4      1,992   49.6   52.6
Turkey                 39,127      600       4.4         900     2.30        11.3       78.9         618     8.6   68.7         282    0.9   31.3
UK                     56,102    3,o60       2.3      20,342    36.26         7.4       99.9       8,087    45.8   39.8    12,255   31.9   60.2
USSR                  253,323    2,030       3.5      15,782      6.23        8.2       94.8       4,234    17.4   26.8    11,548    5.1   73.2
Yugoslavia             21,243    1,060       6.o       1,143      5.38       11.9       97.2         532    17.3   46.6         611    3.4   53.4
OCEANIA
Australia              13,337    4,350       3.0       5,000    37.49         6.5       95.2       3,840    42.9   76.1       1,196   26.8   23.9
New Zealand             3,106    3,680       2.0       1,495    48.12         4.5       92.7       1,135    53.0   75.9          360   37.4   24.8
1/   Population at January 1, 1975 derived from the "Total Telephones" and "Telephones per 100 Population" appearing in AT&T's publication,
World Telephones (January 1, 1975).
2/ Telephore and population statistics for Nepal and Pakistan are not available in AT&T's World Telephones (January 1, 1975). The figures
shown are estimates derived from information available from reports in the Bank.
2/  Telephone and population statistics for Syria is not available in AT&T's World Telephones (Jaxtuary 1, 1975). The figures shown are
derived from STE's Statistical Abstract of Telecommnnications, 1975.
SOURCE - GNP Statistics:  World Bank Atlas 1975.
- Telephone Statistics: World Telephones by AT&T (1975).
Mssrch 25, 1976



TABLE 1.02
_10 -
INDIA
PO3TS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT (P&T)
TELEOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Oomparison of Countries With More Than 500,000 Telephones
(as of January 1, 1975)
TOTAL TELEPHONES IN SERVICE
NUMBER                      Per Cent    Per 100
Increase from  Po u-
COUNTRY              1975          1974          1965      1974   1965   latlon
Argentina          2,373,665     2,065,273     1,472,130    14.9   61.2     9.41
Australia 3        4,999,982     4,659,182    2,670,212     7.3   87.3    37.49
Austria             1,986,733    1,841,234      936,207     7.9  112.2    26.37
Belgium            2,666,701     2,503,036    1,468,144     6.4   81.6    27.32
Brazil             2,651,728     2,415,000    1,277,503     9.8  107.6      2.50
Bulgaria             718,325      640,842       248,900    12.1  188.6      8.18
Canada             12,454,331    11,668,292   7,019,374     6.7   77.4    54.96
China, (Taipei)      900,605      742.304       147,825    21.3  509.2      5.68
Colombia, Rep. of   1,186,205    1,079,645      409,589     9.9  189.6      4.74
Czechoslovakia      2,480,801    2,354,313     1,398,509    5.4   77.4    16.83
Denmark (Incl.
Faroe Islands
and Greenland)    2,183,847     2,047,497    1,160,635     6.7   88.2    42.48
Egypt, Arab Rep. of  503,200      471,791       301,405     6.7   67.0      1.374. Next
Finland             1,678,873    1,535,406      778,101     9.3  115.8    35.78    Lowest
France             12,405,000    11,337,000    5,703,878    9.4  117.5    23.52    Density
German
DemocraticRepublic  2,451,011  2,326,143     1,586,838     5,4   54.5    15.04
Germany, Federal
Republic of      18,767,033    17,802,646    8,168,188     5.4  129.8    30.25
Greece              1,862,050    1,670,132      431,292    11.5  331.7    20.71
Hong Kong            988,545      913,411       219,693     8.2  350.0    22.75
Hungary             1,013,731     968,459       538,608     4.7   88.2      9.65
India              1,689,528     1,590,000      760,000     6.3  122.3      0.29+  Lowest
Iran                 805,560      552,500       181,130    45.8  344.7      2.40    Density
Israel               735,156      685,382       215,020     7.3  241.9    21.57
Italy             13,695,006    12,611,653    5,528,751     8.6  147.7    24.62
Japan 4           41,904,960    38,019,366    12,250,841    10.2  242.1    37.88
Korea, Rep. of          n.a.     1,014,016      232,901      -       -        -
Mexico             2,546,186     2,222,654      725,072    14.6  251.2      4.37
Netherlands, The   4,678,945     4,317,006    2,180,273     8.4  114.6    34.41
NewZealand 4       1,494,587     1,410,582      962,596     6.0   55.3    48.12
Norway             1,355,142     1,308,420      868,592     3.6   56.0    33.90
Poland             2,399,249     2,237,603     1,193,362    7.2  101.0      7.09
Portugal           1,011,177      948,003       521,921     6.7   93.7    11.67
Romania            1,076,566      886,166       426,502    21.5  152.4      5.10
South Africa,
Republic of 4     1,935,831     1,816,291    1,133,331     6.6   70.8     7.77
Spain              7,042,968     6,331,474     2,526.843    11.2  178.7    19.96
Sweden             5,178,082     4,984,370     2,386,925    3.9  116.9    63.32
Switzerland        3,790,351     3,604,034     2,131,521    5.2   77.8    59.46
Turkey               899,923      807,294       308,100    11.5  192.1      2.30
United Kingdom 4    20,342,457    19,095,317  9,960,000     6.5  104.2    36.26
U.S.S.R.           15,782,000    14,260,700    7,100,000    10.7  122.3     6.23
United States    143.972,000   138,286,000    88,793,000    4.1   62.1    67.65
Venezuela, Rep. of   554,197      504,000       260,228    10.0  113.0      4.65
Yugoslavia          1,142,883    1,003,550      369,844    13.9  209.0      5.38
Fron "The World's Telephones -- AT&T Long Lines."                         .arch 18, 1976



TABLE 1.03
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTI4ENT (P&T)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Existing Facilities
September 30, 1975
I.  Local Telephone Service
Switching equipment capacity (lines)                1,599,749
Direct exchange lines (DELs)                        15,36$,540
Telephone stations                                 1,7455,000
Number of telephone exchanges                           4,937
Exchange fill                                             85%
Waiting applicants                                   630,000*
II. Trunk Service
Trunk switching
Automatic trunk exchanges                                6
Capacity (lines)                                    12,100
Point-to-point STD routes                               65
Manual trunk boards                                  5,326
Trunk transmission
Cable systems - route Kms                           14,494
Cable systems - channels                            14,522
Microwave radio systems - route Kms                  5, 419
Microwave radio systems - channels                   3,1 83
VHF/UHF radio systems - route Kms                    1j,875
VHF/UHF radio systems - channels                       478
Open wire carrier systems - channels                11,647
Multiplex equipment - total channels                29,830
Long distance public call offices                    5,481
III.  Telegraphs
Telegraph offices                                      12,615
Telex exchanges                                            60
Capacity                                               14,370
Telex subscribers                                      10,886
*See para. 1.13.
February 11, 1976



- 12 -
2. THE BENEFICIARY
Introduction
2.01      There have been five Bank Group lending operations since 1962
amounting to US$288 million to support telecommunications development in
India. Bank Group assistance is making an important contribution to the
sector. The assured availability of foreign exchange has enabled P&T to
achieve a balanced development with due attention to priorities and secur-
ing economies through proper engineering. With encouragement from the
Bank Group, P&T has taken important steps in institution building that
have established a firm basis for enabling the Telecommunications Branch
to become more efficient and to operate along commercial lines. The more
important of these steps are discussed below.
Organization
2.02      P&T as a government department is under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Communications. It is controlled by a seven-member board of
senior executives, including the Director General as Chairman, who also
holds the rank of Secretary in the Ministry. P&T has adequate autonomy in
its policy formulation and day-to-day operations. The followning chart shows
P&T's organizational structure and functional responsibilities within the
telecommunications sector.
2.03      P&T has made important organizational changes.  It has decentral-
ized some functions so that it is better able to administer the growing size
and complexity of the operation. Four project and four maintenance organi-
zations have been created at four strategic places in the country to deal
with, in the case of projects, coaxial, microwave and automatic exchange
schemes and, in the case of maintenance, the critical work of maintaining
the rapidly growing long distance network. Each of the project and mainten-
ance organizations are headed by managers with sufficient authority to
function effectively. Another important organization change is the reorgan-
ization of fifteen combined P&T circles into separate postal and telecom-
munications circles. With this functional reorganization, these units are
now being administered by individuals with the appropriate experience:
postal operations are being supervised by postal officers and telecommunica-
tions operations by telecommunications officers. In further decentralizing
operations and to reduce the number of units reporting directly to the New
Delhi Directorate, the minor telephone districts have been placed under the
respective telecommunications general managers in charge of the telecommuni-
cations circles.
Staff and Training
2.04      In January 1976, the Telecommunications Branch had a staff of about
236,000, which includes about 24,000 intelegraphs and 8,000 in the P&T work
shops. The number of staff is expected to increase to about 305,000 by the
end of the fifth five year program in 1979. The present level of staffing of



INDIAN POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF FINANCE                                  MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS                                    MINISTRY OF INDUSTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT
MINISTER OF COMMUNICATIONS
DEPUTY MINISTER
-MINISTRIES
OVERSEAS                                                       INDIAN
COMMUNICATIONS         HINDUSTAN                                TELEPHONE             HINDUSTAN
SERVICES        TELEPRINTERS LTD                           INDUSTRIES LTD          CABLES LTD
DIRECTOR            MANAGIN       G                        CHAIRMAN AND            OMANAGIN          OTHER ENTITIES
GENERAL             DIRECTOR                             MANAGING DIRECTOR          DIRECTOR
.  !                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~...............
_                                                                                                                                                              IIu-*-P CHAIRMAN  & T BOARD
MEMBER             MEMBEMEMEMBER DEIECTO MEMBER                                                       MEMBER POSTALD
[                                   MEEBER          GENERAL'          MEMBER         MEMsER POSTAL                     rVELOPMENT AND
FINANCE         DEVELOPMENT       UPERATIONS                       AMNSRTO             PRTOSAEC
TELECOM)   I(TELECOM)                             IFUNCTIONS
PLANNING                                                                 F                             P                                                P & T DIRECTORATE
DESIGN           STAFF                              STAFF            MAILS                            RESEARCH
FINANCE         PROJECTS         OPRTOSRELATIONS                                      STAMPS                            BANKING
ACCOUNT        CONSTRUCTION     M TATITNA                         INFORMATION         SUPPLIES                           SAVINGS
RESEARCH         TRAINiNGPUBLIC                                         &                               AGENCY
PROCUREMENT        T                                RELA IONS        MAINTENANCE                         SERVICES
'OS                   4 LOCATIONS)                      14 LOCATIONS)                                               116 LOCAT IONS)    i15 LOCATIONS)
WORKSHOPS      CONSTRUCTION         DESIGN          RESEMRCH          RMEGI MROENAL                     JABALPUR          STORES            CIRCLE            CIRCLE
CENTERS          TESTING          REERH           TELEPHONE       MAINTENANCE         TRAINING                        HEADQUARTERS      HEADQUARTERtS
DISTRICTS        CENTERS
DIRECTOR                                                     GENER L BY                                 GENDRAL
GENERAL          GENERAL           TRC.            MANAGER          REGIONAL          DIRECTOR         GENERAL         POST MASTER         MANAGERI
GENERIAL         MANAGER          MANAGER                              OP             MANAGE
MA  PROJECTS        TECHN ICAL &      DESIGN &         TEEHNS          MITNETRAINING                        MANAGER          GENERAL        TELECOMMUNICA-
MANNAGER          PRJCS           TEHIA  &          RESEARCH         TEEHNS          MITNNCE            TEEO             RCRMN           OT,SVNSTION OR
MAUACTURE      CONSTRUCTION     DEVELOPMENT            AD         DESIGN, CONST.     OPERATION         TRAINING        DISRIBUTIONN    EOTC,                TELECOM
BY. ND, PS5& CA    JABALPUR         DIRECTORS        OPERATION       BY. NO. MS & CA                                                        OPIIG DSRBUINET ERATONS
DiRECTORS  BY. ND, MS & CA]OEAIN
OPERATIONAL UNITS
'THREE POSITIONS HELD BY ONE INDIVIDUJAL
World B..k-15725



- 14 -
16.3 staff per 100 DELs is on the high side, but it reflects preference for
labor intensive methods and large staff requirements due to: (i) extensive
open wire routes requiring greater maintenance than more modern methods of
trunk route provision, (ii) more than 4,000 small exchanges spread through-
out India, many of them manual, (iii) large manually-operated telegraph and
long distance services, and (iv) all construction being by P&T staff. P&T
expects the present number of 16.3, which compares to 17.9 in 1969, to
reduce to 15.5 by the end of the program in 1979 as a result of increased
productivity and economies of scale (increased size of unit installation).
2.05      P&T has a comprehensive training program geared to all categories
of staff. Upon recruitment, the staff is sent to training centers of which
there are 14 regional centers and 25 circle/district centers located
throughout the country. Training takes place at three levels: (i) linemen,
mechanics, operators, (ii) first level supervisory staff such as engineering
supervisors, and (iii) engineers. The first category is trained in circle/
district training centers, the second category in five regional training
centers and the third, professionally-qualified category is given specialized
training in the training center at Jabalpur. The training facilities are
able to accommodate up to 4,000 engineers and about 24,000 other staff per
year. With an estimated requirement during the fifth plan for 8,600 engi-
neers and about 106,000 other staff to be trained, the training facilities
are adequate. In addition, a UNDP sponsored advance level management train-
ing center at New Delhi to serve the ESCAP countries, including India, is
nearing completion.
2.06      P&T has established training programs in finance for its junior
as well as more senior accounts staff. The programs consist of on-the-job
training for periods of three to five months and also outside study sanc-
tioned by an examination.
Accounting
2.07      The Telecommunications Branch has developed a commercial account-
ing system that is the basis for all financial reporting within P&T as well
as to Government. The commercial accounts are audited by the C&AG and pre-
sented to Parliament. Most important, management is using them as a major
source of information for its day-to-day operation in accordance with the
modern commercial concepts of management. The commercial accounts are a
major element in a comprehensive management information system being devel-
oped (see para. 2.14).
2.08      While the commercial accounts presently reflect the telecommunica-
tions operations on a global basis, the plan has been to more fully develop
them in the regions in order to provide the means for assessing each area's
operating results. This will enable a comparison of performance to be made
between the regions and will serve as an important input for P&T's manage-
ment information system.  P&T, as agreed under Credit 403-IN, has been taking
action to extend the accounts to the regions, but progress has been slow
owing to difficulties in allocating assets, and revenues and expenses between
the regions. During negotiations, agreement was reached that P&T would con-
tinue extension and development of commercial accounts in the circles/districts
to furnish a clear financial picture of operations. The target is for the
development to be complete by the project completion date. Progress reports
will be provided to the Bank every six months commencing December 31, 1976.



- 15 -
Transfer of Postal Branch Accounting Function
2.09      P&T has advised that Cabinet approval has been given for the trans-
fer of the accounting function of the Postal Branch from the Comptroller and
Auditor General to the P&T, to begin from April 1, 1976. Previously, P&T's
accounting function had been divided between P&T and the C&AG, with P&T
having responsibility for the accounts of the Telecommunications Branch and
the C&AG responsibility for the Postal Branch.
2.10      This is a significant change, which was encouraged by the
Association and recommended by the Indian Administrative Reforms Commission.
With this transfer, the total accounting function will now properly rest
with P&T, and the need for coordinating the accounting function between two
different bodies, with its attendant delays, will be eliminated.
2.11      Formerly, the C&AG, in addition to preparing the postal accounts,
had responsibility for preparing all joint heads of accounts involving the
two Branches, and adjusted expenditures between the two only after the end
of the fiscal year. These adjustments involved considerable delays which
have been a major factor in the tardiness of the annual audited commercial
accounts (see next paragraph). Under the new arrangement, P&T will be able
to allocate expenses between the two Branches as they are incurred and thereby
maintain the accounts on a more current basis. This will enable the accounts
to be audited soon after the fiscal year end and should substantially reduce
the present delay in completing the annual audit.
Audit
2.12      Under the Constitution, the Comptroller and Auditor General is
responsible for auditing Government accounts. He discharges his audit
responsibilities in P&T through one of his senior officers. The Telecom-
munications Branch's unaudited commercial accounts are being sent to IDA
within about four months of the close of the fiscal year, but the audited
commercial accounts have been delayed by as much as one and a half years
due mainly to the Postal Branch's accounting function being outside P&T and
an abnormal amount of detailed inter-Branch adjustments at the end of the
fiscal year. P&T feels confident that with it taking over the postal
accounts and thereby assuming total responsibility for its accounting func-
tion, the delay in finalizing the audited accounts will be substantially
reduced. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the present audit
arrangements described in Credit Agreement 403-IN will continue under the
proposed loan.
Materials Management
2.13      P&T, with the assistance of its consultants, the Administrative
Staff College of India, has designed and implemented a materials management
system, essential to an efficient telecommunications operation. To operate
the system, a new unit has been formed within P&T headed by a senior officer
(a Deputy Director General). The process of implementing a new materials



- 16 -
management system in an organization the size of the Telecommunications
Branch has certain inherent problems, such as training and motivation of
staff. This not withstanding, the progress of implementation has been
satisfactory, and the new system is having a positive impact on operations.
In addition to developing improved methods, which has led to better control
of inventories, it is serving to improve the overall planning and execution
of works through closer coordination between project planning, material plan-
ning and production planning.
Management Information System (MIS)
2.14      P&T, with the assistance of the Indian Institute of Management,
Ahmedabad, is introducing a management information system for the Telecom-
munications Branch's operations. Its purpose is to permit the evaluation
of the operational activities and performance of the organization in measur-
able quantitative terms, and for the data to be transmitted without sig-
nificant delay to points where it can be used for making decisions. The aim
is to enable executives at various management levels to plan desired results
and set goals to be achieved, to make decisions based on the data presented
and to monitor and watch the actual accomplishments and the effect of their
decisions in making up the shortfalls in the desired levels of achievement.
2.15      P&T realizes that the success of the MIS depends upon a rational
and sound budgeting system. Accordingly, a detailed budgeting exercise has
been prescribed which aims at total involvement of the officers at various
levels of management and at formulating realistic performance and develop-
ment targets. Once the performance budget, standards and targets are formu-
lated, they become the basis for ccntrol during the budget year.
2.16      The new MIS is a first attempt by P&T to systematically measure
performance against targets and standards in which various management levels
are involved. It is now in operation in all 36 telecommunications field
units where it has been received with enthusiasm by the field managers.
This is an important step forward for P&T whose telecommunications network
has grown into a large and complex operation.
Tariffs
2.17      There are no regulations establishing a specific tariff policy;
however, an annual review is made of the cost of providing service and of
revenue requirements. Based on this review, changes in the tariff are
formulated within P&T, reviewed and approved by the P&T Board and then
placed before Parliament for 30 days. Normally there is little delay in
effecting changes. During the past four years there have been tariff
increases for all main services. Another tariff increase took effect in
March 1976 and will help offset the anticipated larger postal loss which
will require larger cash transfers from the Telecommunications Branch to
the Postal Branch (see para. 5.13). The new tariffs are estimated to
increase revenues by about 20% above those generated under the current
tariffs.



- 17 -
2.18      The tariff is structured equitably so that charges for local
service are higher in the large, metropolitan areas and lower in the
smaller rural communities, reflecting the higher costs of providing local
service access to the large population and geographical spread of the
larger cities. The tariffs generally follow the pattern in other adminis-
trations.  During the past four years, the level of tariffs has permitted
sufficient revenue to cover all operating costs, interest payments and
other transfer payments to Government (see para. 5.02) and about 69% of
expansion costs. A summary of the current tariffs is given in the follow-
ing Table 2.01.
2.19      Forecasts show that during the next five years, the tariff level
would, on the same basis as above, continue to provide sufficient revenues
which, with the funds raised under the new advance deposit scheme, would
finance about 63% of requirements and exceed appreciably the minimum rate
of return of 11% on average net plant in service presently required under
Credit 403-IN. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the require-
ment to earn an 11 I rate of return will continue under the proposed loan.



- 18 -                       TABLE 2.01
POSTS AND TETGRAPHS DEPLTATIENT (PST)
TELIhO CtPT'ATICITS BMANCH
Sur imary of Tariffs-
1. Telephone                                                      (Indian Rupees)
a. Advance Deposit Scheme -
"Own Your Telephone" (OYT) Scheme
Capacity of exchange system
(i)  10,000 lines and above                              5,0CO
(ii)  1,000 lines and above but below 10,000 lineF        4,000
(iii)  below 1,000 lines                                   3,000
General and Special Category ppliczations
(i)  metered exchanges - 10,000 lines and above          1,OCC
- under 10,000 lines               8co
(ii)  flat rate exchanges - over 100 lines                1,000
- under 100 lines                800
b. Installation Fee
Per line                                                       50
c.  Rental for Di4rect Exchange Line
(i)  Meapured rate systen
Quarterly charge in exchange systems of
10,O0O lines capacity and above                         150
Exchange systems cf less than 10,000 lines
capacity                                                125
l' Please see para. 5.15 which describes the salient features of this
scheme.



- 19 -                          TABLE 2.01
e!.  21nnta! fsr Direct Exchan:e Line                           (Indian Rupees)
(ii)  Flat rate system
Ixchanges of 100 lines and above proriding
24 hours service - Monmthy charge                           50
- A4nnual ehage                          6oo
Excha,nges of' less than 100 lines capacity
prcviding 2L hours servie - Monthlr charwe
- Annual charge
d.  Call Charges
(i)  Local no tine. linit
UTp to 250 calls per quarter                          No charge
In excess of 250 calls                                       0.30
(per call)
(ii)  Lcg distance (3 rinutes)
Distance                               STD
(Kilreters)          Manual         Pulse Metered
TJr to    20          0.25               _
21  -    50           1.0C              1.2C
t1  -   100           2.00              2 $0
lQl  -   200           4.oc              3.75
201  -   500           7.00              7.50
501  - l,00Q          11.00             11.25
Exceeding 1,000       11f.00            22 .50
2.  Telegraphs
Ordinary          ExreFSs
a.  Nonpress
First 8 woris                 2.00             3.00
Each additional word          0.25             0.30
b.  Greetings
First 8 words                 2.00             2.80
Each additional word           .10             0.20
c.  Press
First 50 words                1.00             2.00
Each additional 5 words       0.10             0.20



- 20 -                          TABLE 2.01
3.  Telex                                                             (Indian P1.mees)
a.  (i)  Rental for telex service with teleprinter (TP)                3,000
(within the local area cf a telex exchange
snt-zM  .a.
(ii)  'There TP machine has been -rovid d by                           jf(
subscriker himself ?.a.
b. Local call charges (3 minutes)                                           1.0
c.  Lon- Distance:            1.0  charge for a
unit period of:
Up to 200 kilometers           60 seconds
2C1 to 600 kilometers          30 seconds
401 to 1,000 kilometers        20 secords
Exceeding 1,000 kilometers   12 seconds
March 26, 1976



- 21 _
3. DEMAND
3.01      The telephone demand forecasts which are used as the planning base
for the fifth five year plan for the sector were prepared in 1972 by P&T in
collaboration with the GOI Planning Commission. The worxing group concerned
made a number of projections using two approaches:
(i)  by a macro-economical model using telephone density against
per capita income with the following alternative projections
of national income:
(a) based on past data (195h-1970),
(b) based on past data (1954-1970) ignoring the abnormal
years 1966-1968 when the income was suppressed due to
unusual droughts, and
(c) the objectives set at that time by the Planning
Commission up to the end of the fifth plan period; and
(ii) by fitting linear/exponential time series to the data of
individual regional telephone systems and aggregating the
micro-projections.
The results are briefly summarized as follows:
Projected Telephone Demand
as of March 31 (in thousands)
1971    1981       1986
Actual demand                           1,291
Sum of micro-projections               1,310   2,650      3,480
Low macro-economic projection           1,165   2,247      3,526
Medium macro-economic projection        1,340   2,778      4,478
High macro-economic projection          1 ,506   8,515
(in 1978-79)
3.02      It was decided by the GOI that the sum of the micro-projections
should be the basis for P&T planning.  This projection adjusted to account
for actual performance in the subsequent years has been used in estimating
the demand over the program years and is shown together with past history
in the following table and Chart 7590 (R).



- 22 -
Recorded and Forecast Telephone Demand
Exchange Capacity and Connected Lines
(in thousands of lines)
Year       Exchange        Jirect Exchange       Waiting
(3/31)      '2a2cit,          Lines (DEs)       Applicants          Demand
1     2    3        1      2    3     1    2    3       1      2     3
1961                410                 332              165                 1497
1962               1490                 373              189                 562
1963               550                   41 5            209                 62)4
19614              620                   478             256                 734
1965               680                  556              295                 851
1966               770                  651              349                1000
1967               830                  681              389                1 070
1968               900                  744              430                1174
1969              1030                  814              )427               12)41
1970              1120                   889             414                1303
1971              1190                  981              309                1290
1972              1270                 1058              332                1390
1973   1)400                1178       1158   322        432   1500         1590
1974   15)40      1)476     1308       12244   352       532   1660         1776
1975   1690       1568      1)436      1330   354        634   1790         1964
1976   1840  1724           1 576  11450       334       280   1910  1720
1977   2030  1871           1723  1590         327  300         2050  1890
1978   2170  2059           1895  1750         305  340         2200  2090
1979   2370  2318           2085  1 970        275  340         2360  231 0
1980   2580  2482           229)4  211 0       196  380         2490 2)490
1981
1 = 1972 planning figures:  2 = 1975 appraisal planning figures:  3 = actual.
3.03      The demand figures selected for use by P&T are conservative,
being based on extrapolation of past demand as represented by existing DELs
plus recorded waiting lists under conditions where potential applicants have
been deterred by the prospects of long waiting times frequently measured in
years. Considered against the predictions u3ing macro-economic data, they
correspond to results using the more pessimistic economic forecasts. It is
worth noting that the highest estimate of demand given by the forecasting
group was 8.5 million direct exchange lines at the end of FY79 corresponding
to 11.5 million telephones.  This would give a telephone density which would
still be less than 2 per 100 of population.  Reference to Annex 1.02 attached
to Chapter 1 shows that that extent of development would still rank low com-
pared to that in those other countries with systems with more than 500,000
telephones.
3.04      The targets for P&T's fifth five year program fall short of the con-
servative estimate of demand adopted at this time for planning purposes. On
that basis at the end of FY79 there would still be a waiting list of some
340,000. The shortfall against the highest but not unreasonable estimate of
demand made by the Indian working party would exceed 6 million potential
applicants.



INDIA: POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT
RECORDED AND FORECAST TELEPHONE DEMAND
AND CONNECTED LINES
2.5                                                                            ___.
4
3
EXPECTED
2                                                                                       EFFECT OF            /
1                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEW
2.0 __.                                  .M__ DEPOSIT
DEMAND        i0
9/
7                                                        INTRODUCTION
OF
6                                                        REGISTRATION
1.                                              3 5  F                                               LX-E X  SCONNECTED
-J  4
2                                             .,--                           WAITING APPLICANTS
9
8
4
3
2
1 w THIRD PLAN PERIOD                    f I   | FOURTH PLAN PERIOD -       | FIFTH PLAN PERIOD- -
61   62    63   64  1965   66    67   68   69  1970   71   72   73    74  1975   76   77    78    79   1980   81
ACTUAL                                                         ESTIMATEDO
World Bank--7590(R)
YEAR ENDING MARCH 31



- 2h -
4. PROGRAM AND PROJECT
The Program
4.01      P&T is approaching mid-term in the implementation of its fifth
five yrear plan of development (April 1974 - March 1979).  The objectives
of this plan, along with those for development of all sectors, were speci-
ally reviewed in the past year by GOI and as shown in Table 4.01 were left
largely unchanged other than for reduction in the rate of growth of the
automatic trunk network. The FYs77-79 expansion program, of which the
project forms part, will complete the implementation of the plan. The total
cost of the FIs77-79 program is estimated at Rs 9,023 million (US$1,003 mil-
lion) with a foreign exchange component of Rs 2,421 million (US$269 million).
The main objectives during this period are:
(i) installation of 595,000 additional lines of telephone exchange
equipment,
(ii) expansion of cable networks and provision of subscriber equip-
ment to permit connection of an additional 520,000 DELs,
reflecting a growth rate of around 10%;
(iii) expansion of the trunk service by 22,300 channels and installa-
tion of 14 trunk automatic exchanges with capacity to accommodate
40,900 lines;
(iv) installation of 25 new telex exchanges and addition of 6,800
new telex subscribers; and
(v) extension of the national network into rural areas including
the provision of 2,600 long distance public call offices (PCOs).
The Project
4.02      The project proposed for Bank financing follows on the project
being financed by Credit 403-IN and is a self-contained part of the expan-
sion program for FYs77-79. It will alleviate congestion in both the major
city telephone networks and in the trunk service; will improve the telex
service; and will give new service to about 220,000 telephone and 4,500
telex subscribers. The project's capital cost is estimated at Rs 3,732
million (US$415 million) with a foreign exchange component of Rs 923 mil-
lion (US$103 million). It comprises the following main items:
(i) installation of 274,000 line units of local telephone exchange
equipment including introduction of modern electronic switching equipment;
domestic supply                             - 200,OOC line units
imports - electronic exchanges for
Bombay and New Delhi           -  20,000 line units
- *other exchange equipment        -  54,000 line units
*Ind_cates bilateral funding (see para. 5.16).



- 25 -
(ii) provision of cables and associated equipment which will permit
the connection of about 220,000 DELs;
(iii) extension of existing trunk exchanges and installation of six new
trunk exchanges including four using modern electronic switching equipment;
domestic supply                             -  8,000 lines
imports - electronic exchanges for
Bombay (5,000), New Delhi
(4,000), Calcutta (3,000),
and Madras (3,000)             _ 15,000 lines
(iv) provision of transmission equipment including radio, coaxial cable
and multiplex equipment to increase capacity on routes between important
cities, including
- new 6 tube coaxial cable Indore-Bhusaval
- line equipment to increase capacity of existing coaxial cables
Bombay-Ahmedabad                   - (60 MHz)
New Delhi-Jullundur                - (12 MHz)
New Delhi-Mathura-Agra             - (12 MHz)
*Coimbatore-Bangalore-Poona-Dhulia - (12 MHz)
4Uagpur-Seconderabad-Bangalore      - (12 MHz)
*Madras-Trivandrum                  - ( 6 MHz)
(v) provision of a small satellite earth station to provide reliable,
good-quality communication between the Andaman Islands and the mainland;
(vi) expansion of the trunk line network to more remote rural areas
by spur routes using VHF and UHF radio and open wire systems; and
(vii) expansion and improvement of the telex network;
domestic supply - 8 small telex exchanges with
capacity of                   - 2,500 lines
imports - electronic exchanges for Bombay
(2,000), New Delhi (2,000),
Calcutta (1,000) and Madras (1,000)   - 6,000 lines
4.03      Forty percent of the new direct exchange lines (DELs) will be
provided in the major cities to meet priority needs and to provide essential
improvement to service. The remainder of the DELs will be allocated through-
out the rest of India for priority needs. About 200 small communities will
receive new telephone exchanges and 1,200 public call offices will be estab-
lished to extend telephone service to more villages.
*Indicates bilateral funding (see para. 5.16).



- 26 -
4.04      The individual works in the program and the project are designed
in conformity with a sound plan for the long-term development of nationwide
automatic telephone and telex networks for India. They have been selected
as the least cost methods of expanding the networks after engineering eco-
nomic studies; either individually carried out for larger works to compare
alternative approaches or which have established generalized solutions for
the optimum dimensioning of repetit'ive projects such as telephone exchange
extensions or the provision of cab-les.
4.057     Traditional and new technologies are to be utilized in achieving
the least-cost engineering for the project. Latest telecommunications tech-
nology will be applied to improve s:ervice by overcoming problems arising
from high traff'ic levels, the presence of over-age plant in the trunk network
and the large distances and remote communities to be served.
4.06      It is proposed to install 10,000 line electronic local exchanges
in the New Delhi and Bombay networks to help reduce the effects of over-
loading and improve performance. Overloading in these networks will only
be really overcome when demand is adequately met but funding on the scale
required is not feasible at this time. Electronic exchanges in the meantime
will cater for the very high traffic levels now prevailing more economically
and reliably than conventional electromechanical exchanges. Most of the
major manufacturers can now offer a reasonably proven electronic local
exchange and at the exchange size proposed and with the very high calling
rates and traffic levels, electronic exchanges are competitive in cost with
traditional electromechanical alternatives.
4.07      Electronic trunk exchanges are proposed for the key centers in
the national trunk network at Bombay, New Delhi, Calcutta and Madras. These
are now the preferred and economic means of catering for the high traffic
volumes in a national network the size of that in India.
4!,o8     Electronic switching centers are also proposed for the key centers
in the Indian telex network at Bombay, New Jelhi, Calcutta and Madras. This
technology is now competitive in cost with traditional switching methods.
The centers will re-generate all the telex signals passing through them, thus
removing signal distortion. The large number of ineffective connections
which are now experienced should be much reduced with considerable benefit
to the business community for whom this service nationally and internationally
is important for organizational efficiency and for effective marketing of
products.
4.09      Unit costs are reduced significantly with current electronic switch-
ing systems for local telephone service, trunk service or telex with increas-
ing size of installations. The sizes proposed in the project, however, were
restricted by the foreign exchange funds available.  To obviate this, bid docu-
ments will include provision for extension of orders under future funding to
be secured by P&T so that bids are made in the context of larger order sizes.



- 27 -
4.10      Newly developed relatively inexpensive satellite earth station
technology will be applied for the first time in India to bring reliable,
good quality service to the remote Andaman Islands. ihis application will
serve as a pilot study of the potential of this technology for opening up
of large areas of remote territory now without reliable communications and
for special applications such as providing service to off-shore oil rigs.
Project Costs
4.11      The cost of the project is shown in detail in Table 4.02 and is
summarized as follows:
Rs Million               US$ Million
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total    %
1. Local Telephone Service
Switching equipment        465.3  223.3    688.6    51.7   24.8    76.5    24
Distribution networks      569.5  163.7    733.2    63.3   18.2    81.5    25
Subscriber equipment       138.5   47.0    185.5    15.4    5.2    20.6        6
Sub-total    1173.3  434.0   1607.3   130.4   48.2   178.6    55
2. Trunk Line Service
Switching equipment        103.1   53.5    156.6    11.4    5.9    17.3        5
Transmission equipment      585.8  191.3    777.1    65.1   21.3    86.4    27
Sub-total     688.9  244.8    933.7    76.5   27.2   103.7    32
3. Telegraph & Telex            37.5   22.7      60.2     4.2    2.5      6.7     2
4. Land & Buildings            263.0    -       263.0    29.2    -       29.2     9
5. Research, Training &
Testing Equipment            26.0   20.8     46.8      2.9    2.3     5.2      2
Sub-total    2188.7  722.3   2911.0   243.2   80.2   323.4   100
6. Contingencies
Physical                     10.8    3.8     14.6      1.2     .4     1.6
Price                       609.7  196.7    806.4    67.7   21.9    89.6
Sub-total     620.5  200.5    821.0    68.9   22.3    91.2
TOTAL    2809.2  922.8   3732.0   312.1  102.5   414.6
4.12      The project costs are based on most recent (mid 1975) prices.
Cost estimates for imported items have been based on P&T's experience of
prices obtained for recent contracts related to ongoing works and on budget-
ary quotations obtained from a number of suppliers. Those for locally manu-
factured equipment are based on planning figures agreed between P&T and the
manufacturers. The estimates are reasonable. Customs duties averaging 80%
on imported equipment and 25% on imported raw materials have been included
in the project local costs.



_ 28 _
Contingencies
4.13      Price contingencies provided for in the estimates of total project
cost amount to 229 of both foreign exchange and local costs.  They result
from the following year-by-year increases above base costs: FY76-11,8, FY77-
9%, FY78-8%, and FY79-8,9. The allowances are based on estimates of possible
foreign and domestic cost increases made by P&T and the Indian equipment manu-
facturers. They are consistent with current Bank Group guidelines.
4.14      A physical contingency provision has been made to cover uncertainty
as to the trunk traffic increase which will occur when higher standard serv-
ice is offered. It amounts to 5% of both the foreign exchange and local
costs of the traffic dependent component of the trunk service items in the
project. No other physical contingencies are considered necessary. Review
during the mission showed that local switching and other trunk items had been
dimensioned after careful planning studies and for the distribution networks,
where a large number of works are involved, deviations from individual esti-
mates will tend to balance out in the aggregate.
Items for Bank Financing
4.15      The proposed loan would provide US$30 million for equipment to
be imported by P&T and US$50 million for purchases from local factories.
As with previous lending, the Bank would provide only a percentage of the
purchase price of this local equipment estimated to represent the foreign
exchange cost of imported material and components (excluding proprietary
items) used in its manufacture (see para. 4.21). Items to be financed under
the proposed loan would be as follows:
A. Direct Imports by P&T
US$ Million
(i)    Switching i4uipment
Electronic telephone exchanges                  8.0
Electronic trunk exchanges                      6.0
Electronic telex exchanges                      3.0
(ii)   Transmission Equipment
Coaxial cable line equipment*                   4.0
Radio systems and equipment                     4.0
(iii)  Equipment for Research, Testing & Training    3.0
(iv)   Raw Materials for P&T Workshops                 2.0
Sub-total   30.0
*ITI is currently developing 12 MHz coaxial cable line equipment. Depending
on field trial results, it may be possible to conserve foreign exchange funds
by domestic supply. Some of these funds would then be transferred to item
B (ii) (see next page).



- 29 -
US$ Million
B. Purchases from Domestic Factories
(i)    From Hindustan Cables Limited (HCL)
Cable and accessories                         22.2
(ii)   From Indian Telephone Industries (ITI)
Switching, transmission, radio systems,
coaxial cable and multiplex equipment         27.5
(iii)  From Hindustan Teleprinters Limited (HTL)
Teleprinters                                   0.3
Sub-total    50.0
Grand Total    80.0
Procurement
4l.16     All equipment imported directly by P&T and financed by the Bank
would be procured in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines.
4.17      All other equipment for which the Bank would provide finance
will be procured by P&T from local, Government-owned factories or from its
own workshops. Prices for this equipment are formally negotiated between
P&T and the factories on the basis of a 10% margin over the costs of produc-
tion with the factories operating at prescribed standards of efficiency.
MIT satisfies itself as to factory efficiency by continuous monitoring by
its cost accountants, by periodic special investigations by its audit group
and by overview by the senior P&T officials who hold posts of Director on
the factory Boards of Management. Examination during appraisal confirmed
that the prices and also the standards of quality and delivery of the main
products from these factories are comparable to those generally obtaining
under international competitive bidding.
4.18      As with previous lending operations, ICB is not proposed for the
equipment items in the project which can be procured economically and effi-
ciently from the domestic factories due to the importance in telecommunica-
tions systems of this size of closely coordinated local supply of both equip-
ment and cables (see para. 1.05). Close coordination is particularly impor-
tant for cable provision where many sizes and wire gauges are involved and
where supplies are destined for each of thousands of sub-projects throughout
India within each program. For switching and transmission equipment there
is further strong justification for reasons of economy, compatibility and
standardization. Foreign exchange savings through local procurement are
substantial (see para. 1.06).



- 30 -
4.19      All materials and components imported by the factories are through
methods of international procurement as normally employed by efficient fac-
tories and which are consistent with those required in India by the Bank
GrouD under industrial imports credits (Schedule 4B of Loan Agreement). Pro-
prietary items which constitute a small component of the factory imports (less
than 5%) would not be financed from the proposed loan.
Disbursement
4.20      Disbursement of Bank funds would be made against foreign costs
incurred by P&T in import of equipment and of materials for manufacture in
their workshops.
4.21      In respect of procurement from Government factories, it is pro-
posed, as was the case in the past credits, to disburse against invoices
to P&T a predetermined percentage representing the average foreign exchange
content (excluding proprietary items) of the product mix, supplied from
each factory. These were estimated during the appraisal mission to be:
- for ITI, 25% of the selling price;
- for HCL, 30% of the selling price; and
- for HTL, 6% of the selling price.
4.22      It is worth noting that the percentage in the case of HCL has been
reduced from 51% in the fifth Credit to 30%. This has been made possible,
for this project, by the re-use for cable manufacture of copper wires, valued
about US$17 million, which have been recovered from open wire pole routes
replaced by coaxial and microwave radio systems.
4.23      The percentages will be subject to review if substantial changes
occur in material prices or exchange rates or availability of recovered cop-
per wire during the period covered.
4.24o     Quarterly disbursements are estimated as follows:
Cumulative Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                        at end of Quarter
and Quarter                                US$'000
1976/77
September 30, 1976                          4,122,000
December 31, 1976                          13,300,000
March 31, 1977                             22,489,000
June 30, 1977                              38,511,000
1977/78
September 30, 1977                         57,033,000
December 31, 1977                          75,500,000
March 31, 1978                             80,000,000



- 31 -
Implementation
4.25      All  installation and maintenance of telecommunications equipment
will be by P&T technical staff with support of manufacturers' specialist
staff where new technologies are involved. P&T has a competent management
experienced in the execution of projects of this scale. The large and tech-
nically competent staff with the existing comprehensive training schemes will
ensure adequate supply of technicians and line staff for installation and
future maintenance of project works.
4.26      The time schedule for procurement and installation of the major
items of imported equipment is shown below. It will be seen that the pro-
curement work must be expedited if the urgent service needs dependent on
installation of this equipment are to be met within the fifth five year
plan. This is well recognized by P&T who have already commenced preparation
of specifications and are establishing special monitoring arrangements to
ensure conformity to the schedule.
PROCUREMENT AND INSTALLATION OF MAIN IMPORTED EQUIPMENT ITEMS
April 1                                                                   March 31
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Bids                     Bids               Bids  Bank
Called                  Received        Evaluated  Agreement
FY77.                          I                                                   I
Contract                                                             Delivery
Let                                                                Complete
FY78        I                    Manufacture and Delivery                        >
.  .  . . ,  I  , nstallat .n
FI79  nn    Installation
pT7g,                                              r Installation  Co-i--oin
i-Progressive Commissioning -->



- 32 -
4.27      No problems are anticipated in meeting achievement levels and
time schedules for that part of the project based on the continuing equip-
ment supply from the local factories.  Design weaknesses in the Pentaconta
crossbar system which caused P&T serious problems under the extremely heavy
traffic conditions in the major Indian cities have now been eradicated and
crossbar production at ITI and installation and operation by P&T should now
proceed smoothly. Strowger switching equipment, subscribers' equipment and
multiplex equipment which make up the balance of supply from ITI are well
proven lines with a good history of delivery and performance. HCL's second
factory at Hyderabad is now in production and India now has, for the first
time, production capacity in excess of P&T's program needs. HTL continues
to meet P&T's needs for teleprinters on schedule. P&T and the factories are
also benefiting from the materials management system instituted with the
Bank Group's encouragement in association with Credit 403-IN through improved
production planning, delivery scheduling and monitoring of the supply process
for potential bottlenecks (see para. 2.14).



INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT (P&T)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Physical Targets for 5th Five Year Plan (FYs 1975 - 1979)
Additions      Original
Total                                                      During          Plan           Total
as on                                                    Plan Period    Targets           as on
Unit        April 1, 1974   FY75    FY76    FY77        FY78     FY79      (1975-79)      (1975-79)   April 1, 1979
LOCAL TELEPHONE NETWORKS
Switching equipment capacity               Lines x 103          1,476          91     157       147       188      259          842            825         2,318
Cables                                     Pair Km x i03        7,236         482     700       700       700      778        3,360           -           10,596
Direct exchange lines (DELs)               DELs x 103           1,244          86     120       140       160      220          726            777         1,970
Telephones                                 Numbers x 103        1,639         106     155       190       208      296          955          1,028         2,594
Public call offices (PCOs)                 Number               5,009         367     500       800    1,000       833        3,500          5,000         8,509
Telephone exchanges                        Number               4,711         194     200       200       200      200          994           -            5,705
TRUNK NETWORK
Trunk Switching
Automatic switching center               Number                   4           2        4        6         2        6           20           -               24
Automatic switching center capacity    Lines                  7,100       5,000   5,650   10,900   10,000   20,000         51,500        102,000        58,600
Point-to-point STD routes                Number                  47          14      26        19        30       11          100           -              147
Manual trunk boards                      Number               4,837         383      450      500       550      662        2,545          3,000         7,382
Trunk Transmission
Coaxial and other trunk cables           Channels            11,986       1,130   2,266    1,080    3,o48    1,200          8,726           -           20,712
Coaxial and other trunk cables           Route Km            12,833       1,661   1,076    1,913        682      790        6,122          8,942        18,955
Microwave radio systems                  Channels             2,475          48   2,688    3,284    4,o68    3,204         13,292           -           15,767
Microwave radio systems                  Route Km             4,648         110   3,275    5,167    3,000    3,914         15,466         16,612        20,114
UHF/VHF radio systems                    Channels               128         258      248      840       912    1,008        3,266           -            3,394
UHF/VHF radio systems                    Route Km             1,311         391      358    1,159    1,249    1,230         4,387         30,770         5,698
HF radio systems                         Channels               185           4       19       41        36        25         125           -              310
Open wire carrier systems                Channels             9,965       1,187   1,220    1,200    1,200    1,200          6,007           -           15,972
Multiplex equipment                      Channels            25,554       2,623   6,424    6,404    9,228    6,612         31,291         60,620        55,845
TELEGRAPHS
Telegraph offices                          Number              12,487         351      700    1,100    1,300    1,049         4,500          7,000        16,987
VET systems                                Channels             8,968         704      800    1,500    2,000    2,000         7,004          3,500        15,972
Telex exchanges                            Number                   49          9       11       12         6         7           45           -               94
Telex exchange lines                       Number              12,440       1,390   2,000    2,110    2,170    2,480         10,150         10,150        22,590
Teleprinters                               Number              26,981       1,840   2,000    2,000    2,000    2,160         10,000         10,000        36,981
March 18, 1976       r



-.34 -                                                         TABLE 4.02
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT (P&T)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Program and Project Costs
(Rs Millions)
_F197FY 1978               FY 1979            Total FYs 1977 -1979
TNE PRCJECT                        Local  Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign  Total
Note 1.
1. LOCAL TELEPHONE NETWORKS
Switching equipment                      174.0    30.8   204.8    291,3   192.5    483.8                                  465.3  223.3    688.6
Cables and accessories                   294.8    89.9   384.7    274,7   73.8    348.5                                   569.5  163.7    733.2
Subscribers' equipment                    65.3    23.9     89.2      73,2    23.1     96.3                                138.5   47.0    185.5
Total for 1          534.1  144.6   678.7    639,2  289.4    928.6                                   1173.3   434.0  1607.3
2. TRUNK NETWORK
2.1 Trunk Switchi
STD and fAX                               28.5     5.0     33.5      63.4    47.9    111.3                                 91.9   52.9    144.8
Manual trunk exchanges                     5.2      .3       5.5      6.0      .3      6.3                                 11.2      .6     11.8
Total for 2.1         33.7     5.3      39.0     69.4    48.2    117.6                                103.1   53.5    156.6
2.2 Trunk Transmission Systems
Cable systems                             53.4    17.8    71.2    110.0   61.1    171.1                                   163.4   78.9   242.3
Microwave systems                         49.9     6.7     56.6    148.0   58.9    206.9                                  197.9   65.6   263.5
UHF/VHF/HF radio systems                  14.9     1.0     15.9      35.2     7.4     42.6                                 50.1     8.4     58.5
Multiplex equipment                       30.4     7.5     37.9      68.6    16.9    85.5                                  99.0    24.4    123.4
VFT systems                                3.8      .9      4.7       4.3     1.1      5.4                                  8.1     2.0     10.1
Open wire                                 33.4     4.9     38.3      25.2     5.0     30.2                                 58.6     9.9     68.5
Open wire carrier systems                  4.0     1.0      5.0       4.7     1.1      5.8                                  8.7     2.1     10.8
Total for 2.2        189.8   39.8   229.6    396.0   151.5    547.5                                   585.8  191.3    777.1
Total for 2          223.5    45.1    268.6    465.4   199.7   665.1                                  688.9  244.8    933.7
3. TELEGRAPHS
Telegraph offices                          1.7      -       1.7       1.7      -       1.7                                  3.4     -        3.4
Telex/Gentex exchanges                      .9      .2      1.1        .9    20.7     21.6                                  1.8    20.9     22.7
Teleprinters                              14.6       .8    15.4      17.7     1.0     18.7                                 32.3     1.8     34.1
Total for 3           17.2      1.0     18.2     20.3    21.7      42.0                                37.5    22.7    60.2
4. LAND AND BUILDINGS                           90.0      -       90.0    173.0      -     173.0                                263.0     -      263.0
5. RESEARCH, TRAINING & TESTING EQUIPMENT        -        -        -       26.0    20.8     46.8                                 26.o    20.8     46.8
6. CONTINGENCIES
Physical                                   3.2      .8      4.o       7.6     3.0     10.6                                 10.8     3.8     14.6
Price                                    178.4    39.2    217.6    431.3   157.5    588.8                                 609.7  196.7    806.4
Total for 6          181.6    40.0    221.6    438.9  160.5    599.4                                  620.5  200.5    821.0
GRAND TOTAL FOR PROJECT           1046.4   230.7   1277.1  1762.8  692.1  2454.9                                  2809.2  922.8   3732.0
OTHER WORKS                         From 5th Credit 403-IN--X--Future financing ----------------------------------
LOCAL TELEPHONE NETWORKS                   188.3  118.2   306.5    312.8  119.8    432.6   844.6   294.8   1139.4   1345.7   532.8   1878.5
TRUNK NETWORK                              210.9    83.0    293.9    206.3   91.7    298.0   529.4   279.3    808.7    946.6   454.0   1400.6
TELEGRAPHS                                  12.5      .9     13.4      10.7     1.2     11.9      30.5    21.1     51.6      53.7    23.2     76.9
LAND AND BUILDINGS                          57.9      -       57.9     53.2      -      53.2    206.9       -     206.9    318.0      -      318.0
RESEARCH, TRAINING & TESTING EQUIPMERT      30.2    22.2     52.4      16.9    1}.6     26.5      26.4    51.1     77.5      73.5   84.9    158.4
CONTINGENCIES                              105.1   47.2   152.3    196.1   74.9    271.0    753.9   281.4  1035.3  1055.1  403.5   1458.6
TOTAL OTNEB UORKS                  604.9   271.5    876.4    796.0   299.2   1095.2   2391.7   927.7   3319.4   3792.6  1498.4   5291.0
GRAND TOTAL FOR PROGRAM           1651.3  502.2  2153.5   2558.8   991.3   3550.1  2391.7   927.7   3319.4  6601.8  2421.2   9023.0
Note 1.  Project costs are sbown as fully expended in FYs77 and 78. However, it is possible                                         March 17  1976
that some retention payments, not exceeding Rs 15 million, may occur in FY79. FY78
costs would consequently be reduced by this small amount.



- 35 -
5. FINANCES
Background
5.01      The commercial accounts show the Telecommunications Branch's oper-
ations on a commercial basis, as though it were a separate entity and had
full use of its funds. Capital-at-charge1/ in the balance sheet is divided
between funds raised by Government as long-term debt and contributions frcm
the Central Government shown as equity. The Branch is shown to pay interest
on the Central Government contributions and on long-term debt. The total
amount of interest on capital-at-charge together with the amortization that
the Branch is shown to pay is equivalent to conventional debt service. The
Telecommunications Branch has also been making funds available to cover the
Postal Branch's losses, which are included as a deduction in calculating net
internal cash generation.
5.02      The most significant feature of the financial operation is the
extent to which the Branch is able to finance its capital expansion from
internal sources after covering debt service as well as covering sizable
postal losses. Over the four-year period 1973-76, when the value of plant
in service increased by Rs 3.5 billion (US$390 million) or 70%, internal
sources contributed 69% of total requirements. Over the next three years
the value of plant is estimated to increase by another Rs 6 billion
(us$666 million) or 70% and forecasts, which reflect a tariff increase (see
para. 2.17), show that the Branch should be able to continue with an expan-
sion program of this size, achieve a rate of return of not less than 15%,
and finance 55% of total requirements from internal sources after covering
debt service and substantial postal losses.
5.03      The accounts of the Telecommunications Branch and Postal Branch
are kept separate and all financial data in this report apply only to the
Telecommunications Branch.
Past Operations
5.o4      Income statements for 1973-76 are at Table 5.01.  The Branch's
operating results during the last four years have been satisfactory. Net
operating income as a percent of average net plant in service ranged from
15.0% to 21.2% and the operating ratio from 63% to 74%. During the past
four years when the Branch financed 69% of its requirements from internal
sources, 58% derived from internal cash generation after providing for debt
service and Postal Branch transfers; 11% was from "Own Your Telephone" (OYT)
payments and subscriber deposits (see Notes on the Financial Statements,
page 46); the remaining 31% was financed from borrowings (29%) and Govern-
ment contributions (2%).
As a Government department, P&T's finances form part of the national
budget. Its funds are paid into the central Government's consolidated
fund and made available to P&T through parliamentary appropriation.
Funds made available by Government to the Telecommunications Branch in
excess of those generated internally are called capital-at-charge and
consist of Central Government contributions and foreign exchange loans
borrowed by Qovernment on behalf of the Branch. The Branch pays annual
interest of 6% on the capital-at-charge.



- 36 -
5.05      Improvement has been made in the collection performance through
tightening up the billing and collection procedures, including the prompt
disconnection of late-paying subscribers. Subscriber receivables based on
current billings amount to about six weeks' billings, which is satisfactory.
Present Financial Position
5.06      Balance sheets for 1973-76 are at Table 5.02.  The present book
value of fixed assets is based on historical cost and is considered real-
istic. A high proportion of the assets has been recently commissioned --
the amount of assets has doubled within the last six years.   About
70) of the value of plant is local cost and that portion which was imported
was subject to overall customs of about 60%; thus, the value of fixed assets
is relatively insensitive to exchange rate variations. However, during nego-
tiations it was agreed that a periodic review will be made of the value of
net fixed assets to determine whether adjustments should be made on account
of variations in the applicable price levels in the economy.
5.07      Depreciation, including supplementary depreciation, has been com-
puted, on a straight-line basis, on the estimated life of the various cate-
gories of plant in service.  Rates vary from 2% for buildings to 15% for
vehicles which, with the supplementary depreciation, results in a composite
rate of 5%.  The supplementary depreciation, taken as a hedge against infla-
tion and amounting to i%, is charged against revenue but is taken to equity
reserves rather than being reflected in depreciation reserve in arriving at
net plant in service. This is acceptable.
5.08      The Branch's capitalization as of March 31, 1976, is summarized
as follows:
Rs      US$ Million
Equity                                  Million    Equivalent   %
Capital-at-charge representing
central Government contributions      1,291          143        16
Reserves                               3,547         394        44
Funds with Government                    404          45         5
Total E4uity     5,242          582        65
Long-Term Debt
Capital-at-charge representing
foreign exchange loans                 2,825 j/      314        35
Total Capitalization      8,067          896      100
/ Reflects upward valuation of debt as a result of a change in parity between
the Indian rupee and the US dollar, amounting to Rs 471 million equivalent
(equivalent tc 6% of total capitalization at March 31, 1976). Capital-at-
charge representing central Government contributions was correspondingly
reduced.



- 37 -
5.09      These figures show a conservative capital structure where debt is
equal to 35, of capitalization. It reflects a financing pattern where the
Branch has invested a large portion of its earnings for expansion and where
Government has provided funds as equity.
5.10      Funds with Government consist of those funds transferred by the
Branch and held by Government to cover any shortfall the Branch may have in
meeting its interest payments on capital-at-charge. With the Branch having
had no difficulty in meeting these payments, it has been permitted to make
withdrawals from this fund.
Financing Plan
5.11      The forecast of sources and applications of funds for the period
1977-81 (Table 5.03) is based on the Branch's investment program given in
Table 4.02. Following is a sumliary of the financing plan for the period
1977-79, which includes the period of the project.
1977- 1979
Rs         US$
Requirements                                   Million    Million      ,
Ongoing works                                 -76           97       9
Proposed project                             3,732         415      40
Future works                                 4,415         491      47
Working capital increase                        345         38       4
Total Requirements   9,368        1,041     100
Sources
Internal cash generation                     7,147         794      76
Less: Debt service and interest on
advance deposits                       1,299         144      14
Postal transfers                       2,083         231      22
Net internal cash generation                 3,765         419      40
Withdrawals from P&T fund held by Gov't          40          4      -
Advance deposits/OYT payments                1,277         142      14
Subscriber deposits                            123          13       1
Central Government contributions             1,743         194      19
Borrowings
IDA Credit 403-IN                              360          40       4
Hungarian credit                                76           9       1
Proposed loan                                   720         80       8
Bilateral credits                               360         40       4
Future borrowings                              904         100       9
Total Borrowings    2,420         269      26
Total Sources    9,368       1,041     100



- 38 -
5.12      Net internal cash generation is calculated after deducting debt
service (see para. 5.01), interest on advance deposits (see para. 5.15) and
postal transfers (see following paragraph). The total of the deductions
is considerably in excess of what both debt service and a dividend payment
would normally amount to; thus, the net cash generation is not inflated.
5.13      The Telecommunications Branch has been making cash available to
the Postal Branch to cover the latter's operating loss. There are some
120,000 post offices located throughout India, of which about 105,000 are
in rural and backward areas where revenues fall short of covering operating
costs. While Government would prefer the Postal Branch to operate in the
black, it supports the present deficit position, viewing the alternative as
depriving communications facilities to vast hinterland areas and thus deny-
ing many people the opportunity to be drawn into the mainstream of the
country's national life.
5.14      P&T forecasts show that the postal losses will increase, from
Rs 1,618 million (US$180 million) during the four-year period 1973-76 to
Rs 2,083 million (Us$231 million) over the next three years, amounting to
22% of the Branch's total requirements for the three-year period. To help
finance this additional requirement of funds, the tariffs for telecommuni-
cations services were raised in March 1976 to increase revenues by about
20% (see para. 2.17).
5.15      To further augment funds for capital expansion, P&T has instituted
a new scheme where advance deposits of specified amounts will be obtained
against applications for new telephone connections. Annual interest, cur-
rently 8%, will be paid on the deposits up to the time the telephone connec-
tion is sanctioned. On the date the telephone is sanctioned, the deposit
amount together with the accumulated interest is transferred to the OYT
and subscriber deposit accounts.   The OYT deposit is amortized over
twenty years against the subscriber's bill (see page 46, "Deferred Credit -
OYT"). P&T expects that the new procedure will result in deeper involvement
and commitment of applicants for new connections and will make the waiting
list more realistic so that manufactured equipment can be allotted with due
priority to meet the demand of different areas in the most equitable manner.
Almost 50% of the waiting list of about 600,000 have made advance deposits
ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 1,000, depending upon the size of the exchange
and the category of the applicant. Estimates show that these deposits dur-
ing the four-year period 1976-79 will amount to about Rs 2,000 million and
account for some 200 of the Branch's total requirement for the same period.
5.16      The total borrowings of US$269 million include:  the undisbursed
portion of IDA Credit 403-IN of US$40 million; Hungarian credit of US$9 mil-
lion; other bilateral credits of US$40 million, which Government has arranged;
the proposed loan of US$80 million and anticipated future borrowings of
US$100 million to be arranged by Government in respect of future works. In
the event that this latter amount is not forthcoming from outside sources, the
Government would have to use its own foreign exchange resources.



- 39 -
5.17      The forecast financial statements in this report show the
Telecommunications Branch paying 6% annual interest to the Government on
the amount of Government borrowings on behalf of the Branch, which forms
the long-term debt portion of capital-at-charge, and on central Government
contributions, which is the equity portion of capital-at-charge. The
statements also show the Branch receiving 5% annual interest on the trans-
fers to the Postal Branch and on the fund held by Government. The total
payments by the Branch to Government from operating income far exceed this
6% interest on capital-at-charge, and are expected to continue to do so,
since they include sizable transfers to the Postal Branch of P&T. The
forecast of payments over the period from 1976 to 1979 is equivalent to
16% interest rate on capital-at-charge. Thus, while the interest rate
appears low, Government nevertheless is not subsidizing the use of capital
by the Telecommunications Branch.
5.18      In the foregoing financing plan covering the three-year period
1977-79, net internal sources of funds would be equivalent to 55-3 of con-
struction costs and working capital increase; Government's equity invest-
ment would amount to 19% and borrowings 26%, of which the undisbursed
portion of IDA Credit 403-IN would amount to 4% and the proposed loan 8A.
The financing of 55% of total requirements from internal sources is impres-
sive, particularly when considering that the value of plant is estimated
to increase by 70% during this period and that the Telecommunications Branch
will be covering substantial losses of the postal operation.
Future Finances
5.19      Forecast income statements and balance sheets for 1977-81 are at
Tables 5.01 and 5.02 and notes on the statements are at Table 5.04. A sum-
mary of the operating results for the five-year period is given below.
Year ending March 31:   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
Revenue (Rs million)   4,073  4,689  5,45  6,218  7,323
Operating income        1,397  1,566  1,745  1,858  2,280
Rate of return (X)       21.5   20.4   18.5   15.7   15.9
5.20      Revenue projections are based on planned average increase in tele-
phone connections and traffic forecasts, and on the new tariffs as introduced
on March 1, 1976.  E&penses are forecast based on the growth of the system
and number of staff, with allowance for increases in wages and cost-of-living
allowances taking into account past experience. Operating revenues and
expenses are estimated to increase at an average annual rate of about 18%.
On the basis of the five-year forecast, rates of return are between 15.7%
and 21.5% and the operating ratio between 66% and 70%. These are satisfactory.



- 4O -
5.21      The forecast financial position is also satisfactory.  During the
five-year period 1977-81 when the value of plant in service is expected to
increase by 150%, the debt/equity ratio would remain at about 35/65, reflect-
ing a financing pattern where the Branch would continue financing expansion
mainly from internal sources (63%) and Government contributions (13%); the
remaining 2h% would be financed with borrowings.
Fiscal Impact
5.22      On the basis of forecasts and taking into account the operations
for 1975 and 1976, the fiscal impact of the Branch's operations on Govern-
ment will be favorable. As summarized below, during the period 1975-79
Government will benefit by receiving about Rs 7,000 million as a result of
the Branch's operations; this compares with the Branch receiving about
Rs 3,000 million from Government.
Funds Flowing to Government                Rs Million
Postal Branch transfers                    3,369
Interest and amortization payments        1,760
custom duties                             1 ,885
7,014
Funds Flowing to Branch
Central Government contributions (net)   1,811
Interest payments                            83G
Funds held by Government                     349
2,996
5.23      As part of the program, the Branch is providing subsidy housing
for staff costing Rs 400 million. This expenditure can be construed as a
further contribution to Government in the sense that this reduces Govern-
ment's investment for subsidizing housing as part of its national policy.
The total financial impact of the Branch's operations on Government when
including the housing subsidy is that the amount of funds flo-wing to
Government will be about 250% of the amount of funds flowing to the Branch
from Government.
Performance Indicators
5.24      Performance indicators given in Table 5.04 will help monitor the
Branch's future performance.



INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT (P&T)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Actual and Forecast Income Statements (1973-1981)
(Rs Million)
ACTUAL                                                      FORECAST
Year Ending March 31:                             1973       1974      1975        1976                1977       19713    _1979       190 '  1981
(Provisional)
REVENUE
Telephone
Rent  , call charges, including STD,
and installation fees                       1,658     1,857      2,129      2,637                3,527     4,o68      4,757      5,475      6,469
Telegraph                                        192        242       226         271                 307        355       394        415         462
Telex                                            104        110        72         126                 145        166       190        218         275
Railway comunications                             82         44         96         50                  52         55        57         60          62
Miscellaneous                                     47         38        108         40                  42         45        47         50          55
Total Operating Revenue                       ,00  l           2 ,29         3,617        4        ,073    o                                  7,323
EXPENSE
Staff expense                                    761        934     1,175      1,533                1,798      2,120     2,531      2,979       3,432
Other costs of operation                          235       774        307        337                 370        407        447       491         54o
Depreciation                                     310        342        375        433                 508        596       722        890       1 071
Total Operating Expense                      1,30           0                   37                2L,373     3,123    -3.70-0 
Net Operating Income                           777        741       774        821                1,397      1,566     1,745      1,858       2,280
Other Income                                         31       165       l1l         122                  164        210       239        265         290
Net Income Before Interest                     808        906       875        943                1,561      1,776     1,984      2,123       2,570
Interest Charges                                    124       227        193        250                  315       415        523        601         665
Net Income                                     684        679       682        693                1,246      1,361     1,461      1,522       1,905
Transfers to Postal Branch                          142       190        617        669                  945       658        480        470         450
Transfers to fund held by Government                 13       166       (328)       (30)                 (40)      _ _                    _          _
TranqCerred to reserves                        529        323       393         54                  341        703       981      1,052       1,455
Average net plant in service                     3,667      4,oo8     4,585      5,490                6,495      7,661      9,422    11,832      14,338
Rate of return 1/                                21.2%      18.5%     16.9%       15.0%               21.5%      20.4%      18.5%      15.7%      15.9%
Operating ratio /                                 63%        68%        71%        74%                 66%        67%        68%        70%        69%
Accummlated amount of postal transfers             662        852     i,469      2,138                3,083      3,741      4,221     4,691       5,141
1/ Ratio of net operating income to average net plant in service.
2/ Ratio of total operating expense to total operating revenue.
February 12, 1976



_ 42 -                                                          TABLE 5.02
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT (P&T)
TELECOS4UNICATIONS BRANCH
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets (1973-1981)
(Rs Million)
ACTUAL                                                        FORECAST
As of March 31:                               1973      1974       1975      129                1977       LEE         1979        1980        19ol
(Proviajonal)
ASSETS
Fixed Assets
Plant in service                        5,561     6,132      7,202      8,540              9,931     11,733      14,501      l7,847     21,114
Less:  Depreciation reserve             1 726      1,51      2,214      2 548              2 934       3 409      3,981       4,702       5,583
Net plant in service                  3          4,                   5,992               ,997           4     10,520      13,145      15,531
Plant under construction                1.568      1 854     2,074      2 259              2,946       4,627      5 094       5 060       5,200
Total Net Fixed Assets                5,1403     t         7,0b2                         9,943      12,951      1!W        Tr3*        20,731
Current Assets
Subscr=er accounts receivable             342        394       473        531                692         797        926       1,057       1,186
Inventories                                398       544       628        652                716         787         886        950       1 O1Fi
Total Current Assets                    740        938       1,101     ,83               17,407     T15         1,o12       2,007       2,204
PFuds vith Government                        494       713        434       404                364         364         364        364         364
Other deposits                               114       199        199         _                       -                 - _         _
TOTAL ASSETS                          6,751      7,885      8,796                                                   0      20576       23,299
LIABILITIES
Equity
Capital-at-charge representing
Central Government contributions        1,534     1,694     1,422      1,291              1,754       2,659       3,034      3,455        ,491
Reserves                                 2,737     3,061      3,454     3,547              3,934       4,691       5,738      6,871       8,423
Funds with Government                      494       713        434       404                 364        364         364         364        364
Total Equity                           765       5          5,310     5,242              6,052       7,714       9,136     10,690      12,278
Long-Term Debt
Capital-at-charge representing
foreign exchange loans:
IDA Credits: 28-IN                     313       308       443        438                433         428         423        418         413
58-IN                    248        248       357        353                349         345        341         337         333
153-IN                    206        206       298        298                298         298        297         294        291
241-IN                     53        280       632        707                707        707         707         707        707
403-IC                     -          -         32        360                615         720        720         720         720
IBERD Loan 615-IN                      191       206        248       248                248         248         242        236         230
Canadian credit                        157       218        295       315                 315        315         315         307        299
Hungarian credit                        -         -           2        32                  70        108          96          84         72
Other foreign exchange credits          74        74         74        74                  74         74          74          74         74
Proposed IBRD loan                      -         -          -         -                 209         720         720        706         691
Bilateral credits                       -         -          -         --                            203         360         360        360
Further borrowings (program)            -         -          -         -                   -         134         904         90-4       904
Future borrowings (beyond program)    -           -          -          -                  -           -          -          850      1550
Total Long-Term Debt              1,22       1,540      2,31      2,8251/             3,318        300       5,199      5,997       6,644
Current Liabilities
Accounts payable                            54         74        96        116                136         160        202         223         257
Revenue billed in advance                  149       188        232        278                332         398        476         572        686
Total Current Liabilities                  3                  326                           332         39         476          572       686
Subscriber Deposits                           84       103        126        154                187         225        277         310         346
Advance Deposits                              -         -         -          380                623         779         825        865         945
Deferred Credit -OYT                         457        512       651        843              1,067       1,323      1,675       1
TOTAL LIABILITIES                      6,751     7,885      8,796     9,8                11,715      14,899     17,790      20,576     23,299
Long-term debt/equity ratio                  21/79      22/78     31/69      35/65              35/65       36/64       36/64      36/6a       35/65
Reflects upward valuation of debt as a result of a
change in parity between the Indian rupee and U.S. dollar.
May 13  1976



- 43 -                                      TABLE 5.03
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT (P&T)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds (1977-1981)
REs Million)
Year Ending March 31:                               1977      1978       1979       1980       1981
SOURCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Net income before interest                     1,561      1,776      1,984      2,123      2,570
Depreciation                                     508        596        722        890
Total Internal Cash Generation               2,069      2,72       _2,706     3,013      3,h4
Central Government contributions                   463        905        375        421         zV
OYT deposits (net)                                 224        256        352        224        244
Advance deposits                                    243       156         46         60         60
Subscriber deposits                                 33         38         52         33         36
Borrowings
IDA Credits: 241-IN                               -          -          -          -          -
403-IN                             255        105         -          -          -
Hungarian credit                                   38        38         -          -          -
Proposed IBRD loan                               209        511         -          -          -
Bilateral credits                                  -        203        157         -          -
Further borrowings (program)                       _        134        770         -          -
Future borrowings (beyond program)                -          -          -         850        700
Total Borrowings                              502         991        927        550        700
TOTAL SOUhCES OF FUNDS                       3,534      4,718      14,458     14,601     4 ,717
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Construction program                             2,154      3,550      3,319      3,400      3,500
Transfers to Postal Branch                          945       658        480        470        450
Transfers to fund held by Government                (40)        -          -          -         -
Debt Service:
Interest:
Capital-at-charge representing foreign
exchange loans/credits, Central Govern-
ment contributions and advance deposits    315           415        523        601        665
Amortization:
Foreign exchange loans and credits                9         9         28         52         53
Total Debt Service                           3214       42         551        653
Increase in working capital                         151         86        108        78         49
TOTAL APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS                  3,534      4,718      4,458      4,601      4,717
Times the sum of debt service, postal
transfers and Government fund transfers
covered by internal cash generation                 1.7        2.2        2.6       2.7        3.1
May 13, 1976



- 44. -
INDIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT (P&T)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Notes on Financial Statements
BALANCE SHEET - TABLE 5.02
Plant in Service and Depreciation
Estimated plant in service, 1977-1981, is based on the investment
program detailed in Table 4.02 and assumed future works. The basis for
charging depreciation is stated in paragraph 5.07 of the report. The com-
posite rate of depreciation, including supplementary depreciation, on
average gross plant in service is 5.5%, which is reasonable. Plant retire-
ments are deducted from both the plant account and depreciation reserve.
As provided in the Loan Agreement, whenever appropriate, and in any case
at least every five years, a review will be made of the value of net fixed
assets in operation and the rate of depreciation to determine whether,
because of substantial changes in current prices, adjustments to such
values are required.
Plant Under Construction
The forecasts assume that the amount of plant under construction
each year will be the sum of 50% of the construction program in the previous
year plus 100% of the construction program of the current year.
Cash
No cash balance is shown since P&T does not retain any cash of
its own. As a government department all revenues are required to be paid
into the Government's consolidated fund.
Subscriber Accounts Receivable
Subscriber accounts receivable, including a number of old accounts
which will eventually be written off, are forecast to be about eight weeks'
billings.
Inventories
Forecasts assume that inventories will increase at about the same
rate as the rate of increase in connected exchange lines.



- 45 -
Funds with Govemment
Funds with Government consist of funds of the Telecommunications
Branch held by Government to cover any shortfall the Branch may have in
meeting its interest payments on capital-at-charge. Government pays annual
interest on the fund at 5.5%. With the Branch having had no difficulty in
meeting its interest payments, it has been permitted to make withdrawals
from the fund. Forecasts show no transfers to the fund or withdrawals from
it beginning with FY77.
Other Deposits
Other deposits consisted of funds originating from the OYT scheme
and which were not credited to the OYT account and also not set off against
government contributions during a period when accounting changes were be-
ing made.
Capital-at-Charge Representing Central Government - Contributions
Capital-at-charge in the balance sheet is divided between (i) Cen-
tral Government Contributions, which with Reserves and Funds with Government,
is the equity portion of the capital structure; and (ii) long-term debt in
foreign exchange, which is the debt portion of the capital structure.
Reserves consist of the accumulated net profit (retained earnings) trans-
ferred annually from the income statement and the annual supplementary depre-
ciation transfers (see para. 5.07).
Capital-at-Charge Representing Long-Term Debt in Foreign Exchange
The amount of capital-at-charge representing long-term debt in
foreign exchange includes previous Bank-IDA borrowings, a Canadian (CIDA)
credit, a Hungarian credit and small amounts of bilateral assistance. The
Branch pays annual interest of 6% on the borrowings (see para. 5.17).
New borrowings by Government for the project are as follows:
(a) proposed Bank loan of US$80 million equivalent for a term
of 23 years, including a three-year grace period; and
(b) bilateral borrowings amounting to US$23.5 million equivalent
to be arranged by Government from other than the Bank Group.
Accounts Payable
The amount of accounts payable is not large since under the Govern-
ment's budgetary system, funds for any payments incurred but not made against
the current budget will be lost to the P&T. Forecasts assume about one
month's staff expense for accounts payable.



- 46 -
Revenue Received in Advance
Telephone rental charges are billed three months in advance and
accessories one year in advance. Forecasts are based on growth of system
and past experience.
Subscriber Deposits
This is a guarantee deposit pertaining to non-OYT subscribers
in measured-rate areas. This deposit is refundable at the time service
is surrendered.
Advance Deposits
A new scheme has been introduced where advance deposits of spec-
ified amounts will be obtained against applications for new service. Annual
interest will be paid on the deposit up to the time the telephone connection
is sanctioned (see para. 5.15). At the time of connection, the deposit is
credited to the account 'Deferred Credit - OYT.'
Deferred Credit - OYT
In order to augment funds for capital expansion, a scheme known
as "Own Your Telephone" (OYT) was started in 1949 whereby a subscriber by
paying a lump sum as advance rental would receive preference in obtaining
telephone service. The subscriber recoups his advance payment in 20 years
by paying a lesser rate for telephone service.
INGOME STATEMENT - TABLE 5.01
Forecast revenues take into account the tariff increase of April 1,
1976.
Telephone Revenue
Local rental and call charges, including STD have been forecast
on the basis of planned average increase in connections and traffic forecasts.
Installation fees have been forecast on the basis of the estimated
number of telephones to be installed during the year, including reconnec-
tions and shifting of telephones.
Telegraph Revenue
Forecasts for telegraph revenue take into account the expansion
of telex services and the opening of new STD routes which affect telegraph
traffic. With this background, forecast telegraph revenues have been taken
to increase by about 7% per annum.



- 47 -
Telex Revenue
Telex revenue is forecast to increase at 15% per annum, taking
into account the planned expansion for this service.
Railway Communications
Revenue from the railway is forecast to increase gradually over
the six-year forecast period, from Rs 50 million in 1976 to Rs 62 million
in 1981.
Miscellaneous
Miscellaneous revenues include advertising revenue, sale of
directories and sale of scrap, and are forecast to increase gradually,
from Rs 40 million in 1976 to Rs 55 million in 1981.
Expenses
Forecasts for staff expenses and other costs of operation are
based on the growth of the system and number of staff, with allowances for
increases in wages and cost-of-living allowances, and taking into account
past experience.
Depreciation, including supplementary depreciation, has been com-
puted on a straight-line basis, based on the life of the various categories
of plant in service, which results in a composite rate of 5.5% on average
gross plant in service.
Other Income
Other income consists of annual interest at 5.5% earned on the
accumulated amount of funds made available to cover the Postal Branch's
losses and on "Funds held by Government" (see paras. 5.13 and 5.17).



TABLE 5.04
- 48 -
IND:A
POSTS AND TEL3GRAPHS DEPAiFTlENT (P&T)
T5LvC01't4UJCATIONS DR.01CH
Forecast Performance Indicators
1.        The fcllowing performance indicators will serve to help
nonrtor thle Dranch's performance.  P&T will be asked tc include these
inulicators as part of its reporting requirements and to relate the
achlievrieryntq LJtth the forecasts.
Fiscal Year endirg
March 31:                  1977        I973        1'.,79      1980       1981
Direct exc!ange lines    1,590        1,750       1,970       2,110      2,262
(DEL) x 109
Telex lines              17,90i0     20,110      22,590        N.A.        N.A.
Trunk channels           40,252      49,516      56,155        N..A.       N.A.
Trunk automatic          28,650      38,6Ro      58,o00        N.A.        N.A.
erchan,ge (capacity
in lines)
Tctal operating revenue  2,68C        2,808       2,927       3,c48      3,350
per average DEL (in Rs)
Total operating expense
per avrerage DEL (in Rs)  1,761       1,870       1,989       2,137      2,307
,Late of return (,5)         21.5      20.4        18.5        15.7       15.9
Cperating ratio (%)          66        67          68          70         69



6.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Telecommunications and Economic Development
6.01      Economic benefits from telecommunications arise from increased
productivity in all sectors due to improvements in management and
administration. Telecommunications allows close personal control over oper-
ational activities or over project implementation regardless of distance;
at the same time telecommunications permits decentralization and delegation
of authority to regional or project staff. It minimizes reaction time to
market signals and to warnings of hazards or notification of breakdown,
leading to improved performance and elimination of waste. Coordination of
activities is made easier and can become more precise. Markets are made
available on a city, regional, state, national or worldwide scale, thus
increasing the potential for sale of products and for better procurement of
the factors of production.
6.02      In India, access to telecommunications is inadequate (see para.
1.12) and demand for service is strong.  The waiting list for new connec-
tions stands at about 280,000 even despite the recent imposition of a heavy
application deposit ranging from Rs 1,000 (US$111) for small networks to
Rs 5,000 (US$556) for the large networks of major cities, in addition to
the OYT contribution (see Annex 5.04). P&T is being continuously and
actively petitioned by all classes of customers, including public and pri-
vate business enterprises of different sizes and types to provide improved
regional and nationwide access as a means to improve effectiveness and
efficiency of their operations. This project, while meeting a part of the
demand, will leave a significant part unmet. A brief review of typical
petitions for service in P&T's files and interviews with customers in the
states of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu pressing for better service
gave a picture of the needs for telecommunications which is summarized below
in paras. 6.03 to 6.08.
6.03      State Government officials responsible for decentralization of
industry, for instance, cited adequate telecommunications as vital for
success of their programs which are aimed at containing the growth of major
cities and at providing employment and economic advancement in rural areas.
Industries are reluctant to move to places inadequately served by telecom-
munications and to suffer the handicaps of poor access to markets; to sources
of supply of raw material and spare parts; and to assistance in times of
emergency. The following extracts from letters in P&'s files typify the
problem faced by those who do move to these areas.
"The export business is on the increase but lack of the quickest
means of communications (telephones) is coming in our way in achiev-
ing the desired targets.
We have a telephone allotted to us connected to Telegaon Telephone
Exchange. The problem with the telephone exchange at Telegaon is
that even urgent trunk calls to our Bombay office do not material-
ize for h to 5 hours with the result our activities are completely
paralyzed and we cannot keep up proper liaison and commitments which
in turn affects our being unable to keep our commitments with our
overseas buyers and their agents in India."



- 5o -
"We have our factory in industrial estate of Silvassa, Dadra &
Nagar Haveli (a backward area). Our business is spread all over
the country and our purchases and booking of goods is done from
Bombay. For this purpose we have appointed an agent in Bombay.
Regular contact is necessary with this agent for giving instruc-
tions and therefore we normally make one or two calls per day and
vice-versa. Very often the line between Vapi, where our trunk
exchange is situated is out of order and in such cases, a respon-
sible person from our factory has to drive down to Vapi, about 10
miles away and wait there. This involves a loss of precious time,
energy and money."
Officials of the Karnataka state attributed the better industrial develop-
ment in Mysore to that in the otherwise similar backward area of Raichur
to better telecommunications service. Similarly, better progress with
industrial projects in Nasik, Nagpur, Aurangabad and Tarapur in Maharashtra
state over that in Nanded, Jalna, Paithan and Wardha was stated to be due
largely to marked differences in the availability of telecommunication
service. Similarly, P&T's files show that major development projects such
as the establishment of the harbour and fertilizer industry complex at
Tuticorin need modern telecommunications for efficient operation and market-
ing of their products and for development of efficient supporting and small
scale industry around them. Adequate telecommunications are essential if
community growth is to be sustained by the attractions of further commercial
and industrial enterprises.
6.O4      Secretaries of Agriculture in the three states, too, indicated
how better regional telecommunications would improve the management and
administration of agriculture; enabling waste to be avoided through earlier
and better coordinated reaction to plant and animal diseases, to appearance
of pests and to natural disasters; by improved collection and marketing
of perishable products; and facilitating the procurement and distribution
of inputs and the marketing of products. Officials responsible for tourism
made it clear that attractions could not be opened up fully nor facilities
operated efficiently without adequate telecommunications with a consequent
loss of foreign exchange earnings.
6.o5      The project will bring service to priority regional needs as deter-
mined by P&T in collaboration with state and central governments and community
leaders and will improve the prospects of several hundred communities. But
to serve regional needs adequately, a considerable increase in investments
will be needed.
6.06      Large industrial undertakings such as the Steel Authority of
India, Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited, Indian Oil Corporation, and Central
Electricity Authority must have reliable, immediate communication between
their nationwide activities and to their head offices for efficient day-to-
day operation and for dealing with emergencies. P&T is being pressed to
provide either private telephone and telegraph networks or STD and telex
service covering all centers concerned. Completion of major microwave radio
routes under construction in the ongoing project (Credit 403-IN) and
included in this project will give P&T much greater potential for meeting
such needs.



- 51 -
6.07      The major cities in India, as in all countries, besides being
major centers of population and of economic activity also act as the foci
of economic activity and centers of managerial and administrative control.
The interviews and representations make clear that access to these major
cities is a prime requirement for practically all decentralized industry
and for most governmental activities. Paragraph 1.13 indicates how the
telecommunications service in those cities has been inadequate in quality
and quantity and does not meet the needs of the communities. The effect
is to place a limit on the efficiency with which business, commerce and
administration can function both within the city and nationwide. About
40% of the direct exchange lines to be provided in the project will be for
essential relief to the principal control centers of the economy -- New
Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta and Madras.
6.08      A clear indication of the extent to which the communications needs
such as those discussed above are being suppressed is given by the traffic
surge which takes place when service is improved. The table below shows,
from typical cases in India that when access to a center of interest is
improved by replacing overloaded manual trunk service by subscriber trunk
dialing, the number of calls increases as much as 28 times. Traffic in
minutes of conversation and revenue increases are of the order of six
times.1/
Surge in Daily Calls on Introduction of STD
Effective Daily    Effective Daily   STD calls
Calls Prior to        Calls After     Pre-STD
Route                         STD                 STD           calls
Kanpur-Lucknow                335                2,800            8.5
Agra-11New Delhi              413                5,300           13
Jaipur-New Delhi              270                5,300           19.5
Kanpur-New Delhi              398               10,500           26
Agra-Kanpur                   135                2,800           21
Patna-New Delhi                61                1,700           28
Agmedabad-Rajkot              208                3,800           18
Amritsar-jullundur            220                2,700           12
Madras-Madurai                334                4,200           12.5
/ Because of instantaneous connections possible with subscriber dialed
calls and since charging is by actual time used (with manual calls the
charge is for a minimum of three minutes), subscribers have an incentive
to make shorter calls.



- 52 -
Return on Investment
6.o9      People indicate the minimum value they place on the benefits they
expect from telecommunications service by the price they are willing to
pay. Therefore, although the economic rate of return is very hard to esti-
mate in telecommunications projects because externalities are likely to be
very important, a conservative estimate would be the discount rate which
equalizes the stream of expected revenues attributable to the project with
the capital and operating costs, excluding taxes and price contingencies.
This is 20% for the present project. A 10% increase in costs of construc-
tion and a 10, decline in the benefit stream would lower this estimated
economic rate of return to 14.5%. Shadow pricing foreign exchange at
Rs 11 = US$1 and labor at 50% of the market wage rate would increase the
estimated economic rate of return to 30%; this increase would reflect the
high labor component and small foreign exchange component in the project
costs.
6.10      The economic rate of return is undoubtedly higher than the fore-
going suggests since (i) the prices charged do not adequately measure the
full benefits to the subscribers, primarily business, industry and agricul-
ture, and (ii) the costs include the full costs of extending the network
and providing facilities in new areas even though the full benefits will
only obtain in the future when additional lines are connected.
Analysis of Return on Investment
6.11      Project Period - In calculating the rate of return on investment,
a study period has been taken corresponding to the mean life of the various
items of plant making up the project, which is assumed to be 20 years com-
mencing in 1977.
6.12      Benefits - While the benefits of development of a telecommunica-
tions system are considerable, they are hard to quantify fully. A subscriber
will only place a call when the charge is equal to or less than his expected
benefit. But benefits normally accrue also to the recipient of the call.
Moreover, when the system is extended to new subscribers, the benefit to
existing subscribers cannot be reflected in the new connection charges. In
India, for many years there has been a substantial waiting list for new con-
nections, which presently stands at about 280,000 despite the recent intro-
duction of an application deposit.
6.13      Aside from these questions related to efficiency, the benefits of
a system are particularly hard to quantify when the ultimate beneficiaries
cannot be identified readily, and thus equity considerations cannot be taken
into account. Practically all of India's subscribers are commercial and
industrial enterprises and government services, for whom telecommunications
constitute an intermediate input into the final goods or services produced.
Private connections are also used for productive purposes in most cases.
6.1L      Finally, telecommunications is a sector which may contribute
dynamically to development in a way which none of the traditional benefit
measures can adequately reflect. It is difficult to value telecommunication



- 53 -
links, without which, for example, regional development in backward areas,
direction of infrastructure projects or rapid and efficient marketing of
perishable agricultural crops, are impossible.
6.15      With so many positive externalities associated with telecommuni-
cations, a conservative estimate of the benefit stream of the project is the
associated increase in revenue. Revenmes, including advance deposits, were
estimated from the number of subscribers connected due to the project and
from the registrants for service. It was assumed that the exchange fill
relating to the lines installed under the project would reach 90%. The esti-
mates of advanced deposits were based on the number of lines connected under
the project, and on the assumption that the average deposit would be Rs 2000.
6.16      Costs - The estimates of the economic costs have been based on
the financial costs of the capital investment for the project, and the oper-
ating costs derived from the income statement. The capital costs exclude
duties, taxes, and price contingencies which appear in the financial costs
of the project. Duties and taxes are transfer payments to Government and do
not represent any use of real resources. Price contingencies are excluded
since all costs and benefits are reckoned in constant terms. The operating
costs exclude interest and depreciation.
6.17      Labor costs, including the labor component of locally manufactured
equipment, constitute about 45% of capital costs. Over half the recurrent
costs of the project are accounted for by labor. The foreign exchange com-
ponent of the capital costs is about 30% (Table 6.01).
6.18      The Internal Rate of Return - Because expected revenues almost
certainly underestimate expected stream of benefits, as discussed above, the
discount rate which equalizes the stream of expected revenues with the capi-
tal and operating costs is a conservative estimate of the economic rate of
return of the project. This internal rate of return is 20 for the present
project (Table 6.01). A 10% increase in foreign exchange costs barely affects
this estimate of the rate of return, lowering it to 19%. Labor cost increases
could have a marginally greater impact by lowering the rate of return to 18%.
However, the rate of return is quite sensitive to the benefit stream, where
a 10% decline would reduce the return to 16%; this, combined with a 10%
increase in all capital costs would reduce the return to 14%, but such a com-
bination must be thought of as very unlikely. It is probably more justifiable
to consider the 10% increased benefit stream, which leads to an estimate of
the internal rate of return of 2h%, as more accurately representing the bene-
fits attributable to the project, given the extent of associated externali-
ties.
6.19      If labor and foreign exchange were shadow priced at 50% of the
market wage and at Rs 11 per US dollar respectively, the impact on the esti-
mated rate of return would be very favorable, because of the relatively
large labor component in costs (Table 6.02). The effect would be to increase



- 54 -
the estimated rate of return on the project to 30%. A 10.a decrease in the
shadow exchange rate would only increase the return by two percentage points,
while a 10% increase in the shadow wage rate would decrease the return by
one percentage point. Once again, the estimated return would be far more
sensitive to the benefit stream.
TABLE 6.01 - CALCULATION WITHOUT SHADOW PRICING
COST AND BENEFIT STREAMLS
( hBSv- M1 l-ons)
Capital Costs           Recurrent Costs          Total    Gross       Net Benefit
Year    Labor  MYterial Total    Labor   Other   Total    Costs   Benefits             Stream
Fo- Lo-
reign cal
1977     436   192  374   1002        -        -        -      1002        -           - 1002
1978     635   534  2614  1433        38       23      61      1494        326         - 1168
1979       -     -    -      -       124       76     200       200        602         +  1402
1950      -      -    -      -       226      138     364       364        892         +  528
1981       -     -    -      -       303      186     489      1489       1009         +  520
1982-     -      -    -      -       309      180      489      489       1013         +  5214
96
Internal Rate of Return = 20,%.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: VARIATION IN TIE RATE OF RETURN
Changed Rate of Return
Plus 10%         Minus 10 %
Foreign Exchange Costs             19%              21%
Labor Costs                        18%              23%
Benefits                           2h%              16%



- 55 -
TABLE 6.02 - CALCULATIONS WITH LABOR AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE SHADOW PRIC)ED
(see para. 6.19)
COSTS AND BEEFIT STREAMS
(Rs Millions)
Net
Capital Costs              Recurrent Costs          Total    Gross         Benefit
Year    Labor Material  Total         Labor   Other  Total        Costs   Benefits       Stream
Fo-   Lo-
reign cal
1977     218   234  374       826       -        -       -         826        -          -  826
1978     317   651  264    1232         19       23       42      1274        326        -  9143
1979      -      -    -       -         62       76     138        138        602        +  464
1980      -      -    -       -        113      138     251        251        892        +  641
1981      -      -    -       -        152      186     338        378       1009        +  671
1982-     -      -    -       -        155      180     335        335       1013        +  678
96
Internal Rate of Return = 30%.
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: VARIATION IN THE RATE OF RETUWN
Plus 1 0%           Minus 10%
Foreign Exchange Costs             29%                  32%
Labor Costs                        29%                 32%
Benefits                           35%                  26%



-56-
7. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following points,
(a) A special unit will be established within the Telecommunications
Brancn by December 31, 1976, to carry out economic analysis in
telecommunications. The work program of the unit will be sub-
mitted to the Bank for agreement by June 30, 1977 (para. 1.18).
(b) P&T will continue action, to an agreed timetable, to further
extend and develop the commercial accounts in the regions
(para. 2.08).
(c) Present audit arrangements described in the Credit Agreement for
403-IN will continue under the proposed Loan (para. 2.12).
(d) Tariffs will be maintained at a level to provide revenue suffi-
cient to earn a minimum rate of return of 11 1 on average net
plant in service (para. 2.19).
(e) All material and component imports by the factories will be
procured under methods consistent with those required in India
by the Bank Group under industrial imports credits (para. 4.19).
(f) P&T will periodically review the value of the net fixed assets
in operation of the Telecommunications Branch (para. 5.06).
7.02      During negotiations, confirmation was obtained that satisfactory
arrangemen,s have been made for obtaining complementary bilateral funds for
the project and that GOI would make available to PWT all other funds
required to complete the FYs77-79 program and hence implementation of the
fifth five year plan (?Ys75-79) (para. 5.16).
7.03      With the above agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank Loan
of US$80 million equivalent.



ANNEX 7.01
- 57 -
INIA
POSTS AND TELEGRAPHS DEPARTMENT (P&T)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS BRANCH
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
Al  Posts and Telegraphs Department       - FY 1974
A2  Indian Telephone Statistics (ITI)    _ FY 1975
A3  Hindustan Cables Limited (HCL)        - FY 1975
A4 Hindustan Teleprinters Limited (HTL) - FY 1975
A5 Materials Management System Reports
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl Data from interviews in States of Maharashtra, Karnataka, and
Tamil Nadu and extracts from P&T's files
June 22, 1976






INDIA
< 'K                                                     <                                              TELECOMMUNICATIONS
AFGHANISTAN                                         -                                                                              Coaxial and Microwave Schemes
SCICCAGo    7'                                                            U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NDER~ CONSTRUCTION,
'UI    .-                                                               C'.'                                                      (For Comletio C n FY 77-79 Period)
3                                    1 .   S                         A                                            ESISTINO        AJCANSOC CSTAgE     PARCCC STAGE
>   g     >ltdkDHA PUF                               qz                                                                                 -      COAAIAL CAELE/NARROW BAND                                9n,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -C-A-A Co./AoCA  0MtC
,f                                                                                                                                               N-T/      A
COCOO     -/JCLLLCCUP ACC;
PAKI STAN                                   K    /                                      N-
ATRTATLAG                           C- DoHReDN
oCA/                                        7         K-AL                                  CHINA
(Tibet                                                               'CEO
> RADA$1 >\ >P aATHUR n~~~~TA-U                                                                                                                    B H UIT A N i' ENA
'K                               .'~&C-A 
) 4 NNCEAe                                    R     OAT .0  \ AC           K        :V _ OTnAPJO                                                                              '-7 L...l                  ,5 doHTg0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~CUA Na                                                                                           > |\    COAFFC-CHUR C OA .CCYO   GAR  7E        SHILLDNDA  S          00C     
iAUWJN O  /MOL                                                      / /                                            \  /               ) BANGLADESH W
.tx  HUJ 0              MEAO,AOAA 0                    BACTIA1-     /ASACAGA                          /                                           5C-O          COCACANSL \   ( -9                        5    b* 
<  7       NA~~MMEGOAC         CC-ALGA                           ..'OC-A              N '7ACACUJ CANH                                                SDU         \   C-RARCCHCT                ,             r
GOOTAGO             C-AC                   /                                               /t-o                    /                                                                                           E  N.  
I~~~~~N                       -        COMC                                               /11                             CCAGCOJ,  VLR-   i    0            f          t4$-S   .&AC
- - -.  MACVGA                                                           --                                                             ,....~~~~~~~ -Nj ~            BURMA
D...  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l~ ~~~-.
--R ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 
-A. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     A
jvSt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i' ;"'  f-   =-
D.- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~3-
1                                                                                                                       -   --    ~~~~~~~~~GC- E
-~ -                                                 _  _      A   -     --    --                                              -   -    ~             -I LA N K A             -    -



