Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7278-ES 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Land Administration Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated August 29, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7278-ES 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 29, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF EL 
SALVADOR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of Taxes
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Loan Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on the 
goods or services to be financed under the Loan, or on their importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply. Financing of such taxes is subject to the Bank’s policy of 
requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its loans. To that end, if 
the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect 
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is excessive or otherwise 
unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage for 
withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item in the Loan Agreement as 
required to be consistent with such policy of the Bank.” 
 
Page  3
-
2
–
(b) 
Section 6.03 (c) of the General Conditions is amended by replacing the 
words “corrupt or fraudulent” with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Cadastre Law” means the Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 604, 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette dated June 24, 1974, as amended by the 
Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 611, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette, 
dated February 9, 1996; 
 
(b) “CNR” 
means 
Centro Nacional de Registros, 
the Borrower’s National 
Center of Registries: (i) created by the Borrower’s Executive Decree No. 62 of December 
5, 1994 and published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette No. 227, Volume No. 325 of 
December 7, 1994, as amended by  Executive Decree No. 94 of September 19, 1997, 
Executive Decree No. 6 of June 1, 1999 and Executive Decree No. 23 of March 19, 2001; 
and (ii) granted administrative and financial autonomy by the Borrower’s Legislative 
Decree No. 462, dated October 5, 1995, published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette No. 
187, Volume 329 of October 10, 1995; 
 
(c) “CONCULTURA” 
means 
Consejo Nacional para la Cultura y el Arte, 
the Borrower’s National Cultural and Art Council, created by the Borrower’s Executive 
Decree No. 55 of September 20, 1990; 
 
(d) 
“CONCULTURA Participation Agreement” means the agreement 
referred to in Section 3.01 (f) of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and 
services referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(h) “ILP” 
means 
Instituto Libertad y Progreso, 
the Borrower’s Institute for 
Liberty and Progress created by the Borrower’s Legislative Decree No. 16 of February 
26, 1991; 
 
(i) 
“ILP Participation Agreement” means the Agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
3
–
(j) 
“ISTA” means 
Instituto Salvadoreño de Transformación Agraria
,
the 
Borrower’s Agrarian Institute, created by Legislative Decree No. 302 of June 26, 1975 
and published in the Borrower’s Oficial Gazette No. 120, Volume 247 of June 30, 1975; 
 
(k) 
“ISTA Participation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01(e) of this Agreement; 
 
(l) “MARN” 
means 
Ministerio de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources; 
 
(m) 
“MARN Participation Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement; 
 
(n) 
“Municipality” means an autonomous entity governed by the Borrower’s 
Legislative Decree No. 274 of February 3, 1986 and published in the Borrower’s Official 
Gazette No. 23, Volume 290 of February 5, 1986, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement; 
 
(o) 
“Municipality Agreement” means any of the Agreements mentioned in 
Section 3.01 (g) of this Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.03 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(q) 
“Participating Agencies” means ILP, MARN, ISTA and 
CONCULTURA; 
 
(r) 
“Participation Agreements” means the ILP Participation Agreement, the 
ISTA Participation Agreement, the MARN Participation Agreement, and the 
CONCULTURA Participation Agreement; 
 
(s) 
“PCU” means the Project coordinating unit referred to in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
January 11, 2005 covering the initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(u) 
“Protected Area” means an area officially designated by the Borrower to 
be under a special management regime for the primary purpose of ensuring its 
biodiversity and ecological integrity; 
 
Page  5
-
4
–
(v) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(w) “SIRyC” 
means 
Sistema de Información, Registro y Catastro
,
the 
Borrower’s Property Registry and Cadastre Information System registered in the 
intellectual property registry of the CNR; 
 
(x) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;
 
and 
 
(y) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and CNR pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time. 
 
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to CNR. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to forty million two 
hundred thousand Dollars ($40,200,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement and 
any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar payable by the 
Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.03.
 
The Closing Date shall be July 1, 2011 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to fifty one-hundredths of one per cent (0.50%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Page  6
-
5
–
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
Page  7
-
6
–
payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower: (i) declares its commitment to the objective of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
CNR, with the cooperation of the Participating Agencies and Municipalities as set forth 
below, to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate engineering, economic, administrative, financial, technical, environmental 
and surveying practices and in accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual, 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Participation Agreements and the Municipality 
Agreements; (ii) shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CNR to 
perform such obligations; and (iii) shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to CNR under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and CNR (the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement), under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Bank, including those set forth in the Operational Manual with respect to 
financial management, procurement, environmental, social and other procedures for the 
carrying out of the Project. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, 
prior to carrying out any activity under Part A.3 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
CNR to enter into an agreement with ILP (the ILP Participation Agreement), under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in the Operational 
Manual with respect to the role of ILP in the titling in areas of social interest under Part 
A.3 of the Project. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above, 
prior to carrying out any activity under Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
CNR to enter into an agreement with MARN (the MARN Participation Agreement), 
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in the 
Operational Manual with respect to the role of MARN in the delimitation of Protected 
Areas under Part A.4 of the Project. 
 
(e) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) 
above, prior to carrying out any activity under Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
cause CNR to enter into an agreement with ISTA (the ISTA Participation Agreement), 
Page  8
-
7
–
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including those set forth in the 
Operational Manual with respect to the role of ISTA in the delimitation of Protected 
Areas within the agrarian sector under Part A.4 of the Project. 
 
(f) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) 
above, prior to carrying out any activity under Part A.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
cause CNR to enter into an agreement with CONCULTURA (the CONCULTURA 
Participation Agreement), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
those set forth in the Operational Manual with respect to the role of CONCULTURA in 
the delimitation of areas of cultural value under Part A.4 of the Project. 
 
(g) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e) 
and (f) above, the Borrower shall cause CNR to enter into an agreement (a Municipality 
Agreement) with each Municipality responsible for keeping the cadastre databases 
updated under Part B.2 of the Project, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including those set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
(h) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and shall cause CNR to exercise its rights under each Participation Agreement 
and each Municipality Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower and CNR shall not amend, assign, abrogate, 
suspend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, any 
Participation Agreement, any Municipality Agreement, or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said 
provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause CNR to update the Procurement Plan in 
accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank 
not later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procur
ement Plan, for the Bank’s 
approval. 
 
Section 3.03. 
(a)  The Borrower shall cause CNR to issue an operational 
manual (the Operational Manual), satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth rules and 
procedures for the carrying out of the Project, such manual to include, 
inter alia: 
 
(i) 
the duties and responsibilities of CNR, Participation Agencies 
and Municipalities in Project implementation; 
 
(ii) 
the technical, legal, administrative, financial, procurement and 
monitoring procedures for Project implementation; and 
 
Page  9
-
8
–
(iii) 
the standard bidding documents for procurement of non-
consultant services. 
 
(b) 
The Operational Manual may be amended by CNR from time to time 
with the prior approval of the Borrower and the Bank.  In the case of any conflict 
between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this Agreement, the terms of 
this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 
3.04.  The Borrower shall, throughout the course of Project 
implementation, cause CNR to maintain a Project coordinating unit (the PCU) with 
functions, staffing and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including without 
limitation a coordinator responsible for overseeing the day-to-day implementation of 
Project activities, a procurement officer, and a financial management officer. 
 
Section 3.05. 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause CNR, to: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than six months after the Effective Date and semestrally thereafter 
during the period of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, not later than two months after the date of such 
report, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions a
nd
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.06. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objective; and 
 
Page  10
-
9
–
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
Section 3.07. Without limitation to the Borrower’s obligations in Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall and shall cause CNR to: 
 
(a) 
carry out the recommendations included in the environmental analysis, 
dated January 5, 2005, as may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of 
the Bank, in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(b) 
carry out the terms of the indigenous peoples development plan, dated 
January 12, 2004, as may be amended from time to time with the prior approval of the 
Bank. 
 
Section 3.08. 
The Borrower shall ensure that no private land titles are issued:  
(a)  in areas considered critical natural habitats, areas of cultural value and/or under 
dispute, or in areas known to be at high risk of natural disaster; and/or (b) in private 
property in which the possessor acquires ownership by means of mechanisms such as 
adverse possession. 
 
Section 3.09. 
The Borrower shall obtain the Bank’s no-objection before 
initiating any Project activity to be carried out in any part of the Borrower’s territory 
bordering on the territory of another country. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall:  
 
(i) 
maintain a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance 
with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
cause CNR to maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements 
in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect its operations and 
financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, and shall cause CNR to: 
Page  11
-
10 
–
(i) 
have the respective financial statements referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to 
by the Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
respective financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or such other period agreed to by the 
Bank), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by 
said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall and shall cause CNR to: 
 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made;  
 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Bank), referred to in  paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare or cause 
CNR to prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
Page  12
-
11 
–
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
CNR has failed to comply with any of its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
 
(b) 
Any Participating Agency has failed to comply with any of its 
obligations under its respective Participation Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Cadastre Law or any of the Decrees referred to in the definition of 
CNR in Section 1.02 (b) of this Agreement or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CNR. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
Page  13
-
12 
–
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as  additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of the 
Borrower and CNR; 
 
(b) 
the Operational Manual and a detailed action plan for the implementation 
of the Project satisfactory to the Bank have been adopted by the Borrower and CNR; and 
 
(c) 
the PCU has been established and staffed as set forth in Section 3.04 of 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has 
been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and CNR and is legally binding upon 
the Borrower and CNR in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date November 28, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance (
Ministro de Hacienda) 
of
the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
Page  14
-
13 
–
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
 
Boulevard de los Héroes #1231 
 
San Salvador, El Salvador, C.A. 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(503) 225-7491 
 
With a copy to: 
 
Executive Director, CNR 
 
1a. Calle Poniente y 43 Av. Norte, No. 2310 
 
San Salvador, El Salvador, C.A. 
 
Facsímile: 
 
(503) 260-6409 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  15
-
14 
–
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
B
y
/s/ René León 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ Jane Armitage 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  16
-
15 
–
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
A. General
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be financed
(1) Goods 
2,100,000 
83% 
 
(2) Consultants' 
6,950,000 
83% 
 services 
 
(3) Training 
1,000,000 
83% 
 
(4) Non-Consultant 
27,600,000 
83% 
 Services 
 
(5) Works 
350,000 
83% 
 
(6) 
Incremental Operating Costs 
1,600,000 
83% 
 
(7) 
Premia for Interest  
0 
Amounts due  
 
Rate Caps and Interest  
 
pursuant to  
 
Rate Collars 
 
Section 2.09 (c) 
 
of
this Agreement 
 
(8) 
Front-end fee 
201,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(9) Unallocated 
399,000 
 
_________ 
 TOTAL 
40,200,000
Page  17
-
16 
–
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term "incremental operating costs" means the reasonable and 
necessary incremental operating expenditures, as approved by the Bank on the basis of 
the Procurement Plan, incurred by the Borrower with respect to: (i) remuneration of 
personnel hired under the Project; and (ii) recurrent costs associated with the 
implementation of the Project, including: (A) operation, leasing and maintenance of: (a) 
office equipment, vehicles (including fuel, repairs and spare parts); and (b) office 
facilities under the Project; (B) insurance for equipment and vehicles procured under the 
Project; (C) office utilities associated with the functioning of the PCU; (D) 
communications expenses required for the implementation of the Project; and (E) office 
materials; 
 
(b) 
the term “non-consultant services” means services for land regularization 
activities covering areas such as promotion and publicity, geodesy and mapping, field 
data acquisition and quality and control activities, and legal and cadastral data transfer; 
and 
 
(c) 
the term "training" means the reasonable and necessary training 
expenditures, as approved by the Bank on the basis of the Procurement Plan, incurred by 
the Borrower with respect to: (i) training materials; (ii) rental of training facilities; (iii) 
transportation expenses of trainees to the place where training is provided and subsistence 
expenses for such trainees; (iv) scholarships and fellowships for training courses to be 
provided in the Borrower's territory or abroad; and (v) study tours and internships in the 
Borrower's territory or abroad. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $4,000,000, 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
March 15, 2005 (but in no case earlier than twelve months immediately before the date of 
this Agreement); and (b) payments made for expenditures under Category (4) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless regulations to the Cadastre Law 
satisfactory to the Bank have been approved and entered into effect. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) operating 
costs; and (b) goods, works, services and training not subject the Bank’s Prior Review as 
set forth in Section IV of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
5. 
Upon receipt by the Borrower of written notice from the Bank, the Borrower may 
request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of reports to be 
submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, such reports to 
include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Page  18
-
17 
–
Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such request submitted to 
the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower 
shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and applications of 
funds for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such request.  
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which in 
the case of a commercial bank, would include appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;  
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Page  19
-
18 
–
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole 
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what 
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of 
its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  20
-
19 
–
Annex A  
To 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  21
-
20 
–
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  22
-
21 
–
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to improve the Borrower’s land tenure security 
and land transactions through the provision of efficient, equitable and accessible land 
administration services to facilitate better land-related investments and more productive 
and environmentally sustainable land use. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Land Regularization
1. 
Review of Legal, Regulatory and Administrative Frameworks
(a) 
Provision of technical assistance to support the improvement of the 
Borrower’s legal, regulatory and administrative frameworks related to property rights and 
land administration to ensure that the CNR and other entities involved in the provision of 
such services are able to:  (i)  provide more efficient, decentralized, accessible and fluid 
registration and cadastre services; and (ii) provide adequate legal solutions to land tenure 
irregularities; 
 
(b) 
carrying out of consultation, dissemination and public awareness 
activities related to the regulatory improvements referred to in (a) above; and 
 
(c) 
provision of training and carrying out of workshops on the regulatory 
improvements referred to in (a) above.
 
2. Land 
Regularization
(a) 
Preparation of basic cartography for cadastre surveys, including digital 
mapping in departments within the Borrower’s territory; 
 
(b) 
verification of rights and delimitation of properties within the Borrower’s 
territory, including a dissemination campaign, analysis of existing cadastral and registry 
information, field surveys, field conflict resolution, notification and consultation of 
results, and integration in SIRyC; and 
 
(c) 
(i) 
transfer to SIRyC of registry data in 
folio personal 
(property 
registry kept by name of registrant/owner), in 
folio real 
(paper record kept by parcel), and 
in mechanized records of all previous property registry systems; and (ii) linkage of such 
registry data with cadastre data in order to have a one-to-one link between the property 
registry and the map of parcels within the Borrower’s territory. 
Page  23
-
22 
–
3. 
Legalization and/or Titling of Lands in Areas of Social Interest
Legalization and/or titling of lands, selected by C
NR jointly with the Borrower’s 
Technical Secretariat of the Presidency according to a poverty map published by the 
Borrower’s social investment fund for local development, whose ownership or good faith 
possession is demonstrated by low-income populations of the Borrower. 
 
4. 
Delimitation and Limited Demarcation of Protected Areas
(a) 
Delimitation of boundaries of Protected Areas and of mangroves; 
 
(b) 
demarcation of three selected Protected Areas identified by MARN and 
acceptable to the Bank, which have no internal or external tenure conflicts; 
 
(c) 
delimitation of three priority cultural sites identified by CONCULTURA 
and acceptable to the Bank, which have no internal or external tenure conflicts; and 
 
(d) 
inclusion of specific notations for registered parcels with elements of 
cultural value in SIRyC and other registration systems of the Borrower. 
 
Part B
:
Decentralization of Land Administration Services
1. 
Consolidation of the Strengthening of CNR Offices
Strengthening of the capacity of CNR’s departmental and other offices to provide 
local services related to registration of sales, inheritance, and mortgages, as well as re-
measurements or preparation of cadastre plans, including: 
 
(a) 
institutional improvements to make services more accessible to end-
users; 
 
(b) 
improvements with the use of information technology including web-
based services to improve service execution at a highly local and decentralized level; 
 
(c) 
training campaigns involving different sectors to create a culture of 
registry rights and of how the cadastre is an important input for property registration; and 
 
(d) 
support to the Borrower’s national geographic and cadastre institute and 
land and mortgage registry to obtain and maintain the International Organization for 
Standardization’s (ISO) standard 9000 certification. 
Page  24
-
23 
–
2. 
Modernization of Land Administration Services at Local Level
Strengthening of the ability of Municipalities to provide maintenance of cadastre 
data and of land administration services. 
 
Part C
:
Project Administration
1. 
Provision of technical assistance, equipment, training, workshops and 
incremental operating costs, as necessary, to operate and strengthen PCU and other units 
within CNR involved in Project implementation, as well as to coordinate with other 
entities of the Borrower and to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the Project. 
 
2. 
Provision of audit services for purposes of Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
 
3. 
Carrying out of studies related to land administration and other aspects of 
sustainable development, as well as studies to evaluate the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by January 1, 2011. 
Page  25
-
24 
–
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
August 15, 2011 
 
4.08% 
 
February 15, 2012 
4.22% 
 
August 15, 2012 
 
4.37% 
 
February 15, 2013 
 
4.52% 
August 15, 2013 
 
4.68% 
 
February 15, 2014 
 
4.85% 
 
August 15, 2014 
 
5.02% 
 
February 15, 2015 
 
5.19% 
 
August 15, 2015 
 
5.37% 
 
February 15, 2016 
 
5.56% 
August 15, 2016 
 
5.76% 
 
February 15, 2017 
 
5.96% 
 
August 15, 2017 
 
6.17% 
 
February 15, 2018 
 
6.38% 
 
August 15, 2018 
 
6.60% 
 
February 15, 2019 
 
6.84% 
August 15, 2019 
 
7.07% 
 
February 15, 2020 
 
7.36% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
Page  26
-
25 
–
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  27
-
26 
–
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works an
d
services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing for domestic preference in the evaluation 
of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
2. 
To the extent practicable contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
.
Goods which the Bank agrees can only 
be purchased from a limited number of suppliers may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Limited International Bidding. 
 
2. National 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods estimated to cost less than 
$250,000 equivalent per contract, works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent 
per contract, and services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost less than 
Page  28
-
27 
–
$1,000,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of National Competitive Bidding in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.1, 3.3 and 3.4 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
 
3. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract and services 
(other than consu
ltant’s services) estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
4. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods, works and services (other than consultants’ 
services) which the Bank agrees meet the requirements for Direct Contracting  may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement method. 
 
Section III.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications.
Services estimated to 
cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 
3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Single 
Source 
Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet 
the requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source 
Selection, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the 
requirements set forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines 
may be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the 
circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts 
may be awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis, subject to prior approval 
by the Bank. 
Page  29
-
28 
–
Section IV.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review. If the Procurement Plan provides for prior review of contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants, the report on the qualifications and experience 
of all evaluated candidates, the terms of reference and the terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be subject to prior approval by the Bank.  All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
Page  30
-
29 
–
SCHEDULE 5 
Project Monitoring Indicators 
COMPONENT 
INDICATOR
 
Part A:  Land Regularization 
Part A.1 of the Project 
Review of Legal/Regulatory/ 
Administrative Frameworks
 
·
Legal, regulatory and administrative diagnostics and 
recommendations issued 
·
Land stakeholders, including all Project stakeholders, 
consulted 
Part A.2 of the Project 
Land Regularization 
·
98%
of
the Borrower’s territory surveyed (unit: sq. km.) 
·
95%
of
properties transferred into SIRyC with one-one 
registry/cadastre linkage 
Part A.3 of the Project 
Titling  in Areas of Social 
Interest 
·
100% of properties titled/legalized and registered into 
SIRyC (target:  15,000) 
Part A.4 of the Project 
Delimitation and Limited 
Demarcation of Protected 
Areas 
·
90% of the areas included within the Borrower’s official 
natural protected area system (SANP) as of February 9, 
2005 delimited (unit:  km.), 3 protected areas demarcated 
and 3 cultural sites delimited 
Part B:  Decentralization of Land Administration Services 
Part B.1 of the Project 
Consolidation of the 
Strengthening of CNR 
Departmental Offices 
·
100% of offices providing cadastre and registry 
services based in SIRyC 
·
80%
of
CNR offices for which revenues and 
operating costs can be monitored 
Part B.2 of the Project  
Modernization of Land 
Administration Services at 
local level 
·
90%
of
municipalities whose maintenance 
agreements with CNR are operating (target:  60 
municipalities) 
·
90%
of
municipalities whose revenue base has 
increased (target:  60 municipalities) 
Part C:  Project Administration 
Part C of the Project 
Project administration 
·
Monitoring and Evaluation reports issued on time as 
per this Agreement. 
·
Completion report issued six months after Closing 
Date 
Page  31
-
30 
–
