Page  1
Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues  
E1068 
EL SALVADOR:  Land Administration II
 
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01)
As a Category B project, preparation activities included an environmental analysis (EA) of the 
project’s potential positive and negative effects. The EA, conducted by a team of international 
and national consultants,=
1
,
found the project impacts to be overwhelmingly environmentally 
positive. The Environmental Management Plan (EMP) included in the EA recommended several 
ways to enhance the project’s positive impacts, as well as specific mitigation measures to offset 
the negative impacts. Rather than comprising a stand-alone component, the EMP’s 
recommendations and mitigation measures have been incorporated into the project design. 
 
The following section describes the key potential impacts identified in the EA. 
 
Positive Environmental Effects
Protected Areas Delimitation and Demarcation: 
The project will both delimitate all protected 
areas within the project’s area of coverage and demarcate at a gross scale three priority protected 
areas. The delineation and demarcation will be done in conjunction with MARN. Likewise, 
MARN will select the three priority protected areas to be demarcated. 
 
The conservation impact of these activities is overwhelmingly positive, as a key limiting factor to 
consolidation of El Salvador’s protected areas system (
Sistema de Areas Naturales Protegidas, 
or 
SANP) is lack of detailed geographic information (cadastre, orthophotography, aerial 
photographs that LAP II will comprehensively acquire nationwide), thus preventing the 
establishment of clear boundaries. This lack of clarity has led to invasion by settlers, 
encroachment and erroneous titling within park boundaries. The project’s contribution to 
clarifying these boundaries represents a significant improvement for conservation in El Salvador. 
 
Transfer of Title for State Lands: 
The project will facilitate the transfer of titles for protected 
areas to MARN from other state agencies (ISTA, ILP). This is a significant help to MARN, 
which up until now has struggled with an extremely cumbersome and complicated title transfer 
process. 
 
Biodiversity Information: 
Project-collected data on land use, forest cover, and human 
settlements will provide MARN with the tools to develop management plans for protected areas. 
This is considered a significant contribution to environmental conservation and management. 
 
Cultural Property: 
The project will demarcate three priority cultural heritage areas, as identified 
by CONCULTURA, thereby contributing to the long-term conservation of those areas. 
Additionally, project procedures call for identification of unknown cultural sites (ruins, etc.) 
during project cadastre activities. If culturally significant sites are identified through this process 
(or any time after the project field activities are complete), those parcels can be annotated in the 
property register maintained by the CNR (“
marginaliz
ción”),
 thereby notifying CONCULTURA 
of the find and ensuring that any future land transactions will be done with full knowledge of the 
parcel’s importance. 
 
1
The EA was done by Hernán Torres (Santiago, Chile) and Rafael Gochez (San Salvador, El Salvador) 
from August to December 2004.  
Page  2
Potential Negative Environmental Effects
Titling of Areas at Risk for Natural Disasters: 
El Salvador
—the most densely populated 
country in Latin America— is highly prone to natural disasters, including earthquakes, 
hurricanes, and volcanoes. In order to prevent the titling of parcels in risk-prone areas, the project 
will screen lands to be titled under Component 1.3 against risk areas as identified by SNET and 
prohibit any titling activity in such areas. 
 
Invasion of Protected Areas: 
The potential exists that encroachments in protected areas could 
increase in the short-term prior to the arrival of the project cadastre teams. Toward that end, the 
EA assessed the impact of LAP I and found there was no evidence linking the project’s land 
administration activities (which do not include regularization of persons living in protected areas) 
with protected area encroachment. However, the project’s communication strategy will include 
specific messages designed to minimize false expectations of persons currently living on state 
lands (protected areas and mangroves), explicitly to prevent short-term encroachment expansion. 
 
EA Consultation and Dissemination
Three consultations were held regarding the project’s design and impacts. The first two-day 
consultation was held from July 15 to 16, 2004 and attended by over 160 people from a wide 
variety of government, NGO, and civil society organizations. Based on the main findings of this 
consultation, the project design was revised and presented at a one-day consultation held on 
October 15, 2004 and attended by 65 people.  
 
Finally, the EA was publicly consulted on December 13, 2004, at the Hotel Radisson in San 
Salvador. The consultation was attended by 52 representatives from government 
(CONCULTURA, MARN) and civil society, including indigenous and environmental NGOs. 
 
In accordance with IBRD’s policy on Disclosure of Information (BP 17.50), copies of the 
Environmental Assessment Report, in Spanish, are available for public viewing at CNR’s UCP 
office (1ª Calle Poniente and 45 Av. Nte. # 2310, San Salvador) and available on CNR’s website 
(
www.cnr.gob.sv
). It is also being sent to the IBRD’s Infoshop. 
 
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04)
The EA evaluated the project’s potential to trigger OP 4.04, and determined that the project 
would not significantly affect critical or non-critical natural habitats. Specifically, as the project is 
not granting rights in critical natural habitats, the EA found that project activities will not 
negatively impact those areas. Rather, as noted above, the project will result in significant 
positive conservation impact to those areas. 
 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
The project triggers OPN 11.03 as project activities include delineation of ## and gross 
demarcation of three cultural heritage sites, as identified by CONCULTURA. This will contribute 
to their long-term conservation. As noted above, project procedures have been developed to 
ensure that in case project activities find evidence of cultural property on private lands, that 
information will be forwarded to CONCULTURA. Moreover, those parcels (and any other 
parcels discovered to contain culturally significant resources at any future point) can be annotated 
in the property register maintained by CNR (“
marginaliza
ción”),
 thereby notifying 
CONCULTURA of the find and ensuring that any future land transactions will be done with full 
knowledge of the parcel’s importance. 
 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12)
Page  3
The EA evaluated the project’s potential to trigger OP 4.12 and determined that the project would 
not result in the physical displacement of any persons. Additionally, while the project will be 
collecting information and delimiting and demarcating protected areas, the project will not result 
in any change in the use of resources for persons living in or near those areas. Consequently, the 
project does not trigger OP 4.12. 
 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
As project beneficiaries include indigenous persons, the project triggers OD 4.20, and the client 
prepared an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP)
2
.
The IPDP was based on numerous 
consultations with national indigenous organizations and local indigenous communities. The key 
findings of the IPDP were that indigenous beneficiaries do not face substantially different issues 
regarding land than other poor campesinos; both groups suffer from lack of clarity on property 
rights, and poor capacity to secure land tenure. Consequently, the IPDP sets forth actions to be 
included within the project to provide legal assistance and training to indigenous beneficiaries, as 
well as monitoring provisions to ensure that indigenous communities are well served by the 
project. The monitoring will be conducted by CNR which is considered to have strong capacity in 
this area. 
 
In accordance with IBRD’s policy on Disclosure of Information (BP 17.50), copies of the IPDP, 
in Spanish, are available for public viewing at CNR’s UCP office (1ª Calle Poniente and 45 Av. 
Nte. # 2310, San Salvador) and available on CNR’s website (
www.cnr.gob.sv
). It has also been 
sent to the IBRD’s Infoshop.  
2
The IPDP was prepared  by Mary Lisbeth Gonz
ález (Miami, FL, USA). 
Page  4
