Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.: AC1303   
Project Name 
Land Administration Project II (LAP II) 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
80% General agriculture and 20% General public administration 
Project ID 
P086953 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
Implementing Agency 
 
Republic of El Salvador 
El Salvador 
 
Centro Nacional de Registros 
El Salvador 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
Dec. 15, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
Jan. 3, 2005 
Date of Board Approval 
March 15, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
Poverty and insecure land tenure in El Salvador have led to low investments in agriculture and intensive 
land and real estate activities, inadequate land management, and severe environmental degradation. Over 
the last 30 years various administrations in El Salvador recognized that land was a serious issue affecting 
long-term development but sought to address the issue solely through redistribution. It conducted a three-
phased land reform in the 1980s through which it expropriated 300,000 ha of large farms to collectively 
owned cooperatives and individual beneficiaries, benefiting 533,000 families. 
 
While most of these lands were titled, the GOES lacked an updatable system to record and manage land-
related information. This resulted in a system that impeded the development of the land market and was 
unable to use land-related information for planning purposes, both of which are essential to 
the country’s 
long-term development. 
 
To provide land owners with the necessary land security to transfer and invest in their land, in 1996 the 
GOES signed a $50M loan (Land Administration Project I or LAP I) with the World Bank whose broad 
objectives were to: (a) regularize land for El Salvador's estimated 1.8 million parcels; and (b) create and 
maintain an efficient, streamlined, decentralized, and financially self-sustaining nationwide mapping, 
cadastre, and property registration institution—the new National Registry Center (CNR). 
 
LAP I continues to advance very satisfactorily toward achieving its development objective and is 
considered a best practice in the region. Once completed by the end of 2004, it will have (a) regularized 
60% of the parcels and transferred all properties into a new computerized parcel-based property registry 
(SIRyC); and (b) created and modernized the CNR which is now financially sustainable and is providing 
Page  2
more efficient and accessible services country-wide (e.g.,, registration times have been reduced from 
several months to one week). 
 
To complete the successful regularization of 100% of the country, the GOES now wishes to finalize this 
process in the rest of the country and is therefore interested in a follow-up operation, the proposed LAP II. 
The new project is expected to be effective in FY05. It would augment quantity, extend geographic scope, 
and add complementary components to the successful LAP I which laid the foundations for an efficient 
national land administration program. 
 
The three new complementary components are the following: 
 
-
Extension of the concept of regularization within LAP I to limited titling of urban and peri-
urban lands of social interest
1
that are often home to the poorest of the poor. During LAP I, 
regularization refered to the dissemination campaign, mapping, verification of rights, 
delimitation of properties, notification of results of field conflict resolution, , and transfer of 
information to SIRyC. It included registration of existing titles, although no titling activity 
was included; 
 
-
Strengthening of municipal land administration services so that (1) final beneficiaries, 
including poor people, had easy access to such services; and (2) municipalities could better 
manage and sustain their development; and 
 
-
Delimitation and limited demarcation of protected areas and cultural properties. 
 
2. Objectives 
The project development objective is to improve land tenure security and land transactions by providing 
efficient, equitable, and accessible land administration services. This will facilitate better land-related 
investments and more productive and environmentally sustainable land use. 
 
Land administration services include massive, systematic land regularization (i.e., dissemination 
campaign, mapping, verification of rights, delimitation of properties, field conflict resolution, notification 
of results, transfer of information to SIRyC, and limited titling in areas of social interest) as well as day-
to-day integrated cadastral and property registry services (e.g., individual title registration, cadastral 
certificate emissions) 
 
The envisaged Development Indicators are: 
a) 
Financial self-sustainability of CNR maintained; 
b) 
Percentage of parcels registered in SIRyC; 
c) 
Costs and length of time of registry transactions reduced; 
d) 
Knowledge and utilization of CNRs services increased; and 
e) 
User satisfaction with CNR cadastre registry services improved. 
 
1
The official rating of the Social Interest Project by ILP, an agency authorized by the State to coordinate such projects, includes 
projects aimed directly or indirectly at low-income families. A project cannot be rated as being of social interest if it is located 
in:1. Forest Reseves, 2. At-Risk Zones, 3. National Parks, 4. Archeological Zones, 5. National Heritage Sites, 6. Tourism Zones, 
7. Streets, Highways, and Railways, except those declared by Executive Decree as being in disuse and are removed from public 
use.  
Page  3
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
GOES formally asked for World Bank assistance for a second phase in a letter sent by the Minister of 
Finance to the WB in September 2003 and confirmed by a letter sent June 8, 2004 by the Technical 
Secretary of the Presidency to the WB
.
Moreover, the elected President’s official program mentions 
explicitly the importance of land tenure security, modernizing and making more efficient the public 
registries to promote transparency and private property. 
 
Building on the successful LAP I experience, the WB would continue to improve land tenure security and 
land markets, supporting the CNR with a second land operation. 
 
The GOES would greatly benefit from the WB’s competitive advantage in the region’s land issues—with 
over 20 years of experience in land policies and operations and $500M invested and committed in land 
programs in Central America. It would also benefit from the WB’s experience in GEF activities, 
including GEF operations in most Central American countries and the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor 
program. 
 
Additionally, the WB is preparing an ESW to measure the impact of land administration projects in El 
Salvador, Honduras, and Bolivia (FY06). The work concerning El Salvador would be completed in FY05 
and would serve to improve LAP II project design and feed into the new CAS. 
 
Finally, the WB has already discussed LAP II with other donors interested in coordinating their efforts, 
including Japan, USAID, and IDB. LAP II would complement operations supported by other donors, 
including: 
-
Urban and rural titling with ongoing USAID and IDB operations; 
-
CNR strengthening, particularly where the Japanese have already been involved; and 
-
Municipal strengthening with anongoing IDB operation. 
 
4. Description 
The project will have three components: (i) Land Regularization; (ii) Decentralization of Land 
Administration Services; and (iii) Project Administration. 
 
Component 1: Land Regularization (US$42.4M) 
This component will complete land regularization and titling within El Salvador. In the context of LAP II, 
regularization refers to the systematic and massive dissemination campaign, mapping, verification of 
rights, delimitation of properties, notification of results of field conflict resolution, transfer of information 
to SIRyC, and limited titling in areas of social interest. This component will increase land tenure security 
through a comprehensive inventory of urban, peri-urban, and rural lands, protected areas,and cultural 
properties, and the establishment of an updated parcel-based property registry. 
 
This component is divided into the following subcomponents: 
1-1: Review of Legal, Regulatory, and Administrative Frameworks 
1.2: Land Regularization 
1-3: Titling in Areas of Social Interest 
1-4: Delimitation andLlimited Demarcation of Protected Areas 
 
The project will finance the preparation of legal and administrative studies, technical equipment, mapping 
and cadastral field work, land information collection, and limited consulting services.
 
Page  4
Component 2: Decentralization of Land Administration Services (US$ 9.0M)
 
The objective of this component is to improve the execution of day-to-day registry and cadastre services 
at local level (e.g., registration of titles, cadastral certificate emissions). This component will allow more 
accessible and efficient land services as well as more effective maintenance of the parcel-based registry 
throughout the nation. It will contribute to the better functioning of land markets.  
This is divided into: 
2-1: Consolidation of the Strengthening of CNR Departmental Offices 
2-2: Modernization of Land Administration Services at Local Level 
 
The project will finance training and technical assistance, institutional strengthening, technical equipment, 
technology platforms, and limited consulting services.
 
Component 3: Project Administration (US$ 4.6M) 
Although CNR will be the sole implementing agency, it will deal with various participating institutions 
and partners. Therefore, specific attention must be paid to project administration so as to maximize inter-
inst
itutional coordination and thus the project’s ongoing execution. This component also includes the 
project’s Monitoring and Evaluation system. 
 
The project will finance administrative, supervision, and M&E costs, including M&E surveys. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 16 
IBRD 40.2 
 Total 
56.2 
 
6. Implementation 
The institution directly responsible for project implementation is the National Registry Center. A 
subsidiary agreement will be signed by the Republic of El Salvador (represented by the Ministry of 
Finance) and CNR for the implementation of the project, since CNR will handle the funds and most of the 
implementation arrangements. 
 
CNR will coordinate the various participating agencies by means of agreements that will become 
effective, to the World Bank’s satisfaction, before the corresponding activities begin. CNR successfully 
implemented LAP I which is now 100% disbursed, is about to close and has very satisfactorily achieved 
its objectives. CNR is a strong and financially sustainable institution, a unique case in the region. CNR 
reimburses the loan (principal and interest) and it generates yearly profits
.
CNR (created by Legislative Decree 462 dated October 5, 1995) is a decentralized institution with 
administrative and financial autonomy. It is comprised of the Geographic Institute and the National 
Cadastre, the Land and Mortgage Registry, the Commercial and Intellectual Property Registries, the 
Information Technology Department, and the Department of Human Development, Administration, and 
Finance.
 
To administer LAP I, the GOES, by Executive Agreement N
º
44 dated January 26, 1995, created the UAP 
which is a part of CNR. This unit very satisfactorily administered LAP I with the assistance of UNDP as a 
procurement and financial agent. 
Page  5
Unlike LAP I, LAP II anticipates a much stronger institutionalization of the project in its administrative, 
procurement, financial, and technical areas. UNDP will no longer be used as the procurement and 
financial agent (see Annex 7). During LAP II, CNR will directly manage financial and administrative 
aspects of the project, including loan funds (see Annex 8), through the Department of Human 
Development, Administration, and Finance) and the procurement process through UACI (see Annex 7). 
 
UAP will disappear and CNR will create a limited project coordinating unit (UCP or Unidad 
Coordinadora del Proyecto) to monitor and evaluat
e
the project’s activities and assure overall project 
coordination both internally and externally, with participating agencies and the World Bank. 
 
Internal Coordination :
Internally, UCP will coordinate with: 
(1)  UACI staff with regard to the procurement of goods, works, or services; 
(2) the Department of Human Development, Administration, and Finance with regard to 
administrative and financial management; and 
(3) the Land and Mortgage Registry and the National Geographic and Cadastre Institute with 
regard to technical supervision, in particular of major international land regularization 
contracts. 
 
Coordination with Participating Agencies:
CNR will sign cooperation agreements with each participating agency, with roles and responsibilities 
clearly determined. CNR, through UCP, will coordinate with these agencies, supporting them with regard 
to human resources training, provision of basic information, and logistics. The participating agencies are: 
 
(1)  ILP (component 1.3) for titling in areas of social interest; 
(2) MARN with regard to the delimitation of protected areas (component 1.4) as well as ISTA 
(component 1.4) with regard to the delimitation of protected areas stemming from the 
agrarian reform sector; 
(3) CONCULTURA (component 1.4) for the delimitation and protection of areas of cultural 
value; 
(4)  Municipal offices to keep cadastre databases updated (component 2.2). 
 
7. Sustainability 
The Land Administration Project II (LAP II), which is expected to become effective in 2005, completes 
LAP I which will end in mid-2005. LAP I laid the foundation for an efficient, self-sustainable national 
land administration program, and has satisfactorily achieved its development objectives. The institutional 
framework was strengthened, the property registry and the cadastre were integrated in a single institution, 
and it is now considered an institutional model for land administration that is inspiring other Latin 
American countries such as Honduras and Guatemala. In addition, CNR complies with ISO 9000 
certification standards. With LAP II, the institutional framework will be consolidated with the integration 
of the financial and procurement functions carried out until now by UAP under LAP I. 
 
Moreover, after a cash flow analysis of CNR for the period from 1996 to 2015, CNR’s capacity to 
continue financing the modernization process was determined. A baseline scenario was developed and a 
sensitivity analysis was made to calculate CNR’s likely surplus. An annual surplus of over US$4.0 
million is projected, demonstrating CNR’s capacity to finance the investments and operating costs 
required to continue the modernization process initiated under Phase I of the project, as well as its 
capacity to absorb a new loan. In 2002 and 2003, CNR generated a surplus over US$5 million and with 
the LAP II program it is expected to generate an increasing surplus between 2005-2015 which will have a 
highly positive fiscal impact. 
Page  6
.
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
LAP I is considered in the region as a best practice. CNR is now financially sustainable, a unique case in 
the region. More than half of the country has been surveyed and a new, integrated parcelbased property 
registration system has been implemented, reducing transaction turnover from several months to one or 
two weeks. The process has been highly participatory with a very well disseminated communication 
campaign (
“chambita medidor’’ is now well known throughout the country). 
 
The experience of LAP I has provided many valuable lessons which are reflected in LAP II. It has 
allowed the Government to test the land regularization methodologies implemented in the field, apply 
various technical land surveying standards, estimate the unit costs (by property/by hectare) of the overall 
activities of the land survey cadastre, and register and implement a quality control program,, along with 
the Organizational Development, Infrastructure, Equipment, Training Improvements, New System 
Installation (SIRyC), Communication Links and Training that CNR has acquired through LAP I, which 
has institutionally strengthened its technical and human resources areas and has provided it with 
experience in successfully administering this type of improvements. 
 
LAP I has served as an example for the design of LAP II as well as of various land administration 
projects, not only in Central America but in other regions as well. One example of this is the presentation 
of LAP I and its lessons learned at the Land Policy and Administration for Growth and Development 
conference promoted by the World Bank and the Ministry of Rural Development in New Delhi, India 
from May 27 to 28, 2004.
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [X] 
[] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[X] [ 
] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
1. 
Government’s project documents (Operations Manuals and Implementation Project Plan) 
2. 
Detailed project cost tables 
3. Procurement Plan 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
4. Environmental Analysis 
5. Technical anlysis  
6. Legal studies 
7. Institutional analysis 
8. 
Participatory Social Analysis 
9. Economic Analysis 
10. Indigenous Peoples Development Plan 
 
11. Contact point 
 
Frederic de Dinechin 
Sr. Land Administration Specialist 
Tel. 1 202 473 78 73 
Fax. 1 202 522 0262 
fdedinechin@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
