Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.: AB888   
Project Name 
Land Administration Project II (LAP II) 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
80% General agriculture and 20% General public administration 
Project ID 
P086953 
Borrower(s) 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
Implementing Agency 
 
Republic of El Salvador 
El Salvador 
 
Centro Nacional de Registros 
El Salvador 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[X] S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
August 27, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
November 15, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
March 15, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
Country and sector background :
Poverty and insecure land tenure in El Salvador have led to low investments in agriculture and land and real estate 
intensive activities, inadequate land management and severe environmental degradation. Over the last 30 years 
various Administrations in El Salvador recognized that land was a serious issue affecting long-term development but 
sought to address the issue solely through redistribution. It conducted a three-phased land reform in the 8
0’s through 
which it expropriated 300,000 ha of  large farms to collectively owned cooperatives and individual beneficiaries, 
benefiting 533,000 families. 
 
While most of these lands were titled, the GOES lacked an up datable system to record and manage land-related 
information.  This resulted in a system that impeded the development of the land market and was unable to use land-
related  information for planning purposes, both of which are essential to long-term development of the country.  
 
To provide land owners with the necessary land security to transfer and invest in their land, the GOES signed in 
1996 a $50M loan (Land Administration Project I or LAP I) with the World Bank which broad objectives were: (a) 
to regularize land for El Salvador's estimated 1.6 million parcels and (b) to create and maintain an efficient, 
streamlined, decentralized and financially self-sustaining nationwide mapping, cadastre and property registration 
institution - the new National Registry Center (CNR). 
 
LAP I continues to advance very satisfactorily towards achieving its development objective and is considered a best 
practice in the region. Once completed by the end of 2004, it will have (a) regularized 60% of the parcels and 
transferred all properties into a new computerized parcel-based property registry (SIRyC) and (b) created and 
modernized the CNR that is now financially sustainable and is providing more efficient and accessible services 
country wide (e.g. inscription times have been reduced from several months to one week); 
 
Page  2
To complete the successful regularization of 100% of the country, the GOES now wishes to finalize this process in 
the rest of the country and is therefore interested in a follow up operation, the proposed LAP II. The new project is 
expected to be effective in FY05. It would augment quantity, extend geographic scope and add complementary 
components to the successful LAP I that established the foundations for an efficient national land administration 
program.  
 
The three new complementary components are the following :  
-
Extending the  concept of regularization within LAP I to  titling of urban and rural lands that represent 
10 to 20% of the country and are often home to the poorest of the poor;  
-
Strengthening of municipal land administration services so that (1) final beneficiaries, including poor 
people had an easy access to such services and (2) municipalities could better manage and sustain their 
development; 
-
Demarcation and consolidation of protected area boundaries and census of occupants so as to prevent 
further colonization in the protected areas. 
 
GEF partially blended operation
Another important lesson from the LAP I is that there is a disproportionately important pressure coming from a 
growing number of invaders on ecological resources (within or near the 127 protected areas and other ecologically 
sensitive lands such as large expanses of coastal mangroves) in El Salvador, the most densely populated country in 
Latin America, where only five percent of the total land area is still forested.  
 
There is therefore a rare and important window of opportunity to strengthen the national protected areas system and 
capture and “freeze” the current state of population distribution, and limit allowable activities on ecologically 
sensitive and risk-prone lands – all of which can yield tremendous conservation benefits. 
 
The strategy is to prepare the IBRD financed LAP II in parallel with a partially blended GEF project. The full size 
GEF-funded project would go to appraisal in or around April 2005, after LAP II has been approved. This innovative 
approach would provide up to $5 million in GEF grants to fund parallel conservation-related activities 
complementary to the LAP II, including pilot-scale activities to: 1) demarcate strategic protected areas; 2) develop 
and implement management plans for those protected areas; and 3), support regularization of residents within those 
protected areas, subject to the requirements of the management plans. 
 
Linkage To CAS, Sector Strategy, or Global / Thematic Strategic Priority  
The current World Bank's group assistance program --- both ongoing operations as well as new lending and non-
lending assistance, including a possible LAP II --- supports the GOES' agenda and focuses on three priority areas: 
poverty reduction and social development, growth and public sector reforms. 
 
The new CAS under preparation for FY05-FY08 also includes a possible LAP II that would support urban and rural 
productivity and environmental sustainability and would address two new CAS pillars : (i) macroeconomic stability 
and strengthening broad-based growth and (ii) improving governance and building confidence in institutions and 
market economy.  
 
Link to poverty reduction and social development  
The LAP II will support activities aimed at raising the productivity of small and medium farmers, improving natural 
resource management abilities and improving land tenure security. It will provide incentives to better land-related 
investments and will improve land productivity. Furthermore, by addressing land administration in northern and 
eastern El Salvador, that is an area traditionally subject to unclear tenure regimes and place of the former civil 
conflict,  and home to the poorest segment of the population --  , the LAP II will be directly improving the 
livelihoods of those most in need.    
 
The project will also aim to develop local land administration services that are more equitable and accessible to the 
poorest both in rural and urban areas. Studies have shown that giving secure property rights to land they already 
possess can greatly increase the net wealth of poor people  (see Klaus Deininger, 2002 World Bank Policy Research 
Report on ''Land Policies for Growth and Poverty Reduction'').  
Page  3
Link to public sector reforms  
The LAP II Project will deepen the public sector modernization program through the assistance to the CNR so as to 
improve governance and efficiency. The CNR was created by legislative decree in 1995, and is a unique agency 
gathering the Real Estate and Land Property Registry, the National Cadastre, the National Mapping Agency as well 
as the Commercial and Intellectual Property Registries.  Strengthening financial sustainability of the CNR will also 
benefit the Ministry of Finances that receives 
 CNR’s surpluses. Though CNR reimburses the loan, it has returned a 
few million dollars surplus each year to Haciendas since 2002.  
 
The Project will address the emerging decentralization and local development agenda as it includes decentralization 
of land administration services, including participation of municipalities in the maintenance and management of 
cadastre information.  
 
Together with the partially blended GEF co-financing prepared in parallel, the project will also address the current 
need to strengthen capacity in environmental and disaster management as described above. Additionally, the 
topographical and cadastral data collected through the LAP II and the GEF projects will be a key input for natural 
resources management, disaster mitigation and prevention (e.g. hazard mapping), and for identifying the best 
available risk-free areas in which to resettle the population in the aftermath of natural disasters (for example, the 
CNR played a central role in the aftermath of the 2001 earthquake). 
 
Link to growth and competitiveness 
CNR is key for development of market and delivery of services to beneficiaries since it provides : 
-
Security and fluidity of land transactions through a computerized (internet based) and decentralized parcel 
based registry (CNR transactions turn around has been reduced from months to 5 to 10 days); 
 
- Security of private business through a modern commercial registry;  
-
Security of intellectual property rights through a modern intellectual property registry; 
CNR is therefore key for growth and competitiveness since it improves the country investments climate providing 
security of investments, transparency of and information on markets. 
 
Rationale for WB involvement 
GOES formally asks for WB assistance for a second phase through a letter sent by the Minister of Finances to the 
WB in September 2003 and confirmed by a letter sent June 8, 2004 by the Secretario Tecnico de la Presidencia  to 
the WB.  Moreover, the elected President’s official program mentions explicitly the importance of land tenure 
security, modernizing and making more efficient the public registries to promote transparency and private property. 
 
Building on the successful LAP I experience, the WB would keep on improving land tenure security and land 
markets supporting the CNR with a second land operation.  
 
The GOES would greatly benefit from the World Bank competitive advantage on land issues in the region -- with 
more than 20 years of experience in land policies and operations and $500M invested and committed on land 
programs in Central America. It would also benefit from the WB experience on GEF activities, including GEF 
operations in most Central American countries and the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor program. 
 
Additionally, the WB is preparing an ESW to measure the impact of land administration project in El Salvador, 
Honduras and Bolivia (FY06). The work concerning El Salvador would be completed in FY05 and would serve to 
improve LAP II project design and would feed into the new CAS.  
 
Finally, the WB has already discussed the LAP II with other donors who are interested to coordinate their efforts, 
including Japan, USAID and IDB. LAP II would complement other operations supported by other donors, including: 
-
Urban and rural titling with USAID and IDB on going operations; 
-
CNR strengthening, particularly where the Japanese have already been involved and; 
-
Municipal strengthening with IDB on going operation. 
 
Page  4
2. Proposed objective(s) 
The project development objective is to improve land tenure security and land transactions through the provision of 
efficient, equitable and accessible land administration services. This will facilitate better land-related investments 
and more productive and environmentally sustainable land use . 
 
Land administration services include legal rights recognition through provision of titles, mapping, demarcation and 
field surveys using local and participatory processes, conflict resolution,  and integrated cadastral and property 
registry services. 
 
As already mentioned, the proposed partially blended GEF project, would complement the IBRD financed LAP II 
and improve its development objective, in the area of nature conservation and consolidation of protected and 
ecologically sensitive areas.   
 
3. Preliminary description 
Expected performance indicators
1. CNR financial self-sustainability secured and municipal land administration services more efficient 
2. Number of parcels formally registered into Property Registry, including titling when necessary 
3. Land and real estate transactions (sales, mortgage, inheritance)  costs and time reduced 
GEF concept document will include GEF related indicators. 
Project components
Component 1 -- Land regularization -- This component will complete the regularization and limited titling of lands 
within El Salvador. Regularization in this project context refers to systematic parcel-based cadastre surveys,  
provision of legal titles (through resolution of conflicts, where necessary) and registration of lands.  This component 
includes four sub-component : (i) revision of the legal framework, (ii) land regularization, (iii) demarcation and 
consolidation of protected areas and (iv) institutional strengthening of titling institutions.  
 
Component 2 -- Land administration services -- This component aims to improve delivery of land administration 
services at the local level. It will allow more accessible and equitable land services as well a more efficient 
maintenance of the nationwide parcel-based registry. This component include two sub-components : (i) CNR land 
administration services strengthening and (ii)  improvement of municipal land administration services. 
 
Component 3 -- Project management 
–
As CNR, the unique project implementation agency, will deal with several 
participating institutions and partners, strong attention to project management will be necessary so as to maximize  
inter-institutional coordination and, therefore, smooth project execution.
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
On going social and environmental analysis will be presented to and discussed with the QAT and will help  
determining which safeguards are triggered and the necessary mitigation actions. However, preliminary results of 
these analysis indicate that the project might be a category B project and that it is unlikely it would trigger Natural 
Habitats (OP 4.04), Cultural Property (OPN 11.03), Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) and Indigenous Peoples 
policy (OD 4.20) given that indigenous population, though they might in some cases be culturally differentiated, do 
not have specific land claims (see recently published El Salvador Indigenous profile and first draft social analysis). 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 10 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
30 
 Total 
40 
 
6. Contact point 
Frederic de Dinechin 
Page  5
Sr. Land Administration Specialist 
Tel. 1 202 473 78 73 
Fax. 1 202 522 0262 
fdedinechin@worldbank.org
 
