                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: NCO0000492




                 NOTE ON CANCELLED OPERATION REPORT
                                  (IBRD-72780)




                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 40.2 MILLION

                                     TO THE

                          REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR

                                      FOR A

                      LAND ADMINISTRATION II PROJECT




                                 November 9, 2007




Sustainable Development
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                Currency Unit = US$ 1.00


                    FISCAL YEAR
                    July 1 ­ June 30


        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



CABEI         Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CMU           Country Management Unit
CNR          Centro Nacional de Registros (National Registry Center)
GEF           Global Environmental Facility
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD          International Fund for Agricultural Development
LAP I         Land Administration Project I (Phase I)
LAP II        Land Administration Project II (Phase II)
MEF          Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas (Ministry of Economy
             and Finance)
SIRyC        Sistema de Información Registro y Catastro (Property
             Registry and Cadastre Information System)




             Vice President: Pamela Cox
           Country Director: Jane Armitage
            Sector Manager: Ethel Sennhauser
        Project Team Leader: Frederic de Dinechin
        NCO Team Leader : Anna Corsi

                                         EL SALVADOR

                             Land Administration II Project


                                             CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs




 1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design.............................................. 1
 2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation .......................................... 3
 3. Assessment of Bank Performance .............................................................................. 5
 4. Assessment of Borrower Performance........................................................................ 5
 5. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................... 6
 Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............... 8
 Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 10
 MAP

A. Basic Information

Country:                El Salvador             Project Name:         Land Administration II
Project ID:             P086953                 L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-72780
Revised NCO Date:       11/9/2007
                                                                      REPUBLIC OF EL
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                      SALVADOR
Original Total
                        USD 55.8M               Disbursed Amount:     USD 0.0M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Centro Nacional de Registros
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (MARN)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date               Process        Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
                                                                           5/31/2006 (R);
Concept Review:        09/07/2004      Effectiveness:        11/23/2005
                                                                            9/14/2006 (R)
Appraisal:             01/04/2005      Closing:              07/01/2011      07/01/2011
Approval:              03/15/2005


C. Ratings Summary
Performance Rating by NCO
Outcomes:                                       Not Applicable
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Not Applicable
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Unsatisfactory



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               10
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                80
Law and justice                                                  5
Sub-national government administration                           5




                                                i

Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Land administration and management                         Primary
Legal institutions for a market economy                   Secondary
Municipal governance and institution building             Secondary
Personal and property rights                               Primary
Rural markets                                              Primary


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                      At NCO                      At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                     Pamela Cox
Country Director:         Jane Armitage                  Jane Armitage
Sector Manager:           Ethel Sennhauser               Mark E. Cackler
Project Team Leader:      Frederic de Dinechin           Frederic de Dinechin
NCO Team Leader:          Anna Corsi
NCO Primary Author:       Anna Corsi



F. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
No.     Date ISR
        Archived                  DO                   IP               Disbursements
                                                                        (USD millions)
  1     04/30/2005        Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory                    0.00
  2     12/27/2005           Satisfactory         Satisfactory                    0.00
  3     06/07/2006          Unsatisfactory        Unsatisfactory                  0.00

  4     03/30/2007          Unsatisfactory         Moderately
                                                  Unsatisfactory                  0.00




                                              ii

1. Context, Project Development Objectives, and Design (drawing from PAD,
briefly describe the country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance,
development objectives, components, costs and funding, implementation arrangements,
risk analysis, and quality at entry):

Country and Sector Background. Over the last 30 years, the Government of El
Salvador promoted a land reform program through which 300,000 hectares of large farms
were expropriated and distributed to cooperatives and individual beneficiaries. However,
this effort was not supported by the creation of an updateable land information system,
thereby impeding the development of the land market and the use of land-related
information for planning purposes.

The Land Administration II Project (LAP II) built on the World Bank's competitive
advantage in the region's land issues, with over 20 years of experience in land policies
and operations and US$500 million invested and committed in land programs in Central
America. It also built on the successful experiences gained through the Land
Administration Project I (LAP I), a US$50 million loan that the Government of El
Salvador signed with the Bank in 1996 to provide landowners with the necessary land
security to transfer and invest in their land. LAP I, which is considered a best practice for
land regularization in the region, regularized 60 percent of the parcels in the country and
created and modernized the National Registry Center (CNR). LAP II was designed to
complete the successful regularization of 100 percent of the country, while adding
complementary activities such as: (i) titling of urban and peri-urban lands of social
interest, (ii) strengthening of municipalities and (iii) delimitation and limited demarcation
of protected areas. These last activities were to be complemented by the partially-blended
Protected Areas Consolidation and Administration GEF project, which aims to catalyze
the consolidation of key protected areas and develop a strategy for consolidating other
protected areas, which is directly linked to the systematic land regularization process.

Project Development Objectives. The project aimed to improve land tenure security and
land transactions by providing efficient, equitable, and accessible land administration
services. The project objectives were consistent with the 2005 Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) and the government's 2004-2009 development agenda, as outlined in the
National "Pais Seguro" Program. The project, by supporting better land administration
services, would have facilitated better land-related investments and more productive and
environmentally sustainable land use. The project would have helped to accelerate
equitable growth and increase employment, expanding access to assets and markets, and
enhance security by: (a) supporting completion of the parcel-based registry and building
institutional capacity to support land title transfer; (b) developing local land
administration services that are more equitable and accessible to the poorest, both in rural
and urban areas; (c) addressing land administration in northern and eastern El Salvador,
an area traditionally subject to unclear tenure regimes, site of the former civil conflict,
and home to the poorest segment of the population; and (d) promoting, through the
blended GEF project, nature conservation and consolidation of protected and ecologically
sensitive areas.




                                               1

Project Components. The total project cost was US$55.8 million, of which the World
Bank would finance US$40.2 million and the Government of El Salvador $15.6 million.
The partially-blended GEF-financed operation would have financed an additional US$5
million. The project had three main components:

Component 1: Land Regularization (77.9% of total project cost) was aimed at completing
the regularization for the entire country. Regularization in this project context referred to
the massive and systematic dissemination campaign, mapping, verification of rights,
delimitation of properties, field conflict resolution, notification of results, and transfer of
information to the Property Registry and Cadastre Information System (SIRyC). The
component consisted of four subcomponents: (i) Review of Legal, Regulatory, and
Administrative Frameworks, (ii) Land Regularization, (iii) :Legalization and/or titling of
lands in Areas of Social Interest, and (iv) Delimitation and Limited Demarcation of
Protected Areas. The first subcomponent would have supported short-term reforms
needed to implement project activities efficiently and effectively, and longer-term
reforms to continuously improve the national land administration system. The second
subcomponent included cartographic and field activities as well as support for greater
integration of parcel-based field data in the Land and Mortgage Registry and the National
Cadastre. The third subcomponent would have supported, as a new activity with respect
to phase I, the titling of a selected group of lands for the purpose of benefiting low-
income social levels. The fourth subcomponent would have dealt with various land
regularization activities within El Salvador's protected areas and mangroves.

Component 2: Decentralization of Land Administration Services (16.1% of total project
cost) was oriented toward improving the execution of the day-to-day registry and cadastre
services at local level. It would have allowed accessible land services as well as more
effective maintenance of the parcel-based registry throughout the nation. This component
included two subcomponents: Consolidation of the Strengthening of CNR's offices and
Modernization of Land Administration Services at local level. The former would have
strengthened the capacity of CNR's departmental offices and other local offices to
provide local services including registration of sales, inheritance, mortgages, etc. as well
as re-measurements or preparation of cadastre plans. The latter would have strengthened
the ability of municipalities to provide maintenance of cadastre data and of land
administration services. This was an important subcomponent because although
municipalities are key partners of CNR for the maintenance of the parcel-based property
registry, they had not been sufficiently strengthened under the first phase.

Component 3: Project Administration (5.6% of total project cost) was aimed at
strengthening project administration so as to maximize inter-institutional coordination
and thus the project's ongoing execution. This component would have financed the
project's Monitoring and Evaluation system, and necessary audit services and studies
related to land administration and other aspects of sustainable development.

Implementation Arrangements: The institution directly responsible for project
implementation was the National Registry Center (CNR), a strong and financially
sustainable institution created under the first phase of the project. CNR was to coordinate



                                              2

the various participating agencies by means of agreements. Unlike the first phase, the
second phase anticipated a much stronger institutionalization of the project in its
administrative, procurement, financial, and technical areas. CNR was to directly manage
financial and administrative aspects of the project, including loan funds, and the
procurement process. In addition, CNR was to create a limited project coordinating unit
to coordinate, monitor and evaluate the project's activities and assure overall project
coordination both internally and externally, with participating agencies and the World
Bank.

Risks: A number of critical risks were identified during the appraisal of the project,
including the lack of participation by end-beneficiaries, poor coordination and lack of
participation by national and local agencies, difficulties in obtaining congressional
approval of necessary legal reforms, and risks of the project being politicized, given that
it was dealing with a very sensitive issue ­ land. None of these risks were rated as high.
Corresponding mitigation measures were designed, including the improvement in local
social communication programs, the establishment of efficient coordination mechanisms,
the use of administrative and executive decrees, and the establishment of an open
dialogue with state sectoral institutions, municipal offices and civil society to avoid social
conflicts and give more transparency to the process. The fact that the loan would not be
approved by Congress was not identified as a major risk, given that the history of Bank
(and IDB) projects in El Salvador was one of intensive and lengthy negotiations with all
political parties, which eventually were successful in getting projects approved.
Furthermore, the project was appraised over a year before congressional elections,
leaving ample time for the project to be approved before the new Congress took office.

Monitoring and Evaluation: Under the project, CNR was to develop and implement an
automated Monitoring and Evaluation system that would have allowed for three types of
indicators to be monitored: (i) physical and financial execution indicators (e.g., number
of km2 covered by aerial photographs at 1/20,000 scale; US$100,000 total contract ­ $5
per km2); (ii) results indicators (e.g., percentage of properties titled and registered in the
Integrated Registry and Cadastre System); and (iii) outcome indicators of project
development objectives (e.g., reduced cost and length of transactions). Outcome
indicators were developed and agreed in close collaboration with CNR, a sophisticated
land agency created at the time of the first Land Administration Project, whose model has
been replicated worldwide. It was not considered appropriate to utilize downstream
indicators -- such as changes in income levels of those registered or in land-related
investments and productivity -- given that for these changes to occur, other interventions
outside the scope of the project needed to occur. Improved land administration services
are a necessary condition for higher productivity and income, but insufficient on their
own to stimulate those increases.

2. Post-Approval Experience and Reasons for Cancellation.
(main events leading to cancellation, steps taken to resolve problems, exogenous factors,
identification of causes and responsibility if project failed, implications of failure):




                                              3

The factor leading to the cancellation of the Land Administration II Project was the
government's failure to gain consensus and obtain the second and final Congressional
approval by a qualified (two thirds) majority required for approval of external borrowing
and for project effectiveness.

The project was approved by the World Bank Board on March 15, 2005, nine months
after President Saca took office and a year prior to legislative elections. In El Salvador, it
is the role of the legislative branch to approve the government's annual budget, including
the approval of all external loans and credits. Loan signing by the government is
conditioned on the prior legislative approval by the simple majority (50 percent + 1 vote).
In the case of loans, final ratification by the qualified majority (two thirds of Congress) is
required for the project to become effective. The Loan Agreement was signed on August
29, 2005, following its approval by the simple majority in Congress on July 21, 2005.

The importance of not losing the momentum after the first Congress approval was
foreseen. However, the legislative agenda in the last months before the March 2006
legislative elections was dominated by priority key reforms requiring a qualified majority
in an already politically divided Congress. Thus, due to other political priorities, the
project loan agreement was not taken up for discussion in the outgoing Congress.

The new Congress took office in April 2006. The newly elected Congress was even more
divided than the previous one, rendering approval by the qualified majority impossible
without support from the main opposition party. In this difficult political situation, the
project counterpart (MEF and CNR) worked with the Congress and relevant project
actors to have the project approved, and in parallel kept working to meet all other project
effectiveness conditions.

The Bank team maintained regular contact with the Resident Representative in San
Salvador and the CMU team to ensure a coherent strategy for presenting this and several
other projects in El Salvador to Congress after the country's elections. A number of
missions were carried in June and August 2006 to closely work with the counterpart
(including the Government and members of Congress from all parties) in an effort to
ensure project ratification by Congress within the eighteen-month deadline from the Bank
Board approval. The Country Director and Representative met on several occasions with
members of the opposition to present the objectives of this and other Bank loans pending
Congressional approval and answer their questions. They also gave several press
interviews to explain the importance of the project for growth and poverty reduction. The
dialogue with the new Congress was deepened during the visit to Washington D.C. on
July 12, 2006 of a high level Congress delegation, which included members of the
opposition. The agenda for the visit was planned jointly with the IDB (who faces the
same problems in getting Congressional approval of their loans) and with the IMF, and
included discussions of El Salvador's macroeconomic and fiscal situation, debt service
capability, as well as detailed presentations on all pending loans and evaluations of prior
Bank loans. In addition, all supporting documentation requested by the new Congress,
including the evaluation of the first phase and audit reports, was promptly made available.




                                               4

Given the political situation in the country, which made ratification through qualified
majority more difficult than expected, the Government requested and the Bank agreed to
extend the effectiveness deadline from November 28, 2005 to May 31, 2006, and
subsequently to September 15, 2006.

On September 13, 2006, the loan was presented to the National Assembly. However, the
National Assembly was unable to reach consensus and failed to ratify the loan. On
September 15, the eighteen-month deadline from Board approval was not met and on
September 21, 2006 the loan agreement was terminated.

Implications of project's cancellation. Following the Bank loan's cancellation, CNR
signed a loan agreement with the Central American Bank for Economic Integration
(CABEI) for $55 million to finance the second phase of the Land Administration project,
thereby completing the land regularization process in the country and benefiting about
1,700,000 property owners. The CABEI's loan agreement did not require Congress
approval since a recent law authorizes CNR to borrow directly from multilaterals without
the need for a sovereign guarantee ­ something that cannot be done in the case of Bank
loans, which require a sovereign guarantee.

3. Assessment of Bank Performance
(lending process/ensuring Quality at Entry, supervision and implementation assistance
role, compliance with Bank policies, justification for rating):

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank performance is rated satisfactory. The project was very consistent with the
priorities of the Government as highlighted in the National "Pais Seguro" Program and
the CAS, both of which had a strong focus on accelerating broad-based growth,
improving equity, and enhancing security and reducing vulnerability. The project was
designed following a demand driven approach, building on the successful experience of
the first phase of the project, and in coordination with other donors interested in
supporting complementary operations in the country. During project preparation, the
Bank's project team worked closely with the staff of CNR, on the basis of diagnostics
which analyzed the outcomes of the first phase. The overall risk of the project was
assessed as modest during project preparation, and a set of mitigating measures were
designed. Despite the efforts by the Bank's project and Country Management teams to
maintain a continuous and open dialogue with the Government and the Congress to
facilitate ratification, due to the political deadlock, the Bank was unable to avoid the
cancellation of the project.

4. Assessment of Borrower Performance
(government and implementing agency performance, compliance with covenants,
justification for rating):

Rating: Unsatisfactory




                                              5

The Borrower's performance is rated unsatisfactory. Despite the fact that there was a high
degree of institutional ownership on the part of CNR, which also contributed to the effort
of managing the difficult political process and the dialogue with the new Congress, the
Government failed to have the loan ratified by Congress in the eighteen months following
Board approval.

5. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

In countries such as El Salvador where loans have to be ratified by a qualified (two
thirds) majority of Congress, and the Congress is deeply divided, the Bank needs to
recognize that loans may not be approved, despite every effort to meet with opposition
leaders, explain the purposes of the projects, answer questions, provide information on
previous operations, as well as information on the macroeconomic, fiscal and debt
situation. The risks of political gridlock and consequent failure to approve external loans
were explicitly recognized in the FY05-FY08 CAS. There is a long history of political
polarization in El Salvador and ratification and effectiveness of previous loans had been
delayed for almost two years under the previous CAS. However, President Saca took
office in June 2004 on a platform that emphasized consensus building with the opposition
and consultations and outreach to civil society and the private sector. A Presidential
Commission was created to promote consensus on critical issues that required national
long term commitment and support across party lines. During the first year, this approach
to consensus building appeared to be bearing fruit, and the government was successful in
gaining support in the Assembly for key initiatives, for example on combating crime and
violence.

The FY05-FY08 CAS, which was discussed by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors
in early 2005, tried to reduce the risk of substantial delays in loan approval in two ways.
For the DPL series, through which the bulk of lending was expected to be channeled, the
Government expected that the concurrent submission of the DPLs and the annual budget
to the Assembly would give it the leverage needed for prompt loan ratification. For
investment loans, the Government's plan to bunch operations early in its tenure was
expected to facilitate timely ratification. Therefore, during 2005, the Bank moved quickly
to prepare a package of new operations, including a program of Development Policy
Loans and selective investment operations for Land Administration (Board approval
March 2005), Payment for Environmental Services (June 2005), Social Protection
(October 2005) and Secondary Education (November 2005). The first DPL was approved
by the Bank's Board in February 2005 and was approved by the National Assembly in
August 2005, with the second DPL approved by the Board in December 2005. However,
political polarization in the country deteriorated steadily. The new Congress that took
office in April 2006 was even more divided and has operated in an atmosphere of deep
distrust and confrontation between the different parties causing a paralysis of any reforms
or external financing that requires a two-thirds majority. The Bank, the IDB, CABEI and
IFAD have all had to cancel their pending loans: in other words the problem is not
opposition to a specific project, but a complete breakdown in relations between the two
main political parties since March 2006. It is hard to see that this could have been



                                              6

anticipated by the Bank, and was not foreseen by other lenders in El Salvador either.
Intensive efforts to build support for approval of external loans (including loans from the
World Bank, IDB and Central American Bank for Economic Integration) were not
successful despite the involvement of the LCR Vice President and Director, the President
of IDB and senior management of CABEI.

Preparation of new operations planned under the CAS has been put on hold. Bank
assistance has been reduced to Regional AAA (e.g. on crime and violence, land
administration, energy), selective country capacity building on debt management,
financial sector regulation, monitoring and evaluation for CCTs and workshops and
conferences to disseminate findings of Bank work on relevant development topics such as
remittances, informality, governance and anti-corruption, fiscal policy, etc. In addition,
project teams are continuing to supervise implementation of the two projects left in the
portfolio. The GEF-financed Protected Areas Consolidation and Administration Project ­
which had been partially blended with the Land Administration II Project ­ was approved
by Congress on May 11, 2007 and became effective on May 29, 2007. The grant-
financed operation only needed a simple majority (50 percent +1 vote) for its approval
(unlike loans and credits which require two thirds majority), and hence needed support
from only a handful of opposition members. The Bank's representative continues to meet
regularly and share information with all the parties in the National Assembly and to work
with other partners and stakeholders in trying to promote national dialogue on
development issues.




                                            7

Annex 1. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


          Names                         Title               Unit Responsibility/
                                                                   Specialty
Lending
Maria Alejandra Bouquet     Rural Development Specialist   LCSAR
Malcolm D. Childress       Sr Land Administration Special  LCSAR
Ann Jeannette Glauber           Environmental Spec.        LCSEN
George Campos Ledec                Lead Ecologist          LCSEN
Ketty Morales               Language Program Assistant     LCSAR
Jorge A. Munoz             Sr Land Administration Special  LCSAR
Paula Dias Pini           Senior Social Development Spec   LCSUW
Luis R. Prada Villalobos       Sr Procurement Spec.        LCSPT
Teresa M. Roncal                Operations Analyst         LCSAR
Manuel Vargas             Sr Financial Management Specia   LCSFM
Frederic de Dinechin       Sr Land Administration Special  LCSAR   Team Leader
Fernando Galeana            Junior Professional Associate LCSAR
Fabienne Mroczka           Financial Management Analyst   LCSFM
Maria E. Nikolov              Senior Program Assistant     LCSSD
Violeta Tan-Kuong                    Temporary             WBISP
Manuel Vargas             Sr Financial Management Specia  LCSFM
Pilar Gonzalez                        Counsel             LEGLA
Lynn Holstein             Lead Land Administration Spec.   ECSSD  Peer reviewer
Frank Byamugisha                 Operation Adviser         AFTDS  Peer reviewer
John Bruce                          Sr. Counsel           LEGEN   Peer reviewer
Supervision/NCO
Frederic de Dinechin       Sr Land Administration Special  LCSAR
John Kellenberg                    Sector Leader           LCSSD
Anna Corsi                 Land Administration Specialist LCSAR
Ketty Morales               Language Program Assistant    LCSAR




                                         8

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY04                                       3.40                    13.99
  FY05                                     25.72                    104.54
                            Total:         29.12                    118.53
Supervision/NCO
  FY04                                                                0.00
  FY05                                       9.88                    41.65
  FY06                                     15.82                     64.53
  FY07                                       4.24                    20.06
                            Total:         29.94                    126.24




                                         9

Annex 2. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Concept Note
2. Project Appraisal Document
3. GEF Grant Agreement (P092292)
4. Project Information Document
5. Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet.




                                      10

