Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4008 COB 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Economic Recovery Credit) 
 
between 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 16, 2004 
 
Page  2
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4008 COB 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated December 16, 2004, between THE REPUBLIC OF 
CONGO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
July 29, 2004 
(the “LDP”), describing a program of actions, objectives and policies 
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called 
the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and 
(B) 
on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit 
available in two tranches as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through May 1, 
2004) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the Program, referred to in paragraph A of the 
preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the 
Credit is made.”; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions”; 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program referred to in 
paragraph A of the preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“CFAF” means “
Franc de la Communauté Financière Africaine
”, 
the currency of the Borrower ; 
(b) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(a) of this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(c) 
“Effectiveness Tranche” means the Tranche of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated to Category (1) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement to be released by the Association on or after the Effective Date; 
(d) 
“FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year beginning on January 1 and 
ending on December 31 of each calendar year; 
(e) 
“LDP” means the Letter of Development Policy referred to in the 
first paragraph of the Preamble to this Agreement; 
(f) 
“SDD” means the stock of Domestic Debt, which is further 
referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(g) 
“Second Tranche” means the Tranche of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated to Category (2) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;  
(h) 
“SNPC Action Plan” means the action plan, established in Annex 
to the LDP, including measures aimed at improving efficiency and transparency 
in the management of oil revenues accruing to the Borrower through SNPC’s 
operations and further referred in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;  
(i) 
“SNPC” means Societé Nationale des Pétroles du Congo, a state-
owned corporation established and operating pursuant to the commercial laws of 
the Borrower; and  
(j) 
“Tranche” means any of the following: the Effectiveness Tranche 
and the Second Tranche. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 20,500,000). 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a Deposit Account in CFAF on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of  
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the 
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing April 1, 2015 
and ending October 1, 2044.  Each installment to and including the installment 
payable on October 1, 2024 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, 
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank 
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the 
Association and after due consideration by the Association of the development of 
the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph 
(a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
Page  7
-
6
-
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under 
the above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
(d) 
If, after said exchange of views, the Association is not so satisfied, the 
Association may give notice to the Borrower to that effect and, if within 90 days after such 
notice, the Borrower shall not have taken steps satisfactory to the Association, in respect 
of (a), (b) and (c) above, as the case may be, then the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Credit or any part thereof. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination 
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement  is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01.  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of  
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 For 
the 
Borrower: 
 
Minister of Economy, Finance and Budget 
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget 
B.P. 2083 
Brazzaville 
Republic of Congo 
 
Facsimile: 
 
242
814 369 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the 
day and year first above written. 
 
THE REPUBLIC OF CONGO 
 
By /s/ Jean-Christophe Lingoua 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Mahmood Ayub 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the 
Credit and Excluded Expenditures 
1. 
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the table 
below sets forth the amounts allocated to specific Tranches to be withdrawn from 
the Credit Account: 
 
Amount of the Credit  
 
       % of 
 
Allocated (Expressed in 
  
 
 
Expenditures 
 Categories
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Effectiveness 
Tranche 
 11,600,000 
  100% 
(2) Second Tranche 
 
 
  8,900,000
100% 
 
Total 
 
    
             20,500,000 
 
======== 
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, and for purposes of  
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used to 
finance the following expenditures: 
 
(a) 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(b) 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any 
national or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the 
Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
(c) 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of 
the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev. 3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Association by notice to the Borrower: 
Page  12
-
11
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
  Tobacco, 
manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
  Radioactive 
and 
 
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
  Pearls, 
precious 
and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
971 
- 
  Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and 
concentrates); 
(d) 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption; 
(e) 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party;  
(f) 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any 
import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; 
and 
(g) 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Association to remedy the situation. 
3. 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Credit Account under Category 
(2) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless: 
 
(a) 
the full amount of the Effectiveness Tranche has been withdrawn 
by the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
the Association shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the 
Association: (i) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program, (ii) with the progress achieved by 
the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program, and (iii) that the actions 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement have been taken. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement 
Conditions for the release of the Second Tranche
1. 
The Borrower has furnished to the Association documentary evidence establishing 
that the Borrower has implemented the SNPC Action Plan. 
2. The 
Borrower 
has: 
(i) 
adopted and implemented an action plan aimed at reforming and 
improving the management of investment project
s
to be financed out the Borrower’s 
domestic revenues;  
(ii) 
submitted to the Association physical and financial audit reports for public 
investment expenditures carried out by the Borrower for its FY 2004; and 
(iii) 
submitted its draft public investment program for its FY 2006 and 2007 to 
the Association for its review.  
3. 
The Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association pursuant to paragraphs 24-35 of the LDP establishing, 
inter alia,
 that: 
(i) 
the amount of arrears pertaining to the SDD has been validated by 
the Borrower pursuant to procedures satisfactory to the Association. 
(ii) 
a cut-off date after which domestic creditors are precluded from:  
(a) submitting claims to be included in the SDD; or (b) completing or modifying 
already submitted claims to be included in the SDD, has been published in the 
Borrower’s Official Gazette and the press and media of wide circulation in the 
Borrower’s territory;  
(iii) 
an agreement, has been concluded between the Borrower and its 
domestic creditors representing at least 75 percent of arrears due under the SDD, 
pertaining to a common discount factor, or discount factors, as the case may be, 
satisfactory to the Association, applicable to the entire SDD; and  
Page  15
-
14
-
(iv) 
a commercial bank, acceptable to the Association, has been appointed by 
the Borrower, following a transparent competitive selection process satisfactory to the 
Association, to effect payment to entitled domestic creditors pursuant to the agreement 
set forth in sub-paragraph (iii) above. 
