Page  1
1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT
29911
Project Name
Republic of Congo 
–
 Economic Recovery Credit
Region
Africa Regional Office
Sector
Multisectoral
Project
P083627
Borrower(s)
Government of the Republic of Congo
Implementing Agency
Ministry of Econom
y, Finance and Budget
B.P. 20083 Brazzaville
République du Congo
Fax
: (242) 81 07 88
Environment Category
U
Date PID Prepared 
May 14, 2004
Appraisal Date
May 2004
Projected Board Date
August 26, 2004
I.
Country Background and Recent Developments
A.
Background
1.
Congo is emerging from more than two decades of central planning and a decade 
of  civil  strife.  The  1990s  witnessed  three  episodes  of  civil  strife  (19
93,  1997  and 
1998/99), which contributed to the near halving of the per capita GNP, from US$1,300 in 
1982 to US$700 in 2001. Civil strife destroyed infrastructure and weakened institutional 
capacity and  governance. About 90,000 persons were killed, many mo
re injured, and 
nearly 1 million (about a third of the population) displaced in the fighting, losing most of 
their possessions.
2.
Incomes fell despite significant oil wealth: recoverable oil reserves are estimated 
at about 1.5 billion barrels (The oil fi
elds are off
-
shore and have not suffered from civil 
strife.) At the current rate of oil extraction of about 275,000 barrels a day, Congo is Sub
-
Saharan  Africa’s  fourth  largest  crude  producer.  Oil  accounts  for  about  50  percent  of 
GDP,  nearly  90  percent  of  e
xports  and  about  66  percent  of  budget  revenue  (about 
US$210 in per capita oil revenue in 2001.) But there are only few linkages between the 
oil and the non
-
oil sectors, though changes in oil revenue have a significant financial 
impact  on  the  non
-
oil  econom
y,  mainly  through  government  spending.  At  current 
extraction rates, Congo’s oil would last only about 15
–
20 years.
Page  2
2
3.
As in other oil
-
dependent countries, oil revenues have led to problems. They tend 
to increase the price of non
-
tradable goods, services a
nd factors of production, such as 
land  and  labor,  notably  in  the  civil  service.  They  also  reduce  the  competitiveness  of 
domestic  tradable  goods  and  encourage  imports.  This  problem,  “the  Dutch  disease,” 
means  that  job  generation  by  the  non
-
oil  tradable  sect
or  is  limited.  Dutch
-
disease 
symptoms in Congo include the paucity of business enterprise. And although Congo has 
abundant water and rich soil, only 2
percent of the country’s 8
million hectares of arable 
land were cultivated in 2001, agriculture contribut
es only 6.5 percent of GDP and exports 
of cash crops have actually declined. One of the most important reasons appears to be 
that  domestic  agriculture  cannot  compete  with  cheaper  imported  foodstuffs  made 
available by oil proceeds. At least one key problem 
associated with the disease, namely 
high wages and high employment in the civil service, has been considerably alleviated, as 
wages and recruitment of civil servants have been largely frozen since 1994, in an effort 
to keep the wage bill and spending under
 control.
Another major problem associated with 
large  exports  of  oil  is  resentment  about  the  poor  distribution  of  the  oil  rent  (real  or 
perceived) among the population, resentment that can fuel civil strife.
4.
Social indicators deteriorated sharply in th
e 1990s in parallel with incomes, and 
poverty is now pervasive, affecting about 70 percent of the population. In the mid
-
1980s, 
Congo’s gross primary school enrollment rate was one of Sub
-
Saharan Africa’s highest 
(125 percent in 1987), but it fell to just 
73 percent in 2000. School attendance has been 
interrupted for most pupils for extended periods. As many as 30 percent of children under 
five are believed to have suffered severe malnutrition. More than half the nation’s clinics 
and hospitals were destroye
d or severely damaged in the conflict. The infant vaccination 
rate against measles dropped to just 58 percent in 1999, down from 99 percent 20 years 
earlier. The incidence of tuberculosis nearly quadrupled between 1985 and 1999, from 32 
to 113 per 100,000.
 The deteriorating health system, AIDS, and civil war reduced life 
expectancy to 51 years in 2001, down from 53 years in 1993. 
B.
Recent Political and Economic Developments, 2000
-
03
5.
Since the December 1999 cease
-
fire, there has been significant progr
ess towards 
civil peace. A constitutional referendum was followed by presidential, legislative and 
local  elections  in  2002.  President  Sassou  Nguesso  won  the  March  2002  presidential 
election convincingly, his party secured a majority of the seats in the nat
ional assembly, 
and  a  new  government  was  appointed  in  August  2002.  Recent  developments  on  the 
security front are encouraging. In March, 2003, government and rebel groups agreed to a 
cease
-
fire  in  the  Pool  region,  which  permitted  the  reopening  of  transporta
tion  links 
between  the  two  major  cities 
–
  Brazzaville  and  Pointe  Noire 
–
  where  more  than  50 
percent of the population lives. This cease
-
fire agreement also paved the way for the 
disarmament, demobilization, and reintegration of 4,000 militia fighters.
6.
Congo’s macroeconomic performance over the years 2000
-
03 has been driven, 
first, by the restoration of peace, and second by the volatility of oil proceeds. Real GDP 
Page  3
3
growth improved due to progress towards peace, higher oil prices and heavy spending on 
infr
astructure, but with wide swings in economic performance. After a 3 percent real 
GDP decline in 1999 (a war year), the economy grew 8.2 percent in 2000, 3.6 percent in 
2001, 3.5 percent in 2002, and 0.8 percent in 2003. On average, oil GDP declined 4.4 
per
cent during 2000
-
03, while non oil GDP grew 10.3 percent, driven by public spending 
on rehabilitation of infrastructure. Construction contributed heavily to growth, and so did 
transport and communication. The forestry sector rebounded as road links were re
opened.  
With the dredging of the port at Pointe
-
Noire and the reopening of the rail link between 
that city and Brazzaville, commerce and transport have returned nearly to normal.
7.
Investment and consumption also recovered. Despite the higher growth and
 public 
spending, inflation (measured by consumer prices) remained low, as it averaged only 1.6 
percent during the period 2000
-
03, due to prudent monetary policy under CEMAC rules 
and the reopening of transportation links between Brazzaville and Pointe Noi
re, which 
increased availability of goods.
8.
Higher oil prices resulted in a current account surplus of 7.9
percent of GDP in 
2000 (versus a 20.6 percent deficit in 1998). Oil accounted for 90 percent of total exports 
on average during the period 2000
-
02
. Timber exports also grew fast, reaching about 
US$180 million in 2002 (nearly 8 percent of total exports). The current account reverted 
to a deficit later on (3.2
percent of GDP in 2001, 0.3
percent in 2002 and 0.7 percent in 
2003.) 
9.
Oil revenue incre
ased despite a decline in oil production (by 15 percent from 
2000 to 2003, due to some technical problems and also the ageing of the oil fields), which 
enabled  government  to  carry  out  substantial  rehabilitation  and  reconstruction  of 
infrastructure and to i
mprove public finances. The fiscal position is highly sensitive to oil 
prices, as oil accounts for about 66 percent of total revenue. As a ratio to GDP, the budget 
balance (on a commitment basis) improved from a 20.0 percent deficit in 1999 to a 1.1 
percen
t surplus in 2000 and a 0.7 percent deficit in 2001. However, in 2002 non
-
oil 
revenue failed to grow as anticipated due to poor collection, too many exemptions and 
supply interruptions on account of insurgent activities. At the same time, spending on 
infra
structure, the elections and unanticipated security problems increased substantially, 
leading to a deficit of  8.1 percent of GDP. Domestically financed investment (DFI) has 
been quite high, averaging about 8 percent of GDP and 25 percent of budgetary spen
ding 
during 2000
-
02, mainly due to rehabilitation of war
-
damaged infrastructure. The budget 
deficit was halved in 2003 (0.4 percent of GDP) thanks to higher oil revenue and much 
reduced DFI, which declined to 5.4 percent of GDP and 18 percent of budgetary 
spending 
in 2003.
C.
Public Debt
10.
Congo’s high external debt remains a formidable obstacle to growth and poverty 
reduction. At the end of 2002 it stood at US$6.4 billion, or about US$2,100 per capita 
(nearly three time the per capita GDP), 222 percent
 of exports and 179
percent of GDP, 
making Congo one of Africa’s most heavily indebted countries. Paris Club and other 
Page  4
4
bilateral  creditors  account  for  53.3  percent  of  the  debt,  with  commercial  banks  and 
multilateral lenders accounting for 34 and 9 percent,
 respectively. Congo also engaged in 
expensive oil
-
collateralized debt, which, however has been discontinued since 2003. It 
was still accounting for 5.6 percent of total at end
-
2003, down from 8.5 percent at end
-
2000. Congo’s debt service due was about 61 
percent of budgetary revenue during 2000
-
03, among the world’s highest, with debt service on oil
-
collateralized debt accounting for 
about 20 percent of total. 
11.
About 64 percent of the external debt is in arrears, which increased by  about 
US$600 millio
n during 2001
-
03, despite the clearing of arrears to the World Bank and 
the IMF in June 2001. Due to arrears to the AfDB and the EU (US$135.7 million and 
US$27.9 million at end
-
2002, respectively), Congo remains in non
-
accrual status with 
these creditors. 
Congo is also in arrears with bilateral creditors including the Paris Club:  
Pre
-
cutoff  date  arrears  amount  to  US$2,124.4  million,  while  post
-
cutoff  date  arrears 
amount to US$452.7 million.
12.
A preliminary analysis of Congo’s external public debt indica
tes that even after 
the application of full traditional Naples terms rescheduling, its burden would remain 
unsustainable, as the ratio of the net present value of debt to government revenue would 
stay above 250 percent. Sustainability will require access t
o the enhanced HIPC Initiative 
which, in turn, requires normalization of relations with multilateral (AfDB and others) 
and bilateral creditors.  The key issue is the clearance of arrears to the AfDB, the EU, and 
post cut
-
off date to Paris Club creditors. T
aking advantage of flexibility for post
-
conflict 
countries, the authorities would need to demonstrate a track record of at least six months 
beyond the SMP before a decision point under the HIPC Initiative could be envisaged.  
On this basis, the decision po
int could be reached sometime in 2005.
13.
Government is also burdened with a large internal debt, which stood at nearly 
CFAF 481 billion at end
-
2003, excluding debt owed to the banking sector and public 
sector  entities,  about  23  percent  of  GDP.  Social  de
bt  (salary  and  pension  arrears) 
amounted to CFAF238 billion and accounted for about half the total. Following their 
restructuring, domestic arrears went down by CFAF46.1 billion in 2000 and 2001 (about 
1.1 percent of GDP), and CFAF 5 billions in 2002. Dome
stic arrears were further reduced 
by CFAF39.5 billion in 2003 (1.9 percent of GDP, and almost all of the year’s windfall 
oil revenue), even though no reduction was scheduled. In 2003, arrears on external debt 
increased by CFAF164.2 billion (CFAF17 billion 
more than scheduled). While reducing 
domestic  arrears  is  good  for  business  and  government  credit,  Congo  missed  an 
opportunity in 2003 to reduce external arrears and move closer to normalizing relations 
with key donors.
D.
Medium
-
term Prospects and Financi
ng Requirements 
14.
Reflecting the improved security situation, sustained oil price and encouraging 
steps taken by government in the past several months, the economy is expected to grow 
about 3.6 
-
 4.0 percent during 2004
-
2006. Oil output is expected to 
recover from 81.7 
million  barrels  in  2003  to  89.1  million  barrels  in  2006,  while  the  non
-
oil  sector  is 
Page  5
5
projected  to  grow  about  3.8 
-
  4.6  percent.  Prudent  fiscal  and  monetary  policies  are 
expected to keep inflation moderate, at about 2 percent a year. 
15.
Improved non
-
oil revenue and better spending control are expected to keep the 
budget deficit to about 1 percent of GDP, despite projected lower oil prices and revenue. 
Budgetary spending is projected to average about 29.1 percent of GDP during 2004
-
06, 
co
mpared  to  32.2  percent  during  2001
-
03.  The  key  to  lowering  spending  will  be  to 
rationalize domestically financed capital spending. It averaged CFAF167 billion a year 
over  2000
-
02,  but  is  projected  at  CFAF120  billion,  CFAF130  billion  and  CFAF140 
billion in 
2004, 2005, and 2006, respectively. Consistent with improved security and I
-
PRSP  priorities,  investment  spending  is  expected  to  be  increasingly  redirected  from 
security/defense to infrastructure and social sectors. 
16.
Despite the expected decline in oil
 price, the external current account is projected 
to show a moderate surplus over 2004
-
06. At present, projections for 2004
-
06 show a 
financing gap of CFAF 2,581.9 billion in 2004, and CFAF 345.6 billion in 2005
-
06. With 
a PRGF arrangement expected to be i
n place by July 2004, Congo is likely to have a 
settlement plan of arrears to multilateral institutions and Paris Club creditors (on post
-
cutoff date debt). This would drastically reduce the gap and the external debt ratio to 
GDP: the latter would drop fro
m 185 percent at end
-
2003 to 57 percent at end
-
2004 and 
39.5 percent at end
-
2006. 
II.
Bank and Donor Re
-
engagement
A.
The
World
Bank
17.
Congo  has  been  an  IDA  only  country  since  1994
.
  Bank  operations  were 
suspended  and  the  Country  Office  closed  in  1997
  due  to  the  war,  and  eventually 
cancelled. On August 8, 2001, Congo cleared all its overdue service payments to IBRD 
and IDA, paving the way for new lending.  In 2001, the World Bank reengaged in Congo 
within the context of a first Transitional Support Str
ategy (TSS, Report 21328
-
COB) 
approved by the Board in July 2001. The TSS aimed to help government:  (i) consolidate 
the home
-
grown peace process; (ii) solidify the foundation for the democratization of 
political  life;  (iii)  physically  reconstruct  the  coun
try;  and  (iv)  improve  economic 
management and transparency.   It included the following operations: (i) a Post
-
conflict 
Economic  Rehabilitation  Credit  (PERC)  for  US$37.6  million  (July  2001);  (ii)  an 
Emergency  Demobilization and Reintegration Credit for US$
5 million (July 2001) to 
assist  in  the  reintegration  of  10,000  ex
-
combatant  soldiers;    (iii)  an  Infrastructure 
Rehabilitation  and  Living  Conditions  Improvement  Credit  for  US$40  million  (April 
2002)  to  assist  in  the  rehabilitation  of  key  infrastructure;  and
  (iv)  a  Governance  and 
Transparency Capacity Building Credit for US$7 million (February 2002).  
Page  6
6
18.
A second Transitional Support Strategy was approved in September 2003 (Report 
26566
-
COB), which builds on achievements of the last three years, and has th
e overall 
objective of helping Congo escape the “conflict trap”. It focuses on four key areas:

 
Supporting  job  creation  through  growth  and  diversification 
–
through:  (i)  the 
implementation of ongoing economic reforms, (ii) the rebuilding of an adequate 
infr
astructure  network  to  ensure  connectivity  and  develop  trade  and  export 
potential,  (iii)  the  enhancing  of  education  and  professional  training,  and  (iv) 
support to rural development.

 
Helping enhance and reposition the public sector
–
 by focusing on: (i) inc
reased 
transparency in the oil sector, (ii) improved public resources management, and 
(iii) enhanced capacity.

 
Helping to mitigate short
-
 and medium
-
term risks for social environment 
-
 by 
supporting:  (i)  ongoing  demobilization  and  reintegration  efforts  f
or  former 
combatants within the Multi
-
country Demobilization and Reintegration Program 
(MDRP) framework, and (ii) the fight against HIV/AIDS.

 
Assisting in increasing resources for peace and development 
-
 by: (i) helping 
Congo to access HIPC at an early s
tage, and (ii) helping to mobilize support from 
other donors as well as the IFC and MIGA, who currently have no operations in 
Congo. 
19.
The second TSS is consistent with the I
-
PRSP.  There is a broad consensus in 
Congo  on  the  need  for  decisive  action  to
  escape  the  conflict  trap.
  Government  and 
stakeholders  met  during  the  TSS  consultation  process  and  expressed  support  for  the 
program of economic reforms currently under implementation. Operations under the TSS 
include: (i) an Emergency Recovery and Commun
ity Support Project for US$28 million  
to assist communities in smaller municipalities and rural areas (approved in June 2003); 
(ii) an HIV/AIDS Project (approved this fiscal year), (iii) an Economic Recovery Credit 
for US$30 million (the proposed operatio
n), and (iv) an education project scheduled to be 
presented to the Board in FY05.
20.
IFC has currently no investments in Congo. Participation in the development of 
an oil field has been swapped for equity in the sponsor, a South African company, and 
inve
stments in forestry have been liquidated.  New support may be available for financial 
sector restructuring, SME development, infrastructure rebuilding, and development of the 
oil sector and mining. Congo contributed to the General Capital Increase in March
 2003.  
MIGA has currently no exposure in Congo. However, investors have expressed interest in 
the power and telecommunications sector.
B.
IMF 
21.
The reform program supported by the proposed credit is coordinated  with the 
IMF’s 
Staff 
Monitored 
Program, 
w
hich 
aims 
to 
promote 
fiscal 
discipline 
and 
transparency. Since the 1990s, Congo received Fund support in the form of two Stand
-
by 
Page  7
7
arrangements (1990 and 1994), and an ESAF arrangement (1996). Congo also received 
Fund 
support 
under 
the 
Post
-
Conflict 
Emergen
cy 
Assistance 
Policy 
in 
2000.  
Performance under these programs and successive Staff Monitored Programs (SMPs) has 
generally  been  weak,  although  the  authorities  have  begun  to  implement  measure  to 
enhance transparency and governance in the oil sector as wel
l as to strengthen public 
finance management.  On this basis, a new SMP has been put in place covering the period 
January
-
June 2004.  Key objectives of the new SMP and a successor PRGF
-
supported 
program are to enhance fiscal discipline as well as transpare
ncy and governance in the oil 
sector.  Satisfactory implementation of the SMP as evidenced by good performance at 
end
-
March and end
-
June 2004 would pave the way for a PRGF arrangement.  The latter 
would also require financing assurances, including exceptio
nal treatment by creditors and 
financial  assistance  from  donors.  To  this  end,  a  donor  meeting  is  scheduled  for 
September/October 2004.
22.
A possible PRGF arrangement covering the period July 1, 2002 
–
 June 30, 2007, 
would  provide  an  opportunity  to  start  t
he  process  of  normalizing  relations  with  the 
international community.  The PRGF
-
supported program would focus on the following 
areas:

 
Ensuring transparency and governance in the oil sector; 

 
Reinforcing  the  framework  for  peace  and  social  stability  by  maki
ng  further 
progress in the participatory approach to economic reforms;

 
Ensuring  long
-
term  fiscal  sustainability  in  the  face  of  uncertain  future  oil 
revenues, and avoiding pro
-
cyclical public spending;

 
Strengthening public expenditure management and institu
tional capacity; and

 
Creating favorable conditions for private sector expansion and poverty reduction.
C.
Other donors
23.
Besides the Bank and the Fund, donor assistance has been very limited for the 
past few years, partly due to external arrears owed to
 multilateral and bilateral creditors. 
At  a  July  2003  meeting  in  Paris  chaired  by  the  World  Bank,  donors  indicated  their 
intention to support the government’s efforts to rebuild the country and reduce poverty 
under  the  PRSP.  Donors,  however,  wanted  governm
ent  to  make  further  progress  in 
democratic process, economic reforms and transparency/governance. They would also 
like to see Congo secure a PRGF arrangement by mid
-
2004, which would pave the way 
for the HIPC initiative. This process, including normalizing
 relations with the Paris Club, 
will  further  facilitate  donor  assistance  to  Congo.  A  subsequent  donor  meeting  is 
scheduled for September 2004.
Page  8
8
III.
The Proposed Credit
24.
Objectives. 
The credit is aimed at supporting the Government’s continued efforts 
t
owards stability and economic recovery, and in particular to allow for the maximization 
of resources available to that effect.  It focuses selectively on three issues which are 
central to the country’s development prospects and have been at the core of the
 efforts of 
the last years (and of the dialogue with development partners): (i) helping to improve 
management of, and transparency in the oil sector, which is a critical source of revenues; 
(ii) assisting in the design and adoption of a sound public invest
ment program, to permit 
an effective use of available resources in support of economic growth and social services 
delivery;  and  (iii)  contributing  to  the  resolution  of  the  internal  debt  issue,  both  to 
facilitate access to HIPC and to remove a critical obst
acle to private sector recovery.
25.
Design.
 The credit, in an amount of SDR 20.5 million, would be implemented 
over about18 months. It is envisaged that it could be followed by successor policy reform 
support operations. The design of the operation has b
een kept relatively simple so that the 
reform content of the credit is clear and evident. The focus of the operation takes into 
account the satisfactory business environment of Congo and the fact that other priorities 
(e.g., demobilization, education, infr
astructure, HIV/AIDS) are being pursued, or will be 
pursued, under other IDA credits. The credit would include two tranches.     
26.
The first tranche,
 in an amount of SDR 11.6 million would be made available 
upon  effectiveness,  in  recognition  of  achieve
ments  during  2001
-
03,  provided  that  the 
macroeconomic policy framework is satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators 
agreed between the Government and IDA.
27.
The second tranche,
 in  an amount of SDR 8.9  million would be disbursed to 
support acti
ons in the three key areas of oil sector governance and transparency, public 
investment, and domestic debt, provided that: (i) the macroeconomic policy framework 
continues to be satisfactory, as measured on the basis of indicators agreed between the 
Govern
ment  and  IDA,  (ii)  overall  progress  in  implementation  of  the  program  is 
satisfactory to IDA; and (iii) the following conditions  are fulfilled: 
(i)
Concerning transparency in the oil sector,
o
The  Borrower  has  furnished  to  the  Association  documentary  evidenc
e 
establishing that the Borrower has implemented the SNPC Action Plan;
(ii)
Concerning public investment
, 
The Borrower has:
o
adopted and implemented an action plan aimed at reforming and improving 
the management of investment projects to be financed o
ut the Borrower’s 
domestic revenues; 
Page  9
9
o
submitted to the Association physical and financial audit reports for public 
investment expenditures carried out by the Borrower for its FY 2004; and
o
submitted its draft public investment program for its FY 2006 and 20
07 to 
the Association for its review. 
(iii)
Concerning domestic debt,
The Borrower has furnished to the Association evidence in form and substance 
satisfactory  to  the  Association 
pursuant  to  paragraphs  24
-
35  of  the  LDP 
establishing, 
inter alia,
that:
o
the  amoun
t  of  arrears  pertaining  to  the  SDD  has  been  validated  by  the 
Borrower pursuant to procedures satisfactory to the Association.
o
a  cut
-
off  date  after  which  domestic  creditors  are  precluded  from:  (a) 
submitting  claims  to  be  included  in  the  SDD;  or  (b)  completi
ng  or 
modifying already submitted claims to be included in the SDD, has been 
published in the Borrower’s Official Gazette and the press and media of 
wide circulation in the Borrower’s territory; 
o
an agreement, has been concluded between the Borrower and it
s domestic 
creditors  representing  at least 75 percent of arrears due under the SDD, 
pertaining to a common discount factor, or discount factors, as the case may 
be, satisfactory to the Association, applicable to the entire SDD; and 
o
a commercial bank, acce
ptable to the Association, has been appointed by 
the  Borrower,  following  a  transparent  competitive  selection  process 
satisfactory  to  the  Association,  to  effect  payment  to  entitled  domestic 
creditors pursuant to the agreement set forth in the sub
-
paragraph 
above.
28.
Benefits.  
The key benefit from ERC is the increased likelihood of escaping the 
conflict trap and the improved prospects of growth and poverty reduction, through early 
access to HIPC and normalization of relations with external creditors. ERC i
s expected to 
foster progress towards these goals by:

 
Further improving transparency in the highly visible oil sector, through further 
audits of the accounts of the oil company (SNPC) and the refinery (CORAF), 
certification of costs stated by oil companie
s and of government oil revenue, and 
other measures.  While improved transparency is a virtue in itself, it will also 
contribute to checking fraud and protecting government oil revenue.  It is also 
expected to foster trust of government among the populatio
n, a key benefit in a 
post
-
conflict  environment,  while  strengthening  Government  credibility  with 
foreign partners and creditors, a key benefit in a pre
-
HIPC environment.
Page  10
10

 
Enhancing  the  quality  of  public  investment  by  making  it  more  conducive  to 
sustainable
  development,  more  pro
-
poor,  while  improving  its  execution  and 
ensuring consistency with fiscal discipline in order to keep the budget deficit at a 
sustainable level, thus increasing the likelihood of satisfactory implementation of 
the PRGF arrangement and
 access to HIPC.

 
Improving the management of public debt, and in particular of the domestic debt, 
which is key to improve business conditions and government credit, as well as to 
restore  Government’s  credibility  with  its  external  creditors  and  normalize  i
ts 
relations with them (in turn a critical element of a successful approach towards 
HIPC). 

 
Providing the Government with the financial resources needed to help reduce the 
financing gap for the economic program in 2004 and 2005, and hence increasing 
the  l
ikelihood  of  successful  implementation  of  this  program  (to  be  supported 
under the PRGF) and of an early access to HIPC.
29.
Risks.
In view of experience to date, the key existing risks to this operation are 
manageable, through arrangements that are alread
y largely in place.  These risks include:

 
Political or social instability
.  The success of the economic program supported by 
the  proposed  ERC  rests  on  the  continued  stability  of  the  political  and  social 
environment in which it is implemented.  In view of 
Congo’s recent history, the 
risk of renewed violence in localized areas cannot be entirely excluded 
–
 but, if 
contained, such violence is not expected that it would have a significant impact on 
the ERC implementation.  The risk of a fall back into conflict
 is assessed by most 
observers  as  relatively  low  in  the  short
-
term 
–
  and  is  expected  to  be  further 
reduced through implementation of the ERC
, and eventual access to HIPC.

 
Weakened  implementation  capacity
.   
A  decade  of  conflict  and  of  hiring  and 
salary fre
eze in the public sector have compromised administrative capacity and 
could  threaten  implementation  of  the  economic  program  supported  under  the 
ERC.  This risk is, however, mitigated by both the relatively simple design of the 
operation and its focus on a 
selective set of critical measures and the appointment 
of a monitoring and follow
-
up team in MEFB.  It will be further mitigated during 
implementation through intensive implementation support and the provision of 
institutional assistance as may be needed u
nder other, existing IDA credits.  It 
should  be  underlined  that  fiduciary  aspects  of  project  management  has  been 
satisfactory  to  date  on  all  Bank
-
financed  projects  since  the  re
-
engagement  in 
2001.

 
Volatility of oil prices
. 
 This is a significant risk for 
a country which derives about 
70 percent of Government revenue from oil.  Congo has benefited from high oil 
prices in recent years, but has suffered before and could suffer again from lower 
oil  prices.    This  risk,  however,  is  partly  addressed  through  the  c
hoice  of  a 
relatively short proposed implementation period of the ERC (18 months), during 
Page  11
11
which  current  forecasts  predict  a  high  probability  of  continued  relatively  high 
prices.  In any event, the Government has adopted a strategy of setting a core 
spendin
g  program  based  on  a  “normal”  oil  price,  and  a  supplemental  one, 
consisting of relatively  lower priority spending, to be implemented only  if oil 
price remains above the “normal” level for a certain period of time.

 
Difficulties on the reform path
. 
 Constit
uencies with strong vested interests in the 
current system remain active in Congo, in the public as well as the private sector.  
This  could  result  in  taking  the  adoption  of  some  key  measures  difficult,  in 
particular in the oil sector and for settling inter
nal arrears.  Experience, however, 
is encouraging as the implementation of the economic program (and in particular 
of the first phase of the oil sector action plan) is satisfactory 
–
 and as there is a 
strong  commitment  to  maintain  a  solid  economic  performa
nce  in  the  coming 
period  at  the  highest  level  of  Government.    To  mitigate  this  risk,  IDA  is 
promoting an intensive dialogue with non
-
government stakeholders, notably in 
the  area  of  transparency  in  the  oil  sector.    It  will  also  provide  intensive 
implementat
ion support as may be needed to overcome some obstacles.
Contacts:
Task Team Leader
Slaheddine Khenissi
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC 20433
Phone (202) 458
-
4727
Fax (202) 473
-
8466
Co
-
leader
Brendan Horton
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington DC 20433
Phone (202) 473
-
5587
Fax (202) 473
-
8466
For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:
(202) 458
-
5454
Fax:
(202) 522
-
1500
Web: 
http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Page  12
12
