                                                                                    47923
         Progress Report to the Board of Executive Directors
      On the Implementationof the Management's Action Plan
 InResponse to the DemocraticRepublic of Congo InspectionPanel
Investigation Report on Transitional Support for Economic Recovery
Project and the Emergency Social and Economic Reunification Project


   Summary:

         On August 31 2007, the Inspection Panel distributed its Investigation Report No.
         R2006-0001/2 to the Board which addressed compliance with Bank policies with
         respect to specific forestry sector activities in two Bank-financed projects in DRC.
         On November 19, 2007 Management submitted its Report and Recommendations in
         response to the Inspection panel's Investigation Report. Chapter V o f the
         Management Report contained an Action Plan proposed to follow up on the Panel's
         findings.

         On January 9, 2008, the Board discussed the Inspection Panel Investigation Report
         and Management's Report, endorsed the Action Plan proposed by management and
         asked that Management report back on the progress with implementation of this
         Action Plan after one year.

         The present report is aimed at providing information to the Board regarding the
         progress in implementing the Action Plan proposed by Management. The Action
         Plan i s first presented inmatrix form, and then an explanation i s provided o f progress
         under the four main action areas.

         Agreed actions are grouped aroundfour major themes: (i)improving and scaling
         up work inthe region on safeguards and sound environmental and social design and
         implementation o f the portfolio; (ii)scaling up the work on indigenous peoples in
         DRC (Democratic Republic o f Congo) and ensuring that the relevant safeguards are
         appropriately triggered; (iii)supporting the forest policy reform agenda in DRC, and
         scaling up the forestry work; and (iv) improving outreach and communications.

         Regarding safeguards, the work has been scaled up and given higher profile. The
         Region is moving towards the "triple bottom line" o f economic, social and
         environmental sustainability. Progress has been made and further progress i s planned
         through decentralization o f staff in charge o f safeguards, safeguard training for Task
         Team Leaders, country environment and social clinics and the use of lending to
         strengthencountries' environmental and social management capacity.

         Regarding indigenous peoples in DRC, work has started, with the government,
         development partners and key stakeholders, on a "Pygmy Development Strategy". Its
         aims are to analyze factors which threaten the cultural identity o f Pygmy populations
         and contribute to their impoverishment, and develop a set o f proposed actions to
         mitigate them. The study would seek to provide an informed basis on which a
         national and longer-term strategy would be developed by the Government in 2010.
         The Indigenous Peoples and Cultural Property safeguards have been triggered as
         appropriate in the portfolio and plans prepared; where implementation has been



                                             i

       constrained this has been, as with other aspects o f the portfolio, because of security
       issues and the practical difficulties o f working inremote areas.

(vii)  Regarding forestry, government has continued to pursue a courageous reform
       agenda, moving towards a more modern approach to forest management supporting a
       mosaic o f different uses. It has completed a legal review o f concessions which has
       resulted in a dramatic reduction in the area o f forest under concession management,
       from 43.5 million ha in 2002 to 9.7 million ha in 2008. Other reforms include the
       following: support for community based forest management; respecting the rights of
       traditional users; developing innovative ecosystem services models; and ensuring
       community participation and consultation in all decision making processes related to
       forest management. Development partners have remained engaged, and the Bank i s
       scaling up its support, focusing on capacity building, community forest management
       and conservation, with an assistance package o f US$ 77 million planned for Board
       Approval in FY 09. It must be recognized however that building capacity to realize
       these reforms on the ground i s a longterm endeavor.

(viii) Regarding outreach and communications, the Bank has scaled up its work both
       outside and especially inside DRC. Four meetings were held with Indigenous groups
       to discuss the IP Action Plan; five radio interviews, a 45 minute television broadcast,
       three forest mission debriefing with Indigenous representatives as well as various
       briefings and interviews with journalists were organized in 2008. In addition, 15
       sessions were held to discuss the design o f the upcoming Bank-assisted forest and
       nature conservation project with local people from the project area. 215
       representatives o f Pygmy populations participated in these meetings between April
       and December 2008.

(ix)   Work i s inprogress and well embedded inthe Country Program. The following pages
       provide details.




                                           ..
                                           11

                         Action PlanandImplementationProgressSummary

    ISSUE ASDRESPOSSIBLE
                       ACllOS                       UNIT(S)    I1 VIEFRAME           PROGRESS
            ,VEL.
SAFEGUARDS     Continue to strengthen safeguards quality          Ongoing  Safeguards strengthened
               control across the AFR portfolio to ensure                  with recruitment and
               that: (i)   projects are properly classified and            decentralization: 9 EA and 4
               relevant Operational Policies are triggered; (ii)           SA staff now incountry
               EAs and other safeguard instruments are                     offices; 3 additional SA staff
               prepared on time, including for emergency                   recruited. Further
               operations; and (iii)    implementation o f                 decentralizations planned.
               safeguard instruments is adequately
               monitored. (AFTEN/AFTCS/AFTQK).                    Ongoing  Regional Safeguards portfolio
               Inparticular:                                               reviews and 4 country-
                  1     Ensure Task Team Leaders are                       specific reviews conducted
                        adequately trained insafeguards
                  1     Review the AFR portfolio.                          Highriskproiects reviewed
                                                                           quarterly by senior
                                                                           management, with senior
                                                                           safeguards staff assigned to
                                                                           them
                                                                           Safeguards training provided
                                                                           to TTLs and managers

              t . E l .

[NDIGENOUS     Integrate Indigenous Peoples as a cross-           FY08     Economic and Sector Work
PEOPLES       cutting theme across the Bank's activities in       onwards  (ESW) is being prepared to
              DRC (AFTCSIAFCC2). In particular, the                        outline a national
              Bank will:                                                   development strategy for the
                        Analyze the current situation o f                  Pygmies inDRC and
                        vulnerable groups inDRC, including                 highlight their needs inthe
                        Pygmies, and draw and disseminate                  context o f the PRSP.
                        lessons from ongoing efforts to reach
                        and support them with: (i)  the Social    FY08     All infrastructure, forest,
                        Fundin-terms o faccessto education,       onwards  agriculture and other relevant
                        health andrural infiastructure; (ii)the            proiects under preparation
                        Indigenous Peoples Plan o fthe                     and supervision are
                        Emergency Recovery Project; and (iii)              integrating the Indigenous
                        the dialogue with Indigenous Peoples in            Peoples policy and other
                        the context o fthe forest reformagenda.            safeguards, as appropriate.
                        Ensure upcoming Road, Agriculture and
                        Forest Projects will include capacity
                        buildingcomponents to strengthen social
                        safeguards and implement Indigenous
                        Peoples Frameworks.
                        Dialogue with Government on ways to
                        address the special needs o f Indigenous  FY08     An IndigenousPeoples
                        Peoples groups inthe framework o fthe     onwards  strategy designed in
                        PRSP.                                              collaboration with key
                        Based on the above actions, discuss and            stakeholders is expectedto be
                        agree with Government and other donors             ready for consideration by
                        on measures to further strengthen                  Government in2010.
                        development o f Indigenous Peoples in
                        DRC.                 -




                                                          ...
                                                          111

FORESTS  Stay engaged inthe DRC forest sector.          Ongoing
         Continue to monitor the Legal Review and the 2008
         moratorium and assist the Government to help
         ensure compliance with the 2005 Presidential
         Decree; continue to mobilize attention o fthe
         highest level o fgovernment, and ensure that
         forest governance benchmarks feature in
         possible future policy lending or similar
         instruments (AFTEN/AFCC2). Inparticular,
         the Bankwill:
          =
          ..   Continue to provide advice on the Legal            Legal Review completed and
              Review and follow-on steps                          follow up provided
              Continue to support and monitor
              progress on five TSERO indicators                   TSERO indicators monitored
              Agree with Government on key                        successfully
              benchmarks and policy instrument          CAS
          Ensure that capacity-building, participatory  approval  Key benchmarks and policy
          zoning, customary rights, critical natural    September instruments agreed
          habitats, and law enforcement, and            2008
          independent monitoring feature in             September
          forthcoming forest-related operations.        2008
          Include provisions to help provide equal
          .
          opportunities to Indigenous Peoples.
          (AFTEN). Inparticular:
              Include inFY08-10 CAS a forest sector     December  Forest Operation included in
              project                                   2007      CAS
              Launch GEF Grant for national parks                 GEF grant for national parks
              Launch Multi-Donor Trust Fundfor                    negotiated inDecember 2008.
              Forest Governance                                   Multidonor Trust Fund
          Continue to foster high-level public debate             signed
          on alternative uses and innovative models,              Chatham House events held
          .
          andto stimulate Government's commitment                 inLondon, December
          and donors' interest. Inparticular:                     2007and Kinshasa, June
              Help organize a Chatham House                       2008)
              Meeting on innovative uses                          DRC accessed FCPF inJuly
          .   Help the DRC access the new Forest                  2008
              Carbon Partnership Facility (FCPF)                  Support for conservation
              Help pilot conservation concessions in              concessions included inIDA-
              DRC.                                                GEF Forest andNature
                                                                  Conservation project.
OUTREACH Continue to implement the Congo/Forest         Ongoing   Disseminationand more
         communication strategy, with media, civil      2008      outreach work completed in
         society and donors, in-country and                       2008:Four meetings to
         internationally. Mainstream forests inBank's             discuss the action planand 15
         core communication and high-levelevents                  sessions to discuss the new
         (AFREX/AFTEN). Inparticular:
          .                                             Ongoing   Bank-assisted forest and
              Disseminate the multi-author `Forests in 2007       nature conservation program
              Post-Conflict DRC'                                  held with Pygmy
          .
          1   Implement a strengthened outreach                   representatives. Material
              strategy, and update annually                       disseminated local languages;
              Conduct targeted meetings with Pygmy                several radio, television and
              communities and their representatives to            press media events organized
              discuss forest issues.                              Facilitatedparticipationo f
                                                                  Pygmy groups inthe Legal
                                                                  Review.


                                                iv

                         Progress Reporton the Management
                                            Action Plan


Section 1: Safeguards.


          Continueto strengthensafeguards quality control across the AFR portfolioto ensure that: (i)
          projects are properly classified and relevant OperationalPolicies are triggered; (ii) and
                                                                                             EAs
          other safeguard instruments are prepared on time, including for emergency operations; and
          (iii)implementationof safeguardinstrumentsis adequately monitored;
          Inparticular,ensure Task TeamLeadersare adequatelytrainedinsafeguards;
          Review the AFR portfolio.



        Strengtheningsafeguard work

 1.1.   A QAG review o f the quality o f environmental and social aspects of the portfolio was
conducted, covering the period 2005 to December 2007. It concluded that overall the quality of
the Africa Region's safeguards work during preparation is comparable with other regions.
Projects are appropriately classified. However, the costs o f environmental and social management
and mitigation plans were not always adequately integrated into detailed project design.
Furthermore, there were weaknesses in supervision and monitoring during this period.
Supervision missions were not adequately staffed and environmental and social issues have
frequently not been adequately addressed. It thus confirmed that there is a need to strengthen the
attention and resources that are given to the safeguard oversight function in Africa, especially
duringproject implementation.

1.2.    In2008, the regionconducteda deskreview oftwenty-seven emergency operations under
implementation and found particular difficulties in ensuring adequate safeguard supervision
during implementation.

1.3.    The region has undertaken a number o f significant measures to address these issues.

        Monitoringsafeguards work

1.4.    The region has established a systematic management review process for projects which
are classified as corporate risk for environmental and social issues. The most experienced social
and environment staff have been assigned to these projects. Meetings are held quarterly to discuss
progress with action plans for addressing social and environmental risks, and the Regional vice-
President herself chairs every alternate meeting. Country-specific portfolio reviews have also
been undertaken (in Cote-d'Ivoire, South Sudan, Ghana and Uganda) and others are planned for
DRC and Tanzania. A concept note laying out the key aspects o f the DRC portfolio safeguard
review has been prepared. The review i s expected to take place in the last quarter o f FY09 and
involve Congolese officials and others who have been dealing with environmental and social
management issues inWorld Bank-supported projects and senior World Bank safeguards staff.




                                                    1

         Strengtheningenvironmental and socialassessment

 1.5.    The Africa Region has scaled up and decentralized its safeguards staff since the
Inspection Panel case started, and in particular over the last 12 months. Recognizing the
importance o f environmental and social assessment and safeguards work, the Region has created
two lead positions, for a lead environment and lead social safeguard specialist respectively. Both
positions are filled. An environmental assessment specialist and a social safeguards specialist
have been appointed to the Kinshasa country office, with particular responsibility for safeguards
oversight in DRC; the environment specialist relocated to Kinshasa in September 2008 and the
social safeguards specialist i s scheduled to moveto Kinshasa inApril 2009.

 1.6.    Over the last 12 months the number o f country offices with staff spending a substantial
portion o f their time on environmental safeguards has increased from three to nine (Abidjan,
Abuja, Yaounde, Kinshasa, Lilongwe, Pretoria, Tananarive, Dar Es.Salaam and Kampala). Three
additional social safeguards staff have been recruited and, in line with the Region's overall
decentralization strategy, during FY 09 internationally recruited social safeguards staff will be
based in Abidjan, Addis Ababa, Dar Es Salaam, and Kinshasa. Staff have been given more
specific country assignments in recognition o f the importance o f the institutional and cultural
context o f specific counties. Furtherdecentralizations are planned over the comingyear.

 1.7.    Safeguards training for Task Team Leaders (TTLs) continues to be regularly offered.
Safeguards training targeted at managers and sector leaders was offered inFebruary 2008.

1.8.     Recognizing that country capacity i s equally important to ensuring adequate
environmental and social assessment and safeguard oversight, country environment and social
clinics are taking place, where project authorities work with Bank staff in problem-solving and
sharing lessons on portfolio oversight. Based on the positive experience o f such exercises in
Mozambique, Ghana, Nigeria, Mali, Kenya, Ethiopia and Senegal, special safeguard training
sessions with Senior World Bank specialists will be held inKinshasa inMarch 2009 as part o f the
o f the County Portfolio Performance Review.

1.9.     Some support i s being provided in strengthening country environmental and social
management capacity through lending (eg. in Uganda, Cameroon, Ghana and Madagascar). The
Region will do more, however, to build country capacity in this area as part o f its broader
programs to strengthen public sector management and manage the risks associated with
investments across all sectors. Environmental and social staff are increasingly involved early in
project preparation, so that project design incorporates sound environmental and social measures.
More still needs to be done to mainstream "good" environment and social design elements into
projects (the "triple bottom line"),      rather than simply to "mitigating harm" (addressing
safeguards), but there i s solid progress.




                                                  2

Section 2: Indigenous Peoples
    .   IntegrateIndigenousPeoples as across-cuttingtheme across the Bank's activities inDRC
        (AFTCWAFCC2). Inparticular, the Bank will:
    1    Analyze the current situation of vulnerable groups in DRC, including Pygmies, and draw and
         disseminate lessons from ongoing efforts to reach and support them with: (i)    the Social Fund in-
         terms of access to education, health and rural infrastructure; (ii)the Indigenous Peoples Plan of the
         Emergency Recovery Project; and (iii) dialogue with Indigenous Peoples in the context of the
    .                                           the
         forest reform agenda;
         Ensure upcoming Road, Agriculture and Forest Projects will include capacity building components
         to strengthensocial safeguards and implementIndigenousPeoplesFrameworks;
    .
    .    Dialogue with Governmenton ways to address the special needs of IndigenousPeoplesgroups inthe
         framework ofthe PRSP;
         Based on the above actions, discuss and agree with Government and other donors on measures to
         further strengthendevelopmentofIndigenousPeoplesinDRC.



          Economic andSector Work on DRCPygmy populations

2.1.      In order to support the Government in addressing development issues confronting
Indigenous communities from a more comprehensive perspective, the Bank has initiated formal
Economic and Sector Work (ESW), namely a "Pygmy Development Strategy" to be completed in
early FY10. The aims o f the study are to identify and analyze factors which directly and
indirectly threaten the cultural identity of Pygmy populations and contribute to their
impoverishment and marginalization, and to propose a set o f actions to mitigate them. The study
will seek to provide an informed basis on which a national and longer-term strategy would be
developed by the Government. The study will analyze the experience and draw lessons from
ongoing projects and IPDPs (Indigenous Peoples' Development Plans) to reach and support the
development o f Pygmy communities.

2.2.      More specifically, the study aims to:


      0   Identify and propose supportive measures to the Government, the Bank and other donors,
          including specific institutional arrangements, policies and capacity building for local
          Pygmy-led organizations and for government agencies working with Pygmy populations.
          The data and information collected, as well as the policy and institutional
          recommendations, could form the basis for a National Development Program for the
          Pygmies which would need to be developed and validated by the Government with
          donor-support; and
      0   Provide a reference document and baseline to be used, as needed, by Bank and donor-
          funded projects to prepare and monitor documented and well-informed IPDPs, thus
          avoiding a fragmented and, often, uncoordinated project-by-project approach; to support
         Pygmy development.

2.3.     The dialogue with Government, as well as other stakeholders, on ways to address the
special needs of Pygmy communities is taking place in the context o f the ongoing ESW. An
initial participatory consultation and information-sharing workshop was held on June 27-28, 2008
in Kinshasa, with the participation o f Pygmy-led NGOs, government officials, donors and
international observers. On the basis o f this initial consultation and discussion, a preliminary set
o f issues was identified:




                                                       3

    0    Citizenship and registration;
    0    Access to health services, education, potable water and sanitation;
    0    Access to land, agriculture and livestock;
    0    Environmental protection and forest zoning;
    0    Pygmy leadership capacity;
    0    Improvement o f housing and quality o f life; and
    0    Sensitization o f the public authorities (nationally, regionally and locally) to Pygmy-
         related issues.

2.4.     In DRC, an estimated 450,000 to 600,000 Pygmies live in 9 provinces (out of ll),         with
considerable variation by province, thus requiring approaches which are appropriately targeted
and take into account differences by province. To this end, the study aims to capture key
differences and priorities through an additional data collection effort in the 9 provinces with
Pygmy populations. The data collection, currently underway, i s being carried out in a
participatory manner by qualified Pygmy NGOs and NGOs working with Pygmy communities.
Before completion, the ESW will be discussed and incorporate feedback from a national
validation workshop to be held in Kinshasa in FY09. Participants will include Pygmy
representatives, NGOs, donors, government officials and independent observers. Discussion and
validation o f the ESW will provide a framework to seek agreement with Government and other
donors on an overall strategy and specific measures to strengthen development o f Indigenous
Peoples inDRC.

        Improvedportfolio management

2.5.     The World Bank has triggered the safeguard policy on Indigenous Peoples (OPBP 4.10)'
when implementing development activities in areas where Pygmy populations are present. In
such cases, Indigenous Peoples' Development Plans (IPDPs) or frameworks have been prepared
as appropriate. Since 2004, Bank staff have regularly met with Pygmygroups and representatives.

2.6.     To date, six major projects have triggered OP/BP 4.10 for which mitigation measures
have been identified and prepared. These projects are: ESAP (Emergency Social Action Project);
PUSPRES (Emergency Economic and Social reunification project), PUAACV (Emergency
Living Conditions Improvement project),               ESAP (Emergency        Social Action Project),
PROROUTES, FNCP (Forest and Nature Conservation Project) and ARCSP (Agricultural
Rehabilitation and Recovery Support Project). ESAP, PUSPRES and PUAACV are under
implementation, PROROUTEShas been launched inDecember 2008, and the FNCP and ARCSP
are under preparation.

2.7.    ESAP (Emernencv Social Action Project). This US$60 million project was approved in
August 2004 withthe objective to improve access ofthe poor to social and economic services and
increase the availability and management o f development resources at the community level. The
project uses an Environmental and Social Management Framework to screen community micro-
projects and an Indigenous Peoples Development Plan, including a program for ensuring the
Pygmy populations benefit from project activities. The project's strategy to support Pygmy
communities consists o f a) a series o f outreach activities to inform pygmy communities about the
project and help develop proposals for micro projects that would benefit them; and b) promote the

1 The IndigenousPeoplesOP providesguidelines on IndigenousPeoplesas a distinct, vulnerable, social
and cultural group possessingcertain characteristics invarying degrees. The Bank provides project
financingonly where free, prior, and informed consultationresults inbroad community support to the
projectby the affectedIndigenousPeoples.


                                                     4

inclusion o f pygmy communities as beneficiaries o f activities such as schools and clinics
proposedby non-pygmy communities inthe same area.

2.8.     PUSPRES (Emergency Economic and Social Reunification Project) and PUAACV
(Emergency Living Conditions Im-provement Project): These two projects, totaling US$296
millionare taking steps to strengthen mitigationmeasuresrelated to indigenous peoples.

2.9.     PUSPRES, approved in 2003, was one o f the projects subject to the Inspection Panel and
included balance o f payments support, and support for institutional strengthening, infrastructure
rehabilitation, urban rehabilitation and community empowerment. An Action Plan has been
prepared by the implementing agency UCOP (Unite de Coordination de Projet) with support from
the World Bank. The Action Plan i s structured around five main components: (i)       citizenship; (ii)
income enhancement; (iii)education; (iv) health and other basic social services; and (v)
sensitization campaigns. At the request o f Pygmy groups and NGOs working with Pygmy
communities, the rehabilitation o f an additional road (Niania-PK68-Isiro) was added to the
Action Plan, and US$930,000 was allocated to finance implementation following project
restructuring.

2.10.     The implementation o f the Action Plan was initially delayed due implementation
difficulties and the withdrawal o f the localNGOwhich was expected to facilitate the entire action
plan. Since then, responsibility for implementation has been divided among three different local
NGOsthat were consequently recruited. These NGOsare respectively incharge for: i)improving
the citizenship status and living conditions o f Pygmy's communities; ii)supervising and
monitoringthe Niania-PK68-Isiro road works; and iii)facilitating health and education activities,
access to other basic services, housing, agriculture and income generation. Implementation o f the
Action has started and i s being monitored monthly by the UCOP.

2.I1.    PUAACJ? approved in2005 with an IDA grant o fUS$ 82 million, aims to improve living
conditions in key urban centers and two isolated areas, and to improve transport links. The project
includes a Pygmy Action plan, prepared in consultation with local groups, to address the concerns
o f indigenous peoples relatedto the project.

2.12.    High Prioritv Roads Reopening and Maintenance Project (PROROUTES): This is a
US$123.0 million project financed by DFID (US$73 million) and IDA (US$50 approved in May
2008). Its objective i s to re-establish lasting access between provincial capitals, districts and
territories inthree provinces ina way that i s sustainable for people and the natural environment in
the project's areas. OPs on environmental assessment, critical natural habitats, Indigenous
Peoples, physical cultural resources, involuntary resettlement, and forestry (4.01,4.04, 4.10,4.11,
4.12, and 4.36) were triggered. An ESMF (environmental and social management framework),
RPF (resettlement process framework) and the IPDF (Indigenous Peoples Development
Framework) were disclosed in September 2007 in six locations in DRC and the ESIA for one of
the itineraries to be reopened was disclosed in February 2008. An independent NGO will assist
the Bank with project implementation and make public the results o f its reports. The project
includes an environmental and social program (US$18.7 million) whose objective is to support
participatory land use planning and local livelihoods initiatives in the vicinity o f the roads to be
rehabilitated, as well as improved protected areas management. It includes specific measures to
support pygmy groups and an HIV/AIDS prevention campaign. The recruitment o f the consulting
firm, to be assisted byNGOs, incharge ofthe environmentaland social program is underway.

2.13.    FNCP (Forest and Nature Conservation Project): The project is under preparation and
includes an IDA grant o f US$64 million and a GEF grant o f US$6 million. Its objectives are to


                                                  5

increase the capacity o f the Ministry o f Environment, Conservation and Tourism and
collaboration among government institutions, civil society and other stakeholders in order to
manage forests sustainably and equitably for multiple uses in selected pilot areas o f DRC. The
operation has triggered OPs 4.01, 4.04, 4.10, 4.11. 4.12, and 4.36, and includes preparation of
process framework documents covering all these OPs. Disclosure o f the social environmental
safeguard documentation started inKisangani on November 10,2008 and continued untilJanuary
6, 2009 covering Kinshasa and 16 additional locations throughout DRC. Summaries o f the
documentation inLingala, Swahili, Tshiluba and Kikongo, as well as inFrench and Englishwere
presented and distributed to local and Indigenous populations. National and local radio stations
were also used for enhanced outreach. Project design includes support for local livelihoods
initiatives and participatory forest management and conservation. A GEF-supported National
Parks project (US$7million) that supports rehabilitation o f three national parks has been
negotiatedand includes similar policies and measures.

2.14.    ARCS (Agricultural Rehabilitation and Recovery Support Project). This FY10.US$120
million IDA grant i s to increase agricultural productivity and help small farmers to improve
processing and marketing o f crops, fish and animal products i s selected areas. OPBPs 4.01; 4.10;
4.12; and OP 4.09 (pest management), have been triggered including the preparation of process
framework documents covering all these OPs. Three reports (Environmental and Social Impact
Management Framework; Pesticide Management Plan; Involuntary Resettlement Policy
Framework) have already been prepared. An Indigenous Peoples Action Plan i s currently being
completed. Disclosure o f environmental and documents is expected inthe coming months.




                                                6

Section 3: Forests



           Stay engaged in the DRC forest sector. Continue to monitor the Legal Review and the
  moratorium and assist the Government to help ensure compliance with the 2005 Presidential Decree;
  continue to mobilize attention of the highest level of government, and ensure that forest governance
  benchmarks feature in possible future policy lending or similar instruments (AFTEN/AFCC2). In
  particular,the Bank will:

   ..  Continue to provide advice on the Legal Reviewand follow-on steps;
       Continueto support and monitor progress on five TSERO indicators;
       Agree with Governmentonkey benchmarksandpolicy instrument
       Ensure that capacity-building, participatory zoning, customaryrights, criticalnaturalhabitats, and
       law enforcement, and independent monitoring feature in forthcoming forest-related operations.
       Include provisions to help provide equal opportunities to Indigenous Peoples. (AFTEN). In
       particular:'
   ...
   m   Include inFY08-10 CAS a forest sector project
       LaunchGEF Grant for national parks
       LaunchMulti-Donor Trust Fund for Forest Governance
       Continue to foster high-level public debate on alternative uses and innovative models, and to
   ... stimulate Government's commitmentand donors' interest. Inparticular:

       Help organize aChatham House Meeting on innovativeuses
       Help the DRC access the new Forest Carbon Partnership Facility
       Help pilot conservationconcessions inDRC.



        TheLegal Review andfollow-up steps

3.1.    The Bank continued to provide advice on the Legal Review, which was completed
successfully on January 19, 2009 when the Minister announced publicly the results o f the review
and appeal stages o f the process, and signed individual letters notifying the results to concerned
companies.

3.2.    The Legal Review involved 37 months o f work by a national Technical Working Group,
(TWG) assisted by a Consultant (World Resources Institute inpartnership with Agreco) with the
dual role o f providing (1) initial technical assistance and subsequently (2) acting as Independent
Observerto certify that the review was conducted inline with current laws and regulations.

3.3.The TWG analyzed 156 requests converting logging permits into long term concessions a
total area o f 22.4 million hectares. The TWG recommendations were reviewed by an
Interministerial Commission that included 21permanent members representing the President and
Prime Minister o f DRC; the ministries in charge o f Forests, Justice, Finance, Budget, Planning,
and Industry; the Federation o f Timber Industries; a federation o f national NGOs; and a
federation o f national NGOs dedicated to the cause o f indigenous peoples. The Interministerial
Commission also included one representative per forest title for each o f local and Pygmy
populations living near each logging concession to be examined. A total o f 153 representatives
covering 155 titles, were chosen by the communities with the aid o f a national NGO o f whom 133
(116 from the local populations and 17 from the Indigenous Peoples) were able to come to
Kinshasa and collaborate with the CI. Of those 133, 17 were able to participate in the plenary



                                                     7

sessions to decide o f the conversion or not o f the titles, and all were provided the opportunity to
express their views which were consigned inthe title files.

3.4.     Information on the review was disclosed by the Ministry o f Forests at all stages of the
process. As part o f a significant drive towards improved transparency in the forest sector, at the
end o f both the review and appeal stages, the Minister provided detailed explanations on the
process followed and the criteria used for examining and determining the legality o f the forest
titles. Reports on the review were published periodically by the WRI-AGRECO consortium in its
capacity o f Independent Observer to the Review. Information on the review was also posted on
Internet sites maintained by the World Resources Institute, the International Union for
Conservation o f Nature (IUCN), andthe Central Africa Region Program for the Environment.

3.5.     Out o f 156 requests, only 65 were found eligible for conversion. Provided that all
companies will be able to successfully negotiate social and environmental responsibility
agreements with local and indigenous populations, the area to be converted to long term forest
management concessions in DRC will be 9.7 million hectares, a dramatic decline from the 43.5
millionhectares prior to the 2002 forest reform and the 22.4 million hectares prior to the Review.

3.6.     The review and appeal stages ofthe LegalReviewhave been certified bythe Independent
Observer which found that both had been carried out objectively, impartially and equitably, and
inlinewith prevailing laws andregulations.

         Monitoring TSEROIndicators

3.7.     The Bank has continued to work with the Government on monitoring the five
Transitional Support for Economic Recovery Operations (TSERO) indicators. The first indicator
dealt with the Legal Review, progress o f which i s described above. The fifth indicator dealt with
the implementation o f the Forest Code's provision that 40% of area taxes be ploughed back into
development o f localities where forests were utilized. Implementation i s still pending because
this provision intersects with a constitutional provision (the Constitution was passed after the
Forest Code) and modalities o f implementation are still under discussion. The forthcoming Bank-
financed IDA-GEF Forest and Nature Conservation Project will help the Government accelerate
resolution o fthis issue. As to the remaining three indicators, the situation i s as follows:

         The moratorium. N o cases o f breach o fthe moratorium were observedby the Bank since
         January 2008 when the Board discussed the Management Report. In a statement
         pronounced during a press conference on October 6, the Minister clarified that the
         moratorium on new forestry concessions would be maintained according to the
         conditions set forth inPresidential Decree 05/116 (including the participatory planning of
         concessions to be allocated duringa three year period).

        Independent Monitoring The Government o fDRC hired Global Witness (GW) from July
         19to October 11,2007 to learn more about independent monitoring and test its relevance
        to DRC conditions. GW helped assess control procedures and operations, assisted
        national teams incontrol missions, provided technical expertise, documented infractions
         and ascertained whether controls were consistent with prevailing laws and regulations.
         While the mission revealedthat legal and administrative instrumentsand implementation
        arrangements were inadequate to protect DRC's forests from illegal logging, the test was
        sufficient to convince the Government o f the usefulness o f Independent Monitoring.
        Based on this experience, the Government hasjust initiated a competitive process to
        recruit a long term assistance to act as third-party observer ("International Observer") and


                                                  8

            participate inthe control o f commercial forest operations. Pending commencement of
            this long-term contract, the Government has requested Global Witness to undertake a
            second mission (four months) to follow up on cases needing attention inthe aftermath of
            the Legal Review. The terms of reference for this mission are still being discussed
            between the Government and Global Witness.

            Production of regulations to implement the Forest Code. . Of the forty-two regulations
            deemed necessary to implement the 2002 Forest Code, twenty-five have been published
            and nine are under various stages of development. Of the remaining eight, four require
            additional studies, one was found outside the field of competence of the MECNT, and
            three depend on future policy developments. The MECNT has also prepared a new
            Framework Law on Nature Conservation and a n e w Environmental Law. Adoption o f
            both is expectedto take place at the next parliamentary session inMarch 2009.

           Agreement on key benchmarks andpolicy instruments

3.8.        A fruitfuldialogue on policies and benchmarks, conducted with the Ministry incharge of
Forests, culminated in a 14-point list of the next steps in forest sector reform. This list was
announced to the public at a press conference held on October 6, 2008 to which relevant
Government Departments, the ambassadors of countries represented in DRC, bilateral and
multilateral development agencies, national and international N G O s and civil society groups as
w e l l as the national and international press had been invited (see box below).



                Next steps in the forest sector reform processannounced on October 6,2008

  e      Cancel noncompliant contracts immediately after the appeal stage;
  e      Sign new concession contracts with compliant companies, provided that they receive approval from
         local and/or Pygmy populations for the social and environmental responsibility contract (cahier des
         charges),which is an essential component o fthe new concession contract;
  e      Sign the regulation specifically defining how noncompliant concessions will be cancelled on the
        ground;
  e      Support and monitor the process through which local and indigenous communities negotiate social
        and environmental responsibility contracts with the forest industry;
  @     Maintain the moratorium on new forestry concessions set forth in Presidential Decree 051116;
  @     Establish effective control o f forest operations with the support o f international thirdparties;
  e     Transfer 40 percent o f area tax revenues to the provinces and territories (sub districts) where
        commercial forest operations take place.
  e     Secure the preparation and implementation o f sustainable forest management plans for all forest
        concessions;
  e     Implement participatory, multipurpose forest zoning inclose consultation with local populations;
  e     Support small, family-based enterprises inforest areas;
  e     Expandrehabilitationactivities inprotected areas;
  @     Implement institutional reform in the Ministry o f Forests, Nature Conservation, and the
        Environment, including reorganization o f the institutions under its responsibility: the Congolese
        Institutefor Nature Conservation (ICCN), the KinshasaBotanical Garden, and the Zoo;
  e     Scale up efforts to disseminate the Forest Code and foster the adoption o f regulations not yet
        adopted;
  0     Start the national multidonor program for Forest and Nature Conservation (Programme National
        For& et Conservation, PNFoCO).
                                            ~




                                                         9

3.9.     Significant progress has been made since October 6, 2008 when the above agenda was
announced to the public: the appeal stage o f the review was completed successfully. The final
results of the Review (including appeals) were announced in a public event held on January 19,
2009 with participation o f the Donor Community, national and international NGOs, civil society
groups as well as the national and international press. Ninety-nine out o f 165 initially claimed
logging contracts were declared ineligible for conversion to long term concessions and their
holders were formally notified. The regulation defining how the decision to cancel logging
permits will be implemented on the ground including provisions to effectively halt logging in
cancelled permits was signed on January 30, 2009. The preparation o f the Forest and Nature
Conservation Program National (PNFoCo) was completed. This program i s grounded to a
comprehensive strategic environmental assessment and a set o f safeguard related instruments
including i)Environmental and Social Management Framework, ii)Resettlement Policy
Framework, iii)Indigenous People Policy Framework; iv) Process Framework; and v) Cultural
Resources Management Framework. The US$70.0 million IDA-GEF project that supports this
national program was appraised by the Bank and negotiations were completed on February 12,
2009.

         Measures related to Bankfinancedforest operations andforest management

3.10.     Bank-managed operations under preparation in DRC demonstrate the Bank's strong
commitment to the sustainable forest management and to strengthening the contribution that
forests make to poverty alleviation. Bank support has also been adopted by the Government as the
backbone of a broader, multidonor national forest and nature conservation program (PNFoCo).
Other important donors to this program include the European Union, the African Development
Bank, the UK, France, Belgium, and Germany. The Bank and GEF operations are ready for final
preparation and Board approval. The Bank-managed operations include:

3.11.    Forest and Nature Conservation Project (IDA/GEF, US$ 70 million). The objective o f
the project is to increase the capacity of the Ministry of Forests and Nature Conservation
(MECNT) and improve collaboration among government institutions, civil society, local
communities and other stakeholders to manage forests sustainably and equitably for multiple uses
in selected pilot areas o f DRC (see also Para 2.12 above). Negotiations have been completed on
February 12 and Bank Approval is planned for March 2009.

3.12.    Rehabilitation of National Parks Network (GEF9 US$ 7 million). The objective o f the
project i s to improve management o f selected protected areas and strengthen the capacity o f the
Congolese Institute for Nature (ICCN). Negotiations are completed and Bank Approval i s
planned for early CY 2009.

3.13.    Multidonor Trust Fund for Forest Governance (Eli: Belgium, UK, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Germany, and France, US$ 7.0 Million2). The objective of the Trust Fund is to
strengthen forest sector governance. Support is provided for the following activities among
others: third-party (Independent Observer) participation in forest control operations, enactment
and oversight o f new legal instruments, establishment o f log-tracking systems, and assistance to
forest communities so that they can take advantage o f the new provisions o f the Forest Code in
their favor.




* Dollarvalue is beingreduced due variation of exchange rate against the Euro and UKPound.


                                                        10

3.14.    Carbon Sink Project (Ibi-Bateke). (Bio Carbon Fund US$ 2 million). The objective of
the project is to produce environmental services through carbon sequestration and social benefits
on 4200 ha o f degraded lands.

3.15     Readiness Plan for Reducina Emissions fiom Deforestation (REDD) Plan. Support is
structured intwo stages. The first (US$200,000 already approved) will finance the preparation o f
the readiness plan. The second (US$ 3.4 million to be approved following acceptance of the
readiness plan Forest Carbon PartnershipFacility Committee) will finance the implementation of
the plan including capacity building; technical assistance for forest cover monitoring and the
buildinga legal framework to regulate REDDactivities inthe country.

         Promotion of alternativeforest uses and innovative management models.

3.16.    Help organize the Chatham House meetinEs on Innovative Uses. The Bank helped to
organize and participated in the Chatham House meetings on innovative uses in London on
December 17 and 18, 2007 and in Kinshasa on June 23 and 24, 2008. The Bank's senior
safeguard advisor led the Bank team at the London meeting and the Country director for DRC
and the Republic o f Congo ledthe bank team at the Kinshasa meeting.

3.17.    The Bank facilitated DRC's access to the new Forest Carbon Partnership Facility, which
was formally granted in July 2008. The Bank will also pilot alternative uses o f forests including
conservation concessions through the proposed Forest and Nature Conservation project, which
allocated US$ 4 millionfor this purpose.

Framing expectations in the forest sector

3.18     The above operations are expected to create the minimum conditions for principled
access to and use o f forest resources -that    benefits local populations, respects both modern and
traditional rights o f forest dwellers and indigenous people, benefits the environment locally and
globally, and forestalls the large-scale misappropriation or misuse o f forests. The impact o f these
operations will not be felt instantly. They are part o f a broader and longer-term agenda aimed at
counteracting poverty, insecurity, and civil conflict, which are the major drivers o f forest
degradation in DRC. In this sense, sustainable forest management and improved wellbeing o f
forest populations cannot be achieved in isolation from a number o f more general development
aims, including widespread peace and civil security, better infrastructure and communications, a
strengthened democracy, and wider community participation.

3.19.    While the Inspection Panel and the Management Report drew attention to the risks of
commercial forestry as a cause o f deforestation and forest degradation, it i s worth noting that
DRC's deforestation (and          emissions) are driven primarily by subsistence-related small-scale
farming. The national average deforestation rate has remained relatively low (0.27%per year)3in
DRC in recent years, particularly in the forest rich regions, but it can escalate rapidly as political
stability and improved transport will open the door to markets, investments and migration.
Deforestation has occurred and is projected to continue to occur primarily in more heavily
populated areas and inthe mountain forest zone, driven by population pressure and expansion o f
slash and burn subsistence agriculture. Therefore, alternatives and solutions to deforestation must
be sought not only within but also and perhaps primarily outside the forest sector, by helpingthe
country's rural population to increase its productivity and find alternative sources o f income.


  Source:"Reducing C02 Emissions FromDeforestationAnd DegradationinThe DemocraticRepublicOfCongo:A
FirstLook". NadineLaporteet Al., 2007


                                                  11

Section 4: Outreach


Continueto implementthe Congo/Forestcommunicationstrategy, with media, civil society and donors, in-
country and internationally. Mainstreamforests inBank's core communicationandhigh-level events
(AFREX/AFTEN). Inparticular:
 .   Disseminatethe multi-author `Forests inPost-Conflict DRC'
     Implementa strengthenedoutreachstrategy, andupdate annually
     Conducttargeted meetings with Pygmy communitiesandtheir representativesto discuss forest issues.


         Information Dissemination

4.1.     Over 200 copies o f the report, "Forests in Post-Conflict Democratic Republic of Congo:
Analysis o f a Priority Agenda," were distributed to various stakeholders in DRC, and additional
copies were distributed to other interested parties outside the country. Englishand French version
o f the report were made available online (World Bank and Center for International Forestry
Research (CIFOR) websites) for easy downloads.

4.2.     The Board-approved Management Action Plan was translated into Swahili and Lingala
and shared with NGOs and local pygmy groups. Inaddition, with the Government approval, all
World Bank forestry missions share their aide memoires with development partners present in
DRC.

         Outreach through the media

4.3.     Media Outreach

         A press briefing was conducted in Washington on January 10, 2008, in response to the
         media interest inthe outcome o f Board discussions on the Inspection Panel;
     0   A TV story on the Mbendjele pygmies o f the Republic of Congo was produced by the
         Bank and broadcast by CNN International, CNN World Report and affiliated TV stations,
         in April-May 2008. The story showed how Pygmies were using global positioning
         satellite technology in collaboration with a forest company to demarcate and protect from
         logging sacred and other sites meaningful to them.
     0   A dedicated website on DRC forests was created inthe external website o fthe Bank;
     0   Briefings for journalists and interviews with Radio Okapi were conducted by forestry
         task team leaders visiting DRC during2008.
         A 45 minute television broadcast, interviews with the press, meetings with
         Parliamentarians involved in forest and environmental matters, meeting with NGOs
         representingPygmy communities and other NGOs, and meetings many other civil society
         representatives were held in DRC during the appraisal mission for the IDA and GEF
         supported Forest and Nature Conservation Project (January 19- February 13,2009)

4.4      Direct outreach

0    World Bank staff participated in a roundtable entitled "Sustainable Forestry in the DRC: the
     way out o f poverty and conflict," hosted by the Dutch NGO, Both Ends, in The Hague on
     May 6, 2008:. The audience included representatives o f Inspection Panel requesters, DRC
     national and international NGOs, representatives o f the EU, the Dutch Government and
     academia;


                                                  12

0 Bank staff discussed the IP Action Plan of the Forest and Nature Conservation project with
  Pygmy representatives in Epulu, Goma, Bukavu and Bandaka between January and October
  2008.
0 28 meetings financed by the Bank were organized in cities and field locations during2008 to
  present, discuss and gather feedback on the new Bank assisted forest and nature conservation
  program and its social and environmental impact. A total o f 1046 persons participated in
  these meetings during2008.
0 15 o f the above meetings consisted o f consultations with people living in the provinces of
  concentration o f the Bank-assisted forest and nature conservation project. 115 Pygmy
  representatives participated in 10 o f these meetings. These meetings were organized by a
  local Environmental NGO and an NGO comprised of and representingthe interests o f Pygmy
  populations.
0 The Bank encouraged the Government to facilitate a strong participation by Pygmy
  representatives in the Legal Review o f Forest Contracts. 23 Pygmy representatives were
  selected by an NGO to participate in the Review: two as permanent members and 21 as
  rotating members (participating in discussion o f forest contracts from their locality).




                                             13

Section 5: Conclusions and Next Steps

5.1     Substantial progress has been made on all four o f areas o f the agreed action plan.
Management and Senior Management remain committed to continue supporting and following up
the implementation o f the Inspection Panel's recommendations. There are two areas in particular
which require sustained attention. These include the safeguard strengthening work, where the
"upscaling" will take time to yield results; and the field implementation o f Indigenous People
Plans where the logistical difficulties o f working inremote areas o f the DRC are considerable.

5.2     Over the coming year Management will continue monitoring the portfolio across the
region for compliance with safeguards. It will work on strengthening country capacity to
mainstream sound environment and social assessment into program design and implementation,
as part o f the sustainable development and poverty reduction, growth and governance agenda.
Management will also work with country stakeholders to ensure that the rights o f Indigenous
Peoples and marginalized groups are better respected, though it must be recognized that issues o f
social exclusion and marginalization are deep-rooted in many societies and take decades to
overcome. Management will continue to support a broad based approach to sustainable forest
management in the Congo Basin, with a focus on ensuringthat local people benefit from forests.
Moving forward, the Bank will work to support governments in their communication,
consultation and accountability strategies. Finally, communication and outreach will continue to
be strengthened as features o f the Bank's own work.




                                                  14

