                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR0000562




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            (Credit No. Cr4008 COB)




                                     ON A

                                    CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 30 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF CONGO

                                    FOR AN

                      ECONOMIC RECOVERY OPERATION




                                  June , 2007




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management (AFTP3)
Country Cluster 2 (AFCC2)
Africa Region

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 2007)

                   Currency Unit = CFA Francs
                       SDR 1.00 = US$ 1.49
                        US$ 1.00 = 539.24 CFA Francs

                         FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 ­ December 31


            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

DDR       Disarmament-Demobilization-Reintegration
DGGT      Délégation Générale des Grands Travaux (Large Public Works Agency)
ERC       Economic Recovery Credit
EC        European Commission
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
HIPC      Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Association
IFC       International Finance Corporation
IMF       International Monetary Fund
I-PRSP    Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
LDP       Letter of Development Policy
MEFB      Ministry of Economy, Finance and Budget
MDRP      Multi-country Demobilization and Reintegration Program
NGO       Non Governmental Organization
PCERC     Post Conflict Economic Recovery Credit
PDO       Program Development Objective
PER       Public Expenditure Review
PIP       Public Investment Program
PRGF      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
SNPC      Société Nationale des Pétroles Congolais (Congolese National Oil Co.)
TGCBP     Transparency Governance and Capacity Building Project
TSS       Transitional Support Strategy




             Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
          Country Director: Pedro Alba
           Sector Manager: Yvonne M. Tsikata
         Task Team Leader: Claude Leroy-Themeze

                                              CONGO, REPUBLIC OF

     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT




                                                         CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring (if any)


1.   Program Context, Development Objectives and Design...................................................1
2.   Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes.....................................................4
3.   Assessment of Outcomes.................................................................................................14
4.   Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...............................................................16
5.   Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance............................................................16
6.   Lessons Learned..............................................................................................................17
7.   Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .................18
Annex 1. Restructuring (if any).............................................................................................21
Annex 2. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes......................22
Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results....................................................................................23
Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...............................................24
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..............................25
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders................................14
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...............................................................................15
Annex 8: ERC - Matrix of policy actions..............................................................................16
Annex 9: Update on the SNPC Action Plan As of end-May 2007)........................................20
MAP.........................................................................................................................................22

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Economic Recovery
Country:               Congo                  Program Name:
                                                                     Credit
Program ID:            P083627                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-40080
ICR Date:              06/25/2007             ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:    DPL                    Borrower:              GOVERNMENT
Original Total
                       XDR 20.5M              Disbursed Amount:      XDR 11.6M
Commitment:
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Budget (MEFB)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process          Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        04/06/2004    Effectiveness:         03/16/2005      03/16/2005
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/07/2004    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:               12/31/2006      12/31/2006


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  High
Bank Performance:                             Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Unsatisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:            Moderately
                            Unsatisfactory    Government:                Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision:     Unsatisfactory    Implementing                 Moderately
                                              Agency/Agencies:           Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                 Moderately       Overall Borrower
Performance:                Unsatisfactory    Performance:               Unsatisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance             Indicators              (if any)             Rating:

Potential Problem                             Quality at Entry
                         Yes                                        None
Program at any time                           (QEA):



                                              i

(Yes/No):
Problem Program at any                        Quality of
                          Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Unsatisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                            Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             75                65
Flood protection                                               2
Forestry                                                       6                 5
Oil and gas                                                   15                30
Sewerage                                                       2


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Debt management and fiscal sustainability                   Primary           Primary
Other accountability/anti-corruption                       Secondary         Secondary
Other environment and natural resources management         Secondary         Secondary
Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring                  Secondary         Secondary
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                            Primary           Primary
procurement


E. Bank Staff
       Positions                       At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili      Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Pedro Alba                      Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:           Yvonne M. Tsikata               Cadman Atta Mills
Program Team Leader:      Claude M.L. Leroy-Themeze       Slaheddine Khenessi
ICR Team Leader:          Claude M.L. Leroy-Themeze
ICR Primary Author:       Salvatore Schiavo-Campo



F. Results Framework Analysis

Program Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Development
  Objectives




                                             ii

  1-Improved public investment program (PIP), i.e., a more efficient and pro-poor PIP,
consistent with fiscal discipline, transparency and accountability.

  2-Orderly and transparent clearance of domestic arrears.

  3-Enhanced Transparency and Governance in oil sector

Revised Program Development Objectives (if any, as approved by original approving
authority)
n.a.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target        Formally      Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
                                                approval           Target     Completion or
                                              documents)           Values      Target Years
                 Progress towards attaining objective 1 will be shown by the timely

Indicator 1 :    implementation of an action plan to improve management of PIP, and by the
                 preparation of a pro-growth, pro-poor PIP for 2006-07.

                                          Action plan to be                 (i) The action plan,
                                          reviewed by IDA                   drafted during the
                                          prior to                          preparation of the
                                          implementation,                   ERC was never
                                          and every six                     finalized and

Value            Preparation of a report months thereafter.                 identified

(quantitative or on execution of 2004     Completed pro-                    problems/weakness

Qualitative)     PIP and a PIP for 2006- growth and pro-                    es were not
                 07                       poor PIP for                      tackled; (ii) The
                                          2006/2007                         draft 2006 PIP was
                                          acceptable to IDA.                not submitted to
                                                                            IDA before
                                          PIP submitted to                  adoption by the
                                          National Assembly                 government
Date achieved    07/11/2005               12/30/2006                        12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 Progress towards attaining objective 2 will be shown by formulation and
Indicator 2 :    adoption of a strategy to clear domestic commercial arrears, including
                 selection of firm to validate the stock of arrears (2003).
                                                                            A commercial Bank

                                          Orderly and                       appointed following
Value            Formulation of a                                           a transparent
(quantitative or strategy including       transparent                       competitive
Qualitative)     selection of a firm.     clearance of
                                          domestic arrears.                 selection process is
                                                                            effecting payments
                                                                            to entitled domestic



                                                iii

                                                                           creditors in line
                                                                           with the adopted
                                                                           strategy
Date achieved    07/11/2005              12/30/2006                        12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 3 :    Progress towards attaining objective 3 will be shown by the complete and
                 satisfactory implementation of the SNPC Action Plan.
                                                                           Some progress
                                                                           made but most of
                                                                           the measures had

                                         Complete and                      been taken during

Value            Progress towards        satisfactory                      the preparation of

(quantitative or implementation of       implementation of                 the ERC before end

Qualitative)     SNPC Action Plan.       the SNPC Action                   June 2004. The

                                         Plan.                             most important
                                                                           measures have not
                                                                           been implemented
                                                                           and taken up as
                                                                           HIPC triggers.
Date achieved    07/11/2005              12/30/2006                        12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally      Actual Value

    Indicator        Baseline Value         Values (from                       Achieved at
                                              approval           Revised      Completion or
                                            documents)       Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Preparation of a pro-growth and pro-poor PIP for 2006-07.
                                                                           2006-07 PIP was
                                                                           never finalized.

                                         Comnpleted pro-                   Draft PIP for 2006

                                         growth and pro-                   was not submitted
                                                                           to IDA before
Value                                    poor PIP for                      adoption. 2007
(quantitative or                         2006/07                           draft PIP was
Qualitative)                             acceptable to IDA
                                         and submitted to                  submitted for

                                         National                          review to IDA.

                                         Assembly.                         Unclear that IDA
                                                                           written comments
                                                                           were taken into
                                                                           account.
Date achieved                            12/30/2006                        12/31/2006
Comments



                                              iv

(incl. %
achievement)
                 A commercial Bank appointed following a transparent competitive selection
Indicator 2 :    process is effecting payments to entitled domestic creditors in line with the
                 adopted strategy.

                                         Full and                           Done. Entitled
                                                                            domestic creditors
Value                                    satisfactory                       are being paid by a
(quantitative or                         implementation of                  commercial Bank
Qualitative)                             the agreed 2005-
                                         2011 repayment                     according to the

                                         schedule.                          agreed 2005-2011
                                                                            payment schedule.
Date achieved                            12/30/2006                         12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/28/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     17.58
  2     12/23/2005           Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                 17.58

  3     06/08/2006           Moderately                 Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                     17.58

  4     06/12/2007         Unsatisfactory             Unsatisfactory                     17.58



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                               v

1. Program Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1      Context at Appraisal

1.       Once a lower-middle-income country, the Republic of Congo experienced a steady
economic decline from the early 1980s through 2000, attributable in the more recent period
to three episodes of grave civil conflict between 1993 and 1999. A ceasefire in 1999 was
followed by a dialogue leading to the adoption in 2002 of a new constitution, giving stronger
powers to the presidency; elections were subsequently held for president, the assembly, the
senate, and local bodies during March-July 2002. The exclusion from the elections of several
challengers contributed to renewed conflict, but a peace accord was signed with a main rebel
group in March 2003, and was followed by an amnesty for all combatants and the launch in
November 2003 of a disarmament-demobilization-reintegration (DDR) program. Despite
occasional flare-ups, the political and security situation was largely stabilized by the time of
ERC appraisal in early 2004.

2.       With the cessation of active conflict, economic activity had a fast initial recovery,
with non-oil GDP growing at an average rate of over 9 percent during 2000-2004, inflation
falling to single digits, and a significant primary fiscal surplus beginning to contain the
growth of debt. Nevertheless, external and internal indebtedness dominated the financial and
economic landscape, with external debt estimated at the beginning of 2004 at $8.7 billion
(240 percent of GDP)--of which over two-thirds were arrears. Arrears to the Bretton Woods
institutions were cleared in 2001, thus restoring normal relations with the Bank and the IMF,
and, at the time of appraisal, prospects for settling arrears to the European Union and the
African Development Bank appeared solid, in the context of the special provisions for post-
conflict countries.

3.       Against this background, the first major Bank intervention was the $38 million Post-
Conflict Economic Rehabilitation Credit (PCERC) approved in July 2001, the objectives of
which were to (i) provide the Government with badly-needed foreign exchange after the
clearance in 2001 of about $63 million in arrears to the Bank, and (ii) help the Congo initiate
the structural reforms needed to underpin reconstruction and recovery. Implementation of the
PCERC was facilitated by the related Transparency and Governance Capacity-Building
Project (TGCBP). The PCERC, which was largely successful, was undertaken in the context
of a Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) for FY2003-2005, the four pillars of which were to:
(i) support growth and job creation (including through rebuilding of connectivity
infrastructure); (ii) enhance effectiveness of public resources (including through transparency
of oil revenue and better expenditure management); (iii) mitigate social and security risks
(including through reintegration of former combatants); and (iv) mobilize additional
resources (particularly through HIPC access). The US$30 million Economic Recovery Credit
(ERC) approved in December 2004 was also central to TSS implementation. (A second ERC
was originally envisaged for FY2006.)

4.       The context at appraisal was also marked by a sense of urgency connected to the
possibility (which did not materialize) of a reduction in the country IDA allocation in the
next fiscal year. Combined with some time pressure arising from the initially slow program
preparation, this led to a perceived need for accelerating appraisal and negotiations, which
were eventually merged.




                                                1

1.2     Original Program Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
        approved)

5.      Consistent with the TSS, in addition to poverty reduction, the PDOs of the ERC
were: enhanced transparency and governance in the oil sector; improved public investment
(more efficient and pro-poor); and orderly and transparent clearance of domestic arrears. The
corresponding key indicators were defined, respectively, as: finalization of the PRSP and
implementation of a pro-poor budget; implementation of an action plan based on audit of the
national oil company SPNC; formulation and implementation of an action plan to improve
investment management and prepare a public investment program (PIP) for 2006-07; and
implementation of an action plan to reduce arrears. The ERC was to be disbursed in two
tranches. The first, of about $17 million, was disbursed on effectiveness; the second, of about
$13 million, was to be disbursed upon completion of a number of conditions related to the
key indicators, but was canceled when the Credit was closed.

6.      As program lending, the ERC benefits were expected to accrue mainly to the
inhabitants of rural areas (from improved rural infrastructure and communications), and the
poor (from a pro-poor re-orientation of public expenditure. In addition, private suppliers were
expected to benefit from an orderly settlement of their claims for payments in arrears, thus
also leading to reduced costs of transactions. The government itself was to benefit from the
arrears settlement, in terms of regained credibility and thus lower prospective procurement
costs; the budget was expected to benefit from the greater transparency of petroleum
operations and associated transfer of revenue; and the efficiency of government expenditure
was expected to be raised by the anticipated improvements in the programming and
monitoring of public investment projects.

1.3     Revised PDO and Key Indicators (if any, as approved by original approving
        authority), and reasons/Justification

7.      The PDOs were not revised. Neither were the Key Indicators, except for an
adjustment of some of the target dates in the SNPC action plan, as appended to an Update
distributed to the Board owing to the four-month postponement of the original discussion
date to December 2004. (In turn, the postponement was due to the need for settling an issue
pertinent to the IMF Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility, which was later approved along
with the ERC.)

1.4     Original Policy Areas supported by the Program (as approved)

8.      Consistent with the PDOs, the three major components of the ERC were: (i)
improving management and transparency in the oil sector; (ii) improving the efficiency of
public investment; and (iii) reducing domestic commercial payments' arrears. The other two
components included measures to improve forestry revenue and management; and to foster
transparency in the diamond sector.

9.      The three major components were designed to meet key reform priorities identified
earlier and, in part, to build on reforms implemented in previous years, through the following
main actions:




                                               2

    · For transparency in the oil sector, the earlier reforms, mainly in 2003, included cessation
        of the practice of advance payments to the oil companies to incur expenses on
        government behalf; establishment of a Hydrocarbon Unit in the Ministry of Finance to
        oversee SPNC operations and revenue transfers to the government; and an audit of SPNC
        accounts--the results of which were posted online and served as the basis to formulate a
        reform action plan. During ERC preparation, a number of capacity-building measures
        were agreed, including a plan of action consisting of studies, audits, and institutional
        measures. The latter action plan was to be fully implemented as a condition for
        disbursement of the $13 million second tranche of the ERC.

    · For public investment, there were major issues concerning both the selection and the
        execution of investment projects. Other than setting broad priorities under the I-PRSP, no
        significant reforms had been taken in this area prior to the ERC. The ERC stressed the
        need for a sound public investment program, framed within a medium-term expenditure
        framework, and consistent with I-PRSP priorities. For this, an action plan was to be
        prepared after Board approval, on the basis of comprehensive audits of investment
        procedures and of the investment portfolio, and subsequently implemented. In addition, a
        report on the 2004 investment expenditures and an investment program for 2006-97 were
        to be prepared, satisfactory to IDA.        (These three measures were second-tranche
        conditions.)

    · For reduction of arrears, after clearing in 2001-2002 external arrears to multilateral
        institutions, in 2003 the Government settled a portion of domestic arrears. In the context
        of a move towards HIPC, the need for a broader strategy to reduce all arrears in an
        orderly, systematic and transparent manner became evident. Accordingly, the ERC was to
        support preparation and implementation of a plan to reduce domestic commercial arrears,
        along the lines of a similar exercise in the neighboring DRC--namely, in sequence,
        validation of the claims, negotiations with groups of comparable creditors (producing a
        discount rate comparable to that expected under HIPC), equitable payment modalities,
        actual clearance, and mechanisms to prevent new payment arrears. Specific measures to
        this effect were second-tranche conditions. An international consulting firm was
        contracted, under Bank rules, to review the two earlier audits conducted by two other
        international firms. The resulting "audit of audits" yielded a list of eligible creditors and
        validated their claims, totaling almost $300 million as of end-2003. The clearance of
        arrears was to be based on the results of this audit of audits.

10.     On forestry, the dialogue under the ERC was intended to facilitate implementation of
the recommendations of a 2003 forestry taxation study (to certify and maximize government
forestry revenue and allocate forest concessions more transparently, among other things.)
Other general undertakings included securing long-term financing for forest protection and
management and progress in "modernization of forest sector institutions". In the diamond
sector, under the ERC the Government was to take a number of institutional actions, e.g.,
strengthening the Mining Directorate, to reverse its suspension from the Kimberley Process
Certification Scheme that had been caused by a massive discrepancy between rough diamond
exports and diamond production.

1.5     Revised Policy Areas

11.     No revision took place.




                                                 3

1.6     Other significant changes

12.     No other significant changes were made to the program itself, although certain
important measures, not implemented through the project, were incorporated in the HIPC
agenda, as explained later. Also, delays occurred in the preparation of agreed studies for
various other components; certain understandings to restart the process were reached in late
2006, but no changes in implementation arrangements took place before the closing date of
end-December 2006.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Program Performance

13.     Quality at entry was moderately unsatisfactory. A clear focus on the key issues,
well-specified arrears clearance strategy fully in keeping with relevant experience, and
excellent presentation of the documents were insufficient to outweigh the weak nature of the
reform measures in the other areas, not commensurate with the importance and complexity of
the issues. (It is possible that these weaknesses were related to the time pressure the team felt
under during Credit preparation--noted earlier.)

14.     The strongest feature of the ERC at entry was the clear identification of the critical
focus areas: transparency in oil--the largest source of revenue; improvement in investment--
the most important category of expenditure; and resolution of domestic arrears--the main font
of renewal of private sector confidence and government credibility. This identification was
fully consistent with both the country situation and the Bank strategy. Also, although there
wasn't adequate attention to institutional issues, there was a recognition of the need to
address capacity constraints---through related Bank projects to support implementation of the
main components. Technical assistance to support the implementation of the SNPC action
plan (in particular prepare the studies) was to be financed under the Transparency and
Governance Capacity Building Project (TGCBP). The audit of domestic commercial arrears,
technical assistance to prepare the clearance strategy and negotiate with creditors as well the
services of a commercial bank to effect the payments were all to be financed under the
Emergency Recovery Community Support Project.

15.     The weakest features at entry were: (i) the insufficient articulation of the indicators;
(ii) the weakness of the measures envisaged to address the critical focus areas, primarily in
the area of investment and, to a lesser extent, in the oil sector; and (iii) the lack of focus on
the most critical areas in the oil sector.

16.     It is puzzling why the formulation of a satisfactory action plan for improving public
investment was not required prior to negotiations, as well as the taking of initial concrete
steps (e.g., an initial project database). It is true that, at the time, the Government lacked
significant resources to invest--with domestically financed capital expenditures projected at
barely 5% of GDP. However, in light of the centrality of public investment to recovery,
poverty reduction, and fiscal sustainability, and of the long-gestation of measures to improve
investment programming and execution, the Bank should have insisted, from the very start of
credit preparation, on a simple but concrete investment action plan accompanied by the
enactment of the initial concrete measures therein. The critical need for more efficient
management of public expenditures, with reallocation of resources toward poverty-reduction



                                                4

priorities, had been highlighted much earlier in the TSS and the PCERC--and was self-
evident in any case. (That the country was still in post-conflict transition argues for simple
mechanisms and actions, but does not explain the postponement of any action until after
Board approval.)

17.     With the importance of the subject explicitly recognized by the Bank from the
beginning of the post-conflict dialogue in 2001, there was time to help the Government
during ERC preparation to assemble a simple but meaningful action plan, and require a few
technical initial steps, before negotiations. (It is unclear, for example, why the consultant was
brought on board as late as April.) The relevant second-tranche condition would then have
been the implementation of such plan--facilitated by the initial momentum created by having
taken the initial steps. That ERC negotiations had to be extended by one week in order to
better integrate investment issues into the Credit only strengthens the point that such issues
should have been defined and settled before negotiations. (As it happened, there was a four-
month delay anyway, during which no further dialogue took place, although the consultant
had provided a set of recommendations that could have been used as underpinnings for some
initial measures.)

18.     The investment action plan may perhaps not have been implemented--as was, in part,
the case of the SNPC action plan--but the roadmap for a robust dialogue would have been in
place and a few practical steps would already have been taken in the desired direction.
Instead, owing to the postponement of any action, by the time government oil revenue had
sharply risen, all external incentive to focus on improving investment efficiency had
vanished. As of May 2007, the most basic procedures for strategic investment choices, for
preparing good projects, and for initiating the integration of investment and recurrent
expenditure, were still conspicuous for their absence. This omission is particularly
troublesome in Congo, because the country's recent history showed a similar phase during
the 1970s, when a substantial increase in oil revenue failed to translate into a permanent
increase in productive capacity and incomes. (It is plausible that this failure was a
contributory factor to the civil conflicts of the 1990s.)

19.     The SNPC action plan was a required prior action, and was agreed, but did not
include any measure comparable in impact to the ones taken earlier, nor commensurate with
the issues at stake in the management of the oil sector. A number of steps were taken during
ERC preparation, and others were to be taken after Board approval. All actions in the long
list were germane to the reform objectives, but consisted entirely of process steps and studies.
Indeed, the very length of the action plan masks its basic weakness. Moreover,
implementation of a long list of studies is not generally an appropriate condition for tranche
release.

20.     The action plan did contain a significant provision: the enactment of new SNPC
procurement procedures. However, once again, the date for doing so was set for after
expected Board approval, and then itself postponed after the delay in submitting the ERC to
the Board. And, although the approach whereby the Bank would recruit a consultant financed
under the TGCBP project was appropriate for efficiency and transparency, the recruitment of
that consultant was also postponed until after Credit approval. Neither postponement was
likely to propel the reform process forward. There is no convincing explanation of why these
two significant measures--neither of them difficult or time-consuming--were not required
prior to ERC negotiations.


                                                  5

21.      Subtending the above issues were three factors. The first was the very weak
government ownership, which becomes evident only with the benefit of hindsight, as during
ERC preparation there were indications of Government interest in meaningful reform. The
second factor was insufficient consideration of the experience concerning the complexity of
putting in place a sound public investment programming system. The reductionist way in
which the "PIP" was defined was more in keeping with the wish list "first-generation" PIPs
common in the 1980s than with the robust and realistic process entailed by "second-
generation" public investment programming--even in its simple form. Moreover, there was
little recognition that, although a good investment program is more than a collage of good
projects, it must nevertheless start with sound projects--hence, that clear and enforced
procedures for project preparation and appraisal are a key prerequisite. The third factor, as
noted earlier, was a push--whether self-imposed by the team or from management pressure
or both--to put the Credit in place quickly and thus postpone to the implementation phase
any problematic reform measure.

22.      Concerning other issues relevant to quality at entry, country and sector knowledge
was adequate; interaction with the IMF was satisfactory (albeit a touch over-dependent on
IMF analysis and priorities); the ERC amount, while not large, appeared to be consistent with
the country's financing needs as assessed at the time of appraisal; and the quality of the
presentation was excellent, with a tightly structured and very well-written program
document. Other aspects are somewhat more questionable:

        · A household survey and certain participatory events had taken place earlier in
           connection with the preparation of the I-PRSP. All poverty-reduction actions to be
           carried out under the ERC were geared to production of the final PRSP, apparently as
           an end in itself and without actionable understandings;

        · Although the program document noted the need for long-term financing to protect
           forest resources and modernize forest sector institutions, the accent of the forestry
           component was heavily on maximizing government revenue from forests. The extent
           to which environmental implications were considered is unclear, and the only pertinent
           mention was the expectation that environmental sustainability would be a criterion for
           investment project selection. (In the event, that expectation was rendered inoperative
           by the absence of improvements in investment programming.)

        · It was unclear how the issue of conflict diamonds, as addressed through the country's
           reintegration into the Kimberley Process, as important as it is in itself, was linked to
           the objectives of the program;

        · The need to clarify the responsibilities of the ministry of planning, the ministry of
           finance, the line ministries and the Delegation Generale des Grands Travaux (DGGT)
           was clearly recognized, but was not translated into recommended action or suggestion.
           This was part of the broader problem of inattention to the pivotal issue of weak
           horizontal coordination within government, particularly between the Ministry of
           Planning, Ministry of Economy and Finance, and the Central Bank. (The anomaly that
           the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework--so far only a set of aggregate medium-
           term projections--is prepared by the Central Bank, is just one symptom of this
           problem.)




                                                 6

23.     The anticipated benefits were accurately described, the ex ante reward-risk balance
was rightly assessed as positive, and the main risk was correctly identified as social or
political instability. However, the stated risk of lower oil prices was minimal; indeed, the
strong likelihood of much higher oil prices was already evident in mid-2004, as emphasized
by comments at the Regional Operations Committee. (The other related risk of an unfilled
financing gap was also rather theoretical given that in that eventuality the ERC would not
become effective.) Moreover, while the risk of corruption, particularly in the oil sector and in
the process of clearance of commercial payments arrears, was addressed indirectly through
the euphemism of "difficulties on the reform path", the general and severe corruption risk in
Congo was not mentioned.

2.2     Major Factors Affecting Implementation

24.     Implementation was unsatisfactory, virtually from the beginning, leading to
incorporation of the major non-implemented reform measures as triggers in the HIPC
program. While such incorporation was an appropriate and timely response by the Bank, it
reveals the severe weakness of implementation of the ERC, as such.

25.     The responsibility for lack of implementation rests largely with the Government,
beginning with the dismissal of the Minister of Finance--the principal interlocutor for the
program--right after Board approval of the ERC, and through the closing date of the Credit.
A first key factor was the very large influx of revenue from the higher oil prices, which
diluted any sense of urgency in implementing the reforms, and reduced substantially the
relative importance of external assistance, including from the Bank. (In any event, the front-
loaded first tranche had already been disbursed at effectiveness.) A second factor was the
ambiguous authority of the core ministries of finance and planning on, respectively, the
management of the oil sector and the execution of large investment projects. Finally, the very
weak capacity of line ministries--typical of post-conflict situations--precluded their major
role in defining investment priorities and overseeing project execution.

26.     The initial indications of government ownership proved largely illusory. Some
government interlocutors appear to believe that the responsibility for carrying out studies,
articulating the reform measures, putting into place the measures envisaged by the actions
plans, rests entirely with their development partners. As one example, the delay in carrying
out the studies included in the SNPC action plan is attributed to the slow Bank response to
financing them through the TGCBP, as initially agreed. In effect, technical assistance to
prepare the terms of reference for the studies was provided under the TGCBP and, with a
modicum of initiative, the Government could itself have financed the studies through the
revenue from the oil price increase, and using Bank procedures and the TGCBP
infrastructure.

27.     The Bank shares responsibility as well. As noted earlier, the program document
flagged weak implementation capacity and "difficulties on the reform path" as major risks for
the operation, and proposed to address them through intensive implementation support and
supervision. There is no evidence that this occurred, rather the contrary. Concerning support,
it was forthcoming on a timely basis for the arrears clearance component, but was too little
and too late for the public investment component, and did not materialize for the SNPC
component owing to the slow Bank response. Concerning supervision, it consisted of just one
small mission in 2005 and a second in 2006 (which recommended against the extension of



                                               7

the closing date and thus the release of the second tranche). One example of insufficient
supervision was the 7-month delay in responding to the government request to send the
consultant who originally outlined the public investment improvements for a second visit to
help flesh out the initial recommendations.

28.     Implementation was also hampered by a confluence of changes in country director, sector
manager, and TTL, with a hiatus of several months between the departure of each incumbent and
the arrival of his successor. This was aggravated by inadequate cooperation between key
members of the core team and absence of the proactive follow-up that is required for effective
coordination of an intersectoral team, as well as insufficient attention by senior management. It
must be recognized, however, that the sudden dismissal of the Minister of Finance immediately
after program approval could not inspire Bank confidence in the Government's determination to
implement the program he had guided. In any case, after its approval the ERC became somewhat
of an orphan from both the Government and the Bank side. The status of implementation in the
ERC components is summarized below.

Improving management and transparency in the oil sector

29.      Implementation of the oil sector reform was unsatisfactory, as of the closing date of
the Credit. (However, the authorities have reported that implementation has recently been
put back on track.) As noted, important reforms had been enacted before the ERC, including
particularly the cessation of advance payments to the national oil company SNPC for
performing services for the government; the quarterly certification of oil revenues, along the
same modalities as those established in 2003; and the audit of the SNPC and publication of
its detailed results on the internet. The ERC probably helped continue those practices and
prevent slippages. Also, other steps were taken by the government during the preparation of
the ERC. These steps were included in the SNPC action plan (appended to the Letter of
Development Policy and incorporated by reference into the Minutes of Negotiations), the
satisfactory implementation of which was a second-tranche condition.

30.     One key measure under the SNPC action plan was to be the adoption of sound
procurement procedures. The completion date of this action, originally envisaged for October
2004 (subsequent to the expected approval of the ERC), was pushed back to end-December
2004 after the four-month postponement of the Board date. As of November 2006, a draft
procurement manual had reportedly been submitted to the Bank for comments, but no
comments have been provided. There is no evidence that the new SNPC procurement
procedures were in place as of the ERC closing date.

31.     Of the other actions relevant to second-tranche release, only the strengthening of the
Hydrocarbon Unit established in early 2003 in the Ministry of Finance was implemented, in
conformity with a plan agreed at end-2003. The audit of the 2005 SNPC operations was not
completed (although as of May 2007 it was being finalized). The other actions were the
reform of the accounting framework of SNPC; completion of a study of the petroleum sector
assets, needed to estimate probable reserves; and the definition and adoption of a format for
regular reporting by the SNPC to the Hydrocarbon Ministry and the Ministry of Finance.
Although long before Board approval the terms of reference for these studies had been
completed and expressions of interest requested, as of the ERC closing date more than two
years later none of the consultants had been selected. (The authorities reported that, as of
May 2007, the process was ongoing and the studies were expected to be completed by the



                                                8

end of the year.) Accordingly, two of these studies were incorporated in the HIPC program as
triggers, namely, the modeling of petroleum reserves and revenues, and the reform of the
SNPC accounting system.

32.     The explanation given by the authorities for the long delay is the slow Bank response
to requests for non-objection and the ensuing depletion of funds under the TGCBP (which
was to finance the studies). It was only agreed in November 2006 to finance the studies from
the government's own budget although the Bank insisted that the selection of the consultant
should be in accordance with Bank rules and under the TGCBP oversight provisions. (The
November 2006 supervision mission also advised, correctly, that the SNPC action plan
originally formulated three years earlier needed to be updated on the basis of subsequent
audits, and in any event should be seen as a rolling instrument to help the competent
ministries monitor the SNPC, rather than as a fixed menu.)

Improving the efficiency of public investment

33.     Implementation of the public investment improvements was highly unsatisfactory.
The first major understanding concerned the preparation and implementation of an action
plan for strengthening public investment programming and management. The initial
suggestions of a consultant in April 2004 were elaborated on during the first supervision
mission in July 2005. As noted earlier, there was a 7-month delay in responding to the
government request to send the consultant for this second visit to flesh out his initial
recommendations. In any case, none of his recommendations, whether in April 2004 or July
2005 was endorsed by the government as of mid-May 2007--let alone acted upon. The
action plan did not materialize under the ERC and thus could not be implemented. The
subject was consequently incorporated into the HIPC triggers.

34.     On the positive side, partly on the basis of the consultant's reports, the Ministry of
Planning prepared a list of problems identified in the management of public investment,
along with possible solutions. This list served as a basis to identify the HIPC trigger
concerning the "implementation of a new system of public investment management to assure
rigorous selection and efficient execution and monitoring of projects". The list has no formal
standing, however, as it was neither discussed with the Bank nor approved by the
Government.

35.     The Government agreed with the second and last ERC supervision mission in
November 2006 to complete before end-March 2007 an institutional study ("who does what,
when, and how"), leading to organizational recommendations, particularly to define clear
lines of responsibility and accountability and ensure some coordination in the area of public
investment--from project selection to project preparation and appraisal, execution and
monitoring, and intersectoral coordination. In April 2007, the Government transmitted to the
Bank draft TORs for the study. On May 4, the Bank provided comments on the TORs and
reiterated the need to establish an interministerial committee to supervise the reform in public
investment before launching the study. As recommended by the November 2006 supervision
mission, in light of the very weak intra-governmental coordination, noted earlier, such an
interministerial committee is critical to the likelihood of actual improvements in investment
programming and project quality.




                                                9

36.    In addition to the adoption and implementation of an action plan to improve
investment programming and management, the two undertakings in the area of public
investment were:

    · The submission of a full financial and physical audit of investment expenditures in 2004
       (in view of the budget support extended by the Bank during that year), and the
       submission of a draft public investment program for 2006 and 2007. A provisional report
       on 2004 expenditure on the 50 largest investment projects was submitted to the Bank in
       July 2005. The report was largely limited to financial information, was incomplete, and
       showed major inconsistencies compared with the information on ongoing projects
       provided by the Delegation Generale des Grands Travaux. (The DGGT was created in
       2002 to oversee the execution of sizeable investment projects, and maintains its own
       monitoring mechanism and files.)        The Ministry of Planning explained that these
       problems had been caused by a software virus that had destroyed some of their files. It
       was agreed that a revised full report would be transmitted to the Bank by end-August
       2005. The revised report was not submitted.

    · The submission of a draft public investment program for 2006 and 2007, which was to be
       prepared in 2005 and submitted to the Bank for comments before transmittal to
       Parliament, as per the Credit Agreement. This program was not ready by the July 2005
       mission, as had been envisaged, supposedly because of the pressures of preparing the
       2005 budget. It was agreed that it would be transmitted to the Bank also by end-August
       2005. An outline of such program was informally transmitted to the Bank later, during
       the 2005 Annual Meetings, but it had not been finalized nor submitted to the Parliament.
       Nor was the corresponding investment budget for 2006 transmitted to the Bank for
       comments before its adoption by Government and submission to Parliament. Concerning
       2007, the draft budget was transmitted to the Bank in December 2006. The review of this
       draft budget by the staff revealed vast information gaps, absence of basic justification,
       and lack of coherence both between intended capital and current expenditures and
       between sectors. Moreover, the choice of the largest projects did not appear to be in line
       with the basic priorities of the I-PRSP.

37.    The lack of progress in the above areas was aggravated by the increasing recourse to
sole-source contracting during execution of large projects. The use of sole source
procurement is unavoidable in the immediate post-conflict period, for a variety of reasons,
but is expected to diminish as the security and economic situation returns to normal. In
Congo, by contrast, after transformation in 2002 of the project monitoring unit of the
Ministry of Planning into an autonomous Delegation Generale des Grands Travaux--
responsible directly to the President--the frequency of sole source contracts has reportedly
increased.

Clearing domestic commercial payments' arrears

38.    Implementation of the arrears clearance process was moderately unsatisfactory--on
schedule but with material deviations from the agreed modalities and significant irregularities
and corruption problems. A plan was adopted by the Government in November 2005,
comprising the following elements:

    · A unit was established in the CCA to provide information and handle complaints.




                                               10

     · To simplify the exercise and reduce the list of creditors to a manageable number, every
         eligible creditor received before end-2005 an advance payment of up to CFAF 10
         million (about $19,000)--resulting in full payment of 2,900 claims lower than that
         amount and partial payment of 1,216 claims larger than that amount. The total of such
         advances was CFAF 17, 5 billion (about $33 million).

     · For the balance of their claim after the CFAF 10 million advance, creditors could trade
         off a larger discount against a more prompt payment by choosing one of three options:

        1. Payment of 34% (66% discount), over two years;
        2. Payment of 65% (35% discount), over four years;
        3. Payment of 75% (25% discount), over six years.

    · Creditors not selecting one of the options before the deadline would automatically be
        assigned to option 1.

    · A payment plan would be agreed with each creditor; and

    · A commercial bank was selected, by competitive bidding, to make the payments on the
        basis of list of creditors transmitted to the Caisse Congolaise d'Amortissement (CCA).

39.     As of end-March 2007, of the 1,216 creditors remaining after the advance payment,
about 20% chose (or were deemed to have chosen) option 1, with the others about equally
split between options 2 and 3--for total expected payments of CFAF 77.2 billion ($145
million) after the discounts. On this basis, the weighted average discount rate was 38% after
the advance payments. (Taking into account a variety of other elements, the effective
discount has been estimated at a considerably higher rate--but in any event still lower than
the HIPC discount.)

40.     As mentioned earlier, the modalities agreed at entry were clear, specific, and
consistent with relevant international experience in the subject, but implementation of the
plan deviated materially from the agreed modalities in at least three major ways. First, it did
not include negotiations with groups of creditors. The explanation given includes the inability
of creditors to organize themselves and the pressure of meeting the dates agreed with the
Bank and the IMF. The Government, however, could have been more proactive in assisting
eligible creditors to organize and facilitating negotiations. Second, as noted, the plan entailed
a discount rate lower than had been envisaged. The explanation given is that the original
Bank proposal for a much higher discount met with strong resistance from the private sector.
Third, there are questions on the accuracy of the list of eligible creditors, and the extent of
publicity given to it.

41.     The Government maintains that the plan had been submitted in draft to the Bank and
the Fund, without adverse comment, and those objections surfaced only after the plan had
been approved. However, the Government communicated to the Bank its proposal on
November 4, just ten days before the proposal was to be taken up by the Council of
Ministers. The Bank, in turn, neglected to respond to that communication until December
2005, by which time the plan, including the list of claims, had been approved by the Council
of Ministers on November 14 and officially promulgated in a decree of November 28. There
is no satisfactory explanation of why the plan was placed on the Council of Ministers' agenda
so soon after transmitting it to the Bank for its comments. Nor is there a satisfactory
explanation of why the Bank failed to respond to the proposal for over a month.



                                                   11

42.     Thereafter, on December 20 the list of creditors was reportedly made available at the
CCA and an office was established there to receive complaints and information through
February 3, 2006, when actual implementation of the process began--with the results
summarized earlier. Until the second ERC supervision mission in late November, the
Government sent no information to the Bank on the process of arrears settlement, nor did
anyone at the Bank seek any such information--on a critical ERC component with
demonstrated potential for misunderstandings and irregularities.

43.     Of special concern is the question of whether the full list of eligible creditors received
adequate publicity at the appropriate time. There are explicit, public and vigorous claims by
the Chamber of Commerce that publicity, to the extent that it occurred, was insufficient. By
the Government plan, every creditor was to be individually notified of the modalities and
timetable of the arrears clearance exercise. However, verification would be impossible if
indeed the list of creditors was not made public on a timely basis. Moreover, absent public
knowledge of the list, it would be difficult to prevent payments to ineligible claimants or
other frauds. Indeed, significant irregularities and frauds have occurred. While the full extent
of these irregularities is impossible to assess, the Government did react quickly with
appropriate punitive measures under the law. Although as of mid-May 2007 it had not yet
taken steps to remedy the underlying problems, it accepted the ICR mission recommendation
to place the list of creditors on the internet, and to carry out an audit of payments made.

44.     When the frauds and irregularities are added to the deviations from the agreed
modalities of arrears clearance, implementation of this component cannot be considered
"orderly, systematic and transparent" as had been envisaged. Thus, the hoped-for restoration
of the Government's credibility has not been achieved. The responsibility for the
implementation problems is shared between the Government and the Bank. The evidence is
consistent with the possibility of manipulation by some persons on the Congolese side, and is
clear concerning slowness and inattention from the Bank side.

Forestry and Diamonds

45.     The authorities report that coordination between the Ministry of Economy and
Finance and the Ministry in charge of Forests has been strengthened, leading to more
transparent revenue collection and transfer to the Treasury, and the functioning of forest
sector institutions has improved. The absence of indicators that can be monitored, however,
makes it difficult to assess the actual results.

46.     Concerning diamonds, every measure envisaged in the ERC program is reported to
have been executed, including the replacement of the leading government official and the
closure of a number of non-compliant diamond purchasing offices. The Government hopes
that a review of these measures later in 2007 will lead to reintegration of the Congo into the
Kimberley Process. Until then, there is no basis for assessing the effectiveness of this
component.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

47.     As noted earlier, the general indicators were broadly consistent with the Project
Development Objectives, but their articulation into specific actions and tasks consisted
mainly of process measures, lacked specificity, and did not provide an actionable basis for



                                                 12

assessing the completion of the process and output measures--let alone the likelihood of
sustainable progress toward the desired outcomes.

2.4     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

48.     As mentioned, certain core reforms, envisaged but not implemented through the
ERC, were incorporated as HIPC triggers. The prospect of achieving HIPC completion is the
only remaining major external incentive for the Government to implement meaningful and
durable reforms in the critical areas. Accordingly, it appears urgent and important to identify
the critical path for reform implementation, unbundle the major reforms into their specific
key steps, and assist the Government to put in place the concrete measures that will either
induce or enable further progress. Among these measures, the following indications may be
mentioned. These indications flow directly from the unsatisfactory and partial
implementation of the reforms supported by the ERC, and aim at suggesting possible ways of
implementing those reforms. They would need to be reviewed, of course, in light of current
circumstances and Bank strategy intentions.

49.     On the SNPC, suggestions can only be tentative and incomplete, as the ICR mission
was only able to meet with the Hydrocarbon Cell in the Ministry of Economy and Finance,
and could not obtain a meeting with the SNPC, despite various entreaties by the Ministry of
Economy and Finance (nor to receive a summary document on reform progress, as requested
in lieu of the meeting.)      It is clear that, despite the measures taken before 2004, full
transparency of oil operations remains some way off, and issues of efficiency and
effectiveness of oil industry performance have not yet begun to be addressed. At a minimum,
it will be necessary to follow-up on the ongoing studies to make sure that they are well
conducted and their recommendations implemented.

50.     On investment, the generic ERC commitment to a public investment program must be
unbundled into its major components. Building a robust and complete "second-generation"
PIP--containing only well-prepared and fully financed projects, covering the medium term,
rolled annually, integrated with the current budget, and executed transparently and
efficiently-- will take many years. Interpreting the commitment in a more realistic and less
ambitious sense would entail to produce a list of major projects consistent with the agreed
priorities and available financing, and reasonably linked to the annual budget, as well as a
move to closer monitoring and greater efficiency of execution. Doing so would require
focusing at first on (i) establishing an interministerial coordination group; (ii) putting in place
a reliable and reasonably comprehensive database; (iii) defining and enforcing clear criteria
for pro-poor and developmental selection of the largest projects; (iv) elaborating end
enforcing simple but robust procedures for preparation and appraisal of those projects; and
(v) improving execution procedures, inter alia with a specific numerical ceiling on the
proportion of sole-source contracts and a sliding scale thereafter. (Procurement reform is also
required as a separate HIPC trigger).

51.     In longer term, it will be necessary to rebuild the capacity of the regular organs of
government to exercise the regular functions of government--which in the case of
investment means the capacity of line ministries to select, oversee, and monitor the execution
of major projects in their sectors. The DGGT will still be needed in the foreseeable future,
but its operations must become fully transparent, with accountability not only to the Head of
State, but to the Ministries of Planning and Finance and to Parliament. It is also imperative



                                                13

for longer-term institutional development that the DGGT be also given, and be held
responsible for, a major role as facilitator of capacity-building in the line ministries. The
alternative--as in the case of similar post-conflict project execution agencies--is that the
DGGT will still be in existence 30 years from now and the line ministries will still lack
capacity to exercise their core responsibilities.

52.     On arrears, in addition to vigorous prosecution of frauds and correction of other
irregularities, the complete list of creditors and nature of the claims, as validated through the
audit, should be immediately published (or re-published) in the print media and online. Also,
an interim audit of payments already made should be conducted by an international firm as a
matter of priority and under expedited procedures. To give urgency to these steps, the current
process of paying claims could be temporarily suspended.

53.     In general, the Government will continue in the future to need the Bank's proactive
advice and support, especially in the area of institutional development and capacity-building
in the public sector. And so will the Congolese civil society--including help to strengthen its
capacity to obtain relevant information and provide feedback on the implementation of public
expenditure programs. There is, finally, vast space for Bank interventions to address poverty
issues and/or specific social problems, albeit in a manner as targeted and concrete as possible.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

54.     The objectives were highly relevant, and the focus areas clearly and correctly
identified. However, there was a disconnect between the magnitude of the reforms and the
insignificance of some of the measures designed to achieve them, and the postponement of
others. A major opportunity to advance and consolidate the reform process was missed. In
this light, it is perhaps not surprising that implementation was halting and in some cases non-
existent, especially when considering the neglectful attitude on the part of both Bank and
Government.

3.2     Achievement of Program Development Objectives

55.     It is not realistic to expect that broad objectives such as poverty reduction; improved
public investment (more efficient and pro-poor); orderly and transparent clearance of
domestic arrears; and enhanced transparency and governance in the oil sector, could be
achieved in the course of one Credit. However, one may comment on the degree of progress
made under the ERC toward those objectives. Some progress was made to clear domestic
arrears (albeit with implementation problems); a slight advance was made in the direction of
greater transparency in the oil sector; and no progress was made to improve public
investment. One may also comment on the likelihood of eventual positive impact of the ERC.
In the event that major corrective measures--clear, specific and actionable--can be agreed
with the Government, and implemented fast and well, it remains possible that the completion
of the arrears settlement exercise will be cleaner; that meaningful improvements in oil sector
governance will be achieved, and that public investment selection, programming and
execution systems will be substantially improved. (Some suggestions in those directions were
advanced above.)




                                                14

56.     More generally, given the comparatively vast revenue available to the Government
from the oil price boom, the broad policy challenge is not a difficult one: the Government can
earmark substantial resources for direct and indirect means of preserving security and
precluding a return to civil conflict, even while it assures that the bulk of public resources are
programmed rigorously, budgeted openly, and expended efficiently to produce broad-based
benefits, reduce poverty, and rebuild the country's economic and social infrastructure.
Political will at the highest level of the country's leadership is thus the heart of the matter

3.3     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Unsatisfactory

57.     As explained earlier, of the three major components, the one on public investment
was not implemented at all; the one on oil operations and transparency was implemented in
small measure; and the component on settlement of domestic arrears was implemented on
schedule but with deviations from the agreed modalities and significant corruption problems.
The hoped-for outcomes could therefore not be achieved. The process measures called for
under the other two components were either partly implemented by the closing date (forestry)
or--reportedly--were implemented but did not yet achieve the desired result (diamonds).
Overall, the ERC cannot be assessed to have had, or be likely to have, a perceptible positive
influence on growth, poverty reduction, or governance in Congo.

3.4     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

58.     First, the time to get major public management reforms designed and started is before
substantial resources become available to the government. Because genuine government
ownership is critical, leverage is ineffective as a strategy for "second generation" reforms.
However, leverage may occasionally have an important tactical role to overcome initial
inertia, role which was missed in this case. Second, excessive reliance on reform
"champions" is imprudent. The momentum for reform largely evaporated as soon as the
government "champion" (the Minister of Finance) was dismissed. Finally, proactive
supervision, always important, is critical to support major reforms in a post-conflict country
with weak accountability mechanisms, especially for complex institution-building
components and for components with a potential for corruption. (The above themes are
elaborated further under Lessons Learned.)

(a)   Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

59.     The impact on poverty and social development, if any, is unlikely to be significant, in
light of the weak link between the public investment profile and the activities needed to
reduce poverty and exclusion.

(b)   Institutional Change/Strengthening

60.     The operational efficiency of the DGGT, the agency in charge of execution of major
investment projects, has improved (with the major caveat of the frequency of sole-source
contracts). In the longer term, however, this improvement will not translate into greater
efficiency of public investment in general unless coordination with the Ministry of Planning,
and between the Ministries of Planning and of Finance, becomes much closer than is
currently the case, and capacity is gradually rebuilt in the line ministries.


                                                 15

(c)   Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

61.     The injection of liquidity into the private sector, through the arrears settlement
process, was a positive unintended outcome. Unfortunately, it was more than
counterbalanced by the unintended loss of government credibility, stemming from the
confusion and irregularities of the process of arrears settlement.

3.5     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

NA

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

62.     The rating is justified more by the assessment of the denominator than the numerator,
insofar as the ERC itself is concerned. However, if the pattern of public investment does not
improve in the direction of greater development orientation, poverty reduction and a
modicum of efficiency, there is a long term risk that Congo will fall back into the poverty
trap, and possibly even that severe civil tensions will re-emerge.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

Rating: Unsatisfactory

5.1     Bank Performance

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

        Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

(b)     Quality of Supervision

        Rating: Unsatisfactory

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

        Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

63.     As explained in earlier sections, quality at entry was fostered by a clear focus on the
key issues, well-specified arrears clearance procedure fully in keeping with relevant
experience, and excellent presentation of the documents. These were not sufficient, however,
to outweigh the feeble nature of the prior actions in the other areas, particularly in public
investment and to a lesser extent in the oil sector. (The time pressure perceived at the time of
appraisal may have been partly responsible.) On implementation and supervision, particularly
important in light of the risks of the operation, there were only one small mission in 2005 and
a second in 2006.      Slowness of Bank response compounded the weak implementation
support. Implementation was also hampered by changes in country and sector management,
as well as a hiatus between task team leaders, and unclear division of responsibilities within


                                               16

the team. Despite the eleventh-hour attempt in November 2006 to take stock of the situation
and restart certain major components, Bank performance should be rated as Moderately
Unsatisfactory.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a)     Government Performance:

Rating: Unsatisfactory

(b)     Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:

Rating: Moderately unsatisfactory

(c)     Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:

Rating: Unsatisfactory

64.     The public investment component was not implemented; the oil sector component
was implemented in small part; and the arrears settlement component was implemented but
with materially different modalities and significant irregularities. The responsibility rests
largely with the Government. A first underlying factor was the large revenue from the higher
oil prices, which diluted any sense of urgency in implementing the reforms. A second factor
was the ambiguous authority of the core ministries of finance and planning on, respectively,
the oil sector and the execution of large investment projects. Finally, the initial indications of
government ownership proved largely illusory. Some government interlocutors appear to
believe that the responsibility for carrying out studies, articulating the reform measures,
putting into place the measures envisaged by the actions plans, rests entirely with their
development partners and not with the government. One example is the failure to carry out
the SNPC studies, which--given a modicum of ownership--could have been completed
within 2005, spontaneously using Bank procurement rules, and easily financed through the
revenue surge accruing to the budget from the oil price increase.

6. Lessons Learned

65.     None of the following lessons are novel, but the experience of ERC design and
implementation brings them out in full relief.

66.     The time to get long-gestating public management reforms designed and started
is before substantial resources become available to the government. The failure to
achieve any improvement in public investment selection and programming shows the long
lead time required to implement major institutional reforms. In this case, the ERC experience
also shows that, although leverage is inappropriate and ineffective as a strategy for "second
generation" reforms (since genuine government ownership is critical to reform
sustainability), leverage may occasionally have an important tactical role, as in this case.

67.     It is unwise to rely excessively on reform "champions". Indeed, the very
terminology is inconsistent with the development goal to move to a rule-based rather than
person-centered system. While "ownership" is not a state of affairs but a process, and
influential decision-makers are needed to guide the reform, it is prudent to inquire into their
real foundation of support. In this case, the trust placed in the main government interlocutor


                                               17

may have obscured the need to insist on a concrete start to the reforms before Board
presentation. The momentum for reform seems to have largely evaporated as soon as the
government "champion" (the Minister of Finance) was dismissed, right after Board approval
of the ERC. The strength of the reform program and likelihood of its effective
implementation depend both on committed individual leaders and on an enabling
environment of political support and a move toward rule-based public management.

68.      Clear and actionable commitments should be sought, and targeted actions to
reduce actual poverty should be taken, coterminously with the preparation of an I-
PRSP. If well prepared on the basis of genuine consultations, a PRSP is not only required
for HIPC eligibility and other aid, but is an essential guide for policy. However, the
inconsistency of the pattern of actual major investments in Congo with the priorities in the I-
PRSP shows that, in itself, a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper does not reduce poverty nor is
it necessarily a strategy. Concrete actions should accompany it, both as visible "quick wins"
to fuel post-conflict reconciliation and to gain experience in how to implement successfully
the eventual poverty-reduction strategy.

69.      Proactive supervision, always important, is critical to support major reforms in
a post-conflict country with weak accountability mechanisms, especially for: (i) complex
institution-building components such as public investment programming; (ii) components
with a demonstrated potential for confusion and corruption--such as clearance of commercial
arrears; and (iii) politically sensitive issues such as those involved in the management of the
oil sector. For this, the ERC experience shows how clarity of responsibilities and
accountability and close coordination among key actors is every bit as important from the
Bank side as it is for the Government. At the Bank, the lead and guidance for such proactive
supervision, clarity and coordination, and for preventing fragmentation, is the core
responsibility of team, sector and country management. Even the best efforts, however,
cannot be successful without predictable funding and staffing--consistent with the Bank
objectives and commensurate to the complexity and risks of the program.

70.      Technical assistance is unlikely to be effective in the absence of adequate
government arrangements to coordinate the reform program as a whole. Even if
organizational arrangements specific to each component or Credit are put in place, they
should not remain disconnected. It is critical to have an overarching institutional mechanism
that can oversee all these related efforts and enjoys the full support of the highest political
leadership. (The connection to the broader governance issues is apparent.)

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)      Borrower/Implementing Agencies:

71.      A copy of the completion report prepared by the Congolese Government is attached
(Annex 5). The issue most frequently raised by government interlocutors was the slowness
of Bank response to their request for assistance--attributed in part to weak cooperation
between certain team members. The slow response meant that funds in the TGCBP were
expended and were no longer available to finance the agreed studies in the agreed manner.
While this was true in certain instances, it is difficult to accept the implicit view that no
progress can be made in any area without external advice and involvement--especially when
the Government itself is flush with money. It is understandable that the necessity to take



                                                 18

difficult measures may be more easily conveyed to the political leadership if it flows from
recommendations of an authoritative external entity. Yet, a number of practical measures, of
little or no political sensitivity, could have been taken on the initiative of the government
agency concerned and from its own resources.

72.      Aside from the views expressed in the Government own report, the comments to this
report were limited to reiterating the Government assessment that the arrears clearance
operation had been implemented in satisfactory manner.

(b)      Cofinanciers:

         NA

(c)      Other Partners and Stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):

73.      As noted, public and explicit charges were made by the Chamber of Commerce of
inadequate transparency and major irregularities in the arrears settlement process. It is
difficult to be sure of the realities on the ground, but equally difficult to believe that such
charges could be made in such explicit and open ways without some basis in fact.




                                               19

                                                   LIST OF ANNEXES


Annex 1. Restructuring (if any).............................................................................................21
Annex 2. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes......................22
Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results....................................................................................23
Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...............................................24
Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..............................25
Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders................................14
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ...............................................................................15
Annex 8: ERC - Matrix of policy actions..............................................................................16
Annex 9: Update on the SNPC Action Plan As of end-May 2007)........................................20
MAP.........................................................................................................................................22




                                                                   20

Annex 1. Restructuring (if any)

NA




                                   21

Annex 2. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


Names                     Title                             Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Monthe Bienvenu Biyoudi   Economist                         AFTP3
Bruno Boccara             Lead Economist                    AFTP4
Danielle Anne Dukowicz    Consultant                        AFTP3
Gilles Gauvreau           Consultant                        AFTS3
Brendan Horton            Consultant                        AFCC1
Slaheddine Khenessi       Senior Economist                  AFTP3
Claude Leroy-Themeze      Senior Economist                  AFTP3
Eleodoro O. Mayorga Alba  Lead Economist                    COCPO
Chukwuma F. Obidegwu      Lead Economist                    AFTP3
Ivan Rossignol            Sr Private Sector Development     AFTPS
                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks     USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
FY04                                         31                         205.48
FY05                                         29                         132.46
FY06                                                                      0.00
FY07                                                                      0.00
Total:                                       60                         337.94
Supervision/ICR
FY04                                                                      0.00
FY05                                                                      0.00
FY06                                         32                         138.60
FY07                                         41                         155.74
Total:                                       73                         294.34




                                            22

Annex 3. Beneficiary Survey Results

NA




                                     23

Annex 4. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

NA




                                     24

Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                              (ENGLISH VERSION)

MINISTRY OF THE ECONOMY                     REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
FINANCE AND BUDGET                             Unity*Work*Progress
        ------------------                       ----------
                                 CABINET




                        ECONOMIC RECOVERY CREDIT

                           COMPLETION REPORT




                                 May 2007




                                     25

                                    I.      INTRODUCTION

From 1993 to 1998, Congo experienced several civil wars that weakened its economic
system. Following the signing of peace agreements with armed groups in 1999 and 2003, and
the finalization of the democratization of the political process in 2002, the government
launched a real economic and social program based primarily on reducing poverty,
consolidating economic management, improving transparency and good governance as well
as strengthening human and institutional capacities. The development strategy adopted is
aimed at reducing poverty and is outlined in the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP-1).

                II.     OVERALL EVALUATION OF THE OPERATION

To achieve this objective, the government requested and obtained, from the International
Development Association (IDA), support in the form of a US$30 million (equivalent to
20 500 000 DTS, or CFAF 15.735.003.263) economic recovery credit.

On December 16, 2004, Congo signed the loan agreement with the IDA.
The loan will help finance Congo's economic program for 2005 and 2006 by :

       -    Enhancing transparency in the petroleum sector ;
       -    Improving public expenditure management by implementing a rational public
            investment program
       -    Improving the domestic debt management system by putting in place a
            transparent plan for clearance of arrears and other debts.

As well, the Congolese government committed to pursuing ongoing structural reforms,
promoting transparency and accountability in financial management, etc.

   III.    EVALUATION OF THE PROGRAM'S DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES

The reforms envisaged under the PRGF for the second year of the program were: (i) the
adoption by the government of a comprehensive plan for domestic social arrears clearance
and the publication of related policies on the website of the Ministry of Economy, Finance
and Budget, (ii) the certification, without any restrictions on access to information, of oil
revenues; (iii) the preparation by the government of a poverty reduction expenditure table for
the 2005 and 2006 budgets; (iv) the preparation by the government of a budget proposal for
2007 using a functional classification in line with the IMF's Government Finance Statistics
Manual; (v) the adoption of a schedule for the elimination of implicit subsidies on oil
products; (vi) the centralization of all public revenues and execution of all payments to the
Public Treasury.

With respect to public finance, government budgets basically pursued two objectives, in
compliance with the program agreed with the Bretton-Woods Institutions under the PRGF
and with a view to attaining the completion point after reaching the enhanced HIPC decision
point in March 2006: ensure the stability of the macro-economic framework in order to
stimulate sustainable economic growth that will generate jobs and income; reduce poverty.
Naturally, these objectives are part of a prudent fiscal policy.



                                               26

Particular emphasis was laid on pursuing efforts to enhance transparency in the oil sector and
to strengthen taxation authorities--thus significantly improving budgetary revenues.

Expenditures were underpinned by the poverty reduction objective. The focus was on the
priority sectors identified under the interim poverty reduction strategy, notably health and
education.

With respect to public enterprises, the reforms envisaged under the PRGF program focus on
the completion, by an internationally renowned firm of consultants, of the 2004 financial
accounts of the SNE, in line with OHADA standards.

Privatization of the SNE and of the SNDE is still being pursued following the unsuccessful
efforts with the BIWATER company.

Reforms undertaken in the oil sector were aimed at consolidating transparency in the sector
and, consequently, at improving the mobilization of revenues. The reforms focused in
particular on (i) auditing the SNPC, (ii) certification of oil receipts, (iii) diagnostic analysis of
the economic viability of the CORAF and, (iv) assessment of SNPC's oil marketing policy.

Regarding the banking sector, the authorities had committed to using the services of an
internationally renowned investment banker to negotiate the sale of COFIPA. COFIPA has
been privatized. It has become the Banque Congolaise Internationale du Groupes des
Banques Populaires.

                      IV.     EVALUATION OF PROGRAM DESIGN

These reforms are included in the development policy letter, which deals with the following
issues successively:

    · The preparation of the poverty reduction strategy ;
    · The macroeconomic and budgetary framework
    · Transparency and good governance in the oil sector ;
    · The national debt ;
    · The public investment program ;
    · Sectoral policies.

It is worth noting that the proper execution of measures defined in this policy letter should
help the authorities implement the structural benchmarks needed to strengthen the recovery
of the Congolese economy.

The credit was slated to close on December 31, 2006.

At the end of the project, we thought that it would be useful, with a view to complying with
Bank procedures, to produce a report, in order to evaluate the performance of the government
as well as that of the Bank.




                                                27

                    V.      THE GOVERNMENT'S PERFORMANCE

V.1 Fulfillment of agreement conditions

With respect to monitoring the management of this loan, an account was opened at the
BEAC, with Mr. Albert NGONDO, General Director of the Treasurer designated as the
person empowered to activate the said account. When necessary, he is assisted by Mrs.
Firmine GALIBA and Mr. Jean Claude MAVOUNGOU, First signing Officer and Second
Signing Officer at the Treasury, respectively.

Other related conditionalities were also fulfilled:

    -   Approval of the Credit Agreement by Parliament on March 9, 2005;
    -   Supreme Court Opinion : Notice N°002-05 of March 9, 2005;
    -   Ratification by the President of the Republic: Law N° 1-2005 of March 12, 2005,
        Decree 2005-191 of March 14, 2005;
    -   Publication in the official gazette: special edition N° 2-2005 of March 14, 2005;
    -   Receipt by IDA : March 16, 2005;
    -   Certification by the Supreme Court N° 057/CS 05 of March 16, 2005.

After fulfilling these various conditions precedent to the disbursement of the first tranche
resources under this loan, a request for disbursement was presented to the World Bank. This
operation was completed and, in April 2005, the account opened to this end at the Banque des
Etats de l'Afrique Centrale was credited with17 million dollars, an amount equivalent to
CFAF 8 916 501 849.
A second tranche in the amount of US$13 million, close to CFAF 6.5 billion was slated to be
released upon fulfillment by the government of the relevant conditions. These conditions are:

1- Sound implementation of the SNPC action plan, notably:

            Strengthening the MEFB Hydrocarbon Unit ;
            Reforming the SNPC cost accounting framework;
            Conducting a study to revaluate petroleum assets;
            Adopting an appropriate reporting document system.


2-    Timely production of the physical and financial audit report of public investment
expenditures in 2004;

3-  Adoption and implementation of an action plan and of reforms aimed at strengthening
public investments financed by the government's own resources;

4- Timely preparation of the three-year PTIP public investment program for 2006 ­ 2007;

5- Adoption of a domestic arrears clearance plan deemed satisfactory by the IDA.




                                                28

V.2    Poverty reduction

In the context of finalizing the PRSP-I, the following actions have been initiated since 2004:

    -   Preparation of sectoral strategies in view of completing the PRSP;

    -   In the absence of sectoral strategies, the preparation of the investment budget was
        limited to a simple catalog of projects. After validation of sectoral studies conducted
        by national experts, strategic guidance notes were prepared and submitted to the
        different ministries for incorporation into sectoral strategies;

    -   Implementation of a comprehensive medium-term expenditure framework in view of
        the finalization of the PRSP ;

    -   Finalization of the said framework by the team put in place by order of the Minister
        of Planning and Territorial Administration;

    -   Conducting the survey on poverty;

    -   Participatory analysis of poverty;

    -   At the conclusion of participatory consultations on poverty, participatory analysis
        helped identify priority strategies and actions for poverty reduction. The national
        report on participatory consultations was adopted;

    -   Pursuing and strengthening consultation of the population and ensuring national
        ownership of the document ;

    -   Organization of workshops on the monitoring and evaluation indicators of the
        strategy;

    -   Organization of seminars on strengthening capacity for decentralization and gender ;

    -   Evaluation of the effect of the reduction of the external debt ;

    -   These comply with the time chart established for the implementation of activities that
        should result in the finalization of the full PRSP;

    -   Estimating the cost of the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) for Congo.


At the conclusion of the national workshop on planning based on the Millennium
Development Goals, the team set up to monitor resolutions started evaluating the cost of
actions to be implemented in view of achieving the MDGs, notably in the following sectors :

    1. Basic education

    2. HIV/AIDS

    3. Gender

    4. Water and sanitation

    5. Rural development

    6. Road infrastructure



                                                29

IV.3    Transparency and governance

IV.3.1 Transparency and governance in the petroleum sector

To strengthen efficiency and transparency in the oil sector, the Government implemented
several actions:

    · Preparation of quarterly certifications of oil revenues according to the same terms and
        conditions as the certifications done in 2003;

    · Completion of financial and accounting audits of the SNPC for the 2002 and 2003
        fiscal years;

    · Publication of the results of audits conducted in the oil sector;

    · Finalization the privatization of downstream oil operations;

    · Congo`s membership in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative;

    · Implementation of the SNPC action plan, which was pursued.


Several actions under this plan were executed with the support of the PRCTG.

Of the four actions relating to the disbursement of the second tranche, only the one related to
strengthening the Oil and Gas Unit in the Ministry of Finance was implemented. Indeed, the
Oil and Gas Unit in the Ministry of the Economy, Finance and Budget was strengthened to
allow this ministry to exercise better control over all oil tax revenues.

The other three actions were supposed to be executed with financing from the World Bank.
However, they could not be implemented because of the financial difficulties being
experienced by the PRCTG. With the agreement of the World Bank, the Government of
Congo committed to financing the said actions on its own funds, using Bank procedures.
These actions include:

    · Finalizing reform of the SNPC accounting and analytic framework, to enable the
        SNPC to comply with OHADA accounting standards and with those practiced in the
        oil industry;

    · Completing the study on the development of petroleum sector assets, which will
        allow the government to better estimate all petroleum assets, in particular, the
        country's reserves in hydrocarbons, with the objective of improving forecasting of
        assets and of the lifespan of reserves ;

    · Preparing adapted reporting documents to formalize exchange of information
        between the SNPC and the Ministry in charge of Oil and Gas and the Ministry of
        Finance.


These actions are being implemented.




                                                30

IV.3.2 Transparency and governance in the mining sector

After the suspension of Congo from the KIMBERLY process, the Government reiterated the
country's commitment to reintegrate the said process by implementing the following actions:

    a) pursuing the organization and supervision of artisanal operators;
    b) taking measures to reduce exports;
    c) ensuring the traceability of raw diamonds;
    d) creating a structure to implement the measures of the KIMBERLY process;
    e) imposing taxes on purchasing offices and subjecting them to their ordinary tax
       liability;
    f) providing a CFAF 100 million grant to the Directorate of Mines before end-August to
       better organize local diamond producers and ensure better "traceability"
    g) rehabilitating the sector by closing diamond purchasing offices that do not meet the
       conditions;
    h) reorganizing the authority responsible for attributing KIMBERLY approvals and
       certificates, excluding corrupt civil servants;
    i) organizing in Brazzaville, at Congo's expense, an international conference of
       neighboring diamond producing countries (Congo Brazzaville, RDC, Angola, RCA)
       to:
                - Better implement, together, the KIMBERLY recommendations;
                - Define and harmonize customs outwards on exported diamonds;
                - Combat corruption at borders.

This plan was fully executed. The Government is waiting for an assessment review in August
2007 that will ultimately decide on Congo's reintegration into the Kimberly Process.

IV.4   Domestic Arrears Clearance Plan

Following the conclusion of a PRGF program with the IMF and the World Bank, as well as
the conclusion of an agreement with the Club of Paris, which resulted in the cancellation of
67% of our external debt stock as at September 30, 2004, the government focused on finding
a definitive solution to the domestic debt problem. On the one hand, it started the gradual
payment of the salary arrears of government employees. On the other hand, it adopted a
domestic arrears clearance plan prepared by PriceWaterhouseCoopers, following an audit of
the previous domestic arrears audits prepared by other independent firms of consultants.

IV.4.1 Domestic commercial payments arrears

This only involves domestic commercial payment arrears at December 31, 2003, certified by
numerous audits during the last ten years. The arrears stood at CFAF 154.6 billion.

These results were validated by the IMF and the World Bank and adopted by the
Government.




                                               31

IV.4.2 Domestic commercial debt settlement and clearance strategy

The domestic commercial debt clearance plan adopted by the government is based on three
pillars:
    -   Equity: a 10 million advance payment is made to all eligible domestic commercial
        creditors;
    -   Solidarity: after the advance payment, the balance of the claim is subject to a
        discount, which reflects the participation of national economic operators in the effort
        to restore the national economy;
    -   Democracy: the choice of one of three options, each associated with a specific level
        of discount.

IV.4.3 The debt clearance plan

An advance payment of CFAF 10 million was paid to all creditors. On the balance of the
claim, the creditors were given three settlement options:

IV.4.4 Options
The options were as follows:

Option 1: 66% discount on the amount after the 10 million advance payment. The balance is
payable over two years;

Option 2: 35% discount on the amount after the 10 million advance payment. The balance is
payable over four years;

Option 3: 25% discount on the amount after the 10 million advance payment. The balance is
payable over six years.

IV.4.5 Payment conditions

To ensure the credibility of the operation, a commercial bank, La Congolaise des Banques
(LCB), was selected through competitive bidding based on transparent criteria;
La Congolaise des banques is responsible for making all payments to eligible creditors.

The bank has been making payments for a few months, based on a list of creditors forwarded
to the CCA and published on the website of the Ministry of Finance.

Some instances of fraud and irregularities were noted during the execution of the strategy.

A unit responsible for monitoring the implementation of this operation was established in the
CCA to provide information and handle complaints.

IV.5 Management of Public Investment

The financial and physical execution report of investment expenditures in 2004 was prepared
and transmitted to the World Bank.

The action related to the adoption and implementation of an action plan and of reforms aimed
at improving the management of public investments financed by own funds is underway.


                                              32

With respect to the strengthening capacity for management of public investments component,
advances were made after the diagnostic report of the mission conducted by Gilles
GAUVREAU, notably through:

   · Consultations with the Directorates of Studies and Planning in ministries. This helped
       improve the capacity to manage, execute and monitor the investment component of
       the government budget. On the one hand, it helped draw lessons from the
       municipalization of Kouilou and Likouala in view of the next two phases (Niari and
       la cuvette) and, on the other hand, propose solutions to improve management of
       public investments in the short term.

   · Improvement of information exchange between the two departments responsible for
       public finance management, namely, the Ministry of Planning, Territorial
       Administration and the Ministry of the Economy, Finance and Budget.

   · The relationships established are still at the simple phase of circulation of hard copy.
       Electronic means are not yet used.

   · Publication of different reports on investment budget execution, notably during
       different reviews.

   · The monitoring of budget execution, resulting in the regular production of three
       reports: quarterly, half-yearly, and annual.

   · The public procurement reform project.

   · For this essential element, one of the completion point triggers, the decree creating
       the interministerial work group has been signed. The process should be subject to the
       provision of an expert by the Bank.

   · Preparation of sectoral strategies in view of the completion of the PRSP.

   · Participatory analysis of poverty.

   · Implementation of a comprehensive medium-term expenditure framework in view of
       completion of the PRSP.


The feasibility study is well advanced, with support from:

           The African Development Bank, through the PAGE project.

The program comprises three components:

       o Equipment component: competitive bidding is effective.
       o Training component: the terms of reference have been prepared and will be
           submitted to the AfDB for non-objection.
       o Technical assistance component: consists of the assignment by the AfDB of an
           expert for a fixed term. The latter is expected during November 2007.




                                               33

             The French cooperation agency (project to strengthen capacity to prepare,
             implement and monitor public investments).

This program comprises four components:

        o Equipping the General Directorate of the Ministry of Planning and Territorial
             Administration with computer equipment. Competitive bid calls have been
             published by the cooperation services of the French Embassy.
        o Setting up the network planning training center (DGPD).
        o Training ­ this component that has not yet been implemented.
        o Technical assistance:
                 -   Costing of the Millennium Development Goals in the context of Congo;
                 -   Support from the African Development Bank (Project Page);
                 -   Support from the French cooperation agency (project to strengthen
                     capacity to prepare, implement and monitor public investments).
                 -   Project to link up the expenditure chain to the network.

All the activities listed above should help with the preparation, control and monitoring of
Public Investment Programs for 2007-2009.

In spite of this progress, significant efforts still have to be made, notably to improve the
quality of expenditures. The process for reinforcing capacity in the management of
investments did not achieve the objectives envisaged under the program, and thus requires
financial support during 2007 for its completion.

The Three-Year Public Investment Program (Programme Triennal d'Investissements
Publics--PTIP) for 2006-2007

The PTIP was prepared and submitted to the Conseil Economique et Social for review.
Modifications will be made in the light of the assessment of the final PRSP.

The public procurement code

One of the Government's weaknesses in managing public investments is the granting and
acquisition of government contracts. A draft law has been prepared.

The objective of the Government's forestry policy is to ensure the sustainable management
of forest ecosystems for socio-economic development, bio-diversity conservation and the
stability of the national and global environment.

In this context, efforts were made, notably in:

    A. Expanding the forest development plan;
    B. Regular certification of forestry revenues actually collected by the Public Treasury;
    C. Harmonizing the responsibilities of the ministries in charge of forestry and finance in
        regard to forestry taxation.




                                               34

                          V PERFORMANCE OF THE BANK

V.1 Approval of credit within the requisite timeframe

The technical negotiations for the Economic Recovery Credit were held in July 2004 based
on the Development Policy Letter submitted to the World Bank by the Government. The said
letter was completed by a matrix of actions focused primarily on poverty reduction,
monitoring of public expenditure management, notably investment and internal debt
expenditures.

The project was initially slated to be reviewed by the Board of Directors of the World Bank
on August 26, 2004.

This phase, which should have laid the foundation of the project architecture and the
principles for its evaluation only took place on December 7, 2004, and resulted in the
approval of the Economic Recovery Credit by the Board.

V.2 The speed of the disbursement process

The economic recovery credit was slated as budget support. In this light, assessing the
timeframe of responses to requests for non-objection is irrelevant. However, the response to
the government's request for disbursement of the first tranche was given within a reasonable
timeframe.

V.3 Bank support to the Government

Several actions related to the sound implementation of the SNPC action plan were completed
with support from the PRCTG. Financial difficulties experienced during the implementation
of the project prevented the execution of other actions. This caused problems with the
disbursement of the second tranche.

Furthermore, the GAUVREAU report, which helped identify the government's weaknesses
in the management of public investments, would have been more useful if it had proposed the
expected action plan to this end.

The French cooperation agency has provided the Government with a consultant who is
working to this end.

V.4 Activities of other development partners that influenced the effectiveness of the
Credit and affected the results

The Economic Recovery Credit was agreed in July 2004. This corresponds to the agreed date
for the coming into force of the Government's envisaged program with the IMF.

Under the Credit, the IMF's conditions were imposed on the Government. As a result, the
Government was required to respect deadlines while implementing the said program. In spite
of the World Bank's flexibility with respect to the program's indicative deadlines, the IMF's
strict deadlines were imposed on the government within the framework of the Credit. This



                                             35

had a negative impact on the response to the Government's request for extension of the
deadline in view of disbursement of the second tranche.

                              VI   LESSONS AND PROSPECTS

VI.1 Lessons

In spite of the difficulties encountered in the disbursement of the second tranche, the coming
into effect of the Credit, associated with the program, allowed the government to ensure
better transparency in the oil sector and good governance. Pursuing the program should allow
progress in revamping the procurement code.

The different financing modalities for foreign exchange and local currency expenditures and
the exclusion from regulations governing supplies or services from the borrower's territory
may have contributed to the reduced effectiveness of the World Bank's action. This gives the
impression of a credit aimed at financing imports.

The Bank's rather long procedures also played a role in slowing down the prompt
implementation of the SNPC action plan through the PRCTG.

VI.2 Prospects

In 2006, according to the revised macroeconomic framework, the Congolese economy
recorded stronger growth in real terms compared with the previous year (7.0% compared
with 7.8% in 2005). This is due primarily to the upward revision of growth prospects in the
non-oil sector (particularly activities in the forestry and forestry operations sectors,
manufacturing industries, electricity, gas and water, telecommunications and trade). This
trend reflects, on the one hand, the renewed interest in the public and private sectors and, on
the other hand, the implementation of budget consolidation measures and of reforms
envisaged in the medium term under the PRGF to achieve the enhanced HIPC completion
point.

In 2007, growth is expected to decline (-1.5%) as a result of the sharp fall in oil production (-
15.0%). In contrast, oil production is expected to bounce back in 2008 with the coming on
stream of the Moho-Bilondo field operated by TOTAL, resulting in a +7.5% recovery in
economic growth.

Inflation will be contained at about 2.7% on average per year, based on the assumption of
better supply of food crops and of the pursuit of prudent fiscal and monetary policies.

Under the program and in view of the completion point, the Government aims to:

       i.    Set up a functional classification system for government expenditure, in
             compliance with the IMF's Public Finance Manual, and prepare the government's
             budget proposal using this new classification;

      ii.    Implement a new public investment management system aimed at a rigorous
             selection as well as efficient execution and monitoring of projects, and prepare an
             investment program based on the new system, and;



                                                36

     iii.  Adopt and implement a new procurement code (that promotes transparency and
           competition) in compliance with good international practices and implementation
           decrees.


In the forestry sector, the Government plans to improve the system for allocating forest
concessions to make it more transparent and more competitive. It will adopt measures aimed
at promoting competitiveness, transparency, and the sustainable development of the sector.

At the level of the SNE, the Government aims to improve the level of revenues, notably
through the installation of meters for customers in Brazzaville.




                                              37

                               (FRENCH VERSION)


MINISTERE DE L'ECONOMIE,                       République du Congo
DES FINANCES ET DU BUDGET                      Unité*Travail*Progrès
       ------------------                          ----------


                                 CABINET




                         Rapport d'Achèvement du
                       Crédit de Relance Economique




                                  mai 2007




                                     1

                                     1. INTRODUCTION

Le Congo a connu plusieurs guerres civiles de 1993 à 1998 qui ont affaibli son système
économique. Après la signature des accords de paix avec les groupes armés en 1999 et en
2003, et l'achèvement du processus de démocratisation de la vie politique en 2002 le
Gouvernement a amorcé un véritable programme économique et social fondé principalement
sur la lutte contre la pauvreté, la consolidation de la gestion de l'économie, l'amélioration de
la transparence et de la bonne gouvernance ainsi que le renforcement des capacités humaines
et institutionnelles. La stratégie de développement adoptée vise la réduction de la pauvreté et
se trouve indiquée dans le Document de Stratégie de Réduction de la Pauvreté Intérimaire
(DSRP-I).

                    II.     EVALUATION GLOBALE DE L'OPERATION

Pour atteindre cet objectif, le Gouvernement a sollicité et obtenu auprès de l'Association
Internationale pour le Développement (FAD) un soutien sous forme de Crédit de Relance
Economique de 30 millions de dollars US équivalent à 20 500 000 DTS., soit
15.735.003.263 F CFA.

Ainsi, le Congo a signé le 16 décembre 2004, avec l'Association Internationale pour le
Développement, cet accord de prêt.
Celui-ci devrait servir à contribuer au financement du programme économique du Congo,
pour les années 2005 et 2006 par :

         -   Le renforcement de la transparence dans le secteur pétrolier;
         -   L'amélioration de la gestion des dépenses publiques à travers la mise en place
             d'un programme rationnel d'investissement public ;
         -   L'amélioration du système de gestion de la dette intérieure par la mise en place
             d'un plan transparent d'apurement des arriérés intérieurs et autres.

Aussi, le Gouvernement congolais a pris l'engagement de poursuivre les réformes
structurelles déjà entamées, de promouvoir la transparence et la responsabilisation de la
gestion financière, etc.

              III.    EVALUATION DES OBJECTIFS DE DEVELOPPEMENT
                                            DU PROGRAMME

Les réformes qui sont inscrites dans le cadre du programme au titre de la FRPC pour la
deuxième année du programme ont été : (i) l'adoption par le gouvernement d'un plan
complet pour le règlement des arriérés sociaux internes et la publication des politiques
afférentes sur le site Internet du Ministère de l'Economie, des Finances et du Budget, (ii) la
certification, sans limite d'accès aux informations, des recettes pétrolières, (iii) la préparation
par le gouvernement d'un tableau des dépenses de lutte contre la pauvreté relatives à
l'exécution du budget 2005 et au budget 2006, (iv) la rédaction par le gouvernement d'un
projet de budget 2007 au moyen d'une classification fonctionnelle conforme au Manuel de
statistiques de finances publiques 2001 du FMI, (v) l'adoption d'un calendrier d'élimination
des subventions implicites pour les produits pétroliers, (vi) la centralisation de toutes les
recettes publiques et exécution de tous les paiements au Trésor Public.


                                                2

En ce qui concerne les finances publiques, les budgets publics ont poursuivi essentiellement
deux objectifs, conformément au programme signé avec les institutions de Bretton Woods au
titre de la FRPC et à l'objectif d'atteindre le point achèvement après l'accès au point de
décision de l'IPPTE en mars 2006 : assurer la stabilité du cadre macro économique, afin de
stimuler une croissance économique durable génératrice d'emplois et de revenus ; réduire la
pauvreté. Ces objectifs se sont inscrits, naturellement, dans le cadre d'une politique
budgétaire prudente.

Un accent particulier a été mis sur la poursuite des efforts de transparence dans le secteur
pétrolier et de renforcement de l'administration fiscale, ce qui a contribué à améliorer
significativement les recettes budgétaires.

Les dépenses ont été orientées par l'objectif de réduction de la pauvreté. La priorité a été
accordée aux secteurs prioritaires identifiés dans le cadre de la stratégie intérimaire de
réduction de la pauvreté, notamment la santé et l'éducation.

S'agissant des entreprises publiques, les réformes inscrites dans le cadre du programme au
titre de la FRPC portent sur l'achèvement, par un cabinet de réputation internationale, de
l'établissement des comptes financiers 2004 de la SNE, conformément aux normes de
l'OHADA.

Le processus de privatisation de la SNE et de la SNDE est toujours en cours après l'échec
avec la société BIWATER

Les reformes engagées au niveau du secteur pétrolier visaient à consolider la transparence
dans ce secteur et à améliorer par conséquent la mobilisation des recettes. Elles portaient
notamment sur (i) la mise en oeuvre des audits de la SNPC, (ii) la certification des recettes
pétrolières, (iii) l'analyse diagnostique de la viabilité économique de la CORAF et, (IV)
l'évaluation de la politique de commercialisation du pétrole par la SNPC.

En ce qui concerne le secteur bancaire, les autorités s'étaient engagées à recourir aux
services d'un banquier d'affaires de réputation internationale pour qu'il négocie en leur nom
la vente de la COFIPA. A ce jour, la COFIPA a été privatisée. Elle est devenue la Banque
Congolaise Internationale du Groupes des Banques Populaires.

             IV.      EVALUATION DE LA CONCEPTION DU PROGRAMME

Ces réformes sont contenues dans la lettre de politique de développement qui traite
successivement les sujets suivants :

    · la préparation de la stratégie de réduction de la pauvreté ;
    · le cadre macroéconomique et budgétaire ;
    · la transparence et la bonne gouvernance dans le secteur pétrolier ;
    · la dette publique ;
    · le programme d'investissement public ;
    · les politiques sectorielles.




                                              3

Il convient de noter que la bonne exécution des mesures définies dans cette lettre de politique
devrait aider les Autorités dans la mise en oeuvre des repères structurels nécessaires pour le
redressement et la relance de l'économie congolaise.

Il était prévu que le crédit soit clôturé le 31 décembre 2006.

Au terme dudit projet, il nous a paru utile, dans le souci d'être en conformité avec les
procédures de la Banque, de produire un rapport y relatif, afin d'en évaluer les performances,
tant du Gouvernement que celles de la Banque.

                       V.       PERFORMANCE DU GOUVERNEMENT

V.1      Réalisations des Conditionnalités de l'Accord

Dans le cadre du suivi de la gestion de ce prêt, un compte a été ouvert à la BEAC et
Monsieur Albert NGONDO, Directeur Général du Trésor a été désigné comme personne
habilitée à mouvementer ledit compte. Il est supplée conjointement et en cas de besoin, par
Madame Firmine GALIBA et Monsieur Jean Claude MAVOUNGOU respectivement
Première Fondée et Deuxième Fondé de pouvoir au Trésor.

D'autres conditionnalités y relatives ont été aussi remplies :

    -    Approbation de l'Accord de Crédit par le Parlement : 9 mars 2005
    -    Avis de la Cour Suprême : avis N°002-05 du 9 mars 2005
    -    Ratification par le Président de la République : Loi N° 1-2005 du 12 mars 2005
         décret 2005-191 du 14 mars 2005
    -    Publication au journal officiel : Edition Spéciale N° 2-2005 du 14 mars 2005
    -    Réception par l'IDA : 16 mars 2005
    -    Certification par la Cour Suprême N° 057/CS 05 du 16 mars 2005

Après avoir rempli ces différentes conditions préalables au décaissement des ressources de la
première tranche de ce prêt, une demande de décaissement des fonds a été formulée à la
Banque Mondiale. Cette opération a été réalisée et le compte ouvert à cet effet à la Banque
des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale a été crédité d'un montant de 17 millions de dollars soit
l'équivalent de 8 916 501 849 FCFA en avril 2005.
Une deuxième tranche d'un montant de 13 millions de dollars US, soit près de 6.5 milliards
de francs CFA devrait être           débloquée dès que le Gouvernement aurait rempli les
conditionnalités y relatives. Ces conditions sont les suivantes :

1- La bonne exécution du plan d'action de la SNPC notamment :

             le renforcement de la cellule des hydrocarbures du MEFB
             la réforme des cadres comptables analytiques de la SNPC ;
             l'étude pour la revalorisation des actifs pétroliers
             la mise en place des documents de reporting adapté.

2- La production à temps du rapport d'exécution physique et financière d'investissements
publics effectués en 2004 ;



                                                  4

3- L'adoption et la mise en oeuvre d'un plan d'actions et des reformes visant à améliorer la
gestion des investissements publics financés par ses propres ressources ;

4- L'élaboration à temps du programme Triennal d'Investissement Public PTIP. tranches
annuelles 2006-2007 ;

5- L'adoption d'un plan d'apurement des arriérés internes jugé satisfaisant par l'Association.

V.2     Sur le Plan de la réduction de la pauvreté

Dans le cadre de la finalisation du DSRP-I les actions ci-dessous ont été engagées depuis
2004.
    -   L'élaboration des stratégies sectorielles dans le cadre de la finalisation du DSRP ;

    -   En l'absence de stratégies sectorielles, l'élaboration du budget d'investissement se
        limitait à un simple catalogue de projets. Après la validation des études sectorielles
        conduites par l'expertise nationale, des notes d'orientation stratégiques ont été
        élaborées et soumises aux différents ministères pour appropriation comme élément de
        stratégie sectorielle ;

    -   la mise en place d'un cadre de dépense à moyen terme Global dans le cadre de la
        finalisation du DSRP;

    -   L'équipe mise en place par note du Ministre du Plan, de l'Aménagement du Territoire,
        a finalisé ledit cadre ;

    -   la conduite de l'enquête sur la pauvreté ;

    -   les analyses participatives de la pauvreté (APP) ;

    -   A l'issue des consultations participatives sur la pauvreté, les analyses participatives
        ont permis de dégager les stratégies et actions prioritaires pour la réduction de la
        pauvreté. Le rapport national sur les consultations participatives a été adopté ;

    -   poursuite et renforcement des consultations des populations et assurer l'appropriation
        nationale du document ;

    -   l'organisation les ateliers sur les indicateurs de suivi évaluation de la stratégie ;

    -   l'organisation des séminaires sur le renforcement des capacités sur la
        décentralisation et le genre ;

    -   la conduite de l'évaluation de l'effet de réduction de la dette extérieure ;

    -   Celles-ci cadrent avec le chronogramme établi pour la réalisation des activités devant
        aboutir à la finalisation du DSRP complet ;

    -   Costing pour le cas du Congo, des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le Développement
        (OMD).

A l'issue de l'atelier national sur la planification basée sur les Objectifs du Millénaire pour le
Développement, l'équipe mise en place pour le suivi des résolutions s'est attelée à évaluer le



                                                  5

coût des actions à mettre en oeuvre pour l'atteinte des OMD, particulièrement pour les
secteurs suivants:

    1. Education de base;

    2. VIH/SIDA ;

    3. Genre ;

    4. Eau et assainissement ;

    5. Développement rural ;

    6. Infrastructures routières.

IV.3    Sur le plan de la transparence et gouvernance

IV.3.1 Transparence et gouvernance dans le secteur pétrolier

Pour renforcer l'efficacité et la transparence dans le secteur pétrolier, le Gouvernement a mis
en oeuvre plusieurs actions:

    · les certifications trimestrielles des recettes pétrolières selon le même cahier de
        charges que les certifications réalisées en 2003 se sont régulièrement poursuivies ;

    · la réalisation des audits financiers et comptables de la SNPC pour les exercices 2002
        et 2003 ;

    · la publication des résultats d'audits réalisés dans le secteur pétrolier ;

    · l'achèvement de la privatisation de l'aval pétrolier.

    · l'adhésion du Congo à l'Initiative Internationale de Transparence des industries
        Extractives.

    · la mise en oeuvre du plan d'action de la SNPC qui s'est poursuivie.

Plusieurs actions de ce plan ont été exécutées avec l'appui du PRCTG.

Des quatre retenues pour le décaissement de la deuxième tranche, seule celle relative au
renforcement de la cellule des hydrocarbures du ministère des finances a été réalisée. En
effet, La cellule des hydrocarbures du Ministère de l'Economie des Finances et du Budget a
été renforcée, en vue de permettre à ce Ministère d'avoir une meilleure maîtrise de
l'ensemble des recettes fiscales pétrolières.

Les trois autres devraient être exécutées avec le financement de la Banque Mondiale. Des
difficultés financières que connaît le PRCTG n'ont pas permis leur réalisation. Avec l'accord
de la Banque Mondiale, le Gouvernement du Congo s'est engagé, à financer lesdites actions
sur fonds propres, en utilisant les procédures de la Banque. Ces actions sont les suivantes :

    · l'achèvement de la réforme des cadres comptables et analytiques de la SNPC, ceci
        pour permettre à la SNPC de se mettre aux normes comptables de l'OHADA et à
        celles en pratiques dans l'industrie pétrolière ;




                                                6

    · la réalisation de l'étude pour la valorisation des actifs pétroliers nécessaire pour
        permettre au Gouvernement d'avoir une meilleure estimation de l'ensemble des actifs
        pétroliers, spécifiquement les réserves du pays en hydrocarbures, ceci dans l'objectif
        de mieux fixer les prévisions ainsi que la longévité de ses réserves ;

    · la mise en place de documents de reporting adaptés afin de fixer de manière formelle
        les échanges d'information entre la SNPC et les Ministères chargés des
        Hydrocarbures et des Finances.

Elles sont en cours de réalisation.

IV.3.2 Transparence et gouvernance dans le secteur minier

Après l'exclusion du Congo du processus de KIMBERLEY, le Gouvernement s'était engagé
à réaffirmer la volonté ferme du Congo à réintégrer ledit processus par l'application du plan
d'action suivant :

a. /    poursuite de l'organisation et de l'encadrement les exploitants artisanaux ;
b. /    prise des mesures pour réduire les exportations ;
c. /    assurer la traçabilité des diamants bruts ;
d. /    création d'une structure pour la mise en oeuvre des dispositions de KIMBERLEY ;
e. /    fiscalisation des bureaux d'achat et de les soumettre à leur obligation fiscale de droit
commun.
f./    dotation à la Direction des Mines de 100 millions de FCFA avant fin août pour mieux
organiser les producteurs locaux de diamant et assurer une meilleures « traçabilité ».
g. /    assainissement de la filière en fermant les bureaux d'achat de diamant qui ne
remplissent pas les conditions.
h. /     réorganisation de l'administration chargée de l'attribution des agréments et des
certificats KIMBERLEY en écartant les fonctionnaires corrompus.
i./  organisation à Brazzaville au frais du Congo, d'une conférence internationale des pays
voisins producteurs de diamant (Congo Brazzaville, RDC, Angola, RCA) pour :
    -   mieux appliquer ensemble, les recommandations de KIMBERLEY ;
    -   relever et harmoniser les droits de sortie sur les diamants exportés.
    -   lutter contre la fraude aux frontières.

Ce plan a été totalement exécuté. Le Gouvernement attend une revue d'évaluation en août
2007 qui conclura éventuellement de la réintégration du Congo au Processus de Kimberley.

IV.4    PLAN D'APUREMENT DES ARRIERES INTERNES

La conclusion d'un programme FRPC avec le FMI et la Banque Mondiale ainsi que la
conclusion d'un accord avec le Club de Paris au terme duquel 67% du stock de notre dette
extérieure évaluée au 30 septembre 2004 a été annulé, le Gouvernement a par la suite,
consacré toute l'énergie à la recherche d'une solution définitive à la question intérieure.
D'une part, il a amorcé le paiement progressif des arriérés de salaires des agents de l'Etat.
D'autre part il a adopté un plan d'apurement effectué par Le PriceWaterhouseCoopers des
arriérés internes, à l'issue d'un audit des audits des arriérés intérieurs antérieurement réalisés
par d'autres cabinets indépendants.



                                                7

IV.4.1 Les arriérés de la dette intérieure commerciale

Il s`agit exclusivement des arriérés de la dette intérieure commerciale au 31 décembre 2003,
que de nombreux audits ont certifiés au cours de ces dernières dix années. Elle a été établie à
154,6 milliards de F CFA.

Ce résultat a été validé par le FMI et la Banque Mondiale et adopté par le Gouvernement

IV.4.2 La stratégie de traitement et d'apurement de la dette intérieure ommerciale

Le plan d'apurement des arriérés commerciaux intérieurs adoptés par le Gouvernement est
fondé sur trois piliers:

    -    L'équité: un acompte de 10 millions est versé à tous les créanciers enregistrés à a
         dette intérieure commerciale;
    -    La solidarité: après l'acompte, le solde est frappé d'une décote qui traduit la
         participation des opérateurs économiques nationaux à l'effort d'assainissement de
         l'économie nationale;
    -    La démocratie: le choix entre trois options, chacune associée à un niveau précis de
         décote.

IV.4.3 le plan d'apurement des arriérés

Un acompte de 10 millions a été versé à tous les créanciers. Après quoi il leur a été laissé la
possibilité d'effectuer, sur le solde restant dû, le choix entre trois options de traitement
proposées.

IV.4.4 les options

Il s'agit des options suivantes :

Options 1 : réduction de 66% du montant après le paiement des 10 millions. Le solde est
payable sur deux ans au plus ;

Option 2 : réduction de 35% du montant après le paiement des 10 millions. Le solde est
payable sur trois à quatre ans ;

Options 3 : réduction de 25% du montant après le paiement des 10 millions. Le solde est
payable sur quatre à six ans.

IV.4.5 Modalités de paiement

Pour garantir la crédibilité de l'opération, une banque commerciale, la Congolaise des
Banques (LCB) a été choisie à l'issue d'une procédure d'appel à la concurrence sur la base de
critères transparents ;

La Congolaise des banques est chargée d'effectuer tous les paiements aux créanciers
bénéficiaires.




                                               8

Elle procède aux paiements depuis quelques mois sur la base de la liste des créanciers,
transmises à la CCA et publiée sur le site Internet du ministère des finances.
Quelques fraudes et irrégularités ont été constatées pendant l'exécution de la stratégie.

Une cellule chargée de suivre l'exécution de cette opération a été mise en place à la CCA
pour des informations supplémentaires et éventuelles réclamations.

IV.5 GESTION DES INVESTISSEMENTS PUBLICS

Le rapport d'exécution physique et financière d'investissements publics effectués en 2004 a
été produit et transmis à la Banque Mondiale.

L'action relative à l'adoption et la mise en oeuvre d'un plan d'action et des reformes visant à
améliorer la gestion des investissements publics financiers sur fonds propres est en cours de
réalisation. Dans son volet renforcement des capacités en matière de gestion des
investissements publics, des avancées ont été accomplies après le rapport diagnostic de la
mission effectuée par Gilles GAUVREAU, notamment à travers:

    · la concertation avec les Directions d'études et de la Planification des départements
        Ministériels. Celle-ci constitue une contribution à l'amélioration de la capacité de
        gestion, d'exécution et de suivi du budget de l'état dans sa composante
        investissement. Elle a permis d'une part, de tirer les leçons de la municipalisation du
        Kouilou et de la Likouala dans la perspective des deux étapes suivantes (le Niari et la
        cuvette) et d'autre part, de faire des propositions de solutions en vue d'améliorer à
        court terme la gestion des investissements publics;

    · l'amélioration des échanges d'informations entre les deux départements en charge de
        la gestion des finances publiques à savoir le Ministère du Plan de l'Aménagement du
        Territoire le Ministère de l'Economie, des Finances et du Budget.

    · Les passerelles établies restent encore au simple stade de circulation de support sur
        copie dure (Papier). Les supports électroniques ne sont pas encore de mise.

    · la publication des différents rapports sur l'exécution du budget d'investissement
        notamment lors des différentes revues.

    · Le suivi de l'exécution budgétaire donne lieu de manière régulière à trois rapports:
        trimestriel, semestriel et annuel.

    · le projet de réforme sur la passation des marchés publics;

    · Pour cet élément essentiel, un des déclencheurs du point d'achèvement, le décret
        portant création du groupe de travail interministériel a été signé. La conduite du
        processus devrait être assujettie à la mise à disposition d'un expert par la Banque.

    · L'élaboration des stratégies sectorielles dans le cadre de la finalisation du DSRP;

    · les analyses participatives de la pauvreté ;

    · la mise en place d'un cadre de dépense à moyen terme Global dans le cadre de la
        finalisation du DSRP;




                                                9

L'étude de faisabilité est très avancée avec l'appui :

             de la Banque Africaine de Développement à travers le projet PAGE

Ce programme couvre trois volets:

        o un volet équipement: le soumissionnement par appel d'offres est effectif.
        o un volet formation: Les termes de références ont été élaborés et vont être soumis
             à la BAD pour non objection.
        o un volet assistance technique qui consiste en l'affectation par la BAD d'un expert
             pour une durée déterminée. Ce dernier est attendu pour courant novembre 2007.

             de la Coopération Française (projet de renforcement des capacités d'élaboration,
             de mise en oeuvre et de suivi des investissements publics.

Ce programme comprend quatre composantes:

        o Une composante équipement des Directions générales du Ministère du Plan et de
             l'aménagement du Territoire, en matériels informatiques. Les appels d'offres sont
             lancés par les services de coopération de l'Ambassade de France ;
        o une composante sur la mise en place du centre de formation en techniques de
             Planification (DGPD);
        o une composante formation non encore exécutée;
        o une composante assistante technique:
                  -  Costing des Objectifs du Millénaire pour le Développement dans le cadre
                     du Congo;
                  -  L'appui acquis auprès de la Banque Africaine de Développement (Projet
                     Page);
                  -  L'appui de la Coopération Française (Projet de renforcement des
                     Capacités d'élaboration, de mise en oeuvre et de suivi des investissements
                     publics).
                  -  Le projet de mise en réseau du circuit de la dépense.

L'ensemble des activités évoquées ci-dessus devrait permettre l'élaboration, le contrôle et le
suivi du Programme d'Investissements Publics 2007-2009.

Malgré ces quelques progrès, d'énormes efforts restent à faire, notamment sur l'amélioration
de la qualité de la dépense. Le processus de renforcement de capacités en matières de gestion
des investissements n'a pas atteint dans les délais les objectifs assignés par le programme, ce
qui nécessite un appui financier courant 2007 pour sa finalisation.

Le Programme Triennal d'Investissements Publics (PTIP), tranches annuelles 2006-
2007

Le programme Triennal d'Investissement Public (PTIP) tranches annuelles 2006-2007, a été
élaboré et transmis au Conseil Economique et Social pour avis. Les ajustements devraient
être faits à la lumière de l'évaluation du DSRP final pour adaptation.




                                                10

Le Code des Marchés

L'une des faiblesses du Gouvernement dans la gestion des investissements publics réside
dans l'octroi et l'acquisition des marchés de l'Etat. Un projet de texte avait été élaboré.

L'objectif de la politique forestière du Gouvernement est d'assurer la gestion durable des
écosystèmes forestiers au service du développement socio économique, de la conservation de
la biodiversité et de la stabilité de l'environnement national et global.

Dans ce cadre, des efforts ont été faits notamment :

    D. L'extension des plans d'aménagement forestiers ;
    E. La certification régulière des recettes forestières réellement perçues par le Trésor
         Public ;
    F. La mise en cohérence des responsabilités des Ministères chargés des forêts et des
         finances en matière de fiscalité forestière.

                             V PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE

V.1 Approbation du crédit dans les délais propices

Les négociations techniques du Crédit de Relance Economique avaient eu lieu au mois de
juillet 2004 avec pour base, la Lettre de Politique de Développement qui avait été adressée à
la Banque Mondiale par le Gouvernement. Ladite lettre avait été complétée par une matrice
des actions concernant principalement les aspects de lutte contre la pauvreté, du suivi de la
gestion des dépenses publiques, notamment celles relatives aux dépenses d'investissements et
de la dette intérieure.

Initialement, il avait été prévu que ce dossier soit examiné au Conseil d'Administration de la
Banque Mondiale le 26 août 2004.

Cette phase qui devrait poser les bases de l'architecture du projet et les principes de son
évaluation n'a eu lieu que le 7 décembre 2004 et a abouti à l'approbation du Crédit de
Relance Economique par ledit Conseil.

V.2      La rapidité du processus de déboursement

Le crédit de relance économique était un appui budgétaire. A ce titre l'appréciation des délais
de réponses aux requêtes d'avis de non objection n'avaient pas d'importance. Toutefois, la
réponse à la requête introduite par le Gouvernement pour le décaissement de la première
tranche a été donnée dans les délais raisonnables.

V.3      L'Appui apporté par la Banque au Gouvernement

Plusieurs actions relatives à la bonne exécution du plan d'action de la SNPC ont été réalisées
avec l'appui du PRCTG. Des difficultés financières qui ont survenu en cours d'exécution du
projet n'ont pas permis la réalisation des autres. Ce qui a posé un problème dans le
décaissement de la deuxième tranche.



                                                11

Par ailleurs, le rapport     de GAUVREAU qui a            permis d'identifier les faiblesses du
Gouvernement en matière de gestion d'investissements publics, aurait dû être plus utile, si
elle avait élaboré le plan d'actions attendu à cet effet.

Aujourd'hui, la coopération Française a mis à la disposition du Gouvernement, un Consultant
qui travaille dans ce cadre.

V.4      Activités d'autres partenaires au développement ayant influencé la mise en
vigueur du Crédit et affectés les résultats.

Le Crédit de Relance Economique a été convenu en juillet 2004. Ceci correspond à la date
retenue pour la mise en vigueur du programme que le Gouvernement envisageait signer avec
le FMI.

Les conditionnalités retenues par le FMI se sont imposées au Gouvernement dans le cadre du
Crédit. Du coup, celui-ci était tenu de respecter les dates limites, en même temps qu'il fallait
s'occuper du contenu dudit programme. Malgré la souplesse de la Banque Mondiale quant
aux délais qui étaient indicatifs pour celle-ci dans le cadre du Crédit, le Gouvernement s'est
vu obliger les délais impératifs du Fonds. Ceci a influencé négativement la réponse à la
requête du Gouvernement pour la prorogation de la limite en vue du décaissement de la
deuxième tranche.

                            VI    LEÇONS ET PERSPECTIVES

VI.1     Enseignements

Malgré la difficulté enregistrée dans le décaissement de la deuxième tranche, la mise en
vigueur du Crédit, associée au programme, ont            permis au Gouvernement d'assurer la
meilleure transparence dans le secteur pétrolier et la bonne gouvernance. La poursuite du
programme devrait permettre les avancées dans la refonte du code des marchés.

La discrimination dans les modalités de financement des dépenses en devise et dépenses en
monnaie locale et l'exclusion du règlement des fournitures ou services provenant du
territoire de l'Emprunteur pourrait avoir contribué à la baisse de l'efficacité de l'action de la
Banque Mondiale. Ceci donne l'impression d'un crédit tourné à financer les importations.

Les procédures un peu longues de la Banque ont contribué au ralentissement de la célérité de
réalisation des actions du plan de la SNPC, par le biais du PRCTG.

VI.2     Perspectives

En 2006, selon le cadre macroéconomique révisé, l'économie congolaise a enregistré une
croissance plus forte en termes réels par rapport à l'année précédente (7,0% contre 7,8% en
2005). Elle provient principalement de la révision à la hausse des perspectives de croissance
du secteur non pétrolier (particulièrement des activités des branches sylviculture et
exploitation forestière, industries manufacturières, électricité, gaz et eau, télécommunications
et commerce). Cette dynamique reflète, d'une part, le regain des investissements dans les
secteurs public et privé et, d'autre part, la mise en oeuvre des mesures d'assainissement


                                                12

budgétaire et des réformes inscrites dans le cadre du programme à moyen terme au titre de la
FRPC requises pour atteindre le point d'achèvement de l'IPPTE.

En 2007, la croissance devrait accuser une baisse (-1,5%) en liaison avec la forte baisse de la
production pétrolière (-15,0%). En revanche, on notera un rebond de la production pétrolière
en 2008 avec l'entrée en activité du champ Moho-Bilondo opéré par la société TOTAL
entraînerait une reprise de la croissance économique de +7,5%.

L'inflation sera contenue à environ 2,7% en moyenne annuelle, sous l'hypothèse d'une
meilleure offre de produits vivriers et de la poursuite des politiques budgétaires et monétaires
prudentes.

Dans le cadre du programme et dans la perspective du point d'achèvement, le Gouvernement
vise :
      iv.    La mise en place d'un système de classification fonctionnelle des dépenses de
             l'Etat, cohérent avec le manuel des finances publiques du Fonds Monétaire
             International, et préparation du projet de budget de l'Etat en utilisant cette
             nouvelle classification ;

      v.     La mise en oeuvre d'un nouveau système de gestion des investissements publics
             visant une sélection rigoureuse ainsi qu'une exécution et un suivi efficace des
             projets, et préparation d'un projet de programme d'investissement sur la base de
             ce nouveau système et ;

      vi.    L'adoption et la mise en oeuvre d'un nouveau code de passation des marchés (qui
             promeut la transparence et la concurrence) conformément aux bonnes pratiques
             internationales et des décrets d'application.

Dans le secteur forestier le Gouvernement vise l'amélioration du système d'attribution des
concessions forestières en vue de le rendre plus transparent et plus compétitif. Il devra
adopter des mesures visant à promouvoir la concurrence, la transparence et le développement
viable de ce secteur.

Au niveau de la SNE le Gouvernement vise améliorer le niveau des recettes notamment grâce
à l'installation de compteurs des abonnés de Brazzaville.




                                                13

Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

NA




                                      14

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 Congo Republic, Rapport d'Achèvement du Crédit de Relance Economique, Brazzaville,
      May 2007.

 Congo Republic, Commission Centrale des Marchés et Contrats de l'Etat, Marchés
      Publics--Textes Juridiques, Brazzaville, 2006.

 Congo Republic, Bhattacharya, Rina and Dhaneshwar Ghura, Oil and Growth in the
      Republic of Congo, IMF Working Paper, August 2006, Report WP/06/185.

 Congo Republic, World Bank, Transitional Support Strategy for the Republic of Congo,
      November 13, 2000.

 Congo Republic, Transitional Support Strategy for the Republic of Congo August 8, 2003,
      Report No. 26566.

 Congo Republic, ERC Program Document for a Post-Conflict Economic Rehabilitation
      Credit, July 6, 2001, Report No. P-7467.

 Congo Republic, Program Document for an Economic Recovery Credit, July 29, 2004,
      Report No. 29518, and related documents: Minutes of Negotiations, Development
      Credit Agreement, Update Memorandum of December 2004.

 Congo Republic, SMO Implementation Completion Report on the Post-Conflict
      Rehabilitation Credit, June 21, 2005, Report No. 30738.

 Congo Republic, SMO/Aide Memoire supervision mission (Dec. 2006).

 Congo Republic, BTOR and Aide-Memoire of the First ERC Supervision Mission, July
      2005.

 Congo Republic, BTOR and Aide-Memoire of the Second ERC Supervision Mission,
      December 2006.

 Congo Republic, Commentaires de la Banque mondiale sur le Budget de l'Etat pour 2007,
      December 2006.

 Congo Republic, and IMF, Staff Advisory Note and Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
      Paper, November 17, 2004, Report No.30709.

 Congo Republic, Report on Progress Toward Meeting the Completion Point Triggers Under
 the Enhanced HIPC Initiative, April 9, 2007, Report No.39474.




                                             15

 Annex 8: ERC - Matrix of policy actions
   Objectives        Strategies and          Actions to be carried out           Schedule                  Status as of end-May 2007
                        measures
Poverty reduction Continuation of the  Finalization of the I-PRSP           August 2004     Done. The interim PRSP was adopted by the
                  PRSP process                                                              government in September 2004 and the JSAN
                                                                                            submitted to the Boards of the IMF and the World
                                                                                            Bank in December 2004.
                                       Preparation of poverty survey        July 2005       Done. The Poverty survey was finalized in December
                                                                                            2006.
                                       Workshops on PRSP monitoring and     December 2004   Done. Workshops were held with the technical
                                       evaluation indicators                                assistance from UNFPA in 2005 and 2006.
                                       Holding of workshops on              December 2004   Done. Participatory workshops were organized in all
                                       participation process,                               the regions (Départements) of the country in 2005 and
                                       decentralization and gender                          2006.
                                       Completion of PRSP                   December 2005   Underway. A first draft of the first full PRSP was
                                                                                            issued in February 2006 and transmitted to donors for
                                                                                            technical comments; The full PRSP is expected to be
                                                                                            finalized by end-2007
                  Monitoring of pro-   Finalization of functional           December 2004   Underway. Although all technical preparatory work has
                  poor expenditures    classification                                       been completed (with technical assistance from the
                                                                                            IMF), the functional budget classification is not yet
                                                                                            fully operational. A functional budget classification,
                                                                                            consistent with the IMF GFS 2001, was to be applied
                                                                                            on a trial basis in the 2007 budget.
                                       Development of monitoring            December 2004   Underway. One key problem hindering a full
                                       indicators for pro-poor expenditures                 assessment of the effective share of pro-poor spending
                                                                                            is the absence of a functional budget classification and
                                                                                            the incomplete computerization and integration of
                                                                                            public expenditure management systems. This makes it
                                                                                            impossible to track the actual composition of public
                                                                                            expenditure systematically to inform budget
                                                                                            allocations. Finally, weaknesses in the public
                                                                                            investment management system raise questions on the
                                                                                            quality of public investment.
Transparency and  Transparency in the  Implementation of the action plan,   December 2005   Not done. No new recruitment has been made and the
good governance   petroleum sector     notably:                                             number of high level staff within the Hydrocarbon Unit
in management of                       i) Strengthening of the Hydrocarbons                 remains unchanged.




                                                                         16

   Objectives        Strategies and          Actions to be carried out          Schedule                 Status as of end-May 2007
                        measures
country resources                     Unit within the Ministry of Finance
and public
finances.
                                      ii) Reform of analytical accounting   December 2005  Underway. See Annex 10
                                      framework of the SNPC
                                      iii) Study of valorization of oil     June 2005      Underway. See Annex 10
                                      reserves
                                      iv) Implementation of a new           December 2004  Underway. See Annex 10
                                      reporting system at SNPC
                  Transparency in the Certification of forestry revenues    December 2004  Done. The audit of the certification of forestry
                  forestry sector     collected by the Treasury                            revenues was first undertaken in 2005. Since then the
                                                                                           government is committed to carrying out this measure
                                                                                           on an annual basis.
Macroeconomic     Reduction of        Prepare a plan for reducing domestic  March 2005     Done. The stock of domestic commercial arrears as of
and budgetary     domestic arrears    arrears                                              end -2003 was audited in 2005 and a strategy to settle
framework                                                                                  these arrears was adopted by the government in
                                                                                           November 2005. Also the Government has also made
                                                                                           significant progress in reducing wage arrears and
                                                                                           meeting other social obligations (an agreement was
                                                                                           reached in 2006 on social domestic debt).
                                      Implement the plan for reducing       October 2005   Underway. The Government is current with the four-
                                      domestic arrears                                     year rescheduling plan.
                  Management of       Ongoing                               Ongoing/       The government continues to pursue its effort to
                  external debt                                             Continuous     normalize its relations with the creditors, particularly
                                                                                           no debt arrears were due to neither the Paris Club nor
                                                                                           the Multilaterals.
                  Improve quality of  Approval and posting on the           December 2004  Not done. The plan is not finalized.
                  public investment   Government's website of an action
                                      plan for the reform of public
                                      investment management
                                      Preparation of report on physical and April 2005     Incomplete. A draft report was submitted to the Bank
                                      financial execution of public                        in 2005 for review. The Bank made comments that
                                      investment expenditures for 2004                     were not taken into account; the report was not
                                                                                           finalized.
                                      Preparation of a three-year public    June 2005      Not done. The 2006 public investment program was




                                                                         17

   Objectives       Strategies and       Actions to be carried out            Schedule                 Status as of end-May 2007
                       measures
                                    investment program, including                        not submitted to the Bank for review and was not
                                    annual tranches for 2006-2007                        submitted to the Parliament.
                                    Review of public investment           December 2004  Not done. The review of public investment program by
                                    program by sector                     December 2004  sector was initiated under the Bank assistance, but was
                                    Holding of the capacity-building                     not thereafter completed by the government. In
                                    seminars of the National Center for                  addition, workshops on capacity building did not take
                                    Economic Statistics and Studies                      place partly because the action plan was not finalized.
                                    (Centre National de la Statistique et
                                    des Etudes Economiques, CNSEE);
                                    General Directorate for Planning and
                                    Development (Direction Générale du
                                    Plan et du Développement, DGPD);
                                    and Planning Directorates
                                    (Directions des Etudes et de
                                    Planification, DEP) of sectoral
                                    ministries, in accordance with the
                                    action plan.
Private sector   Private sector     Implementation of plan to reduce      October 2005   Underway. See above
development      promotion          domestic arrears
                                    Approval of the national plan to      March 2005     Done (as regard to the country context during the
                                    combat fraud and corruption                          project preparation). The plan was adopted on the basis
                                                                                         of the corruption study carried out in 2003 with the
                                                                                         assistance from the UNDP. However, this plan was
                                                                                         never implemented. As part of the HIPC Completion
                                                                                         Point triggers, a new plan is foreseen based on the
                                                                                         governance and anti-corruption diagnostic study to be
                                                                                         conducted in 2007.
                                    Establishment of a formal and         March 2005     Not done. No formal framework for dialogue has been
                                    permanent framework for                              put in place.
                                    collaboration between the
                                    Government and the private sector
Environmental    Improved           Strengthening of the Anti-pollution   January 2005   Not done. No concrete action or an organizational or
management       management of      Unit within the Petroleum Ministry                   strategic study has been carried out to assess possible
                 petroleum sector                                                        actions to strengthen this unit.
                                    Establishment of a Surveillance and   December 2005  Not done. No concrete action has been taken to




                                                                       18

Objectives      Strategies and          Actions to be carried out           Schedule                  Status as of end-May 2007
                  measures
                                   Clean-up Unit for coastal areas                     establish this unit.
            Better management      Launch of Forestry Management        Continuous     Not done. The on-going forest and environment study,
            of the impact of       Units (Unités Forestières                           which is supported by the Bank and FAO, provides the
            forestry operations on d'Aménagement)                                      framework to implement this measure.
            the environment
                                   Development and expansion of the     Continuous     Not done. The on-going forest and environment study,
                                   national network of protected areas                 which is supported by the Bank and FAO provides the
                                                                                       framework to implement this measure.




                                                                     19

        Annex 9: Update on the SNPC Action Plan As of end-May 2007)
 Objective     Means                           Actions                                Status as of end-May 2007

Improving   Implement     1. Study to model reserves and oil revenues      Underway. The ToRs for this study have been
transparenc Action Plan   (based on production sharing agreements)         extended to take into account the HIPC agenda.
y in the    recommended
sector      by auditors of
            SNPC
                          2. Appointment of an audit committee at the       Done. The audit committee was established and
                          SNPC                                              endorsed by the SNPC Board decision in 2005.
                          3. Financial audit of CORAF                      Done. The 2002 financial audit of CORAF was
                                                                            carried out in 2005.
                          4. Transfer of assets of the refinery to CORAF    Done. An inter-ministerial decision (arrêté
                          and subsequently to SNPC                          interministériel) was taken in 2005 between the
                                                                            Minister of Hydrocarbon and the Minister of
                                                                            Finance to make this transfer effective
                          5. Strengthening of the Hydrocarbons Unit,        Not done. The recruitment of at least 3
                          Ministry of Finance                               additional high level staff within the
                                                                            Hydrocarbon Unit (which was a key action to
                                                                            improve the quality and the competences of this
                                                                            Unit) was not done. In addition, the purchase of
                                                                            equipment training planned under the PRCTG
                                                                            project did not take place.
                          6. Reform of the framework of analytical          Underway. The ToRs for this measure have
                          accounting                                        been extended to take into account the HIPC
                                                                            agenda.
                          7. Definition and implementation of a human       Underway. The recruitment plan was launched
                          resources plan to train/recruit SNPC staff        in 2003. The process was rapidly frozen
                          (accounting, technical, exploration / production, between 2004 and 2005 until the new strategy
                          association and participation services)           to focus the core SNPC activities to the oil
                                                                            sector was made available.
                          8. Continue to refrain from pre-financing         Done. The government continues to refrain
                          practices                                         from pre-financing practices.
                          9. Continue to refrain from incurring expenses    Done. The government continues to refrain
                          on behalf of the State                            from incurring expenses on behalf of the State.
                          10. Verification of received statements prepared Not done. This activity refers to SNPC as an oil
                          by the partners (covering costs of petroleum      producer company. The ToRs of this measure
                          operations, advancements, general costs,          were prepared but the activity was not
                          insurance, interests, costs of                    implemented because of the financing shortage
                          commercialization), under the terms of the        under the PRCTG.
                          contracts with SNPC, by an external consultant
                          - in association with SNPC staff

                          11. Verification of statements received from      Done. This activity refers to SNPC as the
                          foreign oil companies (covering costs of          representative of the State to manage the stock
                          petroleum operations, overhead, insurance,        of the government oil. The study was carried
                          interests, marketing), as per the contracts with  out for the 2002 and 2003 fiscal years, and the
                          SNPC representing the State (with participation government is committed to pursuing the
                          of staff of the Ministry of Finance and Ministry verification on an annual basis.
                          of Hydrocarbons, and/or foreign consultants)
                          12. Verification of costs of past petroleum       Not Done. Initially this measure refers to the
                          operations                                        action 11 but in the objective to cover the
                                                                            verification of statements received from foreign
                                                                            companies for the fiscal years prior to 2002.
                                                                            This measure has not been implemented mainly



                                                           20

Objective  Means                     Actions                              Status as of end-May 2007

                                                                because the oil legal framework in Congo does
                                                                not authorize such audit 16 Months after the
                                                                fiscal year is closed.
                 13. Study for valorization of petroleum assets Underway. This study is carried out under the
                                                                PRCTG project.
                 14. Obtaining from foreign oil companies data  Done. All the reservations formulated for the
                 needed by auditors (Commissaires aux           2002 SNPC audit are lifted.
                  comptes) to waive earlier reservations.
                 15. Preparation of a procedure manual for each Underway. The ToRs for this measure have
                 department of SNPC to clarify division of      been extended to take into account the HIPC
                 responsibilities                               agenda.
                 16. Adoption of sound procurement procedures Underway. A draft procurement manual was
                 at SNPC                                        prepared and submitted to the Bank for review.
                                                                Lots of work still needs to be done before
                                                                getting a sound procurement manual.
                 17. Reconciliation of cross debts between      Underway. The debt reconciliation continues.
                 SNPC and the State
                 18. Implementation of a new reporting system   Underway. The new system is in place and its
                                                                adjustment to SNPC procedures and rules
                                                                continues.
                 19. Acquisition of an information management Underway. A new information system is in
                 system                                         place and is under implementation. Its extension
                                                                to become the unique database for all the
                                                                information related to the oil sector is envisaged
                                                                under the strategic development sector study, to
                                                                be supported by the PRCTG project.
                 20. Sending all existing documentation (and    Done. All the preliminary documents were sent
                 auditor's recommendations) to the World Bank to the Bank and the IMF in due time.
                 for comments.




                                                 21

                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33390

                                                                                    14°E                                           16°E                                               18°E



                                                                                                                               C E N T R A L A F R I C A N

4°N                                                                                                                                       R E P U B L I C                                              4°N

                                            CONGO
                                                                            C A M E R O O N

                                                                                                                  To
                                                                                                                 Batouri                                       Ibenga                     Bétou
                                                                                                                                                                                          Bétou




                                                                    To
                                                                Ebolowa                                                                                           Motaba




2°N                                                                            SouankéSouanké                                Ngoko                         L I K O U A L A                             2°N


                                                                                                      Sembé
                                                                                                      Sembé                              Ouésso
                                                                                                                                         Ouésso                           Impfondo
                                                                                                                                                                          Impfondo

                                                                                                                                                               EpénaEpéna


                                                                                                                             S A N G H A                                                         Congo

                                                                                                                  C o n g o
                                                   To                                                                                                            Likouala
                                               Lambaréné                                                                       Mambili  Lengoué    Sangha


                                                                                             W E S T E R N
                     G A B O N                                                               C U V E T T E
0°                                                                                                 Etoumbi
                                                                                                   Etoumbi

                          To
                        Booué                                                                                               C U V E T T E        Likouala                       Ubangi                  0°



                                                                                                                                     Owando
                                                                                                                                     Owando
                                                                                                                                          Kouyou                 LirangaLiranga
                                                                                                                                                                                          Lake
                                                                                                   Ewo
                                                                                                   Ewo              B a s i n                                                             Tumba



      To                                                                                                                Alima                  Mossaka
                                                                                                                                               Mossaka
 Lambaréné
                                                                                                       Okoyo
                                                                                                       Okoyo
                                                                                                                    P L AT E A U X

                                                                                                                   NkénGamboma
                                                                                                                           Gamboma
                                                                                                                           i
2°S                                                                                                                                            Congo     DEMOCRATIC                                    2°S
                                                                MbindaMbinda
                                                        Louéssé                                                                                            REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                  Ngo
                                                                                                                                  Ngo                                                         Lake
                                                                                                                                                         OF CONGO                             Mai-Ndombe
                                                                                                           DjambalaDjambala

                                                                                   Zanaga
                                                                                   Zanaga
                                          N I A R I                                                  B a t é k é                                                         Fimi
                                                             Mossendjo
                                                             Mossendjo
                                                                                                    P l a t e a u                              Kwa
                                                                                                                                  Ngabé
                                                                                                                                  Ngabé
                                                                                                          é
                                                                  LÉKOUMOULÉKOUMOU                                                                        0 20 40 60 80 100 Kilometers

                                          Makabana
                                          Makabana                                                     DjouP O O L

                   KOUILOU
                   KOUILOU
4°S                             NkolaNkola Kouilou             Niari Sibiti
                                                                     Sibiti                                                                               0   20     40        60     80  100 Miles


                                                                                                                                                                                                       4°S
                                                 Dolisie
                                                 Dolisie                      Madingou
                                                                              Madingou            BRAZZAVILLEBRAZZAVILLE                                                              18°E
                                                                     BOUENZABOUENZA
                      Kayes                                                                    Kinkala
                                                                                               Kinkala

                                                                                                                                                                  CONGO
                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                          Kikwit
                  Pointe-Noire

ATLANTIC                                                                                                                                                                 SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
 OCEAN                           CABINDA
                                (ANGOLA)                                                                                                                                 REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                                            To
                                                                                                           Matadi                    To
This map was produced by                                                                                                           Lusanga                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
the Map Design Unit of The
World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                                              RIVERS
colors, denominations and                                                                                   To
any other information shown                                                                      M'banza Congo                              6°S                          MAIN ROADS
on this map do not imply, on
the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the                                              A N G O L A                                                                                      RAILROADS
legal status of any territory,
or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                    REGION BOUNDARIES
a c c e p t a n c e o f s u c h
boundaries.                      12°E                                               14°E                                           16°E                                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                               SEPTEMBER 2004

